Melbourne Water Annual Report 2018/19 Enhancing Life and Liveability For over 125 years, Melbourne Water has been planning and building for our future. The infrastructure set up all those generations ago is still in use today – a testament to our ingenuity and foresight. Melbourne Water is proud of the contribution it makes to Melbourne’s famous liveability, by supplying high-quality drinking water, providing outstanding sewerage services, managing the region’s drainage and keeping waterways healthy. Melbourne Water does not work alone. It engages and collaborates with a wide range of partners that include Melbourne’s retail water companies, councils, developers, contractors, Traditional Owner groups, the community and government agencies to deliver all that it does. Guided by our vision of creating Healthy People, Healthy Places and a Healthy Environment, Melbourne Water’s passionate team of experts helps make Greater Melbourne a fantastic place to live. We are owned by the Victorian Government and we work hard to deliver sustainable public health, financial and environmental solutions. With the ever-present challenges of population growth, urbanisation and an increasingly changing and variable climate, we are also working hard to build a more resilient and water-sensitive city, one with a smart and sustainable water supply. Our focus is not only to deliver exceptional essential services to the people of Greater Melbourne today, but help secure a sustainable and healthy community for the generations to come. About this report Aboriginal Acknowledgement The Melbourne Water Annual Report 2018/19 describes Melbourne Water respectfully acknowledges Aboriginal and Melbourne Water activities undertaken between 1 July 2018 Torres Strait Islander peoples as the Traditional Owners and and 30 June 2019 to meet our customer needs, regulatory custodians of the land and water on which all Australians obligations and contribute towards achieving our vision of rely. We pay our respects to Wurundjeri, Bunurong and enhancing life and liveability. Wadawurrung, their Elders past, present and future as Traditional Owners and the custodians of the land and water Melbourne Water is a Victorian Government-owned on which we rely and operate. statutory authority. We acknowledge and respect the continued cultural, social As part of our commitment to sustainability, a limited and spiritual connections of all Aboriginal Victorians, and the number of copies of this report will be printed. An online broader connection the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander version and accessible text format of this report are available community has with the lands and waters. We recognise and at Melbourne Water. www.melbournewater.com.au value Traditional Owners’ inherent responsibility to care for and protect them for thousands of generations. If you would like a copy of this report in a different accessible format, please contact Melbourne Water on 131 722 (within Victoria) or (03) 9679 7100 (outside Victoria), or email enquiry@melbournewater.com.au Contents The Year in Review 2 Our Strategic Direction 4 Building a Sustainable Community 6 Delivering Valued Services 8 Taking an Integrated Approach to Service Delivery 9 Supply of Water Products 11 Sewerage Management 19 Flood Resilience and Drainage 24 Waterway Management 29 Improving how we do business 36 Our Customers and the Community 37 Safe and Inspired people 44 Continuous Improvement 51 Business Sustainability 55 Corporate Governance 64 Directors’ Report 70 Financial Report 73 Performance Reporting 142 Appendices 149 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 1 The Year in Review Guided by the commitments made in Water for Victoria, Melbourne Water has made significant steps to recognise and support Aboriginal values across our services. The Report from the Chair launch of our Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan in 2018, and the establishment of two new Aboriginal Engagement and Managing Director positions within the organisation, have helped us to deepen our knowledge and understanding of the values of water for In 2018, Melbourne was once again named as one of Traditional Owners and Aboriginal Victorians. Relationships the world’s most liveable cities. Defined by its richly with Traditional Owners were fostered this year through multicultural society, green open spaces and diverse cultural large-scale projects and a number of local events and attractions, this vibrant city has maintained its position activities led by our Aboriginal Engagement team. in the top three since 2002. Melbourne Water is proud to be one of the contributors to the city’s famous liveability The warmer and drier conditions throughout 2018/19, through the delivery of essential water, sewerage, drainage coupled with higher demands for water, contributed to and waterway management services to the community. the Minister for Water’s decision to order 125 billion litres of water from the Victorian Desalination Plant (VPD) for Like many cities around the world, Greater Melbourne is the 2019/20 financial year, the highest order to date. We faced with a number of challenges. An increasingly changing continue to manage water security through objectives of the and variable climate means a less predictable one, and an Melbourne Water System Strategy, which is strongly aligned estimated population of 8 million by 2051 will only place to the delivery of Water for Victoria. This year we initiated a a greater demand on our services. Diversifying our water water security public awareness campaign in collaboration supply to secure water for our future remains a high priority. with Melbourne's retail water companies, the first to be undertaken since the Millennium Drought. This initial context As part of the global effort towards sustainability, we setting will be followed by future messaging campaigns and continue to support the commitment we have made as specific behaviour-change initiatives over the next three signatories to the United Nations Global Compact. We use years to help the community understand its role in creating the objectives of the Sustainable Development Goals to secure water supplies for Greater Melbourne. help guide us in building a more sustainable future across the Greater Melbourne region and beyond, both through At the core of our safety commitment is our journey towards the delivery of our services and our strong emphasis on a truly generative safety culture where safety is an inherent partnerships and knowledge sharing. part of everything that we do. We also pride ourselves on being innovative and challenging traditional ways of Creating more opportunities for the community to influence managing safety. In 2018/19, we developed a new incident – and be involved in – the decisions we make continues to reporting system which cut red tape for staff, as well as a be at the forefront of how we do business. Community and series of new apps to support safety in the field. To foster stakeholder engagement have supported the development of team morale, we held a number of family day events at the key strategies and projects this year including the Sewerage Winneke Treatment Plant, Western Treatment Plant and Strategy, Healthy Waterways Strategy and the Yarra Strategic Eastern Treatment Plant, which were well attended by over Plan. Key capital projects such as the M41 water main 500 people. renewal and the Murrumbeena to Malvern flood mitigation project have both relied on early engagement to manage As a business, we continue to plan for and manage risks to community impacts and help build awareness of the longour services and assets, including major disaster events. term benefits of this new infrastructure. In August 2018, Stony Creek suffered devastating impacts from an industrial fire in West Footscray. Due to the We know listening to our customers and engaging with the incident’s scale, threat to public health and the high level of community helps improve our services. Our customer-centric community concern involved, Melbourne Water’s response approach has seen reputation scores across all customer was immediate and extensive. Following recovery efforts, we segments – measuring satisfaction, trust and respect – have since developed the Stony Creek Rehabilitation Plan in remain steady and strong, with solid improvements in the partnership with local community and stakeholders to help developer and business segments. restore, enhance and protect the condition of the creek and its surrounds well into the future. 2 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report This year saw two bushfire events at our major water In accordance with the Financial Management Act 1994, we harvesting catchments, Thomson and Upper Yarra. Thanks are pleased to present Melbourne Water's Annual Report for to best practice asset management and the strong support the year ending 30 June 2019. of Emergency Management Victoria there were no impacts to our water supply customers. Such events serve as timely reminders of the importance of managing and protecting our assets to ensure we live up to our vision of enhancing life and liveability for the community we serve. We are leading the water sector with the integration of automation, machine learning and artificial intelligence into our business-as-usual operations. The adoption of this technology drives efficiency and delivers the highest possible safety standards. We proactively embrace the opportunities these technologies offer, while ensuring our staff are prepared to be water leaders in the jobs of the future. We continue our commitment to environmental stewardship, including our transition to carbon neutral operations by 2030. This goal has led Melbourne Water to examine all parts of our business over the past year to seek opportunities to reduce our emissions. From our transition to an electric vehicle fleet and increasing our renewable energy John Thwaites generation, to our innovation challenge to find solutions to Chairman the global issue of scope 1 emissions from our wastewater treatment process, we are focused on the long-term 23 August 2019 environmental sustainability of our services. Our changing operating environment also means we need to consider the financial impacts of managing population growth, the effects of climate change and ensure we continue to provide excellence in our service delivery. We are developing improved long-term modelling capabilities to help us better understand the implications of these challenges across a number of regulatory periods to manage future costs so our services remain affordable for our customers and the broader community. Michael Wandmaker Managing Director 23 August 2019 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 3 Our Strategic Direction Water is central to life. Water sustains our natural environment, our communities and the economy we depend on. By supplying high-quality drinking water, providing reliable Courage: we empower each other to believe in ourselves, sewerage services, managing major drainage and building speak up, innovate and learn from our mistakes to resilience to flooding, and managing Melbourne’s waterways continuously improve how we do things and achieve the best Melbourne Water makes a vital contribution to our enviable possible outcomes. lifestyle. We employ a team of diverse, smart and capable people to Our core services are essential to making Melbourne a great help make Melbourne a great place to live. Our people are place to live. We are committed to finding new ways to skilled in balancing the immediate needs of the community unlock value for the community through the provision of with the long-term needs of the environment. By utilising services. This includes creating liveability benefits, integrating a process of continuous improvement, our people are across our services to deliver multiple benefits, and finding supported to be agile in their approach to embrace new ways to embed social and environmental sustainability innovative ideas. into our operations. As a statutory authority owned by the Victorian As a service delivery organisation, customers are at the Government, Melbourne Water works hard to deliver centre of how we design and deliver these services. We sustainable public health, and cost-effective and affordable actively look for opportunities to make our organisation solutions that deliver social and environmental value, easy to work with and improve customer and community while building strong relationships with our customers, experiences. government and industry. We are committed to enhancing life and liveability for the Delivering the Victorian Government’s community of Melbourne and work toward achieving this plan for water by helping to create healthy people, healthy places and a healthy environment, now and into the future. Water for Victoria is the Victorian Government’s state-wide water plan. It identifies priorities for managing water across Healthy people: by providing safe, affordable, world-class the State, including the Melbourne region. The plan drives drinking water and sewage treatment, and supporting improved outcomes for communities in the way water is Melburnians to live healthy lifestyles, we protect public managed, and delivers shared benefits while addressing health and strengthen the wellbeing of our community. challenges such as climate change and population growth. Healthy places: by managing the impacts of climate We work closely with government to deliver our services, change, building our resilience to flooding across the which have been crucial in supporting Melbourne to grow region, and partnering to deliver sustainable land and water into the city it is today. This Annual Report outlines our management, we create more desirable places to live. achievements in 2018/19 to meet the changing needs of the Healthy environment: by being innovative with resource Melbourne region and addresses priorities detailed in Water recovery, reducing our emissions, improving the quality of for Victoria. waterways and engaging with the community, we enhance biodiversity and help protect our natural assets. Our strategic performance We track our performance through a set of key performance Our values of care, integrity and courage are integral to indicators (KPIs) aligned to our strategic direction. the way we do business and treat one another. They are The indicators provide us with a framework for setting intrinsically linked to our vision of enhancing life and performance targets in the long term beyond our statutory liveability, and guide all that we do. requirements. Care: we put safety and wellbeing first at all times, and See our statutory Performance Report (pages 142-146) for seek the best for our colleagues, community, customers and full detail on our operational performance for 2018/19. environment. Integrity: we are open and transparent in everything we do, treating people with respect and taking full responsibility for our words and actions. 4 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Cardinia Reservoir 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 5 Building a Sustainable Community Melbourne Water is signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest sustainability initiative. This means we support the United Nations’ (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that are part of the initiative, which aim to mobilise efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle climate change while ensuring that no one is left behind. The SDGs are a common set of 17 goals that guide us in working towards a sustainable future for the communities we serve. Melbourne Water contributes to each of these 17 goals in some aspect and they are embedded into our longterm direction setting. They play a critical role in delivering sustainable outcomes through our core services to benefit our communities and helping to build a more sustainable Melbourne region. The water industry is in a strong position to advance the SDGs, not only through the vital role of clean water and sanitation in creating and delivering sustainable communities, but more broadly through its crucial role in planning for a more liveable region for future generations. Melbourne Water has a proud history of designing and implementing sustainable water management for Greater Melbourne and the SDGs provide us with a common framework to continue this work in partnership with our customers, stakeholders and the community. The Melbourne Water Annual Report 2018/19 provides information on how Melbourne Water is contributing across all the SDGs. How to navigate this report from a sustainable reporting context The interdependent nature of the UN SDGs means that by delivering our strategic direction, Melbourne Water contributes to all 17 goals. Each section of this report highlights how we contribute to relevant SDGs. Case studies throughout this report describe business activities that make targeted contributions towards the SDGs. The SDG icons are used throughout the report to highlight these contributions. To learn more about how we determined our material goal focus, see the Global Reporting Initiative index (Appendix H – Global Reporting Initiative). 6 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Case Study Main Content 9-10 37-43 55-68 11-18 9-10 11-18 19-23 29-35 35,46 37-43 44-50 51-54 37-43 44-50 69 50 44-50 55-68 9-10 11-18 19-23 24-28 18 29-35 37-43 55-68 69 19-23 55-68 53 44-50 51-54 55-68 9-10 11-18 19-23 22,27 24-28 37-43 51-54 37-43 44-50 9-10 11-18 19-23 24-28 10,26 29-35 37-43 69 9-10 19-23 37-43 25,61 51-54 55-68 69 9-10 19-23 24-28 37-43 55-68 69 32 9-10 29-35 37-43 31,43 9-10 29-35 37-43 55-68 44-50 51-54 55-68 9-10 24-28 29-35 23,24 37-43 55-68 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 7 Delivering Valued Services Melbourne Water makes a vital contribution to Melbourne’s enviable lifestyle by supplying high-quality drinking water, providing reliable sewerage services, integrating drainage systems, building resilience to flooding, and enhancing our waterways and land for greater community use. 8 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Taking an Integrated Approach to Service Delivery Integrating the way we deliver our services will maximise benefits for our customers and the broader community. The combined pressures of ongoing population growth and and from recycled water that is highly-treated sewage. Both climate change affect the entire water cycle. These impacts can be used for a range of non-drinking purposes, such as range from an increase in demand for water to generating watering gardens or growing crops, and consequently offset more stormwater in the urban environment, as well as a the demand for drinking water from reservoirs and the reduction in the amount of water captured by our water Victorian Desalination Plant. supply catchments. These challenges need an integrated approach to identify the solutions that deliver the best longIncreased water source diversity extends the overall capacity term value to the community. of the water system to counterbalance the need for major water supply upgrades. It also secures the health of our Integrated Water Management (IWM) captures the idea waterways by reducing the impacts of stormwater on the that all parts of the water cycle are connected, from water environment. supply to sewerage management, treatment and stormwater capture. By taking an integrated approach when planning Successful IWM will lead to a more resilient Melbourne, with and delivering these services, we can achieve better value for increased water security, reduced environmental impacts the community and better outcomes for the environment and flooding, and additional sources of water that are less over the long term. vulnerable to climate change. These new water sources are ideally suited to building and maintaining cool, green open Effective IWM requires aligned water and land use planning, spaces in a city that is becoming more densely populated. which makes sure that investment decisions consider benefits such as flood mitigation, urban cooling and a Strategies healthy environment. As a business that operates across the water cycle, Success depends on the collaborative management of water, Melbourne Water is in a genuine position to integrate water land and related services by multiple agencies and service management in the planning and delivery of water services providers to maximise economic, social and ecological throughout the Greater Melbourne region in both urban and benefits to the community. This approach is informed rural contexts. However, we cannot deliver these benefits by local values and priorities, with a focus on increasing alone. Success requires strong partnerships with government benefits across water supply, wastewater, stormwater and agencies, retail water companies, councils, the community flood management, healthy waterways, and landscape and and others to align regulation, planning and service delivery. community values. We do this through service strategies that are developed collaboratively, and often co-owned with our partners, to IWM is critical to Melbourne’s long-term resilience and establish a more comprehensive approach to IWM. the security of the whole water cycle. It has the potential to deliver long-term benefits by further diversifying the Melbourne Water made significant progress on IWM in sources of water available to us, effectively increasing the 2018/19. The Melbourne Water System Strategy, Melbourne capacity of the water systems to meet the needs of the Sewerage Strategy and Healthy Waterways Strategy all growing population. These water sources can be derived identify IWM as critical to achieve our vision of enhancing from stormwater, which runs off hard surfaces when it rains, life and liveability. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 9 Case study Engaging the community – Sunbury’s water future Sunbury has been identified As part of the engagement process, Sunbury’s Water as an area of growth by the Future community panel was formed from members Victorian State Government, of the local community. The panel explored and with the population forecast deliberated topics and solutions relating to the future to more than double over the of Sunbury's water management and delivered their next 20 years. The effects of a official recommendations in June 2019. Western growing population, increasing Water and Melbourne Water will provide a response urban development and climate change will impact the to the panel’s recommendations within the next three available water sources in the Sunbury region as well as months and, over the next few years, will use the panel’s local waterways. recommendations to the greatest extent possible in developing a detailed integrated water management To address these challenges, Western Water and plan for Sunbury. Melbourne Water are working together to investigate future water solutions for the Sunbury region. The aim is to make the most of all available water resources, including rainfall in the catchments, wastewater from households, stormwater that runs off rooves and roads and water recycled from wastewater. IWM forums Facilitating IWM for urban The Victorian Government’s water policy, Water for Victoria, renewal projects commits to putting IWM into practice and to ensuring Significant opportunities have been identified for investment community values and local opportunities are embedded in in IWM to improve water security, re-use waste and achieve water planning. Each of the five catchments within the Port healthy waterways consistent with community aspirations. Phillip and Westernport regions has its own IWM Forum. Melbourne Water is now collaborating with the Department These forums bring together State and local government of Environment, Land, Water and Planning (DELWP) to agencies and other stakeholders to discuss issues across the facilitate IWM across the following focus areas: whole water cycle and create a shared vision for the future. They provide an ‘enabling environment’ for identifying • wastewater opportunities and developing and overseeing a prioritised • stormwater work program for collaboration and IWM investment. These types of opportunities help us to protect waterways, reduce • land use and water planning demands on the potable network, create a diverse water • governance portfolio in an uncertain future and improve flooding risks. • decision-making frameworks. During 2018/19, five Melbourne Water executives including the Managing Director participated in 11 IWM forums across the Port Phillip and Westernport regions. Seven strategic outcomes were established against which project opportunities have been assessed. A Strategic Directions Statement was prepared for each catchment which identified prioritised IWM project opportunities, including a mix of strategic and on-ground projects. The statements also include a commitment for forum partners to develop a catchment-scale IWM plan for each catchment area. 10 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Supply of Water Products A safe and secure water supply is essential to our way of life – for us as individuals, for our businesses and for the environment. Against the backdrop of a rapidly growing city and a Melbourne is one of only a few cities in the world that constantly changing climate, we manage our catchments, draws most of its drinking water from protected, or closed, water storages and the water transfer network to ensure catchments. These pristine mountain catchments throughout water supply remains secure. We also remain vigilant in the Yarra Ranges act as a vast natural filter, producing preparing for drought, flood, bushfires and other critical some of the highest quality drinking water in the world. The events. water harvested from these closed catchments means it needs minimal treatment, providing a low-cost source that Melbourne’s water supply comprises 10 storage reservoirs underpins the affordability of our drinking water. with a total capacity of 1812 billion litres. Melbourne Water supplies, treats and transfers this drinking water to On average, about 30 per cent of Melbourne’s drinking the city’s three metropolitan retail water companies and water comes from open catchments. This water undergoes other regional water businesses, who in turn provide it to additional treatment processes to ensure it meets the same households and businesses across Melbourne. quality requirements as water from closed catchments. Maroondah Reservoir 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 11 156,700 10 STORAGE RESERVOIRS 461 LITRES BILLION HECTARES OF TOTAL CAPACITY H I G H Q UA L I T Y 1812 D R I N K I N G W AT E R PROTECTED BILLION LITRES DELIVERED TO CUSTOMERS AND THE COMMUNITY CATCHMENTS and 37 SERVICE MAXIMUM ANNUAL OUTPUT 142,000 W A T E R RESERVOIRS FROM THE VICTORIAN DESALINATION PLANT HECTARES OF 14 OF UP TO TREATMENT OPEN CATCHMENTS PLANTS 150 LITRES BILLION 221KM IN THE MID-YARRA AQUEDUCTS 1067 KM WATER MAINS Melbourne's water supply system Water supply pipelines and aqueducts Retail water area boundary Water supply catchment area Water supply storage reservoir 1 Water supply Western Water 7 2 storage reservoirs: (Sunbury) 3 5 9 City West Yarra Valley Water 10 Water 1 Yan Yean Western Water (Melton) 4 2 Maroondah Barwon Water Southern Rural Water 3 O’Shannassy (Macalister Irrigation District) 6 4 Silvan 8 Gippsland Water (Neerim South) 5 Upper Yarra Gippsland Water 6 Tarago (Warragul) Port Phillip Bay 7 Greenvale South East Water 8 Cardinia Western Port 9 Sugarloaf 10 Thomson from Victorian Desalination Plant* Bass Strait *Owned by AquaSure South Gippsland Water 12 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Managing supply and demand In July 2018 the storages were 58.3 per cent full (1057.1 The monthly reservoir inflow varied from a high of 99 billion billion litres). In October, they climbed to 64.8 per cent litres in August 2018, to a low of 6 billion litres in February (1173.4 billion litres). By June 2019 they were at 50.1 per cent 2019. (908.2 billion litres), a net decrease of 8.2 per cent (148.9 billion litres) over the year. Storage levels at 30 June 2019 The 2018/19 total inflow to Melbourne’s four major were the lowest for this time of year since 2010, but still well harvesting storages (Thomson, Upper Yarra, Maroonda and above the 453.2 billion litres low of 26 per cent experienced O’Shannassy) of 359 billion litres, was 41 per cent below the in 2009. The volume of water in storage has been trending long-term annual average of 613 billion litres for the prelower each year since 2013, shown in the chart on the Millennium Drought period (1913/14 to 1996/97). following page. The 2018/19 inflows were also 27 per cent below the 489 Water in Melbourne’s storages typically increases during the billion litres average of the last 30 years – providing recent winter-spring ‘filling season’ before being drawn down during historical context to water resources data. They were 14 the warmer, drier summer-autumn season. Winter-spring in per cent below average for the period since 1997, which is 2018 saw catchment rainfalls (down 13 per cent) and inflows a DELWP scenario for future water resources planning to (down 22 per cent) below the 30-year average. Monthly represent recent streamflow conditions. rainfall across Melbourne’s storage catchments varied from a high of 146 millimetres in August (2018), to a low of 15 millimetres in January (2019). The total rainfall of 923 millimetres for the 12-month period was 13 per cent below the 30-year average. Monthly average rainfall at Melbourne's major harvesting reservoirs Rainfall 150 2018/19 (mm/month) Rainfall 30-year 120 average (mm/month) 90 60 30 0 Jul Aug Sep Oc No Dec Jan Feb Ma Apr Ma Jun 201 201 201 t 20 v2 201 201 201 r 20 201 y2 201 8 8 8 18 018 8 9 9 19 9 019 9 Monthly average inflow at Melbourne's major harvesting reservoirs Inflow 120 2018/19 (GL/month) Inflow 30-year 90 average (GL/month) 60 30 0 Jul Aug Sep Oc No Dec Jan Feb Ma Apr Ma Jun 201 201 201 t 20 v2 201 201 201 r 20 201 y2 201 8 8 8 18 018 8 9 9 19 9 019 9 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 13 Long-term inflow to Melbourne’s major harvesting storages (Thomson, Upper Yarra, Maroondah, O’Shannassy reservoirs) 2018/19 financial year 1200 reservoir inflow (359 GL) 1000 Financial year reservoir 800 inflow (GL) 600 30-year average (489 GL/a) 400 200 1913/14 to 1996/97 average (613 GL/a) 0 1997/98 to 2018/19 191 192 192 193 194 195 196 196 197 198 199 200 200 201 average (416 GL/a) 3/1 1/2 9/3 7/3 5/4 3/5 1/6 9/7 7/7 5/8 3/9 1/0 9/1 8/1 4 2 0 8 6 4 2 0 8 6 4 2 0 9 Melbourne water storage Storage volume (%) 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 7 8 9 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 199 199 199 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Yan Yean Reservoir 14 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Water from the Victorian Water consumption Desalination Plant Permanent water saving (use) rules apply across Victoria so we continue to use water wisely. Melbourne’s residential Melbourne’s water system also includes the Victorian water use in 2018-19 was 162 litres per person per day – Desalination Plant (VDP), also known as the Victorian slightly above the Victorian Government target of 155 litres. Desalination Project or Wonthaggi desalination plant, which This is one litre more than last year and equal to the last complements our catchments by providing a secure, rainfallfive-year average. It was the same last year and equal to the independent source of high-quality water. The plant can last five-year average. provide up to 150 billion litres of drinking water each year. Melburnians averaged 1.2 billion litres of water per day this The VDP delivered 15 billion litres of drinking water in year – nine per cent more than the last five-year average. 2018/19 at no additional charge to customers. The Minister This increase in overall water use is primarily attributable to for Water also announced an order for a further 125 billion ongoing growth in population. While water consumption has litres to be delivered in 2019/20. Operational and planning been increasing over the past seven years, it is below that of advice provided by Melbourne Water and Melbourne’s retail the 1990s. For example, when metropolitan consumption water companies helped inform this decision. peaked in 1997, Melburnians averaged 1.5 billion litres per day – around 25 per cent above current levels. Supplying our customers Temperature and rainfall influence water use, especially Melbourne Water supplied 461 billion litres of water in during warmer months, for watering gardens, parks and 2018/19, which is 3 per cent more than last year, to meet sports grounds. However, most residential water use occurs customer expectations. inside by showers and baths, toilets, taps, washing machines and cooling. Promoting water efficiency, while continuing 2018/19 retail water consumption to support liveability, is key to the metropolitan water industry’s strategy for managing our water supply, while meeting the long-term challenges of population growth and climate change. Melbourne Water continues to work with Melbourne’s retail water companies, other government agencies, councils, developers, industry leaders, Traditional Owner groups and the wider community to make the best use of our precious water supplies. We provide updated water use and storage level data online each day. 35.8% Yarra Valley Water 164.9 billion litres 35.2% South East Water 162.0 billion litres 25.0% City West Water 115.1 billion litres 2.8% Western Water 12.8 billion litres 0.7% Gippsland Water 3.0 billion litres 0.4% Barwon Water Water 1.9 billion litres 0.2% South Gippsland Water 0.9 billion litres 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 15 Average daily total water use for Melbourne including non-residential Average daily water use 1.2 billion litres per day (billion litres per day) Average daily water use 2018/19 1.1 billion litres per day Average daily water use 2013/14–2017/18 1.3 billion litres per day Average daily water use 1990/91–1998/99 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 Long-term total consumption by financial year 2018/19 Consumption 600 5.0 (GL/year) 4.5 500 Population (Millions) 4.0 Consumption (GL/year) 400 3.5 3.0 300 2.5 Population served 2.0 by the Retail Water 200 1.5 Companies 1.0 100 0.5 0 0 195 195 195 196 0/5 4/5 8/5 91 5 196 197 197 2/6 6/6 0/737 1 197 198 198 4/7 8/7 2/8 9 35 199 199 199 6/8 0/9 4/9 7 1 5 20 20 20 8/9 02 06 9 /03 /07 10/ 20 20 14/ 18/ 11 15 19 Drinking water quality strategy Water quality compliance Adopting microbial health-based targets in the Drinking Our commitment to delivering high-quality drinking water Water Quality Strategy has been a strong driver in identifying continued in 2018/19. Full compliance with the Safe Drinking opportunities for improvement within our existing processes Water Regulations was achieved, and there were no incidents to deliver safe, secure and affordable drinking water to our within our treatment plants or distribution network with customers and the community. Our 2017/18 assessments of public health impacts. source water for our unfiltered, protected catchments and reservoirs outline our current service levels for drinking water quality and helped develop a robust, long-term improvement plan. We are currently finalising a rigorous work program that began in early 2018. It has identified a range of options and costs for improving treatment barriers, including catchment management best practice. The three agencies responsible for managing Melbourne Water’s protected catchments (Melbourne Water, DELWP and Parks Victoria) are collaborating on an improved catchment management program to ensure effective coordination and optimal delivery of safe drinking water for all Melburnians. Melbourne Water is well underway to deliver on the 14 KPIs of the Drinking Water Quality Strategy. Recent work has focused on gathering the information needed to prioritise catchment management and water treatment improvements across all assets and to drive the development of evidence-based investment programs for the next Price Submission. 16 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Recycled water Table 1: Recycled water produced for 2018/19 Melbourne Water produces recycled water at the Western Volume Treatment Plant (WTP) and the Eastern Treatment Plant 2018/19 (ETP), providing Class A and Class C recycled water to (ML) customers. Class A is the highest class of recycled water Total wastewater treated* 305,509 and can be used for a range of non-drinking purposes. Class C water is treated to a lower standard and has greater restrictions on its use. WTP Conservation flows used onsite 5091 Using recycled water not only reduces the amount of treated Non-agricultural on-site use 6 sewage discharged into Port Philip Bay and the ocean but provides a valuable water source for agriculture close to the Agricultural on-site use 19,714 city. Using recycled water means the volume available is Southern Rural Water not dependent on the climate, providing a reliable source of –– Werribee Irrigation District 6316 water to support sustainable businesses. –– Werribee Tourist District 115 Recycled water can be used to irrigate public open spaces, City West Water flush toilets and water gardens in residential estates and in –– Werribee Employment Precinct 121 industrial processes, including wash down facilities. It helps –– MacKillop College 31 relieve the demand on our drinking water supply. –– Water tankers/standpipes 3 We continue to support the investigation of new –– West Werribee Dual Supply (non-residential) 142 opportunities to increase recycled water use at both the ETP –– West Werribee Dual Supply (residential/ 155 and WTP, to provide a greater security of supply for Greater commissioning) Melbourne now and into the future. Western Treatment Plant Sub Total 31,774 Recycled water volumes used onsite and supplied to our customers in 2018/19 are shown in Table 1. Eastern Treatment Plant Re-used onsite 9038 Trility – Eastern Irrigation Scheme 6099 Supply to South East Water – South Eastern Outfall 1686 Eastern Treatment Plant Sub Total 16,880 Total 48,624 * Not all wastewater treated is available for re-use. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 17 Maintaining our world-class infrastructure In 2018/19, Melbourne Water invested $103.9 million in In 2019, Melbourne Water initiated upgrade works on two critical upgrades to our world-class water supply network, critical reservoirs within Melbourne’s water supply network. ensuring security for future generations. Melbourne Water will make significant investments at O’Shannassy Reservoir and Upper Yarra Dam to ensure these This included $29.9 million to continue work on the M41 older assets keep pace with current best-practice dam safety water main renewal project, a 4.7 kilometre pipe running standards, securing Melbourne’s world-class drinking water. through the narrow, inner streets of Fitzroy and East Works at O’Shannassy Reservoir also provide the additional Melbourne. After almost 100 years of service, the M41 benefit of increasing annual water harvest by 3 gigalitres per needed to be replaced. This critical piece of infrastructure year, following project completion in mid-2020. While there supplies drinking water to over 350,000 residents and is no public access at O’Shannassy Reservoir, the community businesses, and we are committed to minimising the impact has previously been welcome to visit the impressive Upper on them and the local environment. Early stakeholder Yarra Dam wall and parklands. To ensure the safety of staff engagement during the planning phase helped build and community, access will be temporarily closed, and awareness of the project and communicate its potential Melbourne Water has worked closely with Parks Victoria to disruption. Having commenced works in May 2018, they will ensure the park and camping grounds are reinstated for the be completed two months ahead of schedule in September community to enjoy from mid-2021. 2019. Melbourne Water also invested $330,000 in a playground for Edinburgh Gardens to thank local residents for their patience during construction. Students from Fitzroy North Primary School were also engaged to help name the project’s tunnel boring machine, complete with a ‘paint the pipe day’ community event. Case study Safeguarding water quality during bushfires Melbourne Water’s role in Victoria arrangements. We also actively monitored safeguarding the quality of and managed potential impacts to water quality over Greater Melbourne’s water the incident period through close collaboration with supply is never more critical than Melbourne’s retail water companies. when it is at risk. During the hot and dry 2018/19 summer season, The Thomson catchment fire was officially contained on lightning strikes ignited bushfires 15 February and Upper Yarra on 25 March. Remediation on 25 January and 1 March, impacting the Thomson and works to reduce the risk of ash and sediment flowing Upper Yarra catchments. These catchments account for into the reservoirs began almost immediately, as did 70 per cent of Melbourne’s total storage capacity. work to stabilise severely burnt areas until vegetation regrowth. Bushfires impact the quality of drinking water as rainfall can later wash ash and sediment into reservoirs, Our bushfire contingency planning and management, reducing water clarity which ultimately requires along with an expert team of staff, ensured water quality treatment, causing delays in the water supply. was not impacted over this critical time. If required, Melbourne Water can draw on a variety of water sources, Along with other emergency agencies, Melbourne Water including 10 major storage reservoirs and the Victorian provided first-attack capability and direct firefighting Desalination Plant. Our flexible water supply system support to DELWP as part of its Forest Fire Management allows us to transfer water to where it is needed most. 18 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Sewerage Management For over 100 years, Melbourne’s sewerage system has protected public health and the environment and contributed to making Melbourne one of the world’s most liveable cities. Challenges such as our growing population, the changing The strategy highlights current and future challenges, urban environment and climate change require the identifying opportunities for the provision of sewerage continued strategic development of the sewerage system to services. It sets out how we will ensure our sewerage ensure that Melbourne remains a liveable and sustainable system continues to provide world-class sanitation, and city for generations to come. the protection of public health and the environment, while ensuring customer value and affordability. It includes a We are increasingly realising multiple benefits from our framework for making ‘best for community’ decisions which sewerage system: recovering and re-using biosolids and will provide us with a resilient and adaptable system. creating energy from the sewage treatment process to enhance environmental outcomes. The Melbourne Sewerage Strategy describes a transformation in our sewerage system – from a single-use waste disposal Melbourne’s Sewerage Strategy model to a resource recovery system. We are planning for a future system in which water, biosolids and energy are Melbourne is facing a number of complex challenges over the sustainably recovered and put back into productive use. next 50 years. Factors such as population growth, climate change and the pace of urban development are all placing In implementing the strategy, we will continue to work with pressure on our systems. Customers and the community our customers and the community, adapting our approach continue to expect more from our services. Meanwhile, to ensure it remains aligned with community needs and technological advancements enable us to realise the range of expectations. new solutions becoming available to us. The decisions we make with the community will ensure As our city changes, it is important to have a plan which affordable services for current and future generations. ensures the continued provision of sewerage services into the future. The Melbourne Sewerage Strategy was released in December 2018. This ambitious 50-year strategy was collaboratively developed by Melbourne Water, City West Water, South East Water, Western Water and Yarra Valley Water. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 19 400 KM OF SEWERS 9 SEWAGE PUMPING STATIONS 60% SEWAGE 40% 12 TREATMENT AIR WESTERN T R E AT M E N T EASTERN T R E AT M E N T TREATMENT PL ANT PL ANT FACILITIES WERRIBEE BANGHOLME 305 GL OF SEWAGE REMOVED AND TREATED Our system Sewerage is the invisible network of pipes that makes Melbourne work – treating the city’s liquid waste and ensuring its safe disposal. As outlined in the strategy, we are taking measurable steps to reposition our sewerage system from being viewed as a waste disposal system to one that is a true resource recovery system and a key contributor to Melbourne’s future as a water sensitive city. The process of transforming the sewerage system into a resource recovery system will need action, from changing rules and limits within our processes, through to changing paradigms both within the water industry and in the realm of our policymakers, regulators, customers and community. The resource recovery system of the future will still collect sewage from homes, businesses and industry, but it may also include collection of additional materials, such as high strength organic food waste, that could present resource recovery opportunities. Treatment for safe discharge will transform to valued product generation that can support economic development and enhance public health and the environment. Our system is characterised by two major treatment plants – the Western Treatment Plant (WTP) at Werribee and the Eastern Treatment Plant (ETP) at Bangholme. These plants rely on the sewerage transfer system to move large volumes of sewage across the city, including 400 kilometres of sewers, nine sewage pumping stations and 12 air treatment facilities. 20 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Melbourne Water’s sewerage system Sewerage transfer pipeline Sewerage system outlet Retail Water area boundary Sewerage treatment plant Northern Yarra Valley Water Diversion Melbourne Sewer Main Sewer North Yarra East Main Sewerage pump station: City West North Yarra Main Water West 3 South 1 Hoppers Crossing Sewer Eastern Western 2 Trunk 2 Brooklyn Trunk 1 4 3 Kew Hobson Bay Main Dandenong 4 North Road Valley Trunk Western 5 7 Treatment Plant 6 5 Mordialloc No. 2 9 South East Water 8 Eastern 6 Mordialloc No. 1 Port Phillip Bay Treatment Plant 7 Mordialloc Wet Weather 8 Bondi Road tfall Ou Western Port 9 Eastern Treatment Plant rn as te hE ut So Bass Strait Our sewerage system is more than just a waste disposal A total investment in capital works at our treatment plants system. The sewage treatment at the WTP contributes to its of $123.8 million in 2018/19 enables us to continue to thriving Ramsar wetlands which support tens of thousands support Melbourne’s future health and liveability through of rare and endangered birds by providing reliable, nonour world-class infrastructure. This investment includes weather-dependent freshwater ponds with the nutrients to $23.2 million to expand treatment capacity at the WTP and enable a thriving food web. The WTP also helps to maintain $10.5 million to renew ageing aeration blowers at the ETP. the health of Port Phillip Bay by removing organic and In addition we invested $18 million to expand renewable nitrogen compounds prior to discharge. energy generation at the WTP. Operating to high customer and regulatory standards, In 2018/19 we undertook a number of sewer relining Melbourne Water treated a total of 305.5 billion litres of projects, including the North Yarra Deviation Sewer Relining sewage at the ETP and WTP in 2018/19. More than 26 billion Project ($14.7 million). This project involved the relining of a litres of recycled water was delivered to our customers from critical sewer pipeline that carries one-fifth of Melbourne’s the WTP and 7.8 billion litres from the ETP. total sewage in the inner west. The North Yarra Deviation sewer services many inner suburbs including Footscray, Kensington, Carlton and Fairfield. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 21 Case study Western Treatment Plant upgrade In 2018/19, construction was generation into the future. It was commissioned in early completed on an innovative 2019 and will undergo proof-of-performance testing nutrient removal plant, over the next 12 to 24 months. This period allows significantly increasing the Melbourne Water to test the plant’s capability through capacity of the WTP to treat all seasonal conditions, ensuring it delivers benefits as Melbourne’s sewage. designed. The new Nutrient Removal This project marks the completion of the second of Plant at the WTP in Werribee treats 140 megalitres of a three-stage program of capital works that began wastewater per day, which is equivalent to 56 Olympicin 2012 to increase the WTP’s capacity. Melbourne sized swimming pools. The new addition is more Water will complete its pilot trial program on a new energy efficient and was built with the latest advanced process technology for the next stage of the program in monitoring and controls. This additional capacity will 2019/20. Functional design has commenced on the next support Melbourne Water in meeting the needs of stage of augmentation and will continue into 2019/20. Melbourne’s expanding population. This project is an example of cutting-edge technology The nutrient removal plant is designed to minimise the and design which will benefit both the community and carbon and energy consumed in treatment, enabling the environment. the WTP to continue to maximise renewable energy 22 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Case study Minimising the impacts of the Brighton Main Sewer upgrade through community collaboration Melbourne Water is committed or recreation. Critical to the engagement process was to delivering multiple benefits for establishing a close working relationship with cycling all our projects. We actively seek advocacy group Bicycle Network Victoria. Incorporating opportunities to maintain and feedback early in the project planning phase ensured improve community outcomes works would be scheduled in the quieter autumn and and the Brighton Main Sewer winter months and at night to avoid commuter impact. highlights this commitment. Once design was initiated, we were able to consider To maintain our world-class sewerage system, critical design feedback about temporary steel plating of Melbourne Water embarked on a complex 12-month work sites, which would reduce safety risks to cyclists, program of works in February 2018 to upgrade and wear on car tyres and noise pollution to neighbouring rehabilitate the Brighton Main Sewer. The project residents. alignment is 4.5 kilometres long, running along Beach Road between Orlando Street in Hampton and St Kilda “The credit goes to Melbourne Water and its contractors, Street in Brighton. Works were completed in November who worked closely with Bicycle Network to get an 2018. understanding of what was needed to get a good outcome for the pedal-powered road users.” Built between 1907 and 1908, the single layer brick sewer is one of the main sewers in Melbourne Water’s Bicycle Network Victoria 400-kilometre network. The ageing asset had begun The project team consistently received positive to deteriorate in some sections, posing possible feedback, especially in relation to keeping the traffic environmental and public health implications for Bayside corridor of Beach Road operational while undertaking residents. major relining works and manhole rehabilitation. Stakeholder engagement was vital to the project’s More than 50 positive responses from residents and success. Beach Road is one of the world’s busiest road businesses were logged during the project’s ‘works’ bike circuits with between 12,000 and 20,000 cyclists stage, via direct email, in person and social media. using this route each week for commuting, training 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 23 Flood Resilience and Drainage As the floodplain manager for the Port Philip and Westernport catchments, Melbourne Water enhances liveability for our communities through flood prevention, and response and recovery initiatives delivered collaboratively with our partners and local communities. Melbourne, like many cities, is prone to flooding as a result Partnerships play an integral role in progressing the delivery of a number of factors which include a changing and variable of flood prevention, response and recovery initiatives. climate. In addition, many properties that were developed Warning services can help communities take action to reduce before flood management controls were introduced are the effects of floods. Due to the rapid onset of flash floods, located within the floodplain. We continue to drive strong automated messaging is considered the most efficient means planning controls to mitigate flooding in an effort to address of informing the community of flood risk. the challenges of increased urbanisation and a growing city. We are working with Emergency Victoria, the SES, DELWP Through our Flood Management Strategy, we continue to and the Bureau of Meteorology following the successful work with a range of stakeholders within all responsible trial of a pilot flood alert mobile phone app developed by agencies to collaboratively deliver outcomes across a Melbourne Water. These partners will collectively send flash number of areas. In partnership with the Victoria State flood alerts and information to the community through the Emergency Service (SES), and through a commitment to Emergency Victoria mobile phone app. continuous improvement, the strategy is being refreshed to align our actions to key challenges and opportunities for the This service will be complemented with flood education and region. Critical to our forward planning was to understand awareness provided through our partnership with the SES, the impact of climate change, and to use this information helping us to meet our commitment to provide the correct to drive our decision making in relation to flood risk information, at the right time, for the people who need it. It management activities. is expected that a trial of this new service will be completed by June 2020. By providing opportunities for community and stakeholder input, we are better informed to identify issues of most Melbourne Water has also worked with our customers and concern and able to develop appropriate solutions for each stakeholders to improve flood resiliency across the region area. By improving the management of extra stormwater by undertaking flood mapping and seeking to improve from new developments and urban consolidation, we will communication with the community during flood events. help avoid new risks while also achieving other benefits for the region. 24 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report We continue to drive stronger planning controls through planning scheme amendments, one of the most effective Case study ways to mitigate the effects of flooding, by ensuring appropriate development. In conjunction with councils, we Flood Modelling completed amendments to municipal planning schemes with Yarra Ranges, Bayside and Stonnington. We are progressing A revision of Melbourne further amendments with Manningham, Moorabool and Water’s Technical Maribyrnong. These amendments will deliver flood data and Specifications for Flood planning controls for approximately 22,000 properties. Modelling has been completed, bringing the In the past 12 months, collaborative flood modelling specifications in line with was completed for Maroondah and Banyule councils. the new Australian Rainfall The 2018/19 program also included catchments from the and Runoff 2016 Guidelines. This marks a significant Cardinia, Casey, Frankston, Kingston, Knox, Mornington, update of the specifications to account for an Wyndham and Whittlesea municipalities. These projects are additional 30 years of climate data and the inclusion progressing well. of climate change scenarios. The specifications Melbourne Water is collaborating with DELWP to help are also now being broadened to include the implement a number of actions outlined in the Marine and requirements for flood mitigation projects and Coastal Act 2018 Transition Plan. These include scoping development schemes. This will ensure that the role to provide coastal erosion advice as provided for mapping undertaken by any Melbourne Water team in the Act, completion of a coastal hazard assessment for is completed to an appropriate standard for use and Port Phillip Bay, supporting strategic planning to assist sharing. coastal councils plan for sea level rise in partnership with the Municipal Association of Victoria and the Association of Bayside Municipalities, and by reviewing flood controls and policy in Victoria Planning Provisions to clarify applicability to sea level rise. We also worked closely with Banyule City Council and residents to undertake a major flood study to investigate Melbourne Water has also produced Flood Mapping and design flood mitigation works for the St Helena East Standards for Major Infrastructure Projects that clearly Main Drain in Eltham. Residents in this location are regularly articulates the standards and criteria by which Melbourne subject to significant depth and velocity flooding making Water assesses floodplain impacts and flooding risks it dangerous for property and people. The planned works associated with major infrastructure projects. This allows include additional pipes to carry the flood waters and an infrastructure project consortia and projects to clearly expanded retarding basin to slow the passage of water. understand Melbourne Water's requirements at all phases Works are scheduled to commence in 2020. of a project’s life cycle. It also supports the current Victorian Government infrastructure program while ensuring the protection of the community from unacceptable flood effects. During 2018/19 $24.4 million was allocated to construction of flood mitigation projects, including a major upgrade of the Murrumbeena Main Drain ($21.3 million). The Merrilands Main Drainage Improvement Program addressed concerns about several properties in McCrae Street which had flooded above floor levels on several occasions, most recently on 26 December 2016. The aim of the improvement program was to maximise the capture of overland flows into existing pits and pipes through inlet pits during lower rainfall events. It contained most of the overland flow within the drainage reserve by reshaping a channelised section between McCrae and Fyfe streets to minimise flood waters directly affecting the previously flooded properties. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 25 The adoption of new technology is helping to drive new opportunities for risk reduction and flood mitigation. Case study An exciting development is the introduction of the Flood Management Portal, completed in 2018/19, which aims Elster Creek Action Plan to support more effective collaboration across the flood management sector. An interface to capture and manage In October 2017, the Elster the actions and commitments agreed to by key stakeholders Creek Action Plan was within flood management plans, including councils, the SES adopted following extensive and other flood management stakeholders, this simple and community consultation. easy-to-use portal currently contains actions identified from A collaboration between the seven flood management plans. Further actions will be Melbourne Water and updated and included in the portal. It enables governance the cities of Bayside, Glen groups to have appropriate oversight and visibility of actions Eira, Kingston and Port Phillip, the Elster Creek and commitments within their flood management plans. Catchment, located in Melbourne’s south-east, extends across four municipal boundaries. Many A trial project has been implemented at the Salt Creek properties in the area were susceptible to flooding Drainage Grate, a critical drainage asset in our network. when excessive rainfall compromised the capacity of Cameras and level sensors have been installed enabling the catchment’s drainage systems. photos to be uploaded directly to Melbourne Water. The artificial intelligence (AI) image processing determines if In 2018 the Elster Creek Action Plan was completed the grate is blocked and then provides a notification that it with a range of projects being achieved through requires cleaning, resulting in a more responsive outcome for its implementation. The whole of the catchment our customers. underwent a flood mapping exercise for a range of flood risk scenarios and physical infrastructure works Another pilot project implemented in 2018/19 is the options were assessed for the purpose of reducing Steele Creek Networks Visualisation. This pilot project will flood risk. implement a catchment-monitoring system to provide operational visibility for the Steele Creek catchment. This will Planning policies have been reviewed and provisions enable us to better understand how our drainage assets are made to determine better regulatory options for performing and provide ‘real time’ indication of catchment flood risk management. An analysis of the potential condition and health. It is anticipated that a wider roll out use of distributed flood risk reduction treatments of similar monitoring systems for our drainage network will was undertaken in some areas. The outcome of this commence in 2019/20. analysis is expected to open up new avenues for the use of local storages, in both public and private spaces, to reduce flooding. A community reference group has been formed to enable the agencies and the local community to work together on an ongoing basis. Elster Creek and its surrounding communities will also benefit from being part of an advanced flood warning system involving a flood app as well as the use of smart gauges, which are in development. A Flood Management Plan for the whole of the Elster Creek catchment is also being developed which will provide an ongoing program of works focused on reducing flood risk in the catchment. The ongoing collaborative partnership between Melbourne Water and the participating councils has led to the exploration of evidence-based and creative solutions to minimise flood risk and provide optimal community benefits. 26 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Case study Murrumbeena to Malvern Flood Mitigation The Murrumbeena to Malvern By working with stakeholders we were able to realise a project sought to improve the number of additional project and liveability benefits over passage of flood waters between and above the functional requirement of passing water Bute Street, Murrumbeena and from upstream to down. Gardiners Creek, Malvern. The first design, considered in 2006, A man-made embankment was removed to restore the envisaged flow under the rail natural overland flood flow path of the Murrumbeena reserve through the use of four large diameter circular Creek. Community access to high-quality open spaces pipes. These were to be installed one by one using a were unlocked to the north of the railway line by tunnel boring machine. This approach was developed transforming steep embankment slopes to at grade land. to maintain integrity and operation of the railway Removing sections of the grassed embankments also embankment. improved natural light to the area, and provided a better link between neighbours and the suburb. Rather than the contentious and lengthy community disturbance of tunnel boring, we solved the problem A previously dead-end space was also activated at by completely rethinking and redesigning the solution Riley Reserve, in line with the City of Glen Eira’s open by putting community impact ‘front of mind’. This was space master plan. A new walking and cycling corridor only made possible by Melbourne Water’s project team provided new opportunities for active transport within developing sustainable, long-standing and mutually the area while also connecting residents of southern supportive relationships with the Level Crossing Removal Murrumbeena to green spaces and existing trails Project (LXRP) and Glen Eira City Council. extending as far as Scotchman’s Creek Trail. Early engagement with stakeholders, and specifically the The 18-month project led to the installation of more LXRP, allowed us to take advantage of their construction than 2 kilometres of new concrete pipe, at a total cost of program for the elevated viaduct (SkyRail). It allowed us $40.9 million. to jointly meet community expectations around ‘getting it done in one go’ for a community already suffering from construction fatigue. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 27 Melbourne Water’s waterways and drainage system Drainage retarding basin Wetland Maribyrnong catchment Natural waterway Primary river basin catchment boundary Waterways and drainage boundary Yarra catchment Werribee catchment Dandenong catchment Westernport catchment Port Phillip Bay Western Port Bass Strait Land development With Melbourne’s population increasing, and forecast to rise of waterway rejuvenation and 20 new wetlands to provide to over 8 million people by 2051, facilitating the provision stormwater treatment and habitats for diverse flora and of housing for our growing city is of great importance to fauna. The majority of newly constructed assets transfer to our community. Melbourne Water contributes to healthy Melbourne Water’s ownership and are incorporated into our places and a healthy environment by supporting our overall drainage networks in the Port Phillip and Westernport customers across the entire breadth of land development. catchments. This significant and sustained growth in From broadacre greenfield areas, through to urban renewal Melbourne Water’s asset base requires additional ongoing and development in established suburbs, we help to deliver maintenance activity and renewals planning. developments that are flood resilient and provide for stormwater treatment to protect the health of waterways We also provided input for stormwater and drainage and bays, with water-sensitive urban design principles planning for major State Government infrastructure projects. supporting enhanced amenity and liveability outcomes. These included Melbourne’s Level Crossing Removal Program and line duplication projects for the Hurstbridge In 2018/19, our Development Services team facilitated and Cranbourne lines, the Suburban Roads Upgrade – West, stormwater management strategy designs for 15 catchments North & South East, the Mordialloc Freeway Project, the across five gazetted precinct structure plan areas covering Westgate Tunnel Project, the North East Link Project, the around 4000 hectares. Understanding catchments and Metro Tunnel Project, Regional Rail Revival, Melbourne flood risk, and the existing values of waterways and their Airport Rail, Suburban Rail Loop and the Western Rail Plan. sensitivity to change, helped the team to design strategies that best service future urban areas, minimise risk and In 2018/19, we responded to 10,214 statutory town planning maximise opportunities for healthy people, healthy places referrals for development and subdivision, 11,090 nonand healthy environment. statutory works applications and 2171 planning enquiries for development advice. These are key services that help Over 1100 hectares of residential development land in maintain and enhance public safety and protect homes growth areas met Melbourne Water’s requirements for and other buildings in established areas from the effects planning compliance, meaning Melbourne Water supported of flooding. This process also ensures that standards for the development industry to deliver over 19,000 homes. We stormwater quality, waterway amenity and drainage also supported development capital works which included management are achieved and that our waterways and bays 10 flood retarding basins, 15.4 kilometres of underground are protected. pipes to manage drainage and flood flows, 5.6 kilometres 28 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Waterway Management Melbourne Water works to protect and improve the quality of our waterways, establish healthy ecosystems and enhance biodiversity in an increasingly urbanised region. 25,000 km 479 314 RIVERS WETLANDS MONITORING &CREEKS 160 LAKES STATIONS U R B A N Healthy rivers, estuaries and wetlands play a vital role in many aspects of our daily life. Our community engagement has highlighted how much the people of Greater Melbourne value waterways in supporting environmental health and their overall quality of life. Our waterways sustain a diversity of life including birds, fish, frogs, platypus and vegetation. They provide places for people to gather, exercise and relax, and they are important sites of cultural significance. They support our growth and prosperity by providing drainage and flood mitigation, and also provide economic benefits by supplying water for agriculture, recreational fishing and commercial industries, and tourism opportunities. Melbourne Water is responsible for ensuring that we continue to care for the health and vitality of the region’s waterways as well as contributing to the health and wellbeing of Port Phillip Bay and Western Port Bay, now and into the future. We also contribute to the Victorian Waterway Management Strategy and the Regional Waterway Strategy (known as the Healthy Waterways Strategy, see case study on page 31). 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 29 Managing the health of our rivers, In addition to works directly contributing to the health of our waterways, our work over the past year included: creeks, wetlands and estuaries • supporting local communities in bushfire recovery Melbourne Water monitors and provides targeted through targeted incentive programs maintenance and improvement works for 25,000 kilometres • continuing to deepen our engagement with Aboriginal of rivers and creeks, and more than 700 stormwater communities, including a project where consultation treatment systems and wetlands across our region. with Traditional Owners in the Macedon Ranges region We work together with local government, agencies, nonresulted in renaming nine waterways, now gazetted government organisations and community groups to by DELWP, recognising the deep significance of these enhance the environmental, social, cultural and economic waterways for Aboriginal people value of our waterways and protect them from a variety • providing timely and targeted emergency response threats, including climate change and population growth. to waterway pollution incidents large and small, for example, the industrial warehouse fire near Stony Creek In 2018/2019, we contributed to the health of our waterways and various recycling facility fires, helping protect our through direct maintenance works, capital projects and natural resources incentives programs that included: • piloting new automated technologies for activities like • 1088 sites where Melbourne Water conducted active grass cutting and water quality testing, to make our weed control to protect native vegetation, increase waterway monitoring and maintenance activities more biodiversity, improve the stability of river banks and efficient, and safer for our people and the community provide better habitat for a wide range of animals • strengthening our collaboration with our customers and • 1360 sites where Melbourne Water conducted grass community on significant projects such as the Monbulk cutting to improve access to waterways, help control Creek Platypus Management Investment Plan, and litter and provide high-quality public open space continuing to work with four local councils, community • the removal of over 21,500 cubic metres of silt from groups, and other agencies to find whole-of-catchment our stormwater system and more than 1400 cubic flood solutions for the Elster Creek Catchment in metres of litter and debris from our drains, helping Melbourne’s south-east. protect the quality of water in our rivers and creeks and preventing litter from entering our waterways. This is one of the many activities Melbourne Water undertakes to improve water quality under the State Environment Protection Policy (Waters) (SEPP) • 29 new waterways capital investment projects across the Port Phillip and Westernport region, initiating major works to stabilise river banks, improve stream connectivity, rewater billabongs, replant sections of waterways, build habitat for platypus and other wildlife, and significant weed and pest control projects • building three new fishways and significantly upgrading an existing fishway to improve waterway connectivity and provide better habitat for fish and other animals. 30 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Case study River Health Incentives Program A total of 1105 private, community and agency grants were awarded through our River Health Incentives Program in Healthy Waterways Strategy 2018/19. This amounted to over $5.4 million in support for Approved by the Minister our delivery partners to utilise their skills, expertise and local for Water in October 2018, knowledge to create great outcomes for waterways across the Healthy Waterways the region. With clear guidelines in place for each grant Strategy is a celebration of program, we ensure the activities funded align with public catchments and community benefit. of the Port Phillip and Westernport regions, and Within the past year, our River Health Incentives Program provides a single framework for the management supported: of their rivers, wetlands and estuaries. The strategy • 183 Community grants, which enable volunteer brings together world-leading science, community community groups to protect and improve local rivers knowledge and management experience in a and creeks through direct works such as weed control single framework for protecting our waterways and revegetation, or offer organisational support that and enhancing the long-term health, amenity and builds volunteer skills and knowledge and increases lifestyle of Greater Melbourne. community awareness of the issues facing our waterways The strategy is founded on collaboration between waterway managers, scientific teams, communities, • 107 Corridors of Green grants, providing matchedTraditional Owners, interest groups and government funding support to local councils and other public agencies. Over 630 individuals representing over land managers to manage weeds, fence off rivers and 220 organisations partnered to shape the strategy, creeks, revegetate riverbanks with indigenous plants, from project inception in September 2016 to formal and help protect waterway health through better land consultation on the draft in July 2018. management practices That same breadth of partners is now working • 765 Stream Frontage Management grants, which together to implement the strategy, aligning on-theprovide cost-share project funding to private ground activities to meet performance objectives, landholders who manage a waterway frontage on their developing our knowledge-sharing and reporting property. These funds are for weed control, fencing systems, and finding new ways of working together and native vegetation planting programs that increase to deliver on the strategy’s vision. biodiversity, improve the stability of river banks and provide better habitat for a wide range of animals A key milestone in strategy implementation was the • 50 Rural Land Program grants that share costs of work release of the draft Monitoring, Evaluation, Reporting for private landowners to better manage runoff from and Improvement (MERI) Framework in June 2019. stormwater and improve water resource management The MERI framework will ensure that all delivery in rural areas. Landholders receive benefits such as partners have access to the right data and the right improved soil health, access to water and input cost tools to evaluate our effectiveness in implementing reduction, while waterway health is improved for the the strategy, respond to emerging challenges and broader community. The program also incorporates adapt our way of working to new opportunities. education, including whole farm planning, soil testing It is also a tool to identify knowledge gaps, and fertiliser planning, chemical use and other assumptions, and opportunities for improvement specifically directed educational initiatives. The Rural that need to be addressed to maximise the social, Land Program also contributes significantly to reducing cultural, environmental and economic value of our sediment and nutrients like nitrogen (which can feed waterways now and into the future. algal blooms) from entering Port Phillip Bay and The Healthy Waterways Strategy contributes to Western Port Bay, helping us meet our commitments delivery of the Port Philip and Westernport Regional to the Port Phillip Environmental Management Plan and Catchment Strategy. improving the health of our region’s open waters. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 31 Living Rivers Program A key contributor to the long-term health of our waterways In 2018/19, Living Rivers awarded $3.4 million in funding is sustainable stormwater management. Melbourne Water for 46 projects across 22 council areas. These projects is improving stormwater management practices across our will be delivered over the coming three years and range region through the Living Rivers Program, which works in from strategic planning and capital works to training and partnership with councils to build understanding, new skills community engagement. and practical tools to protect our rivers, creeks and bays from urban stormwater. Of the 46 projects funded last financial year, 17 will result in the construction of physical stormwater harvesting While the objective of the Living Rivers Program is to assets that are expected to reduce the amount of nitrogen improve stormwater quality and reduce stormwater reaching our waterways by up to 572 kilograms per year. That quantity, projects funded through the program also provide improves habitat for plants, animals and the overall health of a range of other benefits to the community such as greener the waterways and bays. open spaces, alternative water supply options and reduced localised flooding. Case study Protecting our bays The rivers, creeks, and estuaries Our incentives programs make a key contribution to the across our region sustain life health of our bays, with the Rural Land and Living Rivers and provide wonderful spaces programs funding works that directly reduce nutrients to exercise, socialise and relax, entering Port Phillip Bay and sediment entering Western which is why we invest so much Port. in looking after them. But it is not just waterways that we In 2018/2019, new capital projects funded by the Living care about; all our waterways eventually connect into Rivers Program will reduce the nitrogen reaching our our bays – Port Phillip Bay and Western Port – and waterways – and eventually the bays – by around 572 Melbourne Water is committed to also take care of those kilograms per year. At the same time, co-funded works natural resources through our work. through the Rural Land program prevented the runoff of 1380 kilograms of nitrogen and 423 kilograms This includes managing sediment entering the bays of phosphorus from entering Port Phillip Bay. It also which negatively affects water quality and conditions prevented 145.7 tonnes of sediment from entering for marine life, and managing the amount of nitrogen Western Port, which improves water quality and entering the bays, which the State Government’s Port conditions for marine life. Phillip Bay Environmental Management Plan 2017-2027 highlights as a key threat to ocean health because of its contribution to algal blooms. 32 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Managing streamflow These releases, also known as environmental flows, help improve the environmental quality of rivers by flushing Melbourne Water produces stream flow management sediments, encouraging vegetation growth, and helping fish plans, local management rules and a Drought Response to spawn and migrate. Environmental flows also improve the Plan to document the ways in which water will be managed quality of habitat for platypus, macroinvertebrates, fish and to ensure it is shared fairly between diverters and the frogs. environment. Further information about water use by our diverter customers can be found in Appendix D – Private To help measure the environmental benefits of these flows, Diversion Licences. an innovative tracking system has been installed in the Tarago River to monitor the movement of fish in response to During 2018/19 Melbourne Water has completed the flows. review of the Little Yarra and Don and Woori Yallock Stream Flow Management plans and completed our stakeholder We engage with a range of organisations when planning engagement process. We will extend our commitment the release of environmental flows so they can make the to these plans for another five years. Melbourne Water most of them. This includes community groups such as also completed its engagement with the Amendment canoeing clubs and river-based businesses such as caravan Consultative Committee to review the Stream Flow parks. Understanding their preferences means we try to Management Plan for Olinda Creek, which was finalised schedule flow releases at times when they deliver the most with amendments. The objectives of these plans are to benefits to recreational users of the rivers. We also advise manage the water resources of Little Yarra and Don, Woori these organisations, and the broader public, of these flows Yallock and Olinda Creek catchments, develop sustainable in advance so they can take advantage of the higher water allocations for agriculture and other uses, and maintain an levels. environmental water regime to sustain waterway health. In 2018/19 Melbourne Water released over 18.5 billion litres of water, as shown in Table 2. Delivering environmental water releases To enhance the natural environment, Melbourne Water works in conjunction with the Victorian Environmental Water Holder to release water that improves seasonal flow within key river systems across the Port Phillip and Westernport regions. Table 2: Environmental water delivered for 2018/19 River Volume Outcomes Yarra 16,472 ML Two winter-spring releases and two summer-autumn releases were delivered from the Yarra Entitlement during 2018/19. The releases into the main stem aimed to improve aquatic habitat and water quality by minimising the risk of low dissolved oxygen in pools in the lower reaches, maintaining in-stream and riparian vegetation, and maintaining habitat for macroinvertebrate communities (an important food source for platypus, native fish and other aquatic fauna). Environmental water was also released into three billabongs in the Yarra Floodplain – Yering Backswamp, Burke Road and Willsmere billabongs – to improve wetland vegetation and provide habitat for frogs and birds. Monitoring these sites was undertaken in partnership with Wurundjeri Woi Wurrung Cultural Heritage Aboriginal Corporation. Tarago and 1,210 ML Three releases were made from Tarago Reservoir, along the Tarago and Bunyip main drains, to enhance water Bunyip Rivers quality, provide habitat for River Blackfish, platypus and macroinvertebrates, and to support spawning of Australia Grayling. Werribee 740 ML Three releases were made into the upper Werribee system (around Pyrites Creek), to flush the build-up of organic matter and improve habitat for frogs and macroinvertebrates. Four releases were made in the lower Werribee system to improve water quality and promote fish movement. Maribyrnong 154 ML Three environmental flow releases improved water quality and enriched small rapid habitats in the upper reaches of the river system. These releases also provided movement opportunities for small native fish in the upper reaches, and refreshed small rapids and pool habitats in the middle reaches for macroinvertebrates, platypus and fish. As the storage operator, Melbourne Water also made environmental releases of 12,699 ML from Thomson Reservoir in 2018/19 in cooperation with the West Gippsland Catchment Management Authority and on behalf of the Victorian Environmental Water Holder. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 33 Case study Yarra Strategic Plan The Yarra River is the lifeblood The draft plan is the result of this extensive stakeholder of Greater Melbourne, providing collaboration alongside engagement with the 70 per cent of our high-quality community, and also brings together insights from the drinking water and supporting Yarra Strategic Plan Progress Report and feedback from our world-famous liveability. the Yarra River Community Assembly. Protecting the Yarra River and its parklands is critical to the future A progress report was released in October 2018 and prosperity of our whole region. provided an update of the work undertaken to date. The report was accompanied by the Yarra Strategic Plan In 2017 Melbourne Water was nominated as the lead Map Book which, for the first time, publicly showcased agency for the development of the Yarra Strategic Plan maps of the whole Yarra River corridor. The Yarra River and the Yarra River 50 Year Community Vision, to ensure Community Assembly is the group responsible for the ongoing management and protection of the Yarra writing the Yarra River 50 Year Community Vision, and River corridor. in February 2019 the assembly came together again to reflect on the draft plan and how it represented their The Yarra Strategic Plan has recently been drafted and vision. is in the process of being reviewed and endorsed by contributing partners before being shared for broader The draft Yarra Strategic Plan includes a series public engagement. To ensure a collaborative approach of performance objectives that will help deliver to the development of the plan, Melbourne Water foundational actions on Yarra River land in the next 10 formed the Yarra Collaboration Committee and has been years. The draft plan also includes a land use framework working closely with committee members, including to ensure the Yarra is at the centre of future land use and senior representatives from the Wurundjeri Woi Wurrung development decisions. Once the final plan is developed Cultural Heritage Aboriginal Corporation as well as the and approved, it will enable collaborative management State and local government agencies who manage the of the river with Traditional Owners, guide local river corridor. planning, and ensure the Yarra is managed as one living and integrated entity. 34 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Case study Stony Creek rehabilitation In August 2018, Stony Creek in pumping 70 million litres of polluted water from the Melbourne’s inner west suffered creek, removing toxic sludge by scraping creek banks devastating impacts from a and pressure-washing rocks and vegetation, and clearing fire in an industrial warehouse away affected trees and shrubs. More than 2,000 cubic in Tottenham/West Footscray metres of contaminated sediment has been removed that was housing unregistered from the creek. toxic chemicals. Firewater runoff washed into the creek causing contamination to a fiveMelbourne Water, together with our partner agencies kilometre reach, resulting in a significant loss of plant and the local community, recognised that a sustained and animal life and effects on human health. effort was required to move beyond the recovery of Stony Creek and focus on a more positive phase of Described as the worst pollution event to a Melbourne rehabilitation. waterway in almost 30 years, the scale of the disaster – including the high level of community concern and Local community input was used to influence a public impacts – commanded a matching response. rehabilitation plan, in collaboration with our partner Melbourne Water joined a collaborative multi-agency agencies – Maribyrnong Council and the Victorian partnership to respond to the incident, the on-ground Environment Protection Authority (EPA). Through recovery efforts, and long-term rehabilitation planning, community events, online activities and conversations, which included extensive consultation with the the local community contributed their ideas, aspirations community. and priorities to support the long-term rehabilitation and future protection of Stony Creek. Their insights, Our priority was to clean up the most publicly used values and recommended actions were used to create and visited parts of Stony Creek first, and prevent the 10-year Stony Creek Rehabilitation Plan. further contamination downstream. Melbourne Water’s recovery works since the fire incident have included 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 35 Improving How We Do Business 36 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Our Customers, Our Community Melbourne Water provides a range of valued services to customers and the community who are at the centre of everything we do. We also partner and develop relationships with our our water literacy campaign, and the co-design and cocustomers to deliver shared services to our community. delivery of service strategies such as our Healthy Waterways Our community is those that are engaged, invested in, Strategy. contribute to or are impacted by the decisions we make. Our community resides in the Greater Melbourne region and Our Customer Research and Insights Program, including benefits from the services we provide with our customers complaints management, and our Reputation Survey and partners. track customer satisfaction and improvements, while our Operating Environment Scan keeps us up-to-date with To assist the organisation to define and understand its changing customer expectations like digital technology. customers, Melbourne Water separates its customer base into key segments. These are: The way we implement our programs, frameworks and tools is driven by customer insights and by understanding their • State Government changing needs. By adopting a customer-centric way of • Local government doing business, this helps to reduce reputational risk, builds on a social licence to operate, and leads to an increased • Retail water companies sense of community trust and confidence in us as an • Industry leadership organisation. • Direct service customers (including developers) So far our customer-centric journey has seen us: • Suppliers • group our customer base into eight segments, with relevant segment plans and over 20 customer plans • Engaged community groups • improve our business-to-customer service across our • Community. Customer Service Centre and digital channels via our We also collaborate with Aboriginal Victorians and website (almost 2 million visits in 2018), YourSay, Traditional Owners who help inform our decisions about our Community Online Maps and social media platforms future services. • deliver a Service Portfolio, which clearly outlines the end-to-end process of delivering services to customers, Proudly customer-centric which is supported by a Services Policy and Framework The Melbourne Water Customer and Community Strategy • increase water literacy through digital technology such outlines our approach to customers, why they matter to as virtual tours of the Western Treatment Plant (WTP) us, and how we plan to better manage and respond to their and the Frog Census App needs to continue building their trust and confidence. Our • educate future generations about the water cycle Relationship Management Framework helps us understand through our ‘gamification’ project them, and we have defined the services they receive from us within our Services Framework. • embed customer capability for all our people through our Leadership Competency Framework, Success Profiles This customer-centric approach is leading the way we and training modules. engage with customers and is evident in some of our flagship projects such as our Price Submission Engagement process, 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 37 Customer portal With a vision to make our data more transparent, credible, easy to use and shareable, Melbourne Water has developed a secure customer portal. Registered users can view data in different formats, on different devices and get notified of updates. Having a customer portal consolidates or replaces other ways we have been communicating data and information. To be able to easily share our information enables even better collaboration with our customers, helping us to make better decisions. We are releasing our portal to a pilot group of local government customers, so their feedback can guide enhancements and new features to improve their experience when interacting with Melbourne Water. Measuring our customer performance We monitor our performance with customers through In addition, we continue to monitor our reputation to research, data analysis and customer feedback which helps understand customer and community perceptions of us, us drive customer experience improvements, and tailor covering aspects of trust, esteem, admiration and respect. service solutions for better customer and community Our reputation score over the past two years has remained outcomes. steady and strong, reaching 81.0 in June 2019. In 2018/19, our Customer Service Centre processed more Now that we have established a strong reputational standing than 48,000 customer interactions including phone calls, with our customers and community, we are ready to emails, processing applications and written correspondence. introduce a new customer experience metric in 2019/20. This Recently, we were independently benchmarked against metric will supplement reputation and help us to identify government, utilities and the private sector for customer specific customer ‘pain points’ when accessing services and experience, including timeliness, friendliness and how well sub-services. This will move us from understanding how issues were resolved. The results put Melbourne Water in the customers feel about Melbourne Water to how satisfied top 10 per cent of all industries surveyed and in the top five they are interacting with us. We can then identify where authorities within the water sector. This great achievement improvements can be made, particularly around processes exemplifies our commitment to providing a high level of and capability. customer service. Melbourne Water Reputation Score – Community and Customers Overall Reputation Score 86 Linear (Overall Reputation Score) 84 82 81.5 81.0 80.6 80.8 80.7 80.2 80 79.1 79.1 78.5 78 77.3 76.8 76 75.2 75.2 75.2 74.7 74 73.2 73.5 72 Sep Dec Ma 201 201 r 20 4 4 15 Jun Sep Dec Ma 201 201 201 5 5 5 Jun Sep Decr 20 201 20116 6 6 Ma Jun Sep 201 r 20 201 201 6 17 7 Dec Ma Jun 201 r 2018 201 7 7 8 Sep Dec Ma Jun 201 201 r 20 8 8 19 201 9 38 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Building a community that values water and the environment Every year we work with the community and the water industry to create better community spaces, increase water literacy through visits to our sites, and partner with volunteers to protect and care for our creeks and waterways. Community members help us to plan how and where our world-class infrastructure should be built to service and supply Greater Melbourne with affordable, high-quality water, reliable sewerage, healthy waterways, and integrated drainage and flood management services. Next Generation Community Engagement program (Next Gen) In 2016, Melbourne Water embarked on a bold journey to become a leader in engagement across government and the water sector through the Next Generation Community Engagement program (Next Gen). Next Gen has transformed our customer and community engagement. This was recently recognised when Melbourne Water was shortlisted as a finalist for ‘Australasian Organisation of the Year’ at the 2018 International Association of Public Participation (IAP2) Core Values Awards. This year the program has focused on driving innovation, industry leadership and embedding transformative engagement practice across every part of Melbourne Water. Highlights include: • roll out across Melbourne Water of our agile community • expansion of our Next Gen Masterclass Series to engagement operating model and associated policy and continue building our engagement capability, with over procedures 600 employees attending the sessions • development and implementation of new engagement • cross-sector collaboration of major project delivery procedural guidelines to embed best practice to streamline and promote greater coordination of engagement in our project delivery procedures (for infrastructure delivery and minimise community example, Small Business, Tree Removal and Community disruption Disruption guidelines) • water industry partnership with the Australian National • a new leadership competency framework University’s Next Generation Engagement program, Australia’s largest study into infrastructure engagement, • a new Preferred Supplier Panel for Communications focused on evidence-based approaches for engagement and Engagement to ensure greater consistency in our across energy, water and transport. engagement delivery, drive cost efficiencies and deliver better business outcomes • uplift of our digital engagement through Melbourne Water’s YourSay online engagement platform and exploration of new innovative digital engagement approaches such as gamification and augmented reality 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 39 Digital community engagement Our Litter Action project engaged 497 volunteer citizen scientists to conduct structured audits and collect litter data YourSay, Melbourne Water’s online engagement platform, to reduce or eliminate litter at the source. The Diamond and other emerging digital techniques such as gamification, Creek Litter Action Group identified circular items as an continues our innovative use of digital technologies to entanglement threat for platypus and, with the support expand how we engage. This enhances our community reach, of DELWP's Port Phillip Bay funding, is working to change increases participation in decision making, gives us a greater behaviours to improve the native habitat. diversity of views and gathers rich insights to inform our work. In the last year: Our Frog Census App continues to engage citizen scientists with more than 4650 frog reports submitted by over • 18 Melbourne Water flagship strategies and projects 1300 volunteers since its launch in 2016. The app users were showcased on YourSay monitor frog calls in the Yarra catchment before and after • there were more than 64,000 views on YourSay environmental watering events. In partnership with the Swinburne University School of Design, frog census data has • Melbourne Water received 1215 insights from been used to prototype a range of digital frog experiences. community • more than 1800 community members registered to Supporting Melbourne Water’s focus on water literacy, the follow our key projects. creation of new digital resources continues with the Western Treatment Plant (WTP) immersive digital tour currently As part of Melbourne Water’s Price Submission engagement in development. It will enable a virtual exploration of this approach, we are piloting gamification to drive greater diverse site, from sewage treatment and energy production participation in our engagement programs and build water to conservation wetlands. In partnership with RMIT literacy with the younger generation. Postcode-driven data University, schools and community groups have deployed provides players with local facts to personalise learning GPS litter trackers into three waterways across Melbourne, outcomes to each player. with the journey being tracked online to provide educational data on how litter moves from waterways into Port Phillip Price Submission Bay. Every five years, a service and price review guides our Clearwater capability building resources allocation and charges. All water businesses prepare a price submission to be approved by the Essential Established in 2002, the Clearwater program aims to Services Commission, Victoria’s independent regulator. improve the quality of Victoria’s water environments by better managing urban stormwater and ensuring industry The Melbourne Water 2021 Price Submission will succeed puts the latest technical and scientific information into the 2016 Water Plan Price Submission, setting out the water, action. Managing water resources for the long term is sewerage, waterways and drainage projects along with their building healthy, resilient and liveable communities. This associated expenditures for 2021-2026. helps professionals, organisations and the sector take an integrated approach to water management through: The Price Submission engagement program is about working closely with our customers and the community to ensure • network building we continue to deliver valued services, while addressing • specialised training workshops the global challenges of population growth and a changing climate. • guided technical tours • other knowledge-sharing activities. Education and citizen science Melbourne Water has hosted and provided primary funding In 2018/19 Melbourne Water continued to support a to Clearwater since 2006, with additional program funding community that values water and the environment. Our and support provided by partners such as DELWP. education programs are improving water literacy in the Victorian Curriculum and allowing citizen scientists to By adapting to the changing needs of the water sector, the contribute to scientific research by monitoring the health program now incorporates technical and non-technical of our waterways and catchments. There were 18,676 aspects of water sensitive urban design (WSUD) and participants in our programs in 2018/19, ranging from tours Integrated Water Management (IWM). of sewage treatment plants to citizen science activities such as monitoring frogs and platypuses. 40 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Three years ago, funding from DELWP helped the Clearwater Water security program expand into regional Victoria to improve stormwater management practices and build regional In February 2019, work commenced on a water security capacity for IWM. Clearwater’s growing stakeholders include public awareness campaign in collaboration with the three catchment management authorities, water retail companies Melbourne retail water companies – City West Water, and local government. Yarra Valley Water and South East water – the first major campaign to be undertaken since the Millennium Drought. DELWP’s funding and Melbourne Water’s ongoing support has helped Clearwater deliver: The campaign highlights a renewed focus by Melbourne’s • Water for Victoria – Victoria’s water plan water companies on the importance of working together more collaboratively to deliver increased value to the • the associated Integrated Water Management community, and to better manage our precious water Framework resources for future generations. Leveraging the State • statewide IWM forums. Government’s Target 155 brand (T155), the campaign seeks to inform and instil confidence that by working together, Clearwater is focused on building individual, intraMelbourne’s water sector organisations are effectively organisational and inter-organisational capacity, and managing long-term water supplies, as part of the overall supporting the awareness and adoption of IWM. Clearwater water supply system. helped deliver IWM in 2018/19 by presenting 37 events and connecting with over 500 participants from 123 The next steps of the campaign will further inform and organisations. support water literacy within the community and business about the environmental, social and economic context of water security in 2019 and beyond, including the key Collaboration and partnerships message that everyone needs to contribute to this security. River Blitz community events That context setting will be followed by future messaging campaigns and specific behaviour-change initiatives over the In 2018/19, Melbourne Water partnered with the Yarra next three years. Riverkeeper Association for two river clean-up events along the Yarra River in Melbourne’s CBD and along a section of the Maribyrnong River in Footscray. As local community events, more than 320 volunteers in kayaks collected nearly 1000 kilograms of waste. The River Blitzes have greatly reduced litter and microplastics travelling along the Yarra and Maribyrnong rivers and flowing out into Port Phillip Bay. This partnership with the Yarra Riverkeeper Association illustrates our commitment to supporting grassroots organisations and empowering community groups, schools and businesses to get involved and improve river health now and for future generations. OzWater’19 Melbourne Water was the principal sponsor of Australia’s international water conference, OzWater’19, held annually by the Australian Water Association (AWA). As principal sponsor, it was an opportunity for Melbourne Water to foster industry partnerships, increase brand awareness and position ourselves as thought leaders within the sector. Melbourne Water had a significant presence during the five-day program of events, including eight presentations, interactive tours along our waterways, and at our treatment plants and drainage projects, facilitating workshops and staff onsite at our exhibitor stand to engage with delegates. A highlight of the event included winning the AWA 2019 National Program Innovation Award for our Enhancing our Dandenong Creek project. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 41 Partnering with Aboriginal Victorians Reconciliation Action Plan and Traditional Owners Our second generation Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan has been endorsed by Reconciliation Australia. Its Melbourne Water has a strong commitment to reconciliation implementation ensures the contribution of Aboriginal and and recognises that partnering with Traditional Owners Torres Strait Islander peoples are an integral part of our work and Aboriginal Victorians is integral to providing essential and relationships continue to be fostered. services to our community and caring for our environment. In 2018/19 we delivered the following objectives and Victoria’s Traditional Owners have sustainably managed activities: land and water over thousands of generations. Their cultural, spiritual and economic connection to land, water • Developed policies and protocols to acknowledge and resources remains strong through their relationship to Aboriginal people and Traditional Owners. country. • Initiated processes to simplify and improve our We recognise the benefits of working collaboratively with engagement with Traditional Owners. Traditional Owners and Aboriginal Victorians who make a • Developed training resources to raise awareness of our vital contribution to Melbourne Water’s decisions about our shared history and understanding of Aboriginal and future services, and to asset and resource management. We Torres Strait Islander culture. are therefore committed to the continuation of our strong, respectful partnership. • Provided support to build capacity for active participation in water management within the Victorian Aboriginal engagement Aboriginal community. Melbourne Water’s Aboriginal Engagement team leads the • Continued to build stronger connections through implementation of our Reconciliation Action Plan and works informal meetings with representatives of Traditional with Traditional Owners and the Aboriginal community on Owner groups. water and country. • Launched our Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan. In 2018/19, we implemented a range of new and existing • Hosted a number of events during NAIDOC Week work with targeted outcomes delivering on our strategies, including a conversation with Melbourne Water staff direction and vision. Our aim is to work in partnership with and Aboriginal Elder, Aunty Pam Pedersen. key stakeholders in a clear and transparent way. • Facilitated cultural awareness training and other We have improved our processes and protocols and have activities to broaden employee skills and competence. committed to resourcing the Aboriginal Engagement team Approximately 150 of our people have attended cultural to ensure relationships with Traditional Owners continue to awareness training during 2018/19. proposer. • In addition to formal training, we have provided opportunities for employees and contractors to This year, numerous activities and events have brought participate in activities and events to build their Melbourne Water and Traditional Owners together. knowledge and understanding, for example Yarning Relationships have been fostered through large-scale Circles and a cultural burning presentation with elders. projects and through engagement with our regional services More than 200 staff participated in a range of activities teams. for National Reconciliation Week. Since the Aboriginal Engagement team was initiated in • Targeted recruitment of Aboriginal and Torres Strait January 2019, Melbourne Water has delivered 20 activities Islander employees to increase representation. to almost 400 staff with over 45 hours of cultural awareness content. 42 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Case study Cultural fire Aboriginal people have used target can be achieved through supporting Wadawurrung fire to cultivate the Australian in their cultural fire journey. In March 2019, Melbourne landscape for countless Water hosted a leader in cultural burning and attended generations. Our landscapes field visits at WTP with Wadawurrung to consider the have evolved with fire and a best approaches for the site’s grassy landscape. number of our native ecosystems require fire to thrive and diversify. Our Aboriginal Engagement team and several members Many of the ecological prompts to introduce fire, such as of our operational staff also attended the National Melbourne Water’s Ecological Burn Plan at our Western Indigenous Fire workshop at Barmah Forest with Treatment Plant (WTP), can have similar outcomes to Wadawurrung in June 2019. The event proved beneficial the cultural burns conducted by Traditional Owners. for our staff to foster relationships, develop a greater understanding of culture and managing country, and to With support from Melbourne Water’s Aboriginal work toward further project planning. Engagement team, WTP staff have been developing cultural fire relationships with Wadawurrung Traditional The next phase of this fire program involves further Owners. Our WTP Ecological Burn Plan requires a certain training and burn planning, as well as establishing number of hectares of on-site grassland to be burnt monitoring programs to ensure we can better assess fire annually, and it has been identified that much of this impact. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 43 Safe and Inspired People With safety foremost, Melbourne Water aspires to be a leader in delivering our services. This will be achieved by our diverse, capable, collaborative and resilient people. Together we have the courage to go above and beyond to deliver service excellence. Safety We proactively gauge the strength of our safety culture to track our progress on this journey by monitoring a range of cultural measures that provide a snapshot of three key safety dimensions: Keeping our people and the 1. A monthly metric, called the Energy Index, that community safe. captures safety activities above and beyond day-today tasks; for example, safety walks or investigations, Keeping people safe continues to be our highest priority, innovations, collaborating with a different team, or whether they are employees, contractors, delivery partners, organising team or site wellbeing activities. volunteers or visitors. 2. A quarterly metric, called the Vibe, based on a net By living our organisational values of care, courage and promoter score, which provides insight on how well our integrity Melbourne Water continues to foster a culture people think Melbourne Water is focusing on safety. where safety is at the heart of everything we do. 3. An annual survey across every business group to Melbourne Water is continuing a journey towards a truly gauge progress towards creating a generative safety generative safety culture. This approach, based on the model culture. Our most recent result (June 2019) revealed a developed by psychologist Professor Patrick Hudson, embeds proactive/generative safety score of 70 per cent. safety in everything we do by making it an intrinsic value we hold and share. As part of our culture we go beyond We know that our focus on creating a generative safety compliance and responding to safety events, and build a culture is delivering results. Over the past five years we have culture where safety is a ‘whole of life’ experience, starting in recorded a sustained reduction in injuries and we will ensure the home and reinforced in the workplace. this trend continues. Our total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) was 3.2 against a target of 2.7 for 2018/19. There were eight contractor and eight employee injuries in 2018/19. While this result is slightly higher than target, our long-term performance has seen sustained improvements through a reduction in TRIFR over the past five years, in line with our focus on safety culture. For further information and data on our expanded safety results, see Appendix G. 44 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report We pride ourselves on being innovative and constantly Driving safety across the whole challenge traditional ways of managing safety. Our new set of tools – named Good to Go – does not layer staff business with unhelpful bureaucracy and paperwork. It has replaced A strong safety culture means that safety is everyone’s a number of safety checklist processes and emphasises concern. In 2018/19 we delivered a range of events with a managing hazards through situational awareness practices clear safety focus. Highlights include: and identifying threats. Good to Go allows staff to think about what might stop them doing the activity or task, even • a realistic mock court role-play activity based on a before they start. hypothetical severe workplace injury resulting from a failure to engage workers adequately through tool Team morale is a crucial part of safety culture. With this in box meetings and other safety processes. Over 300 mind, our family days at the Winneke Water Treatment Plant, staff attended this unique and powerful event that and the WTP and ETP formed a part of our whole of life underscored the role we all play in keeping each other approach to safety, and acknowledges the close relationship safe between work and family life. The events were attended by over 500 people, reinforcing that safety is strongest when it • the inaugural Water Industry Safety Event (WISE), is a visible part of everyday routines with processes woven hosted by Melbourne Water. The event was an into everything we do, whether at work or at home. opportunity for collaboration and knowledge sharing across the water industry. It was attended by safety Technology provides a range of opportunities to improve the representatives, occupational health and safety safety tools we use every day, including for those people who professionals, operational leaders, and operators and work onsite. We have developed a number of apps to support suppliers from a number of water authorities, with safety in the field, including: presentations from Melbourne Water, North East Water, Goulburn Valley Water, Gippsland Water and South East • a Confined Space Entry Awareness app, providing Water clarity on defining confined spaces and helping people understand requirements for entry • the award of Best Safety Leadership Program to Melbourne Water for our work with contractors, and a • a Contractor Training Log app, which allows our people commendation for our Virtual Reality Design Review to see the training records of any field contractors Process at the National Safety Council of Australia • additional apps to access Good to Go and an incident (NSCA) awards in Sydney. Melbourne Water was also reporting system, which allow people to proactively awarded the National Safety Excellence Award for our manage safety on the go. overall safety program • Safety Leadership Edge, an event designed to foster We are also committed to ensuring those injured in safety leadership across the business and presented the workplace are supported through their recovery. A by Melbourne Water’s executive leadership team. WorkSafe claims management audit confirmed the value More than 100 people from across Melbourne of our approach, with 98 per cent compliance with the Water participated, and the leadership team had the Victorian workers compensation legislation, excellent claims opportunity to hear first-hand from field crew about management practices and a commitment to continuous their expectations of leaders. Our general managers improvement. shared their experience and knowledge on: –– providing safety leadership –– driving a safety culture –– integrating safety as good business practice –– perceptions of risk and managing risks –– creating engaged teams with authentic and sometimes challenging conversations. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 45 During 2018/19 the Major Hazard Facility (MHF) licence of Our ultimate goal is to remove MHFs from our business. the Silvan Water Treatment Plant was renewed for five years We have completed the next step on this pathway for the without conditions. This followed the successful relicensing Winneke Water Treatment Plant, with the project to move of the Winneke Water Treatment Plant and the ETP in 2018. from liquefied chlorine gas to sodium hypochlorite for The issue of licences without conditions is a real success disinfection completed and in the final stages of proof of – only 50 per cent of Victorian MHFs were issued with fiveperformance. This will result in a reduction in on and off-site year non-conditional licences in this round of licensing. risk and eventually remove the need to hold an MHF licence. Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR Events 14 (recorded incidents per month) 12 TRIFR 10 (Recorded incidents per million hours 8 worked) (incl. employee 6 & contractor) Target 4 Linear TRIFR 2 0 Jul Oc Jan Apr Jul Oc Jan Apr Jul Oc Jan Apr Jul 17 Oc Jan Apr Jul Oc Jan Apr 14 t 14 15 15 15 t 15 16 16 16 t 16 17 17 t 17 18 18 18 t 18 19 19 Case study Whole of life safety through enhanced wellbeing Melbourne Water launched a overwhelming, with close to 1000 people participating in new Wellbeing Program earlier a skin cancer check. As a result, a number of our people this year, based on the following were diagnosed with a melanoma requiring urgent principles: the program is easy medical intervention. Over 350 people participated in a to access for everyone in the 20-minute voluntary health check that included blood business; it is simple, pragmatic pressure, blood glucose and cholesterol measurements, and practical; and it has an as well as a mental health assessment, and a number of element of ‘whole of life’. Whole of life means that the people were referred to a doctor for follow up. People activity has a positive impact beyond the workplace posted video testimonials on our internal social media on the employee’s family, friends and even the broader thanking Melbourne Water for these health initiatives community. The new Wellbeing Program adopted a that in some instances uncovered conditions they could holistic approach and targets both physical and mental proactively address. The number of flu vaccinations also health. increased from last year (+40 per cent), providing 811 people with the opportunity to be vaccinated. For the first few initiatives of the program, our employees and contractors were offered free on-site The Wellbeing Program has raised engagement and skin cancer checks. Flu vaccinations and voluntary health energy around safety and wellbeing, with mental health checks were also offered to contractors for the first time. being its next focus area. Engagement with the new Wellbeing Program has been 46 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Our People Our workforce in numbers • Melbourne Water employed 1171 people in Melbourne Water’s people are central 2018/19 compared to 1135 in 2017/18. to our ability to deliver essential • We continue to actively support greater diversity in our workforce – females make up 37 services to Melbourne. per cent of our workforce in 2018/19 compared to 36 per cent in 2017/18. Positioning Melbourne Water as an • In 2018/19, 51 per cent of our vacant roles were employer of choice filled internally, in line with our focus on career development. Attracting and retaining talent, and building employee engagement and satisfaction is important to ensure we • We delivered 3278 training sessions for staff continue to deliver outcomes for our customers and the in 2018/19 using both face-to-face and online community. delivery modes. In 2019, Melbourne Water introduced the Employee Value Proposition (EVP) to help position the business as an employer of choice. The EVP was developed in consultation with Melbourne Water employees, and has been successfully Culture and engagement embedded to enhance hiring, recruitment and on-boarding activities. The EVP outlines our commitment to staff, which Organisational culture and employee engagement are includes: directly related to performance, productivity, retention, advocacy and wellbeing. They are all important factors to • Freedom – our commitment to flexible working, deliver our vision of enhancing life and liveability. including purchased leave, varied start and finish times, working from alternative locations, part-time Our focus on people, culture and belonging is achieving work and nine-day fortnights. We understand that positive outcomes. This year, employee engagement rose the organisation and our customers benefit from us 4 per cent to 76 per cent. This is the third consecutive year enabling our employees to achieve balance in work and that we have seen an increase in engagement. There was life. significant uplift in alignment and performance factors related to • Impact – we are a talented and passionate team dedicated to enhancing life and liveability in Melbourne • diversity and inclusion and beyond. Our people do truly meaningful work in a • social connection supportive and inclusive culture that encourages them to make the most of their talents. • team leadership • People – our people are passionate, welcoming and • customer and community outcomes. inclusive. We welcome Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, people with disability, mature age and young job seekers, and those from culturally diverse backgrounds. The EVP was used in the 2019 Engineering Graduate and 2018/19 Seasonal Fire Fighters recruitment campaigns. Both campaigns saw an increase in applications, diversity of talent and an accelerated time to hire. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 47 Living and breathing our values Our culture is defined by three core values – care, integrity and courage. They are the guiding principles that help us U ES AL deliver our strategies and achieve positive outcomes for our O UR V We are open and transparent with our thoughts and opinions people, customers, community and the environment. We set ethical standards and do what we say We are accountable for our In 2019, we asked employees to better define our values so We stand up for what we believe in, commitments, words and actions that they can be role modelled, understood and observed make the tough decisions and empower others to do the same inte g rity every day. This resulted in the successful relaunch of our We speak up when something is not right, even if our voice shakes c a re values, and the impact statements that define them. We challenge the status quo and find ways to continuously improve We put the safety and We are embedding these values in each stage of the rage wellbeing of our people first ou c We treat each other with employee life cycle including recruitment, on-boarding, respect and empathy We look out for our performance, and reward and recognition. colleagues, community, customers and environment Ensuring a strong talent pipeline to meet current and future business needs Building a strong talent pipeline is fundamental to ensuring Our Industry Placement Program commenced in March that Melbourne Water has a workforce that is ready to meet 2019. The program will leverage industry partnerships to current and future business needs. produce a reciprocal, sustainable long-term placement Our Career Development Centre is designed to deliver program that provides ongoing competency development phased talent development initiatives to support our opportunities for early career engineers and project high-potential leaders. This includes coaching, 360-degree managers at Melbourne Water. feedback and industry-wide opportunities. We continued to grow and nurture the external pipeline In 2018/19 we introduced Coaching Circles, a new and of talent through graduate programs. Seven of the 2016innovative coaching program for talented senior leaders. 2018 engineering graduates completed their program in Coaching Circles is designed to improve our coaching culture November 2018, and have had the opportunity to apply and accountability by sharing issues and solving business their talents by working at Melbourne Water in long-term problems within small cohorts. positions. All high-potential employees were offered at least one For the coming year, 10 2019-2021 graduates – eight targeted development opportunity during the year, with 100 engineers and two IT students – were recruited and per cent of direct reports and 71 per cent of senior managers commenced their rotational program of work. accepting these opportunities. Building the capability of our workforce Continuing to build the technical capability of our workforce was a key priority in 2018/19. We achieved this through upskilling our workforce and attracting new talent. VET programs continue to contribute to Melbourne Water’s technical capability. Ten new trainees commenced their 18-month traineeship in April 2019. The Certificate III in Conservation and Land Management has been incorporated into the traineeship program to complement the trainees' on-the-job training and development. Four business administration trainees are completing a Certificate III qualification in Business Administration. Currently there are 23 water operators enrolled in the Water Industry Certificate III qualification, and 13 employees completed the Certificate III qualification in Civil Construction. 48 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Valuing diversity and inclusion Taking action on family violence Melbourne Water embraces difference and nurtures a Melbourne Water is committed to supporting employees connected, safe and respectful environment for our people. should they experience family violence. Our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy outlines our approach In 2018/19 we introduced the Family Violence Policy and to addressing barriers to diversity and inclusion. Several Safety Plan. This is complemented by a family violence individual action plans have been developed to deliver this e-learning module which aims to build employees’ ability strategy. Our three priority areas are: to recognise the signs, respond appropriately and be able to refer to internal and external supports if a colleague shares • accessibility and people with disability an experience of family violence. • gender equity LGBTI inclusion • reconciliation (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander). Melbourne Water has an active LGBTI and ally employee The strategy and plans include our commitment to have a network, Refract, which works across the organisation to workforce where: build awareness and support inclusion. • by 2020 3 per cent identify as Aboriginal or Torres Strait Events and activities have included acknowledging Wear it Islander Purple Day, IDAHOBIT, LGBTI Awareness and Ally Training, • by 2023 there is 50 per cent female representation in and participation in the Pride in Practice conference and the corporate (including leadership) roles, and 30 per cent annual Midsumma Pride March, in solidarity and support of female representation in operational roles (including Victoria’s LGBTI+ community. those in leadership) Leading the way in gender equity • by 2023 15 per cent identify as living with a disability. Melbourne Water is committed to achieving gender equity. The plans drive our recruitment, development and Our Gender Equity Plan (2018-2020) takes a targeted recognition of our people, and our commitment to being approach to managing the impact of biases and addressing more diverse and inclusive. areas of under-representation of both men and women. Over the past year we have made significant progress in In 2018/19 we introduced the Gender Equity Shortlist Policy. building an inclusive workplace culture. This is evidenced by This requires all hiring managers to strive for genderour 2019 Culture & Engagement Survey results, including: equitable short lists prior to commencing the interview • diversity inclusion items rated as 84 per cent favourable process. This is delivering strong progress with a 4 per cent increase in female representation in short lists and a 14 per • 90 per cent of our staff agreeing with the statement cent increase in female commencements. ‘Melbourne Water supports a diverse and inclusive workplace’ Over the past financial year there has been an increase in • 83 per cent of our people recognising and women in senior management roles to 43 per cent (our understanding the advantages of diversity and inclusion leadership team and their direct reports). We achieved over (an increase of 4 per cent). 50 per cent female representation in our graduate intake over 2018/19. Our 2019 staff census showed that over the year the number of our employees that identify as Aboriginal or Torres Strait We are actively investing in growing the pipeline of women Islander was 1.4 per cent, more than double the 2018 result. in the sector. In 2018/19 we hosted a career education Two traineeships were filled by Aboriginal people. event for secondary and tertiary-level students designed to showcase the diversity of roles available at Melbourne Water and contribute to building female students' interest in STEM Flexible working fields. Access to flexible work arrangements is an important enabler Our Women in Leadership Development Program was for people at every stage of the employment life cycle, successfully completed by 21 participants. This intensive and particularly critical for people with disabilities, carer six-month program enables participants to gain confidence, responsibilities or ageing parents. resilience and capability as leaders within the business and Our people continue to access a range of formal and supports our strategic gender equality targets. informal flexible working arrangements, with 29.4 per cent of the workforce utilising these arrangements in 2018/19, up from 25.7 per cent in the previous year. In 2019 Melbourne Water was recognised as a leader in flexible working and was a finalist for the Best Workplace Flexibility Program for the 2019 Human Resources Awards. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 49 Compliance with the Disability Act 2006 Case study The inclusion of people with a disability is an important part of our inclusion strategy. Our Accessibility Inclusion Action Plan (2018-2021) is leading our efforts to remove Supporting employees on barriers that prevent people with a disability from accessing parental leave information via our website or facilities, and from gaining and Supporting parents and keeping employment. those on parental leave is a With a continued focus on building an inclusive culture, key action within the Gender we experienced an increase in voluntary self-reporting of Equity Plan (2018-2020). disability in 2018/19, with 7.7 per cent of our organisation Melbourne Water provides reporting to have a disability. a range of support to employees though all stages The disability advocacy network, Kaleidoscope, was of the life cycle of parental leave. established and has created champions throughout the business and enabled two-way communication. We connect with our employees on parental leave through coaching and support, and by providing We are working in partnership with the Australian updates and event information. Network on Disability to provide mentoring and internship opportunities for people with disability. Its PACE Mentoring In 2018/19 two Keeping in Touch events provided program is designed to encourage employees to mentor parental leave employees with the opportunity people with disability over a 16-week period to increase their to attend an extensive business update and to job readiness. network with senior leaders. A pop-up crèche helped employees attend and reconnect with the In addition, we have introduced The Stepping Into program workplace. which provides a four-week full-time (or part-time equivalent) paid internship for university students with a This biannual event has been welcomed by disability in their final two years of study. The internship employees who have provided overwhelmingly can provide a pathway to employment for graduates with positive feedback after their attendance. disability, and provides mentors and managers with the The events have also provided a great opportunity opportunity to further develop their inclusive leadership to hear from employees about their experiences on skills. leave – both good and bad. We have found this a The International Day of People with Disability was an powerful way of identifying and addressing practical effective platform to raise employees’ awareness of disability barriers to returning to work. and to strengthen relationships with external disability support services. In partnership with Wise Employment, Melbourne Water hosted a group of job seekers with disability. Ensuring that Melbourne Water is accessible to customers and the community with disabilities is critically important, and in 2018/19 we established a project team to progress actions to increase digital accessibility across the organisation. 50 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Continuous Improvement Melbourne Water embraces an agile and innovative approach to new ideas, and encourages business improvements so that we always aim to exceed customer and community expectations. Improving the way we do business During 2018/19 we continued to focus on removing and reducing the ‘red tape’ that frustrates employees and can A central part of the way we work at Melbourne Water is our prevent them from doing their best work. Our Integration and culture of continuous improvement that responds positively Simplification Program, completed in June 2019, was a twoto feedback, promotes ongoing evolution and targets year challenge to the organisation to identify and implement emerging needs as they arise. solutions for almost 46,800 hours of effort in dealing with red tape across the business. Key outcomes from this As a provider of essential services, strict regulatory program are: compliance and strong risk management are critical to what we do. To meet these requirements, we have robust business • a streamlined approach to formal management systems and processes in place to monitor and report on our systems, consolidating the management of the existing performance and to alert us early when we are off track. seven ISO-certified management systems applicable to our operations into a single Integrated Management Recently we have made our systems less cumbersome, System used across all areas of our business without compromising their effectiveness, by streamlining • reduced time required for our risk management our approach to managing risk. This has involved better practices through the implementation of a consolidated understanding of our risks, allowing us to focus on priorities and robust set of risks impacting the whole of as they arise. Melbourne Water • consolidated audit schedules that allow them to occur concurrently, effectively and efficiently, and reducing the disruption to operational activities and the associated administration effort • standardised and automated routine performance reporting activities through a centralised system. This shift from manual spreadsheets has started the process to materially reduce the effort required for routine performance reporting • improved information management through smart templates that collect information to support document search functionality and user friendly workflows for document approval and reviews. This work identified further opportunities for improvement and has become an ongoing and specialised program for 2019/20. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 51 Taking a digital approach eliminated exposure to dangerous working environments for over 60 of our people through the use of drones for asset Melbourne Water continues to use digital technologies inspections. and capabilities to provide valuable services in our rapidly A key focus has been to embed digital innovation as a evolving digital environment with its ever-increasing fundamental part of the way we operate. We have done this technological opportunities. by building innovation capability right across Melbourne Our Digital Strategy outlines the digital technologies Water and taking advantage of new and emerging and capabilities we will use to deliver our customer and technologies such as LIDAR, AI, digital engineering and IoT. community services commitments. Refreshing this strategy During 2018/19 we implemented smarter and more efficient will take full advantage of the next wave of digital trends digital solutions to improve service efficiency, reliability such as artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), and responsiveness for our customers and the community analytics, digital engineering, virtual reality and augmented through delivery of initiatives including: reality. • developing online training registration tools for staff Our digital investment focuses on providing our business, and service partners to streamline manual, timecustomers and the community with the greatest benefit. intensive training processes We are strengthening our commitment to automation through AI, IoT and digital engineering and delivering safer, • providing online safety procedures and building mobile more reliable and responsive services – reducing costs for service partner training apps so that our partners can be customers and the community. We are also building digital work-ready sooner capabilities – such as service design, user experience and user • Developing a logbook app so control room staff can training – to deliver real value to our business and customers. more efficiently input, search and share operational activities at our treatment plants and pumping stations, To take advantage of these new and emerging technologies, which is a critical element for shift handovers and safety Melbourne Water is investing in new capabilities and procedures. amending our digital solutions delivery so it is more agile and responsive to changing business and customer needs. • implementing an internally developed work order app and map-based mobile applications that enable staff Melbourne Water is actively leveraging, extending and and service partners to quickly access and respond to sharing digital capabilities and solutions with peers and service needs from the field partners right across the water industry, in areas like integrated sewage quality management system (ISQMS) • implementing new digital forms and processes to monitoring. This will help our whole industry grow and enhance paperless operations in all areas of our business deliver consistently high levels of service, while keeping costs • introducing AI control automation at our water supply low for all Victorians. pumping stations, resulting in increased efficiency and energy savings Importantly, we will continue to invest in the right tools, technologies and training, such as mobility, on-demand • enhancing flood management capability through training and self-service, for our future workforce. IoT monitoring trials for Melbourne’s flood drainage network, including automated image recognition of Extending business capabilities CCTV footage to alert us when drainage grates are blocked Melbourne Water implemented a range of new digital • upgrading our asset management system and delivering technologies, tools and processes in 2018/19 to build our enhanced user experience through a new user interface, business capability and make our organisation safer, smarter, providing easier and more intuitive systems to support more efficient, and more responsive to customer and service delivery to our customers community needs. • developing a highly-integrated sewer raft that leverages These capabilities have clear benefits to our customers, CCTV, laser scanning, sonar and pipe penetration radar including our new authenticated data sharing portal, capabilities, combined with AI analytics, to provide enabling greater transparency and superior service outcomes detailed monitoring and condition assessments and for consumers by working more collaboratively with our facilitate smarter maintenance regimes for the sewers water industry partners. that support Melbourne Our focus on building organisational capability also delivers • upgrading our finance and information management benefits to our employees and service partners through systems, improving functionality and developing safer operations, ensuring all our people go home safe. For new user interfaces to improve user experience and example, we have introduced thermal imaging cameras to simplicity. detect and extinguish hot spots after bushfires, eliminating the need for dangerous physical testing by hand. Building our capability in emerging technology means that we have 52 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Case study Virtual reality and augmented reality to design virtual plants Melbourne Water is an asset as though it was built. This allows operators to internationally-recognised work collaboratively and more closely mirrors the way in leader in the use of immersive which they work in the real world. technologies like virtual and augmented reality for improving The results plant design, safety and training. The results are overwhelming. Not only does the virtual Our work has been formally twin enable operators to understand and conceptualise recognised through the National Safety Awards, and future assets, but it also helps build their understanding we are actively sought out by partners across Asia and of how the asset will work and provide up-front training. New Zealand to share our experience and learnings from our immersive technology journey. A key element of The quantum of potential safety and operational issues Melbourne Water’s design assessment process for major identified at the point of design has grown substantially. capital works is the identification of safety and operating Testing has shown that operators can effectively identify hazards at the point of design. This helps to eliminate in excess of four times the number of safety issues using safety risks up front and provide a safer working virtual reality than was previously possible under the environment once assets are built. manual assessment method. The existing manual design assessment process was By identifying these issues prior to design finalisation, problematic for a number of reasons: Melbourne Water has been able to increase safety outcomes and reduce construction costs even before –– Designers found it difficult to explain design construction has commenced. concepts to operational staff –– Requests to modify asset design and operation were The future often being made after physical assets were built Virtual reality presents significant design, safety, training and operational staff became more aware of design and simulation benefits for Melbourne Water both now improvement opportunities and into the future. –– Staff expectations of asset design and function were A pilot is underway using LIDAR technology to create often not met by the finished product 3D digital twins of Melbourne Water assets. These –– Hazards were being ‘designed in’ to finished digital twins then have the potential to be combined products, and were costly and difficult to remedy. with virtual reality technology to facilitate staff training (even when staff are in different locations), cross-skilling, Working in partnership with Deakin University, knowledge sharing and operational simulation under Melbourne Water developed a virtual reality solution different scenarios. that is used to improve design effectiveness for all assets we construct. As virtual technology continues to grow and evolve, it will provide further opportunities to solve challenges and This solution allows operators to move around and ‘see’ exploit opportunities in a virtual world more effectively a virtual twin of the future asset. Furthermore, multiple than the real world. operators are able to move around in the same virtual space, and use hand tracking to virtually operate the 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 53 Driving innovation through targeted The waterways research practice partnership with the University of Melbourne continues our focus on improving research waterway management. Long-term monitoring of the effect of detaining stormwater in rainwater tanks and releasing it To deliver on our commitment to continuously improve our slowly after a storm has passed is improving stream health services Melbourne Water engages in leading-edge research and biodiversity. with universities, research centres, regional water authorities and other partners. During 2018/19 we undertook a number We have also developed a new model which uses existing of research projects in areas that provide benefits not only data on stream flow, water quality, and the type and to Melbourne Water but also, through collaboration, the abundance of creatures. The model brings together many broader community. These projects cover areas such as: data sources to predict likely outcomes over the years and • reducing greenhouse gas emissions the effect of interventions. We are using this model to help prioritise work over the 25,000 kilometres of rivers and • improving environmental management creeks we manage. • providing safe drinking water Melbourne Water has pledged to halve our net greenhouse • treating waste water gas emissions by 2025, putting us on the path to achieve net zero emissions by 2030. The WTP is accepting digestible • asset maintenance liquid waste previously sent to landfill. This waste is added • delivering safe recycled water to sewage and digested in covered anaerobic lagoons. Biogas • managing the health of our waterways and bays and sewage is captured and converted to electricity for use onsite and for export to the grid. The lagoon covers are • improving safety and liveability. critical for gas capture, but can be easily damaged, so we are monitoring and assessing movement of these massive covers Two new research partnerships with local universities using photogrammetry data collected by drones. It allows us provide: to take remedial action before the covers fail. • a collaboration platform for long-term relationships and better understanding of our needs Using big data and a sophisticated algorithm, Melbourne Water has better synchronised the water pumps at the • access to expertise, by bringing together Winneke Water Treatment Plant, reducing greenhouse multidisciplinary skills in the pursuit of a topic electricity gas emissions and annual energy costs by 20 • in-kind and cash co-funding from research partners per cent. This process will be rolled out to our other pump stations in the future. • more efficient contracting and procurement. Our aquatic pollution prevention partnership with RMIT University is detecting water pollution, studying its impact on animals and plants in our waterways and bays, and tracing the source of urban and rural landscape pollutants. 54 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Business Sustainability When delivering services, Melbourne Water always considers social responsibility, the natural environment and financial accountability. Financial Sustainability Our business needs to make many decisions to balance the financial impacts of managing population growth, the effects of climate change and ensuring we continue to provide excellent service delivery. We are focused on leveraging our Melbourne Water is passionate technology investments to provide decision makers with about driving business efficiency and the best possible information for optimal outcomes. This includes improved long-term modelling capabilities that commercial decision making to ensure can provide scenario analysis to consider the implications of drivers such as population growth, climate change, ageing customer affordability. assets and the resulting price impact on customers across a number of regulatory periods. As the next evolution in our Financial performance financial management maturity, we are committed to further developing our organisational strength in data analytics, Sustainable businesses have financial stability at their drawing on our varied datasets and powerful business core. At Melbourne Water, financial sustainability is well intelligence tools. embedded into our strategic objectives. We define financial sustainability as: Working with an Indigenous-owned business, Melbourne Water created a brochure that is primarily used to help • continuing to deliver our valued services at the lowest our suppliers understand our strategies, values and intent cost to customers to embed diversity and inclusion into our procurement • meeting our financial obligations both today and in the practices. It explains the categories of the code which future includes reconciliation, family violence, disability inclusion, business integrity and gender equity. The brochure is • providing a return to our shareholders. included in our tender templates and is available for viewing In 2018/19 Melbourne Water’s solid financial performance on the Melbourne Water website. has delivered a positive net profit after tax result of $201.0 million. Melbourne Water has worked closely with the Victorian water sector and has been an early adopter of the Population growth continues to increase demand for our Victorian Government’s Social Procurement Framework. services which is reflected in our revenue growth for bulk During 2018/19 we have worked to further embed and water and sewerage charges. Waterways and drainage communicate the industry-wide Supplier Code of Practice services revenue has reduced on the prior year due to lower that was developed through the Social Procurement Working prices offered to customers. The trend of unpredictability in Group chaired by Melbourne Water. our revenue continues to come primarily from the demand for land development services, with the strong performance in this area due to Melbourne’s ongoing growth. During 2018/19, Melbourne Water made cash payments to the Victorian Government of $225.0 million ($286.4 million in 2017/18). We are proud of the contribution we make towards the ongoing success of Victorian communities. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 55 Revenue ($M) Bulk water services 2018/19 Bulk sewerage services 2017/18 Waterways charges 2016/17 Developer charges, contributions & contributed assets 2015/16 Other revenue and rebates 2014/15 Refinancing gain on financial instruments -500.0 0.0 500.0 1,000.0 1,500.0 2,000.0 Net gain on revaluation of non-financial assets Expenditure ($M) Desalination plant expenses (operating, finance & 2018/19 amortisation) 2017/18 Depreciation & amortisation (excluding desalination) 2016/17 Operational (excluding desalination) 2015/16 Employee benefits 2014/15 Repairs & maintenance 0.0 200.0 400.0 600.0 800.0 1,000.0 1,200.0 1,400.0 1,600.0 2,000.0 Administrative Finance costs (excluding desalination) Other expenses Net loss on revaluation of non-financial assets Capital Expenditure ($M) Corporate 2018/19 Waterways and Drainage 2017/18 Sewerage 2016/17 Water 2015/16 2014/15 0.0 100.0 200.0 300.0 400.0 500.0 600.0 56 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Five-Year Financial Summary Summary of Financial Results Statement of Profit or Loss 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 for the year ended 30 June – Extract $M $M $M $M $M Total revenue 1,938.8 1,890.4 1,791.4 1,871.6 1,749.7 Operating and other expenses (595.2) (525.3) (512.4) (481.8) (514.6) Depreciation and amortisation expenses (408.1) (392.1) (383.8) (373.8) (367.5) Finance expenses (618.2) (645.3) (657.2) (676.7) (707.2) Net profit from operations before tax 317.3 327.7 237.9 339.3 160.4 Tax expense (116.3) (118.9) (87.5) (185.9) (44.2) Net profit for the period after tax 201.0 208.8 150.4 153.4 116.2 Statement of Financial Position 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 as at 30 June – Extract $M $M $M $M $M Current assets 153.4 115.7 95.6 103.8 189.1 Non-current assets 15,125.5 15,212.9 14,786.5 14,717.2 14,346.2 Total assets 15,278.9 15,328.6 14,882.1 14,821.0 14,535.3 Current liabilities 1,163.5 1,216.4 1,032.7 1,018.7 852.5 Non-current liabilities 8,372.4 8,497.2 8,579.3 8,656.5 8,890.8 Total liabilities 9,535.9 9,713.6 9,612.0 9,675.2 9,743.3 Net assets/Total equity 5,743.0 5,615.0 5,270.1 5,145.8 4,792.0 Statement of Cash Flows 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 for the year ended 30 June – Extract $M $M $M $M $M Net cash inflow from operating activities 534.9 465.8 439.7 526.0 373.2 Net cash outflow from investing activities (513.0) (446.2) (444.4) (357.7) (302.9) Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (6.3) (21.2) 5.9 (207.1) (140.3) Summary of Financial Performance Key Financial Performance Indicators 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Performance Indicators $M $M $M $M $M Cash Interest Cover 2.1 1.9 2.0 2.1 1.6 Gearing Ratio 51.2% 52.6% 53.6% 53.6% 55.9% Internal Financing Ratio 93.4% 78.6% 89.0% 135.3% 103.4% Current Ratio 0.15 times 0.10 times 0.09 times 0.10 times 0.23 times Return on Assets 6.1% 6.4% 6.0% 6.9% 6.0% Return on Equity 3.5% 3.8% 2.9% 3.1% 2.5% EBITDA Margin 69.3% 72.2% 71.4% 74.2% 70.5% Explanatory notes: Refer to the Performance Report (pages 142 to 146) for definitions of financial performance indicators and reporting of all 2018/19 performance indicators (financial and non-financial) against targets with supporting explanations for any significant variations. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 57 Social Sustainability As a member of the UNGC, Melbourne Water Procurement has been an active member of the Community of Practice for Modern Slavery. Leveraging this best-practice platform, Social Procurement Framework Melbourne Water has chaired a supply chain risk assessment for the Victorian water industry, a first for a utility sector. The Social Procurement Framework was developed and put This risk assessment is a first step in providing transparency into practice during 2018/19. The Victorian Government has for our supply chain and prioritising risks and opportunities. recognised the power of procurement as a lever to create Our small scale capital delivery partner, Aqua Metro Services, positive change and opportunities for all Victorians. is a great example of a supplier partnership that has led the way in social procurement. It has developed a Diversity The Framework enables buyers and suppliers to deliver and Inclusion Management Plan to deliver on its goals. Best social, economic and environmental outcomes through practice key performance indicators have been developed procurement that will benefit the Victorian community. around: Building a fair, inclusive and sustainable Victoria through procurement, the Framework has 10 objectives: seven relate • supporting Indigenous business capability to social procurement outcomes and the balance relate • gender equality and equal opportunities to sustainable business practices and implementation of Climate Change Policy objectives. This directly aligns and • sustainability. supports our commitment to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Melbourne Water has signed up to the United Awards and recognition Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest Leanne Hill, Melbourne Water’s Strategic Procurement corporate sustainability initiative. Manager, won the Telstra Business Award Victoria – Public Sector and Academia category on the platform of Social Partnerships Procurement and Modern Slavery. Melbourne Water is committed to building strong and The Department of Treasury and Finance has recognised successful partnerships with our customers and other that the Victorian water sector is an early adopter of the stakeholders. Victorian Government’s Social Procurement Framework, with During 2018/19 we commenced work with Kinaway, the Melbourne Water featured in its newsletters and Leanne Hill Victorian Aboriginal Chamber of Commerce, the leading speaking at Treasury Place on our water industry case studies. Victorian organisation dedicated to supporting Victorian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander business owners. Its Value for money focus is on changing Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples' lives through a strength-based model of business Enhancing the affordability of Melbourne Water services, ownership and participation in the Victorian economy. This Procurement supports major tender processes that result relationship supports our Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan in value for money outcomes. In the 2018/19 financial year, and provides support to identify and build relationships with approximately $9 million was realised in annualised savings. Indigenous businesses. With Kinaway, Melbourne Water will also find opportunities to inform and finalise our Social Procurement Strategy, part of our requirements under the Social Procurement Framework. 58 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Environmental The business is on track to meet our pledge to halve net greenhouse gas emissions by 2025, and achieve net zero Sustainability emissions by 2030. We drive innovation that not only benefits our own business but the broader water sector. Recently we ran an innovation Guided by our Environmental competition that brought together global expertise to find solutions to the problem of scope 1 emissions, which are Stewardship Strategy, Melbourne Water generated as a natural part of the sewage treatment process. seeks to enhance our contribution to The Water Sector Climate Change Adaptation Action Plan the environmental sustainability of highlights priority adaptation challenges for the Victorian water sector. Our people are participating in a range of Greater Melbourne. projects and engaging with DELWP to identify areas where we can assist with the next phase of action delivery. Melbourne Water is committed to reducing the Melbourne Water has an integrated, compliant and costenvironmental impacts of our services and improving effective approach to reducing over 30 streams of waste environmental outcomes wherever possible. In doing so across the business. In the last two years we have worked we will co-create a sustainable region through innovative with our service partners to implement best-practice resource recovery and emissions reduction. approaches to minimising the environmental impact of our Melbourne Water has a long history of undertaking carbon waste. reduction initiatives, including energy efficiency programs, optimised sewage treatment processes, and generating and using our own electricity from renewable sources including biogas and hydro-electricity schemes. Renewable energy generation in the water and sewerage systems Retail water company boundaries Waterways and Drainage boundary Water supply pipeline / aqueduct Water supply reservoirs Hydro power generation: 1 Thomson City West Water 2 Cardinia 9 6 3 Silvan 4 Yarra Valley Water 4 Preston 8 5 Mt View 1 13 6 Upper Yarra 12 11 3 5 7 7 Notting Hill 2 8 Olinda 16 14 10 9 Sugarloaf 15 10 Cardinia Creek Port Phillip Bay 11 Boronia South East Water 12 Mt Waverley Western Port 13 Wantirna 14 Dandenong Bio-gas power generation: 15 ETP Bass Strait 16 WTP 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 59 Biosolids re-use Additionally, our major strategies including the Melbourne Water System Strategy, Sewerage Strategy and Healthy Biosolids are the solid materials that are generated in the Waterways Strategy all feature plans to adapt our approaches wastewater treatment process and then separated from the to delivering our core services in a changing climate. liquid, before being fully treated and dried. Melbourne Water stores significant volumes of biosolids at both the Eastern Emissions reduction and Western wastewater treatment plants. Melbourne Water is progressing towards a net zero carbon Over the year Melbourne Water re-used in excess of 112,000 emission position by 2030 in line with the Victorian dry tonnes of stockpiled clay-rich biosolids from the ETP Government’s requirement for the water sector. to help rehabilitate a landfill site in outer Melbourne. In This is being achieved in two stages: addition, 120,000 dry tonnes of biosolids were used as part of the groundworks for the soon-to-be-constructed solar 1. A 50 per cent reduction of current emissions by 2025 energy project at the ETP. 2. A further reduction to net zero by 2030. The agricultural re-use of the biosolids site from the WTP The Victorian water sector in its entirety is the single largest has continued for the third year with 4100 tonnes being proportion of total State Government carbon emissions, and beneficially used for crop farming in the nearby Balliang area. Melbourne Water accounts for 51 per cent of this output. This program of agricultural re-use will be expanded to take in areas that can benefit from biosolids that are further afield The biggest use of energy within Melbourne Water is from the WTP. associated with the transfer and treatment of sewage, producing 84 per cent of total emissions, in comparison to We have also developed an Environmental Improvement Plan the water supply system which uses a relatively low amount to move towards re-using the full production of 41,000 dry of energy. tonnes per year of biosolids from the WTP. This will involve testing a number of treatment processes to determine Our commitment to carbon reduction has already begun suitable re-use pathways that provide benefits to our through established practices as well as planned initiatives, customers and the community. which include: • transition to a zero emissions vehicle fleet within 10 Climate change and adaptation years. We have upgraded infrastructure at all our Melbourne Water sites to accommodate the first cohort Melbourne Water is adapting operations to prepare for a of electric vehicle charging stations. Melbourne Water changing climate, reducing our own impacts by lowering will leverage expertise from our new fleet management our greenhouse emissions and generating more renewable services provider, Custom Fleet, to provide strategic energy. advice on the best make-up of our electric vehicle fleet We have a Climate Change Adaptation Plan which guides how we ensure our operations can continue to perform to • expanding the capture of methane-rich biogas by community expectations in an uncertain future. We use covering the anaerobic lagoons at the WTP – this source the plan to ensure we are adhering to the guidelines set out of renewable energy already meets 95 per cent of the in DELWP’s Guidelines for Assessing the Impact of Climate treatment plant’s energy demands Change on Water Supplies. • expanding the generation of hydro-electricity through We are preparing for the challenges of an increasingly our water transfer system, which already produces variable climate across our services including: nearly 70,000 megawatt hours per year – enough to power more than 14,000 homes Water supply – adapting to less rainfall by harnessing alternative water sources such as desalination, stormwater • an initiative to tap into global knowledge and and recycled water and conducting controlled burns to innovation around measuring and reducing fugitive protect water supply catchments from bushfires emissions from wastewater treatment plants. Sewerage system – monitoring and upgrading our system to reduce the risk of spills during extreme storms, and researching solutions to sewer corrosion and odour caused by more concentrated sewage Drainage system – upgrading drainage in high-risk areas to cope with floods, and reviewing guidelines for development in flood-prone areas River health – researching catchments at risk from low river flows and species most affected by temperature increases. 60 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Case study Scope 1 emissions competition Scope 1 emissions, associated HydroTerra, which has proposed the deployment with direct emissions from of a novel integrated above and below-surface gasbiological treatment processes monitoring system to quantify scope 1 emissions. involved in the treatment of sewage, make up almost half WSP, which has proposed eliminating scope 1 emissions the total carbon emissions of from the drying pans and the sludge stockpiles utilising Melbourne Water’s activities. gasification. This is an area of new science where real innovation Calibre, which has proposed a thermal ammonia required to help find solutions. stripper with ammonia oxidiser that will reduce nitrous oxide emissions from the Eastern Treatment Plant. In order to attract the best innovators from the international science and engineering community, Once the proposed solutions have been analysed in Melbourne Water launched a worldwide competition in detail, applicants with suitable solutions will commence 2018 seeking ideas. a scope of works process with Melbourne Water and these solutions may ultimately be implemented into The competition saw an innovative ‘Request for Melbourne Water’s treatment operations. Solution’ process which helped to elicit ideas from a wide range of proponents from academia and industry to This competition highlighted how Melbourne Water citizen scientists. has embraced looking outward for solutions that would traditionally be internally focused ‘asset management’ From the 35 submissions received from around the challenges. In turn, the entrants to the competition world, four have now been short-listed for detailed embraced the significant challenges associated with solution analysis. These submissions are: reducing scope 1 emissions from the treatment process, producing innovation that will benefit Melbourne Water, Cranfield University, which has proposed an alternative the environment and the community for decades to treatment paradigm based on abiotic processes and come. anaerobic treatment which eliminate the production of scope 1 emissions. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 61 Enhancing biodiversity We also signed a Memorandum of Understanding with VicRoads to use the trees that have been felled during road Melbourne Water manages significant landholdings that construction activities. The agreement includes the use of support diverse communities of native plants and animals. logs to support waterway health. We develop and implement strategies that protect native biodiversity, in compliance with Victorian and The Ramsar Convention on Wetlands of International Commonwealth biodiversity obligations, and our activities Importance is an international treaty for the conservation for 2018/19 align with the Victorian Biodiversity Plan 2037. and sustainable use of wetlands. Melbourne Water manages both the Edithvale-Seaford Wetlands Ramsar site and Increasing environmental values the WTP, which is a major portion of the Port Phillip Bay (Western Shoreline) and Bellarine Peninsula Ramsar site. We continue to make the most of our large land assets, Melbourne Water invests in biodiversity conservation at both having established our first native vegetation credit site at of these sites. We also play an important role in managing Paul and Belfrages Swamp. Increased credit sales during the nutrient and sediment input into the Westernport Ramsar year are supporting the Enhanced Biodiversity Management site. Program to create further sites in the future and improve biodiversity at other Melbourne Water sites. Our Healthy Our WTP site is one of the most important refuges for Waterways Strategy includes the use of the international waterfowl in Victoria and a popular birdwatching site. The accounting standard System for Environmental Economic site supports more than 100,000 waterfowl (increasing in Accounting – which quantifies our natural asset base, drought years) and large numbers of migratory shorebirds. to better manage and prioritise works on our extensive The WTP also supports what is possibly the State’s largest waterway and land assets. population of the endangered Growling Grass Frog, the threatened species of bird the Australasian Bittern, the Biodiversity conservation management critically endangered Spiny Rice-flower shrub and important areas of threatened vegetation communities such as coastal As waterways manager and a significant landowner, we have saltmarsh and temperate grasslands. With less than 50 wild a critical role in managing the waterways, estuaries and Orange-bellied Parrots left in the world, the WTP is the best wetlands which are essential to the survival of much of our known overwintering site for this critically endangered bird region’s biodiversity. Threatened species such as the Growling as well as an important study and release site for the species. Grass Frog, Dwarf Galaxias, Latham’s Snipe, Leadbeater’s Possum and Swamp Skink all depend on riparian or floodplain Our significant investment of $1.2 million to support land habitat that is protected and maintained in good condition. management and biodiversity conservation at the WTP in 2018/19 has included pest animal and plant control, In 2018/19, Melbourne Water signed an agreement with environmental watering, species monitoring, research the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning and meeting legislative requirements across the 10,500 (DELWP) to implement a long-term Growling Grass Frog hectare site. The site is managed in consultation with our habitat program, funded by developer contributions key advisory committee, which is composed of community as urban development proceeds. The program includes group representatives, experts, agencies and adjacent land the construction of new habitat ponds, management of managers. existing ponds and the management of land around ponds to facilitate frog dispersal between ponds. The program will meet developer obligations under Commonwealth environment law. 62 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report The Ramsar-listed Edithvale-Seaford Wetlands are the Pollution abatement notices largest remaining part of the former Carrum Carrum Swamp and home to many bird species, including the endangered As the manager of Melbourne’s waterways, Melbourne Water Australasian Bittern. The wetlands also provide important is responsible for cleaning up pollution caused by others overwinter habitat for migratory birds such as the Sharpwhere the polluter cannot be identified or does not have tailed Sandpiper which breeds in the high Arctic, providing the capacity to respond. In doing so, we frequently incur essential food resources for at least six months of each significant cost, much of which has not been included in year. Works in 2018/19 concentrated on groundwater formal Pricing Determinations. investigations and monitoring, while our comprehensive The notices issued to Melbourne Water in 2015/16 regarding bird monitoring program continued for the thirty-third year the requirement to clean up polluted silt removed from running. Stony and Kororoit creeks have all been complied with. Melbourne Water also manages another 41 sites of The one outstanding notice issued has been revoked. The biodiversity significance (SoBS) known to support listed pollution was caused by historical activities in the creeks’ species or significant vegetation communities. All sites have catchments. up-to-date management plans which inform our on-ground In August 2018, the EPA inspected a site at our South Eastern works and prioritise investment. In 2018/19 we completed Regional Office and issued Melbourne Water with a clean-up the first round of new site condition monitoring assessments directive following inappropriate disposal of rinse water at all sites. These assessments provide us with a baseline from cleaning herbicide knapsacks. The site used to dispose condition description and will be repeated at each site every of residues was cleaned up and the procedure to clean out three years. We also commissioned a series of surveys on the knapsacks was revised. The notice to clean up herbicide threatened Southern Toadlet to determine how the effects residues from the knapsack washing practise was revoked in of climate change and subsequent decline in rainfall are December 2018. impacting this small population of frogs. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 63 Corporate Governance Primary responsibilities Melbourne Water’s Board has adopted a charter that defines Ethics and values its role and responsibilities within the legislative framework provided by the Water Act 1989 and other applicable Melbourne Water’s directors and employees are committed legislation including the Public Administration Act 2004. The to operating ethically and in the best interests of customers, Board makes plans to achieve specific objectives, including: the Victorian Government, employees, suppliers and other • long-term, sustainable, outcomes – based on a triple stakeholders. The organisation has adopted the Melbourne bottom line approach Water Code of Conduct. • approval of corporate plans together with key All directors, managers and employees are expected performance indicators linked to objectives to perform their duties with integrity and honesty. This • approval of annual financial statements and monitoring expectation extends to dealing with our people, customers, of performance against objectives and risks suppliers and the community. Melbourne Water employees and managers must comply with the Melbourne Water Code • monitoring safety, health and environmental standards of Conduct. and management systems. Policies and procedures exist for directors and employees The Board has ratified a Corporate Governance Statement. in relation to the identification of actual and potential Key features of its activities include the following: conflicts of interest. These documents are regularly updated. • ensuring the Board meets frequently enough to fulfil The Corporate Secretary maintains a Register of Directors’ its duties and obligations, holding 10 Board meetings Interests and a register of gifts and invitations accepted by during 2018/19, and undertaking site visits and strategy directors and employees. workshops with Melbourne Water’s Leadership Team. As part of maintaining a safe and healthy working Special Board and committee meetings are convened as environment, the Board has approved behavioural and required to meet the needs of the business workplace policies for specific purposes, such as health and • a structured induction program exists for new Board safety, and equal opportunity. These policies are widely and committee members publicised and distributed to our employees. • development opportunities are made available for Board members on an ongoing basis Powers and accountability • conflicts of interest are declared and a director does not Melbourne Water operates under the Water Act 1989. participate in decisions where such a conflict exists Melbourne Water has one by-law: Extension By-Law No. 1: • directors have the right to seek independent Water Supply Protection (2018). professional advice, at Melbourne Water’s expense, in connection with their duties and responsibilities The Minister for Water has delegated powers of management under the Water Act 1989 relating to licensed private water • declarations of pecuniary interest by directors are diversions from waterways to Melbourne Water, effective as made upon appointment, and thereafter annually, and of 1 July 1999. The Act and by-laws can be purchased via the confirmed at each Board meeting publications directory at vic.gov.au • there is an annual review of Board performance. The Honourable Lisa Neville MP, Minister for Water, was the The Board has three committees, each comprised of four Minister responsible for Melbourne Water from 1 July 2018 non-executive directors, who meet periodically to focus to 30 June 2019. Melbourne Water works with officers of on risk, audit, finance and sustainability, people, safety the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning and remuneration, and customer and service delivery. The (DELWP) and the Department of Treasury and Finance Managing Director and the relevant General Manager attend (DTF). Statutory and other reports are provided, covering meetings of committees by invitation. The Board approves Melbourne Water’s performance against the objectives and the charters of each committee. performance indicators stated in the Corporate Plan. There have been no recorded incidents of non-compliance with laws or regulations resulting in sanctions or fines. 64 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Audit, Risk and Finance Committee Customer and Service Delivery Committee The role of the Audit, Risk and Finance Committee (ARFC) is The role of the Customer and Service Delivery Committee to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities (CSDC) is to assist the Board in fulfilling its business relating to: objectives and responsibilities relating to: • financial management framework and reporting process • delivery of services and experiences our customers and community value • risk management • affordable asset delivery to enable these services • corporate governance • protecting the environment and public health. • audit (internal and external) and assurance • information technology. The CSDC comprised Garry Smith (Chair), Russell Anderson, Fiona Rowland and Robyn McLeod for the period 1 July 2018 The ARFC comprised Merran Kelsall (Chair), John Thwaites, to 30 June 2019. A report about the activities of the CSDC in Fiona Rowland and Hugh Gleeson for the period 1 July 2018 fulfilling its charter is prepared annually. to 20 June 2019. A report about the activities of the ARFC in fulfilling its charter is prepared annually. People, Safety and Remuneration Committee The role of the People, Safety and Remuneration Committee (PSRC) is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to: • workplace health and safety • strategic human resources (including but not limited to diversity and inclusion, change management, employee engagement) • organisation capability • remuneration. For details of directors’ and executives’ remuneration, refer to the financial statements. The PSRC comprised Kathleen Bailey-Lord (Chair), Russell Anderson, Hugh Gleeson and Robyn McLeod for the period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. A report about the activities of the PSRC in fulfilling its charter is prepared annually. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 65 Board of Directors Michael Wandmaker, Managing Director Michael Wandmaker is Managing Director of Melbourne The Minister for Water, in consultation with the Treasurer, Water. appoints the directors of Melbourne Water for terms of up to four years and the Victorian Government sets their Mr Wandmaker has extensive senior leadership remuneration. Directors are eligible for reappointment for experience across several industries, both in Australia and subsequent terms. internationally, and is a Fellow of the Institute of Engineers. He is currently a Director of the Committee for Melbourne. In making new appointments to the Board, the Victorian Mr Wandmaker was previously President of FT Services, CEO Government ensures the Board has the necessary of Silcar Maintenance Services, Vice President at Siemens combination of skills and experience. The Managing Director Canada Ltd, and held various executive positions with Tyco is appointed by the Board, subject to the approval of the Services and Transfield Holdings Pty Ltd. Prior to becoming Minister in consultation with the Treasurer, for a term of up Managing Director at Melbourne Water, Mr Wandmaker was to five years. Group President and Acting CEO of UGL Limited. Typically, annual reviews are conducted on the performance Mr Wandmaker was appointed Managing Director on 22 of the Board as a whole and of individual members pursuant September 2014. to a Statement of Obligations issued by the Minister. The outcomes of these performance reviews are reported to the Merran Kelsall, Director and Deputy Chair Treasurer and the Minister. Merran Kelsall was appointed to the Board in October 2015. She is Chair of the Audit, Risk and Finance Committee. The Board of Directors currently comprises a non-executive chair, seven non-executive directors and the Managing Ms Kelsall is an experienced independent director who has Director. considerable expertise in finance, audit, risk and compliance. She has served on many boards in the private and public John Thwaites, Chair sectors. Her current appointments include directorships at John Thwaites is Chair of Melbourne Water. RACV Limited and VicSuper, and Deputy President at CPA Australia Ltd. She was previously Chair and CEO of Auditing Mr Thwaites is a Professorial Fellow at Monash University and Assurance Standards Board, and Member, International and Chair of ClimateWorks Australia, the Monash Sustainable Auditing and Assurance Standards Board and Financial Development Institute, and the Peter Cullen Water and Reporting Council, and a Commissioner at Taxi Services Environment Trust. Commission. She was also formerly a partner at BDO Mr Thwaites was a Co-Chair of the Leadership Council of the Chartered Accountants. UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN), Ms Kelsall is a Professor of Practice at the School of launched by the Secretary General of the United Nations Accounting, UNSW Business School. to provide expert advice and support on the Sustainable Development Goals. In 2013, Mr Thwaites was named as Russell Anderson, Director one of the 100 Global Sustainability Leaders by ABC Carbon Russell Anderson was appointed to the Board on 1 October, Express. 2017. Mr Thwaites was Deputy Premier of Victoria from 1999 until Mr Anderson is currently Strategy, Governance and Risk his retirement in 2007. During this period, he was Minister Advisor at Australian Health Service Alliance Ltd and is also for Health, Minister for Planning, Minister for Environment, self-employed as a governance consultant to the water Minister for Water, Minister for Victorian Communities industry. Mr Anderson’s previous roles include Strategy, and Victoria’s first Minister for Climate Change. In these Risk and Corporate Governance Manager for Australian Air portfolios he was responsible for major reforms in social Express Pty Ltd and Chief Internal Auditor, Air New Zealand policy, health, environment and water. Group. Mr Anderson has a Bachelor of Commerce and a Prior to being elected to Parliament, Mr Thwaites was a Graduate Diploma of Applied Corporate Governance. barrister and Mayor of South Melbourne. He has degrees in Law (Honours) and Science from Monash University. Mr Thwaites was appointed as Chair of Melbourne Water on 1 October 2015. 66 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Kathleen Bailey-Lord, Director Fiona Rowland, Director Kathleen Bailey-Lord was appointed to the Board in October Fiona Rowland was appointed to the Board on 1 October, 2015. She is Chair of the PSRC. 2017. Ms Bailey-Lord is an experienced company board director Ms Rowland is an experienced company board director in with international senior executive experience across diverse the areas of financial services, trusts and asset management industries – technology, financial services, professional with 16 years’ executive management and CEO experience services and marketing. at the Bennelong Group, National Australia Bank, Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, UBS AG, and UBS Wealth Ms Bailey-Lord currently serves as a non-executive director Management. She has been a member of numerous of QBE Insurance (Australia Pacific) where she chairs both governance, compliance and investment committees in the the Operations & Technology Committee and the People & banking and philanthropic sectors. Remuneration Committee, Bank of Queensland where she is a member of the & Remuneration Committee and the IT Ms Rowland is currently appointed to the boards of Committee, and Monash College where she chairs the Audit Macquarie Life Limited, Commonwealth Private Limited and & Risk Committee. St Vincent’s Institute of Medical Research, is an Independent External Compliance Committee Member of Franklin Ms Bailey-Lord is also a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Templeton Investments Australia Limited and a Member of Company Directors (AICD), a member of the AICD’s Victorian the Australian Securities & Investment Commission Financial Council and its Technology Governance & Innovation Panel, Services & Credit Panel. Ms Rowland holds a Bachelor of as well as a member of Chief Executive Women. Arts, a Bachelor of Law (Honours) and is admitted as a legal practitioner in Victoria. She is also a graduate of the Hugh Gleeson, Director Australian Institute of Company Directors. Hugh Gleeson was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Garry Smith, Director Garry Smith was appointed to the Board in October 2012. He Mr Gleeson is an experienced company director, a is Chair of the CSDC. professional Engineer, and has more than 30 years’ experience in the energy and utilities sector. Mr Smith has extensive experience in the water sector and is a director with DG Consulting, providing advice on water and Mr Gleeson is currently a director of Energy Queensland, natural resource management policy and strategy. He has the Ausgrid Partnership and GDI-Allgas Energy. He retired previously held a range of senior management roles in the as the CEO of electricity and gas distribution businesses, rural water industry. United Energy and Multinet Gas in 2015, following 12 years in that role. He has also served on the boards of Barwon Mr Smith is Chairman of the Greater Shepparton Foundation. Water, Energy Networks Australia and the Energy Supply His previous roles include membership of the Advisory Association of Australia. Board for the National Centre for Groundwater Research and Training, director of the eWater Co-operative Research Robyn McLeod, Director Centre, member of the Water Accounting Standards Board Robyn McLeod was appointed to the Board on 1 October and director of Scope. 2015. Ms McLeod has held the positions of Independent Commissioner for Water Security in South Australia, National Director of Water at KPMG, and Executive Director of Major Projects, Water, with the Department of Sustainability and Environment, Victoria. She was Chief of Staff to the Victorian Energy Resources and Ports Minister, and an advisor to the Victorian Environment and Education Minister. Ms McLeod has previously worked in the areas of corporate education, industrial relations and secondary teaching. She is a graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors, and completed the Senior Executive Fellows Program at The Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University. She is currently a director of VicWater. In May 2017, Ms McLeod joined the of Governance Working Group of the Board of the Good Shepherd Australia and New Zealand, and in June 2019, she was appointed to the Board of Monash Health. Previous board positions include as an inaugural director of the Australian Centre for Social Innovation and Chair of this organisation’s ARFC. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 67 Organisational structure Chair John Thwaites (ARFC) Deputy Chair Director Director Managing Director Director Director Director Director Merran Kelsall Russell Anderson Kathleen Bailey-Lord Michael Wandmaker Hugh Gleeson Robyn McLeod Fiona Rowland Garry Smith (ARFC) (PSRC, CSDC) (PSRC) (ARFC, PSRC) (PSRC, CSDC) (ARFC, CSDC) (CSDC) Chief Executive General General General General General Financial General Manager Manager Manager Manager Safety Manager Officer Manager Integrated Customer and People and David Major Program Anthony Service Delivery Planning Strategy Capability Tregoweth Delivery O’Shannessy Craig Dixon Chris Williams Gavan O’Neill Linda Heron Eamonn Kelly (Acting) Chief General Manager Technology Waterways Officer and Land Geoff Purcell Kirsten Shelley (Acting) General Manager Wholesale Services Tim Wood (Acting) General Manager Asset Management Services Gerald FitzGibbon 68 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Risk and Emergency Management Risk management is central to ensuring Melbourne Water understands and manages risks and uncertainties to enhance life and liveability. Melbourne Water maintains an Enterprise Risk Management Framework consistent with the International Risk Management Standard (ISO 31000:2018) and the requirements of the Victorian Government’s Risk Management Framework (updated July 2018). Melbourne Water’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework is made up of a number of key elements which, when combined, create an environment for effectively managing risk and pursuing opportunities. This includes: • an established Risk Management Policy and Risk Appetite Statement • ongoing management of strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks that may impact on the achievement of our strategic direction, operational objectives and compliance obligations • ongoing education and development of risk capability across the Corporation and maintaining a positive risk culture • providing ongoing assurance over our control environment through a comprehensive risk-based audit program, based on the three lines of defence • a comprehensive insurance portfolio. Melbourne Water also maintains and tests its Emergency Management Framework, which outlines controls with respect to the preparation, response and recovery from internal and external emergencies. The Framework aligns to Australian Inter-service Incident Management System 2017 (AIIMS) and includes contingency, business continuity, emergency response and disaster recovery planning. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 69 Directors’ Report Directors The Directors of Melbourne Water Corporation (‘the Particulars of the directors’ qualifications, experience and Corporation’) in office during the 2018/19 financial year special responsibilities are set out on pages 66-67 of this were: report. John Thwaites (Chairman) Directors’ Meetings Michael Wandmaker (Managing Director) During the financial period, the Corporation held 10 Merran Kelsall (Deputy Chairman) scheduled meetings of directors. Garry Smith Hugh Gleeson Attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees were: Kathleen Bailey-Lord Robyn McLeod Fiona Rowland Russell Anderson People, Safety Audit, Risk and and Remuneration Customer and Service Board Finance Committee Committee Delivery Committee Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum held held held held John Thwaites (Chairman) 10 10 4 4 Michael Wandmaker (Managing Director)(a) 10 10 4 4 4 4 3 4 Merran Kelsall (Deputy Chairman) 9 10 4 4 Garry Smith 9 10 4 4 Kathleen Bailey-Lord 8 10 4 4 Hugh Gleeson 10 10 4 4 4 4 Robyn McLeod 10 10 3 4 3 4 Fiona Rowland 10 10 4 4 4 4 Russell Anderson 10 10 4 4 4 4 The Managing Director is invited to attend all committee meetings. As he is not a member of these committees his attendance has not been included. Further, where a director has attended a committee meeting of which they are not a member, this attendance has also not been included. (a) While the Managing Director is not a member of Board committees, he is invited to attend all committee meetings. 70 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report In addition to the regular Board and committee meetings, the Corporation held the following special meetings during the year. Special Audit, Special People, Safety Special Customer Special Board Risk and Finance and Remuneration and Service Delivery meetings Committee meetings Commitee meetings Committee meetings Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum held held held held John Thwaites (Chairman) 1 1 Michael Wandmaker (Managing Director)(a) 1 1 Merran Kelsall (Deputy Chairman) 1 1 Garry Smith Kathleen Bailey-Lord Hugh Gleeson 1 1 Robyn McLeod Fiona Rowland 1 1 Russell Anderson 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 71 Director benefits Operating results No director has received, or become entitled to receive, The Corporation’s profit, after providing for income tax was a benefit (other than a benefit included in Notes 7.2 and $201 million. 7.4 in the Financial Statements) because of a contract that the director, a firm of which the director is a member, or Review of operations an entity in which the director has a substantial financial The directors’ review of the Corporation’s operations during interest, has made (during the period ended 30 June 2019 or the financial year ended 30 June 2019 is set out in the Report at any other time) with: from the Chair and Managing Director on pages 2 and 3 of a. the Corporation; or this report. b. an entity that the Corporation controlled, or a body State of affairs corporate that was related to the Corporation, when the contract was made or when the director received, or There were no significant changes in the state of affairs of became entitled to receive, the benefit. the Corporation during the financial period ended 30 June 2019. Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance Financial Management Compliance During the financial year, the Corporation paid premiums Attestation to insure all directors and officers against certain liabilities. Disclosure of policy terms and the total amount of the I John Thwaites, on behalf of the Board, certify that premiums paid under this insurance policy is not permitted Melbourne Water has complied with the applicable Standing under the Confidentiality provisions of the insurance Directions made under the Financial Management Act 1994 contract. and Instructions. Interest in contracts No contracts involving directors’ interests were entered into since the end of the previous financial year, or existed at the end of the 2018/19 financial year, other than the transactions detailed in Notes 7.2 and 7.4 to the Financial Statements. John Thwaites Chairman Principal activities 23 August 2019 The Corporation is owned by the State of Victoria. The Corporation manages and maintains Melbourne’s water supply catchments, removes and treats most of Melbourne’s sewage, and manages rivers, creeks and major waterways and drainage systems in the Port Phillip and Westernport regions. The Corporation delivers innovative integrated planning to establish Melbourne as a water sensitive city. The Corporation also provides water and sewerage services to Melbourne’s three metropolitan retail water companies: City West Water, South East Water and Yarra Valley Water, and water services to Western Water and Gippsland Water. The Corporation also has the potential to provide water services to other entities including South Gippsland Water, Westernport Water and Barwon Water. The Corporation works with local government, developers and the community to provide waterways and drainage services. 72 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Financial Report 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 73 How this Report is Structured Melbourne Water Corporation ('the Corporation') presents its audited general purpose financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2019. The following structure provides users with information about the Corporation's stewardship of resources entrusted to it. Financial Statements Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 77 Statement of Financial Position 78 Statement of Changes in Equity 79 Statement of Cash Flows 80 Notes to the financial 1. About this report 81 statements The basis on which the financial statements have been prepared and compliance with reporting regulations. 2. Funding delivery of our services 83 Revenue recognised from the provision of water, sewerage services, flood mitigation and environmental protection. 2.1 Revenue from contracts with customers 83 2.2 Other income 85 2.3 Receivables 86 3. The cost of delivering our services 87 Operating costs of the Corporation 3.1 Operational expenses 87 3.2 Employee benefits expenses and employee benefits provision 88 3.3 Repairs and maintenance expenses 90 3.4 Administrative expenses 90 3.5 Government rates and taxes 90 3.6 Asset transfers to council 90 3.7 Other expenses 91 3.8 Income and deferred tax 91 3.9 Trade, other payables and unearned revenue 94 3.10 Other current assets 94 3.11 Provisions 95 4. Assets available to support delivery output 96 Land, buildings, infrastructure, plant and equipment, intangible and held for sale assets. 4.1 Land, buildings, infrastructure, plant and equipment 97 4.2 Intangible assets 106 4.3 Non-financial assets held for sale 107 5. Financing our operations 108 Borrowings, cash flow information and leases 5.1 Interest bearing liabilities 108 5.2 Cash flow information and balances 109 5.3 Commitments 110 74 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Notes to the 6. Risks and judgements 113 financial statements Financial risk management, contingent assets and liabilities as well as fair value determination (continued) of financial assets and liabilities. 6.1 Financial instruments 113 6.2 Fair value determination of financial assets and liabilities 120 6.3 Contingent assets and liabilities 121 7. Other disclosures 122 7.1 Superannuation defined benefit plan 122 7.2 Responsible persons 126 7.3 Remuneration of executives 127 7.4 Related parties 127 7.5 Remuneration of auditors 131 7.6 Ex-gratia expenses 131 7.7 Subsequent events 131 7.8 Prospective accounting and reporting changes 132 7.9 Change in accounting standards 132 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 75 Melbourne Water Corporation Statement by Directors and Chief Financial Officer We certify the attached financial statements for Melbourne Water Corporation ('the Corporation') have been prepared in accordance with applicable Financial Reporting Directions and Direction 5.2 of the Standing Directions of the Assistant Treasurer, both enforced by the Financial Management Act 1994, Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations and other mandatory professional reporting requirements. We further state that, in our opinion, the information set out in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income, Statement of Financial Position, Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Cash Flows and accompanying notes, presents fairly the financial transactions during the year ended 30 June 2019 and the financial position of the Corporation as at 30 June 2019. At the time of signing, we are not aware of any circumstance which would render any particulars included in the financial statements to be misleading or inaccurate. The Financial Statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 23 August 2019. On behalf of the Board: John Thwaites Michael Wandmaker Anthony O’Shannessy Chairman Managing Director Chief Financial Officer 23 August 2019 23 August 2019 23 August 2019 76 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income For the year ended 30 June 2019 ($ thousands) Notes 2019 2018 Revenue(a) Revenue from contracts with customers 2.1 1,864,918 1,845,343 Other income 2.2 14,267 5,798 Net gain on revaluation of non-financial assets(a) 4.1.2.2 39,231 Refinancing gain on financial instruments 5.1.2 59,609 Total revenue 1,938,794 1,890,372 Expenses Depreciation and amortisation expenses 4.1.3 (408,091) (392,137) Operational expenses(b) 3.1 (217,979) (203,118) Employee benefits expenses 3.2 (134,762) (126,769) Repairs and maintenance expenses(b) 3.3 (91,987) (84,065) Administrative expenses 3.4 (48,528) (49,377) Finance expenses 5.1 (618,237) (645,278) Government rates and taxes 3.5 (27,560) (27,675) Asset transfers to Council 3.6 (33,530) (26,294) Other expenses 3.7 (14,980) (7,946) Net loss on revaluation of non-financial assets(a) 4.1.2.2 (25,801) Total expenses (1,621,455) (1,562,659) Net profit from operations before tax 317,339 327,713 Tax expense 3.8.1 (116,373) (118,881) Net profit for the period after tax 200,966 208,832 Other comprehensive income after tax Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit superannuation plan asset(c) 7.1 (2,832) 2,202 Revaluation (decrease)/increase of land, buildings and infrastructure(d) 4.1.2 (160,800) 238,900 Decrease in asset revaluation reserve due to disposal of land, buildings and infrastructure(e) (6,073) (3,062) Realised gain on disposal of land, buildings and infrastructure(e) 6,073 3,062 Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the period after tax (163,632) 241,102 Total comprehensive income for the period after tax 37,334 449,934 The above Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes on pages 81 through to 136. Note: (a) Revenue categories in 2017/18 have been reclassified between revenue from contracts with customers, other income and net gain on revaluation of nonfinancial assets for consistency with 2018/19 (b) Expenditure categories in 2017/18 have been reclassified between operational expenses and repairs and maintenance for consistency with 2018/19 (c) Pre tax actuarial loss on defined benefit superannuation plan asset $4.0 million (2017/18: gain of $3.1 million) (d) Pre tax revaluation decrease of land, buildings and infrastructure $171.0 million (2017/18: increase of $254.1 million) (e) Pre tax decrease in asset revaluation reserve due to disposal of land, buildings and infrastructure $6.1 million (2017/18: $3.1 million). 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 77 Statement of Financial Position As at 30 June 2019 ($ thousands) Notes 2019 2018 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 17,603 2,008 Receivables 2.3 97,797 83,283 Other current assets 3.10 16,422 13,736 Non-financial assets held for sale 4.3 21,619 16,651 Total current assets 153,441 115,678 Non-current assets Land, buildings, infrastructure, plant and equipment 4.1 15,053,474 15,135,900 Intangible assets 4.2 57,021 53,201 Defined benefit superannuation plan asset 7.1 14,993 23,765 Total non-current assets 15,125,488 15,212,866 Total assets 15,278,929 15,328,544 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade, other payables and unearned revenue 3.9 379,521 348,497 Interest bearing liabilities 5.1 710,837 816,418 Provisions 3.11 8,309 7,982 Current tax liability 3.8.1 24,981 9,422 Employee benefits provision 3.2 39,885 34,075 Total current liabilities 1,163,533 1,216,394 Non-current liabilities Trade, other payables and unearned revenue 3.9 1,431 892 Interest bearing liabilities 5.1 7,108,380 7,244,385 Provisions 3.11 728 914 Net deferred tax liabilities 3.8.2 1,246,337 1,238,064 Employee benefits provision 3.2 15,501 12,984 Total non-current liabilities 8,372,377 8,497,239 Total liabilities 9,535,910 9,713,633 Net assets 5,743,019 5,614,911 Equity Contributed equity 507,914 502,393 Reserves 2,943,844 3,110,717 Retained profits 2,291,261 2,001,801 Total equity 5,743,019 5,614,911 The above Statement of Financial Position should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes on pages 81 through to 136. 78 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 30 June 2019 ($ thousands) Notes Contributed Asset revaluation Retained Total equity reserve profits Balance at 1 July 2018 502,393 3,110,717 2,001,801 5,614,911 Adjustment from AASB 15 Revenue from contracts with 7.9 (48,530) (48,530) customers (net of tax) Adjustment from AASB 9 Financial instruments (net of tax) 7.9 158,183 158,183 Restated total equity at 1 July 2018 502,393 3,110,717 2,111,454 5,724,564 Comprehensive income for the period after tax Net result for the period after tax 200,966 200,966 Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the period after tax (166,873) 3,241 (163,632) Total comprehensive income for the period after tax (166,873) 204,207 37,334 Transactions with equity holders Dividends paid(a) (24,400) (24,400) Net increase in contributed equity(b) 5,521 5,521 Total transactions with owners 5,521 (24,400) (18,879) Balance at 30 June 2019 507,914 2,943,844 2,291,261 5,743,019 Balance at 1 July 2017 530,425 2,874,879 1,864,805 5,270,109 Comprehensive income for the period after tax Net result for the period after tax 208,832 208,832 Other comprehensive income for the period after tax 235,838 5,264 241,102 Total comprehensive income for the period after tax 235,838 214,096 449,934 Transactions with equity holders Dividends paid(a) (77,100) (77,100) Net decrease in contributed equity(b) (28,032) (28,032) Total transactions with owners (28,032) (77,100) (105,132) Balance at 30 June 2018 502,393 3,110,717 2,001,801 5,614,911 The above Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes on pages 81 through to 136. Note: (a) During 2018/19 the Corporation paid total dividends of $24.4 million (2017/18 $77.1 million). Dividends are determined by the Treasurer of Victoria after consultation with the Corporation’s Board of Directors and the Minister for Water (b) The net increase in 2018/19 contributed equity is in relation to contributed assets received $33.4 million (2017/18: transferred out $0.1 million) less payment of capital repatriations of $27.9 million (2017/18: $27.9 million). 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 79 Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended 30 June 2019 ($ thousands) Notes 2019 2018 Cash flows from operating activities Receipts from contracts with customers (inclusive of Goods and Service Tax)(a) 1,966,569 1,894,165 Payments to suppliers and employees (inclusive of Goods and Service Tax) (687,553) (644,365) Income tax paid (127,434) (134,226) Interest received 70 27 Interest and other costs of finance paid (621,645) (655,556) Other receipts 4,959 5,771 Net cash inflow from operating activities 5.2 534,966 465,816 Cash flows from investing activities Payments for property, plant and equipment and intangibles (546,508) (494,383) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 33,472 48,186 Net cash outflow from investing activities (513,036) (446,197) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings(b) 110,021 140,879 Repayments for the Victorian Desalination Plant (VDP) finance lease liability (64,046) (57,100) Dividends paid 7.4 (24,400) (77,100) Capital repatriation paid 7.4 (27,910) (27,910) Net cash outflow from financing activities (6,335) (21,231) Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents 15,595 (1,612) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year 2,008 3,620 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year 17,603 2,008 The above Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes on pages 81 through to 136. Note: (a) Receipts from contracts with customers now includes developer charges and other receipts from contracts with customers in line with the AASB 15 accounting standard. These amounts have also been re-classified for 2017/18 (b) Proceeds from borrowings exclude debt roll-overs and refinancing of existing debt and are shown on a net basis. 80 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report About this Report Basis of preparation This Annual Financial Report presents the audited general in the period in which the estimate is revised and also in purpose financial statements of Melbourne Water future periods that are affected by the revision. Judgements Corporation ('the Corporation' or 'Melbourne Water') for the and assumptions made by management in applying year ended 30 June 2019. This report informs users about the Australian Accounting Standards that have significant effects Corporation's stewardship of the resources entrusted to it. on the financial statements and estimates relate to: The Corporation is classified as a for-profit entity for the • the fair value of land, buildings, infrastructure, plant and purposes of reporting. equipment (refer to 4.1.2) • defined benefit superannuation asset/liability Accounting policies selected and applied ensure that the (refer to 7.1) resulting financial information satisfies the concepts of relevance and reliability, thereby ensuring that the substance • employee benefits expenses and provisions of the underlying transactions or other events is reported. (refer to 3.2 and 3.11) The accrual basis of accounting has been applied, where • useful lives of plant, property and equipment assets, liabilities, equity, income and expenses are recognised (refer to 4.1.3) in the reporting period to which they relate, regardless of • recognition of deferred tax balances (refer to 3.8) when cash is received or paid. • contingent liabilities (refer to 6.3) These financial statements are in Australian dollars, the • VDP operating commitments (refer to 5.3). functional and presentation currency of Melbourne Water, and the historical cost convention is used except for the Compliance revaluation of certain classes of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment and financial instruments. Unless These general purpose financial statements have been otherwise stated, amounts in the report have been rounded prepared in accordance with the Financial Management to the nearest thousand dollars. Act 1994 and applicable Australian Accounting Standards In the determination of whether an asset or liability is (AAS) which include Interpretations, issued by the Australian current or non-current, consideration has been given to the Accounting Standards Board (AASB). They have also been time when each asset or liability is expected to be realised or prepared in compliance with applicable Financial Reporting paid. The asset or liability has been classified as current if it is Directions and Standing Directions issued by the Assistant expected to be turned over within the next 12 months, being Treasurer. the Corporation's operational cycle. In particular, they are presented consistent with the Judgements, estimates and assumptions are required to requirements of AASB 101 Presentation of Financial be made about carrying values of assets and liabilities that Statements. are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on professional judgements derived from historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 81 About this Report (continued) Accounting policies All accounting policies applied are consistent with those of the prior year, unless otherwise stated below. Changes in accounting policy This is the first set of the Corporation's annual financial statements in which the new accounting standards AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and AASB 9 Financial Instruments have been applied. The new standards are both applicable from 1 July 2018 for the Corporation. AASB 15 replaces previous revenue accounting standards (including AASB 118 Revenue and AASB 111 Construction Contracts and related interpretations) and is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer, which requires greater judgement. AASB 9 replaces the provisions of AASB 139 (Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement) that relate to the recognition, classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, de-recognition of financial instruments, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting. It introduces a new impairment model for financial assets based on expected credit losses, simplifies hedge accounting and changes the accounting for loan/debt modifications. A modified retrospective approach has been applied in applying the new standards. As a result, comparative information has not been restated. In implementing the new accounting standards under the modified retrospective approach, an adjustment has been applied to the opening balance of retained earnings as at 1 July 2018 for: –– AASB 15: revenue contracts which have remaining obligations as of the effective date. –– AASB 9: previous refinancing gains or losses associated with the Victorian Desalination Plant. Changes to significant accounting policies are described in further details under Note 7.9, including illustrative tables disclosing the financial impacts of the changes. 82 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Funding Delivery of Our Services Introduction This section provides additional information about how the Corporation is funded and the accounting policies that are relevant for an understanding of the items recognised in the financial statements. The Corporation's vision is to enhance life and liveability within Melbourne and it achieves this through providing water, sewerage services, flood mitigation and environmental protection. Structure 2.1 Revenue from contracts with customers 83 2.2 Other income 85 2.3 Receivables 86 2.1 Revenue from contracts with customers(a) ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Bulk water services 960,206 925,187 Bulk sewerage services 439,702 430,182 Waterways and drainage charges 243,024 245,182 Developer contributions 181,106 167,708 Developer contributed assets 18,683 48,068 Net gain on disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 12,571 16,594 Other revenue 9,626 12,422 Total Revenue from contracts with customers 1,864,918 1,845,343 (a) Revenue categories in 2017/18 have been reclassified between Revenue from contracts with customers and other income following adoption of AASB 15 (b) Other revenue and net gain on disposals of property, plant, equipment and intangibles categories for 2017/18 have been reclassified ($1.8 million) for consistency with 2018/19. The Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) has issued Revenue is recognised in line with the Corporation meeting a new standard for the recognition of revenue, AASB 15 its performance obligations over time as the customer Revenue from Contracts with Customers. This replaces AASB simultaneously receives and consumes the services provided. 118 which covers contracts for goods and services. The new An estimate is made at the end of the accounting period for standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised unbilled revenue (refer to receivables Note 2.3). when control of a good or service transfers to a customer and is applicable from 1 July 2018 for the Corporation as a The Corporation provides waterways and drainage for-profit entity. The effect of initially applying AASB 15 on services to residential, non residential, rural and special the Corporation's Revenue from contracts with customers is area customers. The charges are recognised in the year for disclosed in Note 7.9. Due to the transition method chosen which the charge is levied and are billed either quarterly or in applying AASB 15 comparative information has not been annually in advance and are collected by various retail water restated to reflect the new requirements. businesses on behalf of the Corporation. A lien is held over each property to ensure that any outstanding amounts are The Corporation collects bulk water and sewerage services recovered upon sale of the property. revenue for providing storage operator services and bulk water and sewerage services to retail metropolitan and Revenue is recognised in line with the Corporation meeting regional water businesses. its performance obligations over time as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the services provided. Bulk water and sewerage services revenues consist of a An estimate is made at the end of the accounting period for variable metered component (based on volumes of usage) unbilled revenue (refer to receivables Note 2.3). and a fixed fee (for service availability). The usage charge is invoiced weekly with payment required within 7 days. The availability charge is invoiced in advance monthly with payment required within 14 days. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 83 Funding Delivery of Our Services (continued) Developer contributions are collected from developers in constructed catchment assets become the property of order to fund drainage scheme infrastructure (constructed the Corporation. The developer will either be reimbursed catchment assets) and stormwater quality treatment works. by the Corporation for the construction costs at an agreed reimbursable amount (funded through developer The Corporation has a performance obligation in relation to contributions for that catchment) or the developer will fully developer contributions, which is to assess whether all the fund the construction costs (in arrangements where there are requirements for the issuance of a Statement of Compliance no developer contributions). (SOC) have been met and to provide consent to the local council to issue the SOC if the requirements have been met. The Corporation has a performance obligation in relation to DCAs, which is to assess whether all the requirements The Corporation recognises developer contribution revenue (including construction of catchment assets) for the issuance at a point in time as the performance obligation is satisfied of a Statement of Compliance (SOC) have been met and to (i.e. upon provision of consent to the local council to issue provide consent to the local council to issue the SOC if the SOC). The transaction price is the total amount of cash requirements have been met. contributions from the developer for the applicable contract, unless the transaction price is adjusted by differences The transaction price for DCA revenue is determined based between the assessed fair value of the constructed on any difference between the assessed fair value of the catchment assets and reimbursements to developer for constructed catchment assets and the reimbursements made construction of those assets (see developer contributed to the developer (where reimbursements are applicable assets policy below). depending on the arrangement). The transaction price is uncertain until the date of practical completion of the assets, Developer contributions received in advance of the which usually occurs after the performance obligation is met. performance obligation being satisfied are recorded as Therefore at the time the performance obligation is met any unearned revenue (contract liabilities) from contracts with revenue associated with the constructed catchment assets to customers (included in Trade, other payables and unearned be received is considered to be variable consideration. DCA revenue Note 3.9) and then recognised as revenue as the revenue (and associated infrastructure assets) are therefore performance obligation is satisfied for each contract. recognised at the date of practical completion of the works (and their acceptance by the Corporation) when the A significant financing component is deemed to exist within uncertainty regarding the fair value of the assets is resolved. a contract when developer contributions revenue is received greater than 12 months before the performance obligation is Land parcels are also voluntarily transferred from developers satisfied. The Corporation assesses the balance of unearned to the Corporation (for nil consideration). These transfers revenue from developer contributions at balance date. If a relate to land set aside by developers as reserves at the significant financing component exists then the Corporation point of subdivision. The transfers are made voluntarily on adjusts the revenue transaction price (within unearned the basis of the Corporation being the relevant authority revenue) and recognises an interest expense (see note 5.1) to hold and maintain such land for public benefit, rather to reflect the time value of money using prevailing interest than being transferred in the context of a contract with a rates. When the performance obligation is satisfied the customer. There is no exchange of goods or services from revenue is recognised based on the adjusted transaction the Corporation to the developers for this land and contracts price. between the Corporation and the developers do not include these transfers of land. Accordingly, the transfer of land is not Developer contributed assets (DCA) consist of developer considered to form part of the transaction price for revenue constructed catchment assets transferred to the Corporation recognition. As the transferred land satisfies the definition to maintain in perpetuity. Under a drainage scheme, of property, plant and equipment under AASB 116, the initial developers may be required to undertake capital works measurement and subsequent measurement of such land in relation to the construction of drainage infrastructure is within the scope of AASB 116 (i.e. the land is recognised required for their stage of development and other developers initially at cost (being nil) and subsequently revalued in in the drainage catchment. This will be included in contracts accordance with the land class of assets). between the Corporation and the developer as a condition of consent for SOC. Upon completion of the works, these 84 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report The net gain on disposal of property, plant, equipment Property sales are recognised in the Statement of Profit or and intangibles from sales is recognised as revenue when Loss and Other Comprehensive Income on a net basis of sale control over the asset has been transferred to the customer proceeds less costs. at a point in time. This is the point when the Corporation has performed its performance obligation. Other revenue includes fees and charges and other miscellaneous revenue which are all recognised at a point in Revenue is measured at the transaction price agreed under time when the Corporation meets the required performance the contract. For property sales the consideration is due obligations under the contract. when it settles. 2.2 Other income(a) ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Interest revenue 70 27 Rental income 3,133 2,900 Government grants 11,064 2,871 Total other income 14,267 5,798 (a) Revenue categories in 2017/18 have been reclassified between revenue from contracts with customers and other income following adoption of AASB 15. Interest revenue is recognised when earned and is and Disclosure of Government Assistance (i.e. when there is accrued in accordance with the terms and conditions of the a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and underlying financial instrument or other contract. the Corporation will comply with all required conditions). All conditions attached to Government grants have been Rental income is recognised when earned and accrued in satisfied prior to their recognition in the Statement of Profit accordance with the terms and conditions implicit in the or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income. Government leasing contract. grants with unfulfilled conditions have been recognised as other unearned revenue (included in Trade and other Government grants are recognised as operating revenue payables Note 3.9) in the Statement of Financial Position. when the Corporation obtains control of the contribution. Any grants relating to assets that meet the conditions Control is obtained when the Corporation receives the attached are recorded against the asset. grant or contribution and they meet certain other criteria as outlined by AASB 120 Accounting for Government Grants 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 85 Funding Delivery of Our Services (continued) 2.3 Receivables ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Trade debtors and accrued revenue 44,347 48,790 Other receivables 37,836 20,809 Less: allowance for expected credit losses (91) Net GST receivable from the ATO 15,614 13,775 Total current receivables 97,797 83,283 Trade debtors, accrued revenue and other receivables are Net Goods and Services Tax (GST) receivable from the recognised at the amounts receivable less any allowance Australian Taxation Office (ATO) is the gross amount of for expected credit losses. Receivables are reviewed on an GST recoverable from the taxation authority and is included ongoing basis to identify any receivables which cannot be as part of the receivables balance. AASB Interpretation collected. Debts which cannot be collected are written-off 1031 provides that revenue, expenses and assets must be when identified. recognised, net of the amount of GST, except where GST relating to the expenditure items is not recoverable from the The Corporation applies the AASB 9 simplified approach taxation authority, in which case the item is recognised as to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime GST inclusive. expected loss allowance for contractual receivables. On this basis, an assessment undertaken by management has identified that historical debt write-offs and future expected losses are immaterial. As such, there is no allowance for expected credit losses as at 30 June 2019. Last years balance was based on the assesment applied under AASB 139 Financial instruments. Ageing analysis of contractual receivables ($ thousands) Current Past due but not impaired Total 30 June 2019 0-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91 days + Receivables Trade debtors and accrued revenue 30,805 3,721 1,434 8,387 44,347 Other receivables 37,836 37,836 Total contractual receivables 68,641 3,721 1,434 8,387 82,183 Current Past due but not impaired Total 30 June 2018 0-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91 days + Receivables Trade debtors and accrued revenue 37,344 4,130 1,430 5,886 48,790 Other receivables 20,809 20,809 Total contractual receivables 58,153 4,130 1,430 5,886 69,599 86 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report The Cost of Delivering Our Services Introduction This section provides additional information about the major components of expenditure incurred by the Corporation in relation to delivering our services during the year, as well as any related obligations outstanding as at 30 June 2019. Structure 3.1 Operational expenses 87 3.2 Employee benefits expenses and 88 employee benefits provision 3.3 Repairs and maintenance expenses 90 3.4 Administrative expenses 90 3.5 Government rates and taxes 90 3.6 Asset transfers to council 90 3.7 Other expenses 91 3.8 Income and deferred tax 91 3.9 Trade, other payables and unearned 94 revenue 3.10 Other current assets 94 3.11 Provisions 95 3.1 Operational expenses ($ thousands) 2019 2018 VDP operating expenses 126,975 117,117 Energy expenses 36,980 30,522 External professional services expenses 19,382 21,816 Contract works(a) 7,433 6,392 Materials and chemicals(a) 11,129 10,222 Grants and contributions expenses 9,253 8,267 Transport expenses 3,877 4,059 Insurance expenses 2,612 3,622 Other expenses(a) 338 1,101 Total operational expenses(a) 217,979 203,118 (a) Expenditure categories in 2017/18 have been reclassified between operational expenses and repairs and maintenance ($17.6 million) for consistency with 2018/19. Operational expenses represent the day-to-day running costs incurred in normal operations. Victorian Desalination Project (VDP) operating expenses include the costs of water security, labour, maintenance, chemicals and energy. They are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 87 The Cost of Delivering Our Services (continued) 3.2 Employee benefits expenses and employee benefits provision ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Salary and wages expenses(b) 102,212 98,246 Annual, long service and shift leave expenses 14,644 11,304 Defined contribution plans (superannuation accumulation fund) expense(b) 9,570 8,603 Defined benefit superannuation plan expense 1,254 1,710 Other employee expenses(b) 7,082 6,906 Total employee benefits expenses 134,762 126,769 (b) Expenditure categories in 2017/18 have been reclassified between salary and wages expenses (increase of $8.6 million), defined contribution plans (decrease of $1.8 million) and other employee expenses (decrease of $6.8 million) for consistency with 2018/19. Employee benefits expenses include all expenses related to Provision is made for benefits accruing to employees in employment including; salary and wages expenses, defined respect of salaries and wages, annual leave and long service contribution plans, annual, long service and shift leave leave (LSL) up to the reporting date and recorded as an expenses, defined benefit superannuation plan expense, and expense during the period the services are delivered. other employee expenses (including; payroll tax, Work Cover (post-1985), workers' compensation (pre-1985), rostered days off, redundancy payments). They are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Total employee benefits provision and on-costs at 30 June ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Current Accrued salaries and wages Accrued salaries and wages 3,836 3,470 Annual leave Unconditional and expected to settle after 12 months 7,392 6,480 Long service leave Unconditional and expected to settle within 12 months 2,679 2,480 Unconditional and expected to settle after 12 months 17,121 14,735 On-costs Unconditional and expected to settle within 12 months 1,431 1,274 Unconditional and expected to settle after 12 months 2,536 2,182 Other employee benefits 4,890 3,454 Total current employee benefits and on-costs 39,885 34,075 Non-current Long service leave 5,060 3,764 On-costs on long service leave 749 558 Other employee benefits 9,692 8,662 Total non-current employee benefits and on-costs 15,501 12,984 Total employee benefits and on-costs 55,386 47,059 88 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Reconciliation of movement in on-cost provision ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Opening balance 4,014 4,645 Additional provisions recognised 2,465 1,040 Additions due to LSL transfers 7 8 Reductions arising from payments/other sacrifices of future economic benefits (1,770) (1,679) Closing balance 4,716 4,014 Current 3,967 3,456 Non-current 749 558 Liabilities for salaries, wages and annual leave are all LSL is recognised as a non-current liability when there recognised in the provision for employee benefits as ‘current is an unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liabilities’ as per AASB 119 Employee Benefits, because the entitlement until the employee has completed 7 years of Corporation does not have an unconditional right to defer service. This non-current LSL liability is measured at present settlements of these liabilities. Liabilities for salaries, wages value. Expected future cash payments are discounted using and annual leave are measured at: market yields attached to the Reserve Bank of Australia's 10 year rate for semi-annual coupon bonds. Use of this discount –– undiscounted value; if they will be wholly settled within rate is mandated by the Department of Treasury and Finance 12 months; or (DTF). –– present value; if not expected to be wholly settled within 12 months. Other employee benefits current and non-current liabilities include amounts for shift leave, rostered days off, Work Sick leave payments are made in accordance with relevant Cover, workers' compensation and termination benefits. awards, determinations and Corporation policy. No provision The Work Cover and workers' compensation provisions are is made in the Financial Statements for unused sick leave based on independent actuarial assessments. A provision entitlements as these are non-vesting benefits (i.e. can't be of $11.8 million (2017/18: $10.8 million) has been made for transferred or paid out when an employee leaves). outstanding claims incurred and not settled, and for claims incurred but not reported at 30 June 2019. The value of Long Service Leave (LSL) is recognised in the provision for the bank guarantee to the Victorian Work Cover Authority employee benefits. LSL is recognised as a current liability (as part of the Corporation's Work Cover self insurance when there is no unconditional right to defer settlement commitments) at 30 June 2019 is $8.4 million (2017/18: should an employee take LSL they are entitled to within the $9.2 million). The bank guarantee amount is not included in next 12 months, even when the Corporation does not expect the provision. to settle the liability within 12 months. The components of this current LSL liability are measured at: Termination benefits include termination of employment payments, such as severance packages. They are payable –– undiscounted value; if they expect to be wholly settled when employment is terminated before the normal within 12 months; or retirement date, or when an employee accepts an offer of –– present value; if not expected to be wholly settled within benefits in exchange for the termination of employment. 12 months. Termination benefits are recognised when the Corporation is demonstrably committed to terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal or providing termination benefits as a result of offers made for voluntary redundancy. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 89 The Cost of Delivering Our Services (continued) 3.3 Repairs and maintenance expenses ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Repairs and maintenance(c) 84,905 77,963 Information technology maintenance 7,082 6,102 Total repairs and maintenance expenses(c) 91,987 84,065 (c) Expenditure categories in 2017/18 have been reclassified between operational expenses and repairs and maintenance ($17.6 million) for consistency with 2018/19. Repairs and maintenance and minor renewal costs are expensed as incurred. Where the repair relates to the replacement of a component of an asset and the cost exceeds the capitalisation threshold of $500, the cost is capitalised and depreciated over the remaining life of the asset. 3.4 Administrative expenses ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Waterways charges billings and collection 13,566 12,853 Information technology and telecommunication expenses 16,928 17,321 Rental and lease expenses 8,482 7,922 Education and training expenses 3,072 3,809 Legal expenses 794 397 Other expenses 5,686 7,075 Total administrative expenses 48,528 49,377 Administrative expenses are the day-to-day costs incurred in administration of the Corporation. They are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. 3.5 Government rates and taxes ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Government rates and taxes 27,560 27,675 Total government rates and taxes 27,560 27,675 Government rates and taxes are made up of Land Tax, Fringe Benefits Tax, Local Government Rates Equivalent Tax (LGRE) and other minor government charges and fees. They are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. 3.6 Asset transfers to council ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Asset transfers to council 33,530 26,294 Total asset transfers to council 33,530 26,294 Asset transfers to council relate to Drainage Developer Scheme works within a catchment size of less than 60 hectares that are transferred to councils for ongoing maintenance (and expensed by the Corporation at book value) upon reaching formal council acceptance to transfer. 90 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report 3.7 Other expenses ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Assets written off/written down 12,791 6,969 Allowance for expected credit loss 3 Other expenses 2,189 974 Total other expenses 14,980 7,946 Other expenses include all other miscellaneous expenses not included in operational and administrative expenses and are deemed relevant for the understanding of this financial report. They include written down assets and bad and doubtful debts. They are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. 3.8 Income and deferred tax The Corporation is subject to the National Tax Equivalent of deductible and taxable temporary differences when they Regime (NTER), which is administered by the Australian arise in a transaction that at the time of the transaction Taxation Office (ATO). The difference between the NTER and did not affect either accounting or taxable profit or loss. the Commonwealth tax legislation is that the tax liability Deferred tax assets are recognised as deductible temporary is paid to the Victorian State Government rather than the differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that Commonwealth Government. future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses. Current and deferred The income tax expense for the period is the tax payable on tax is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss, except the current period's taxable income based on the national to the extent that it relates to items recognised in Other corporate income tax rate of 30%, adjusted for current tax of Comprehensive Income or directly in equity. In this case, tax prior periods and changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities is also recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or directly attributable to temporary differences between the tax bases in equity respectively. of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised as temporary differences at the tax rate expected to apply when the assets are recovered or liabilities settled, based on those tax rates which are enacted or substantially enacted. The relevant tax rates are applied to the cumulative amounts 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 91 The Cost of Delivering Our Services (continued) 3.8.1 Income Tax Components of tax expense ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Current tax 144,187 136,898 Deferred tax relating to temporary differences (27,275) (18,159) Adjustments for current tax of prior periods (539) 142 Total tax expense 116,373 118,881 Reconciliation of income tax to prima facie tax payable ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Profit before income tax 317,339 327,713 Tax at the Australian tax rate of 30% (2017/18: 30%) 95,202 98,314 Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible/(taxable) in calculating taxable income: Adjustment in respect of income tax of previous year (539) 142 Non assessable and non deductible for income tax purposes 17,057 18,525 Assessable income not booked 5,418 2,487 Research and development tax incentive (765) (587) Income tax as reported in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 116,373 118,881 Income tax payable ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Current tax payable 24,981 9,422 Total income tax payable 24,981 9,422 Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Deferred tax arising on items recognised in other comprehensive income (Decrement)/increment in deferred tax on land & buildings revalued (10,201) 15,183 Reversal of deferred tax on disposal of land previously revalued (61) (37) (Decrease)/increase in deferred tax on actuarial gain on the defined benefit plan (1,214) 944 Total income tax recognised in other comprehensive income (11,476) 16,090 92 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report 3.8.2 Net deferred tax liabilities non-current ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Amounts recognised in Profit or Loss Property, plant and equipment 224,770 267,172 Employee entitlements (11,090) (9,441) Developer contributions 1,147 1,894 Provisions (1,814) (4,000) Revenue in advance (21,704) (66) Lease liability 84,380 Other (3,263) (2,882) Total recognised in Profit or Loss 272,426 252,677 Amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income Gain on revaluation of land and buildings 57,683 67,945 Net gain on revaluation of infrastructure assets 907,585 907,585 Actuarial gain on the defined benefit plan 8,643 9,857 Total recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 973,911 985,387 Net deferred tax liability 1,246,337 1,238,064 Movements ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Opening balance 1,238,064 1,239,675 Credited to Profit or Loss (27,275) (18,159) Debited to Other Comprehensive Income (11,476) 16,089 Adjustment in respect of VDP lease liability Accounting Standard change 67,793 Adjustment in respect of developer contributions Accounting Standard change (21,424) Adjustment in respect of deferred tax of prior period 655 459 Closing balance 1,246,337 1,238,064 Net deferred tax liabilities to be recovered after more than 12 months 1,278,708 1,250,156 Net deferred tax liabilities to be recovered within 12 months (32,371) (12,092) Total non-current liabilities deferred tax liabilities 1,246,337 1,238,064 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 93 The Cost of Delivering Our Services (continued) 3.9 Trade, other payables and unearned revenue ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Current trade and other payables and unearned revenue Trade creditors 71,191 70,778 Interest payable 45,062 47,301 Accruals 177,881 212,895 Unearned revenue from contracts with customers 71,036 Other unearned revenue 9,370 12,962 Other payables 4,981 4,561 Total current trade and other payables and unearned revenue 379,521 348,497 Non-current trade and other payables Other payables 1,431 892 Total non-current trade and other payables 1,431 892 Total trade and other payables and unearned revenue 380,952 349,389 Trade creditors represent liabilities for goods or services Accruals represent liabilities for goods or services provided provided to the Corporation prior to the end of the financial to the Corporation prior to the end of the financial year, year, where invoices have been received and processed but where invoices have not yet been received or processed and not yet paid. The amounts are unsecured and are usually paid are not yet paid. The amounts are based on estimates, are within 30 days of recognition or in accordance with contract unsecured and are usually paid within 30 days of recognition terms. or in accordance with contract terms. Interest payable is recognised as an expense in the Unearned revenue from contracts with customers reporting period in which it is payable and accrued in (on contract liabilities) represents consideration received accordance with the terms and conditions of the underlying in advance of the Corporation performing its contract financial instruments or other contracts. obligations and will be recognised as revenue when the services are performed. This solely comprises of developer contributions revenue. Refer to Note 2.1. Unearned revenue from contracts with customers ($ thousands) 2019 2018(a) Unearned revenue at the beginning of the financial year 70,380 N/A Consideration received in the year before performance obligations are satisfied 171,477 N/A Performance obligations satisfied during the period and recognised as revenue (net of interest) (170,821) N/A Unearned revenue from contracts with customers 71,036 N/A (a) New disclosure requirement under AASB 15. 2017/18 comparatives are not required. Other unearned revenue represents revenue received in Other payables represent liabilities that are mostly made advance in relation to other income (i.e. grants) and will be out of miscellaneous security deposits held. recognised as revenue when the services are performed. 3.10 Other current assets ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Prepayments 7,358 5,564 Inventories 9,064 8,172 Total other current assets 16,422 13,736 94 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Prepayments represent payments in advance of receipt of Inventories are used in the construction of new works and goods or services or that part of expenditure made in one for the repair and maintenance of existing assets. All stores accounting period covering a term extending beyond that are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. period. 3.11 Provisions ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Current Insurance claims 1,161 1,436 Other provisions 7,148 6,546 Total provisions current 8,309 7,982 Non-current Insurance claims 728 914 Total provisions non-current 728 914 Total provisions 9,037 8,896 Reconciliation of movement in provisions ($ thousands) Insurance claims Other provisions Total Carrying amount at 1 July 2018 2,350 6,546 8,896 Provisions recognised/(de-recognised) (298) 5,678 5,380 Amounts utilised during the year (163) (5,076) (5,239) Carrying amount at 30 June 2019 1,889 7,148 9,037 Carrying amount at 1 July 2017 2,177 6,317 8,494 Additional provisions recognised 942 4,925 5,867 Amounts utilised during the year (769) (4,696) (5,465) Carrying amount at 30 June 2018 2,350 6,546 8,896 Provisions are recognised when the Corporation has a provision includes claims reported but not yet paid, claims present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past incurred but not yet reported, and the anticipated costs of events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be settling those claims. Due to the inherent uncertainty in the required to settle the obligation and the amount has been estimate of the outstanding insurance claims, a risk margin reliably estimated. is included. The risk margin is set to ensure that the liability estimate will be sufficient to cover outstanding claims. The The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of measurement of the liability for outstanding insurance claims the consideration required to settle the present obligation is on the basis of estimated costs of future claims payments. at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the Claims classified as current are expected to be settled within risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where 12 months. The amount classified as non-current is expected a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to to be settled later than 12 months. The provision amounts settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the are based on an independent assessment of claim costs. present value of those cash flows. Other provisions satisfy the recognition requirements of When some or all of the economic benefits required to AASB 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third Assets and include primarily contractual provisions. party, the receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that recovery will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably. The insurance claims provision represents the amounts that are likely to be payable under claims but excluding amounts over the relevant insurance policy deductable. Insurance claims are independently assessed by loss adjusters, claims managers and legal practitioners. The insurance claims 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 95 Assets Available to Support Output Delivery Introduction This section outlines those assets that the Corporation controls, reflecting investing activities in the current and prior years. The Corporation controls infrastructure and other assets that are utilised in fulfilling its objectives and conducting its activities. They represent the key resources that have been entrusted to the Corporation to be utilised for delivery of those objectives. Structure 4.1 Land, buildings, infrastructure, plant and 97 equipment 4.2 Intangible assets 106 4.3 Non-financial assets held for sale 107 96 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report 4.1 Land, buildings, infrastructure, plant and equipment 4.1.1 Reconciliation of movements in carrying values of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment ($ thousands) Total (a) Crown Freehold Buildings Leasehold Plant and Fleet Infrastructure VDP Capital land land improvements equipment vehicles (a) infrastructure works in progress (a) Year ended 30 June 2018 Opening balance 14,706,832 103,716 1,268,823 26,904 10,150 21,756 10,427 8,442,548 4,304,550 517,958 Purchased additions 6,209 6,209 Developer contributed 48,068 48,068 assets Disposals and write-offs (36,536) (108) (6,384) (46) (1,344) (26,484) (2,170) Depreciation and (377,738) (1,249) (1,102) (9,468) (2,805) (285,562) (77,552) amortisation Transfers between 1 (1) classes (b) Assets classified as held (10,151) (10,151) for sale Revaluation increments 293,277 23,249 270,028 Revaluation decrements (3,737) (133) (3,604) Capital expenditure (c) 509,676 509,676 Capitalisation of works 1,011 26,699 2,512 352 7,506 378,274 (416,354) in progress Closing carrying amount 15,135,900 127,735 1,545,411 28,167 9,400 19,749 12,487 8,556,843 4,226,998 609,110 At 30 June 2018 Gross carrying amount 16,142,684 127,735 1,545,411 30,382 15,551 86,440 20,068 9,045,194 4,662,793 609,110 Accumulated (1,006,784) (2,215) (6,151) (66,691) (7,581) (488,351) (435,795) depreciation Carrying amount 15,135,900 127,735 1,545,411 28,167 9,400 19,749 12,487 8,556,843 4,226,998 609,110 Year ended 30 June 2019 Opening balance 15,135,900 127,735 1,545,411 28,167 9,400 19,749 12,487 8,556,843 4,226,998 609,110 Purchased additions 2,936 2,936 Developer contributed 18,683 18,683 assets Disposals and write-offs (35,066) (908) (8,603) (73) (933) (24,272) (277) Depreciation and (389,602) (1,097) (1,164) (8,960) (2,054) (298,777) (77,550) amortisation Transfers between (1,139) 35 (13) (1,161) classes (b) Assets classified as held (4,968) 125 (5,093) for sale Revaluation increments Revaluation decrements (208,250) (15,287) (192,963) (d) Capital expenditure (c) 500,939 500,939 Capital contributions 34,041 34,041 Capitalisation of works 30,388 88 59 4,278 515,761 (550,574) in progress Closing carrying amount 15,053,474 111,540 1,374,358 22,065 8,330 14,981 12,436 8,801,118 4,149,448 559,198 At 30 June 2019 Gross carrying amount 16,407,750 111,540 1,374,358 25,086 15,648 85,174 20,366 9,553,587 4,662,793 559,198 Accumulated (1,354,276) (3,021) (7,318) (70,193) (7,930) (752,469) (513,345) depreciation Carrying amount 15,053,474 111,540 1,374,358 22,065 8,330 14,981 12,436 8,801,118 4,149,448 559,198 Note: (a) 2017/18 balances for fleet vehicles and capital expenditure have been reclassified between categories (b) Includes transfers to intangible assets, refer to 4.2 (c) Represents total capital expenditure, exclusive of intangibles $25.4 million (refer to 4.2) and fleet vehicles $2.9 million (d) Pre tax revaluation decrements are recognised in the income statement as other expenses $11.5 million (2017/18 decrement of $3.7 million), net loss on revaluation of non-financial assets $25.8 million (2017/18 increment of $39.2 million) and other comprehensive income $171.0 million (2017/18 increment of $254.1 million). Decrements are expensed in the profit and loss when the reserve balance is exhausted. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 97 Assets Available to Support Output Delivery (continued) If land, buildings and infrastructure were measured at historical cost, the carrying amounts would be as follows: ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Land 858,657 837,317 Buildings 31,227 32,094 Infrastructure assets owned 6,422,371 6,170,756 Infrastructure assets under finance lease 4,149,448 4,226,998 Total 11,461,703 11,267,165 Initial recognition Revaluation of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment All non-financial physical assets are measured and recognised initially at cost. Where an asset is acquired for Revaluations are conducted either independently (as no or nominal cost, the cost is its fair value at the date of required under FRD 103H Non-Financial Physical Assets) acquisition. The cost of constructed non-financial physical or using management expertise and classified as a assets includes the cost of all materials used in construction managerial revaluation. The Corporation uses land indices and direct labour on the project. The cost of leasehold (provided by the Valuer General Victoria VGV) to perform improvements is capitalised when incurred. The initial cost managerial valuations and will only book movements if for non-financial physical assets under a finance lease is they are material. Fair value assessment is performed measured at amounts equal to the fair value of the leased annually for all other property plant and equipment as a asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease managerial valuation, utilising external experts to conduct payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. the infrastructure valuation, with formal independent valuations being completed every 5 years. The Corporation Capital Works In Progress are recorded at cost. also considers more frequent revaluations in regards to Items with a cost or value in excess of $500 (2017/18: $500) infrastructure during price determination years as valuations and a useful life of more than 1 year are recognised as assets, are closely linked to income. Any accumulated depreciation with the exception of lifecycle costs (total of all recurring at the date of revaluation is eliminated against the gross and one-time costs over the full life span of a good, service, carrying amount of the asset and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of the asset. The last independent structure or system) for the VDP which are expensed. All formal revaluation was conducted at 30 June 2016. items with a cost or value less than $500 (2017/18: $500) are expensed. Any revaluation increase is recognised in other comprehensive income, except to the extent that it reverses Subsequent measurement a revaluation decrease for the same asset (or asset class when specifically related to infrastructure) previously All non-financial physical assets, with the exception of capital recognised in net profit in the Statement of Profit or Loss and works in progress, are subsequently measured at fair value Other Comprehensive Income, in which case the increase is less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Non-financial credited to profit to the extent of the decrease previously physical assets are measured at fair value with regard to the expensed. A decrease in the carrying amount arising on asset’s highest and best use after due consideration is made the revaluation is recognised in net profit in the Statement for any legal or physical restrictions imposed on the asset, of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income to the public announcements or commitments made in relation to extent that it exceeds the balance, if any, held in the asset the intended use of the asset. Theoretical opportunities that revaluation reserve relating to a previous revaluation of may be available in relation to the asset are not taken into that asset, otherwise decreases are recognised in other account until it is virtually certain that the restrictions will comprehensive income. no longer apply. Therefore, unless otherwise disclosed, the current use of these non-financial physical assets will be their highest and best use. 98 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report 4.1.2 Fair value determination of non-financial physical assets The fair values of non-financial physical assets are determined (in accordance with the fair value hierarchy) as follows: • Level 1 – quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; • Level 2 – valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable; and • Level 3 – valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable. 4.1.2.1 Non-financial physical assets ($ thousands) Fair value measurements 2019 Level 1(a) Level 2(a) Level 3(a) Non-financial assets held for sale 16,526 16,526 Non-specialised land 57,382 57,382 Specialised land 1,428,516 1,428,516 Total land 1,502,424 73,908 1,428,516 Non-financial assets held for sale 5,093 5,093 Non-specialised buildings 635 635 Specialised buildings 21,430 21,430 Total buildings 27,158 5,728 21,430 Leasehold improvements 8,330 8,330 Plant and equipment 14,981 14,981 Fleet vehicles 12,436 12,436 Infrastructure assets 8,801,118 8,801,118 Infrastructure assets under finance lease 4,149,448 4,149,448 Total other 12,986,313 12,986,313 Total land, buildings, infrastructure, plant and equipment 14,515,895 79,636 14,436,259 ($ thousands) Fair value measurements 2018 Level 1(a) Level 2(a) Level 3(a) Non-financial assets held for sale 16,651 16,651 Non-specialised land 72,221 72,221 Specialised land 1,600,925 1,600,925 Total land 1,689,797 88,872 1,600,925 Non-specialised buildings 692 692 Specialised buildings 27,475 27,475 Total buildings 28,167 692 27,475 Leasehold improvements 9,400 9,400 Plant and equipment 19,749 19,749 Fleet vehicles(b) 12,487 12,487 Infrastructure assets 8,556,843 8,556,843 Infrastructure assets under finance lease 4,226,998 4,226,998 Total other(b) 12,825,477 12,825,477 Total land, buildings, infrastructure, plant and equipment(b) 14,543,441 89,564 14,453,877 Note: (a) Classified in accordance with the fair value determination of non-financial physical assets (b) 2017/18 balances for fleet vehicles and capital expenditure have been reclassified between categories. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 99 Assets Available to Support Output Delivery (continued) Non-financial assets held for sale are treated as current 2018/19 was not a formal valuation year and as such an and classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will interim managerial valuation was conducted using Valuerbe recovered through a sale transaction rather than through General Victoria (VGV) postcode indices. The managerial continuing use. valuation resulted in a $196.8 million decrease in asset values (2017/18: $293.3 million increase). Revaluation This condition is regarded as met only when: decrease is recognised in the income statement as • the asset is available for immediate use in the current other economic flow $25.8 million (pre-tax) and other condition; and comprehensive income $171.0 million (pre-tax). • the sale is highly probable and the asset’s sale is For the majority of the Corporation's specialised buildings, expected to be completed within 12 months from the the depreciated replacement cost method is used adjusting date of classification. for the associated depreciation. As depreciation adjustments are considered as significant, unobservable inputs in nature, These non-financial assets are measured at the lower of specialised buildings are classified as Level 3 fair value carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, and are not measurements. subject to depreciation or amortisation. For Leasehold improvements, fair value is determined using Non-specialised land (other than held for sale) and the depreciated replacement cost method. As depreciation buildings are valued using the market/direct comparison adjustments are considered as significant, unobservable approach with key inputs used being sales evidence and inputs in nature, leasehold improvements are classified as unit of value by comparative basis. To the extent that nonLevel 3 fair value measurements. specialised land and buildings do not contain significant, unobservable adjustments, the assets are classified as Level 2 Plant and equipment is specialised in use, such that it is under the market approach. rarely sold, fair value is determined using the depreciated replacement cost method. As depreciation adjustments are The market approach is used for specialised land adjusted considered as significant, unobservable inputs in nature, for the Community Service Obligation (CSO) to reflect plant and equipment are classified as Level 3 fair value the specialised nature of the land being valued. A CSO measurements. adjustment is a reflection of the valuer’s assessment of the impact of restrictions associated with an asset to the extent Fleet vehicles are valued using appropriate market or other that is also equally applicable to market participants. This fair value indicators as determined by management. The approach is in light of the highest and best use consideration Corporation acquires new vehicles and at times disposes of required for fair value measurement, and takes into account them before the end of their economic life. The process of the use of the asset that is physically possible, legally acquisition, use and disposal in the market is managed by permissible, and financially feasible. As adjustments of CSO experienced fleet managers who set relevant depreciation are considered as significant unobservable inputs, specialised rates during use to reflect the utilisation of the vehicles. land would be classified as Level 3 assets. As depreciation adjustments are considered as significant, unobservable inputs in nature, fleet vehicles are classified as Level 3 fair value measurements. 100 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report The fair value of Infrastructure was assessed by an As there was not a material difference between the carrying independent valuation in 2018/19 to determine if it amount of infrastructure versus the fair value assessment, materially differed from the carrying value recorded by the the infrastructure balance has not been adjusted and Corporation. The income approach was used for the fair the carrying amount is deemed to be the fair value. The value assessment by discounting reliable estimates of the significant assumptions used in determining fair value under Corporation's future cash flows (projected forecast and the income approach at 30 June 2019 are summarised below: terminal value) to their present value and arriving at an enterprise value range. A discounted tax amortisation benefit • Nominal after tax discount rate in the range of 5.0% (TAB) is added to the enterprise value to represent the tax to 5.6% (2017/18: 5.0% to 5.6%) representing the benefits available to a hypothetical purchaser in resetting rate that market participants would expect to use in the tax cost base. Non-infrastructure assets and liabilities determining the fair market value of the Corporation are deducted from the enterprise value range to obtain the after taking into account the market cost of debt and infrastructure value. In order to assess reasonableness of equity the enterprise valuation, cross checks are performed by • Operating expenditure and revenue growth (excluding comparing the earnings before interest, tax and depreciation/ developer contributions) applied post initial five year amortisation (EBITDA) and regulated asset value multiples pricing period 3.0% (2017/18: 3.0%) implied by the value determined under the income approach against multiples implied by share prices at which • Developer contributions growth at 2.5% (2017/18: comparable organisations are trading and recent transactions 2.5%) applied post initial five year pricing in comparable assets which have occurred. Such approaches are often referred to as market approaches or relative value • Long term growth rate of 3.25% (2017/18: 3.25%) approaches. Melbourne Water's policy is to use a midpoint representing inflation and volume growth valuation in assessing the fair value. • A 10 year explicit cash flow projection period (reflecting one actual and one estimated price determination), with cash flows beyond the projection period reflected in the terminal value (2017/18 10 years) • Normalised terminal capex used for steady state $470.0 million (2017/18 $447.8 million). 4.1.2.2 Net (loss)/gain on revaluation of non-financial assets ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Total net (loss)/gain on revaluation of non-financial assets (25,801) 39,231 Net (loss)/gain on revaluation of non-financial assets relates to revaluation increments/decrements recognised through profit and loss for land and buildings. Revaluation decreases are initially recognised through profit and loss as expenses to the extent that they exceed the balance, if any, held in the asset revaluation reserve relating to a previous revaluation of that asset. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 101 Assets Available to Support Output Delivery (continued) 4.1.2.3 Description of significant unobservable inputs to Level 3 valuations Sensitivity of fair value Significant measurement to changes in Asset Category Valuation unobservable inputs Range/weighted average significant unobservable inputs 2018 and 2019 2018 and 2019 2018 and 2019 2019 2018 2018 and 2019 Specialised land Market Community Service 20-90% 20-90% A significant increase or decrease in approach Obligation (CSO) (47% (47% the CSO adjustment would result in a adjustment weighted weighted significantly lower or higher fair value average) average) Specialised buildings Depreciated Direct cost per square $11-$8,600 $16-$8,400 A significant increase or decrease in replacement metre direct cost per square metre would cost result in a significantly higher or lower fair value Useful life of specialised 5-150 years 5-150 years A significant increase or decrease buildings (71 years (68 years in estimated useful life of the asset weighted weighted would result in a significantly higher or average) average) lower fair value Leasehold Depreciated Cost per unit $500$600-$4.7M A significant increase or decrease improvements replacement $4.2M per per unit in cost per unit would result in a cost unit significantly higher or lower fair value Useful life of plant and 3-15 years 3-15 years A significant increase or decrease equipment (15 years (15 years in estimated useful life of the asset weighted weighted would result in a significantly higher or average) average) lower fair value Plant and equipment Depreciated Cost per unit $500$500-$1.1M A significant increase or decrease replacement $1.0M per per unit in cost per unit would result in a cost unit significantly higher or lower fair value Useful life of plant and 3-50 years 3-50 years A significant increase or decrease equipment (8 years (7 years in estimated useful life of the asset weighted weighted would result in a significantly higher or average) average) lower fair value Fleet vehicles Depreciated Cost per unit $5,600$5,600A significant increase or decrease replacement $242,000 $261,000 per in cost per unit would result in a cost per unit unit significantly higher or lower fair value Useful life of vehicles 1-15 years 1-15 years A significant increase or decrease (6 years (5 years in estimated useful life of the asset weighted weighted would result in a significantly higher or average) average) lower fair value 102 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report 4.1.2.3 Description of significant unobservable inputs to Level 3 valuations (continued) Sensitivity of fair value Significant measurement to changes in Asset Category Valuation unobservable inputs Range/weighted average significant unobservable inputs 2018 and 2019 2018 and 2019 2018 and 2019 2019 2018 2018 and 2019 Infrastructure assets Income Terminal value growth 3.25% 3.25% If the terminal growth rate had (owned and VDP approach rate changed by +/-.25% from the year end finance lease) valuation, the impact to the valuation would have been a increase of $1,698.3 million in 2018/19 (2017/18: $1,630.8 million) and decrease by $1,329.2 million in 2018/19 (2017/18: $1,276.2 million) Terminal value capital $470.0 $447.8 If the quantum of the terminal value expenditure (excluding million million capital expenditure had changed by growth) +/$50 million that would result in a $1,292.4 million decrease in fair value in 2018/19 (2017/18: $1,291 million) or $1,292 million increase in fair value in 2018/19 (2017/18: $1,291.0 million) Weighted average cost 5.0-5.6% 5.0-5.6% If the WACC had changed by +/-.25% of capital (WACC) from the year end valuation, the impact to the valuation would have been a decrease of $1,252.1 million in 2018/19 (2017/18: $1,731.0 million) and increase by $2,441.2 in 2018/19 (2017/18: $1,480.3 million) Useful life 2-245 years 2-200 years A significant increase or decrease (77 years (77 years in estimated useful life of the asset weighted weighted would result in a higher or lower fair average) average) value 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 103 Assets Available to Support Output Delivery (continued) 4.1.2.4 Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value ($ thousands) Specialised Specialised Leasehold Plant and Fleet Infrastructure VDP land buildings improvements equipment vehicles(a) infrastructure Opening balance 1 July 2017 1,297,000 26,097 10,150 21,756 10,427 8,442,548 4,304,550 Purchased additions 6,209 Developer contributed 48,068 assets Disposals and write-offs (3,423) (46) (1,344) (26,484) Depreciation and (1,107) (1,102) (9,468) (2,805) (285,562) (77,552) amortisation Transfers between classes 1 (1) Transfers in/(out) of Level 3 500 Revaluation increments 282,873 Revaluation decrements (3,737) Capitalisation of works in 27,711 2,485 352 7,506 378,274 progress At 30 June 2018 1,600,924 27,475 9,400 19,749 12,487 8,556,843 4,226,998 Opening balance 1 July 2018 1,600,924 27,475 9,400 19,749 12,487 8,556,843 4,226,998 Purchased additions 2,936 Developer contributed 18,683 assets Disposals and write-offs (1,884) (73) (933) (24,272) Depreciation and (1,040) (1,164) (8,960) (2,054) (298,777) (77,550) amortisation Transfers between classes (5,093) 35 (13) (1,161) Transfers in/(out) of Level 3 (1,375) Revaluation increments Revaluation decrements (199,537) Capital Contributions 34,041 Capitalisation of works in 30,388 88 59 4,278 515,761 progress At 30 June 2019 1,428,516 21,430 8,330 14,981 12,436 8,801,118 4,149,448 (a) 2017/18 balances for fleet vehicles and capital expenditure have been classified between categories. 104 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report 4.1.3 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Depreciation Buildings 4.1.1 1,097 1,249 Leasehold improvements 4.1.1 1,164 1,102 Plant and equipment 4.1.1 8,960 9,468 Fleet vehicles 4.1.1 2,054 2,805 Infrastructure assets 4.1.1 298,777 285,562 Total depreciation 312,052 300,186 Amortisation VDP infrastructure assets under finance lease 4.1.1 77,550 77,552 Intangible assets 4.2 18,489 14,399 Total amortisation 96,039 91,951 Total depreciation and amortisation 408,091 392,137 Depreciation and amortisation Where assets have separate identifiable components that commencing from the time the asset is held ready for use. have distinct useful lives and/or residual values, a separate The assets' residual values and useful lives are reviewed depreciation rate is determined for each component. annually, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. Land is not depreciated. Impacts resulting Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight from changes in depreciation rates have been incorporated line method to allocate their cost or revalued amounts, net in the current year's results and have not been separately of their residual values, over their estimated useful lives, disclosed as the overall amount was not material. Major depreciation and amortisation periods used are listed below: Buildings 5 to 150 years (2017/18: 5 to 150 years) Leasehold improvements 3 to 15 years (2017/18: 3 to 15 years) Plant and equipment 3 to 50 years (2017/18: 3 to 50 years) Infrastructure assets 2 to 245 years (2017/18: 2 to 200 years) Fleet vehicles 1 to 15 years (2017/18: 1 to 15 years) Intangible assets 2 to 25 years (2017/18: 2 to 25 years) VDP under finance lease 9 to 100 years (2017/18: 9 to 100 years) Indefinite life assets Land, which is considered to have an indefinite life, is not depreciated. Depreciation is not recognised in respect of these assets because their service potential has not, in any material sense, been consumed during the reporting period. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 105 Assets Available to Support Output Delivery (continued) Impairment Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives (and intangible Income, except to the extent that the write down can be assets not yet available for use) are tested annually for debited to an asset revaluation reserve amount applicable to impairment and whenever there is an indication that the that asset. asset may be impaired. It is deemed that, in the event of the loss or destruction of All other assets are assessed annually for indications of an asset, the future economic benefits arising from the use impairment, except for: of the asset will be replaced unless a specific decision to the • Inventories (refer to 3.10) contrary has been made. The recoverable amount for most assets are measured at the higher of the present value of • Non-financial assets held for sale (refer 4.1.2.1 and 4.3) future cash flows expected to be obtained from the asset or If there is an indication of impairment, the assets concerned fair value less costs to sell. are tested as to whether their carrying value exceeds their recoverable amount. Where an asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, the difference is written off to the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive 4.2 Intangible assets ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Intangible assets 169,911 152,713 Less: accumulated amortisation and impairment (112,890) (99,512) Total intangible assets 57,021 53,201 Reconciliation of movements in intangible assets ($ thousands) Total RECs(b) Other Carrying amount at 1 July 2018 53,201 7,700 45,501 Additions 5,248 5,248 Disposals (9,520) (9,520) Amortisation (18,489) (18,489) Transfers between classes (a) 1,139 1,139 Capital expenditure 25,442 25,442 Carrying amount at 30 June 2019 57,021 3,428 53,593 Carrying amount at 1 July 2017 57,088 17,103 39,985 Additions 14,524 14,524 Disposals (23,927) (23,927) Amortisation (14,399) (14,399) Capital expenditure 19,915 19,915 Carrying amount at 30 June 2018 53,201 7,700 45,501 Note: (a) Includes transfers to physical assets, refer to 4.1.1 (b) Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs). 106 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Intangible assets consist primarily of information The Corporation amortises intangible assets with a limited technology software and Renewable Energy Certificates useful life using the straight line method over the estimated (RECs). They represent identifiable non-monetary assets useful lives. Amortisation begins when the asset is available without physical substance. Intangible assets are measured for use, that is, when it is in the location and condition at cost less accumulated amortisation (RECs are not necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner amortised) and impairment. Costs incurred subsequent intended by management. The useful life and amortisation to initial acquisition are capitalised when it is expected method is reviewed at the envd of each annual reporting that additional future economic benefits will flow to the period. In addition, an assessment is made at the end of each Corporation. reporting period to determine whether there are indicators that the intangible asset concerned is impaired. If so, the assets concerned are tested as to whether their carrying value exceeds their recoverable amount. 4.3 Non-financial assets held for sale ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Land 16,526 16,651 Buildings 5,093 Total non-financial assets held for sale 21,619 16,651 The Corporation currently holds land for sale mainly as part of the Riverwalk Estate (Werribee) development and also surplus office space at the Western Treatment Plant. As at 30 June 2019, the Corporation has a joint arrangement with Development Victoria to actively market Riverwalk Estate lots for private sale. Riverwalk, Werribee, Victoria is a 197 hectare site which was previously part of the Werribee Treatment Plant. The land is owned by the Corporation. The Corporation has entered a Partnering Deed with Development Victoria to develop the land with an estimated 2,260 homes at the completion of the project. Development Victoria is responsible for all development costs and the profit share percentage. The Corporation has accounted for all assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in the joint operation in accordance with the AASB 11 Joint arrangements. Refer to 4.1.2 for further details on fair value measurement of non-financial assets held for sale. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 107 Financing Our Operations Introduction The Corporation's operations are financed through a variety of means. Recurrent operations are generally financed from cash flows from operating activities (see Statement of Cash Flows). Asset investment operations are generally financed from a combination of surplus cash flows from operating activities, asset sales and borrowings. This section provides information on the balances related to the financing of the Corporation's operations, including financial commitments (inclusive of lessor receivables) at year-end. Structure 5.1 Interest bearing liabilities 108 5.2 Cash flow information and balances 109 5.3 Commitments 110 5.1.1 Interest bearing liabilities ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Current interest bearing liabilities VDP finance lease 74,737 70,339 Borrowings 636,100 746,079 Total current interest bearing liabilities 710,837 816,418 Non-current interest bearing liabilities VDP finance lease 3,643,380 3,999,385 Borrowings 3,465,000 3,245,000 Total non-current interest bearing liabilities 7,108,380 7,244,385 Total interest bearing liabilities 7,819,217 8,060,803 Interest bearing liabilities come from borrowings raised Where the Corporation has an unconditional right to defer through the Treasury Corporation of Victoria (TCV), along settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the with finance leases for the VDP. They are classified as balance date, interest bearing liabilities are classified as nonfinancial instruments. All interest bearing liabilities are current liabilities. Otherwise interest bearing liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration classified as current liabilities. received less directly attributable transaction costs. Interest bearing liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the constant interest rate method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis. Breakdown of finance costs ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Interest expense 149,578 169,712 VDP finance lease interest 426,842 431,574 Financial Accommodation Levy 40,534 43,992 Significant financing component contracts with customers 1,283 Total 618,237 645,278 108 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Finance costs include interest on short-term and long-term Finance costs are recognised as expenses in the period in borrowings, finance lease charges associated with the VDP, which they are incurred. Finance costs directly attributable the Victorian Government's Financial Accommodation Levy to the acquisition, construction or production of these and significant financing component on contracts with qualifying assets are not required to be capitalised and will customers. continue to be expensed in the period in which they are incurred. All qualifying assets (being assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale) are measured at fair value. 5.1.2 Refinancing gain on financial instruments ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Total refinancing gain on financial instruments 59,609 The Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) has issued on transition to the new standard at 1 July 2018. Refer to a new standard AASB 9 Financial Instruments which replaces Note 7.8 for disclosure on any VDP refinancing gains or losses the modification of debt guidance previously applied under (included within other economic flows). Refer to Note 7.9 for AASB 139. The new standard is applicable from 1 July 2018 full disclosure of the adoption of AASB 9 for the Corporation. for the Corporation as a for-profit entity. Under AASB 9, Due to the transition method chosen in applying AASB 9 gains or losses on refinancing of the VDP are now recognised comparative information has not been restated to reflect the in the Statement of Profit or Loss immediately, with previous new requirements. refinancing gains or losses recognised in retained earnings 5.2 Cash flow information and balances Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits Deposits held and advances received are categorised as held at call with financial institutions, other short-term financial liabilities at amortised cost. and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 3 months or less, that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. Reconciliation of net profit to net cash flows from operating activities ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Profit for the period after tax 200,966 208,832 Plus/(less) non cash items: Depreciation and amortisation 408,091 392,137 Net gain on sale of non-current assets (including RECs) (12,571) (16,592) Assets written off/written down and asset transfers to Council 36,537 33,263 Developer contributed assets received (18,683) (48,068) Defined benefit superannuation plan expense 1,254 1,710 Defined contribution superannuation plan expense 3,733 260 RECs received (5,108) (14,140) Net loss/(gain) on revaluation of non-financial assets 25,801 (39,231) Refinancing (gain)/loss) on financial instruments (59,609) Changes in operating assets and liabilities (net of investing items): (Increase)/Decrease in trade and other receivables (16,481) (9,413) Decrease/(Increase) in other assets 23,924 (2,152) (Decrease)/Increase in trade and other payables (excluding AASB 15 and ASSB 9 opening balance (38,817) (16,144) adjustments) Increase/(Decrease) in provisions and employee benefits provisions 8,327 (602) Increase/(Decrease) in other liabilities 141 (8,699) Increase/(Decrease) in current tax liability 15,559 2,356 (Decrease)/Increase in deferred tax liabilities (excluding AASB 15 and AASB 9 opening balance (38,098) (17,701) adjustments) Net cash provided by operating activities 534,966 465,816 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 109 Financing Our Operations (continued) 5.3 Commitments Commitments for future expenditure include capital, operating and financing commitments arising from contracts. These commitments are not recognised in the financial statements, but are disclosed at their nominal value and inclusive of the GST payable, except for finance lease liabilities which are disclosed at present value. ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Capital expenditure commitments Total capital expenditure contracted for the construction of water, sewerage and waterways and drainage infrastructure: Less than 1 year 234,777 239,191 1 year but less than 5 years 94,696 219,575 Total capital expenditure commitments 329,473 458,766 The Corporation as lessee Operating and lease commitments The Corporation leases buildings and motor vehicles under non-cancellable operating leases. The building lease agreements have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. On renewal, the terms of the leases are renegotiated. Commitments for minimum lease payments in relation to non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: Less than 1 year 10,401 9,484 1 year but less than 5 years 46,470 41,210 5 years or more 39,406 46,626 Total operating and lease commitments 96,277 97,320 Other operating commitments Other operating commitments relate to operating contracts including energy, IT, research and development etc (excluding leases). Total other operating expenditure contracted for at balance date are as follows: Less than 1 year 32,095 29,838 1 year but less than 5 years 71,410 57,211 Later than 5 years 64,881 80,243 Total other operating commitments 168,386 167,292 Build, Own and Operate (BOO) commitment The Corporation has allocated a parcel of land at the Western Treatment Plant (WTP) for the operation of a 9.9 Megawatts biogas electricity generation plant, managed under a BOO contract with AGL. The Corporation delivers biogas extracted from the treatment process to AGL, who in turn provides this generated electricity exclusively to the Corporation. The arrangement expires on 31 December 2020. Less than 1 year 4,580 4,526 1 year but less than 5 years 2,318 6,987 Total Build, Own and Operate commitment 6,898 11,513 110 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report ($ thousands) 2019 2018 The Corporation as lessor Operating lease receivable Operating leases primarily relate to land owned by the Corporation. All operating lease contracts contain market review clauses. The lessee does not have an option to purchase the land at the expiry of the lease period. Commitments for minimum lease receipts in relation to non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Less than 1 year 2,005 1,786 1 year but less than 5 years 6,035 4,037 5 years or more 3,154 3,374 Total operating and lease commitments 11,194 9,197 Victorian Desalination Plant (VDP) finance lease and other commitments On 30 July 2009, the State of Victoria ('the State') through three minimum water orders. These orders will instead be the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning funded from the sale of surplus banked Renewable Energy (DELWP) entered into a 30 year Project Deed with the Certificates, which were previously purchased to offset AquaSure consortium to build and operate the desalination power used by the plant with green energy, and were not plant in Wonthaggi under a Public Private Partnership (PPP) fully utilised as no water orders were made until 2016. As at arrangement, with a connection to the Melbourne water 30 June 2019 Aquasure had produced the 15 gigalitres (GL) system. Construction of the desalination plant began in for the 2018/19 water order. September 2009. The project operation term commenced from the date of commercial acceptance which occurred on AquaSure has produced 6.9 GL of the 2019-20 water order 17 November 2012, triggering the recognition of the finance prior to 30 June 2019. Under the provisions in the project lease payable. deed AquaSure are permitted to bring forward the delivery of a water order if there has been an increase over and above The Minister for Environment, Climate Change and Water the order for the previous year or where water orders are at issued a Statement of Obligations (SoO) to the Corporation 150 GL. The costs associated with this additional volume under section 4I of the Water Industry Act 1994 on 26 June have been accrued in 2018/19 but DELWP is not liable to 2009. The SoO requires the Corporation to pay all monies make payment to AquaSure until it is invoiced for this water payable by the State under the Project Deed with AquaSure. in 2019/20. The Corporation will pay DELWP in accordance with the contract terms. The Corporation also entered into a Victorian Desalination Project 'Water Interface Agreement' (WIA) and a On 18 March 2019 the Minister for Water issued the 2019/20 Supplementary Water Interface Agreement with the State to Supply Notice with a Required Annual Water Volume for record the terms of the interface and financial arrangements 125GL in 2019/20 and non-binding forecasts of 100GL for between the Project and the Corporation. 2020/21 and 125GL for 2021/22. Under the arrangement, the Corporation has an obligation to In October 2018, the State approved that AquaSure refinance make Project Deed payments to DELWP, who are managing its external debt. The refinancing resulted in the State being the contract with AquaSure on behalf of the State. The entitled to a refinancing benefit of $125 million (nominal portions of the Project Deed Payments that relate to the value) over the life of the Project Deed, recognised by the right to use the project assets are accounted for as a finance Corporation as $59.6 million (present value) for 2018/19 in lease as disclosed below. In addition, the Project Deed the Statement of Profit and Loss. The Victorian Desalination Payments also include other commitments for operating, Plant Project Deed entitles the state to an adjustment to maintenance and life cycle costs. The desalination plant the water service payments in the original financial model to assets will transfer from DELWP to the Corporation at the reflect the changes in refinancing costs incurred by AquaSure end of the project contract term (presently planned for as per AASB 9. The refinancing gain is recognised upfront and 2039). The Corporation will also make water usage payments reduces the future lease liability and interest expense profile. for any water that is ordered and delivered to the required Previously the gain had been recognised over the remaining standards. Water can be ordered annually for flexible of the lease. Refer to note 7.9 for adjustments relating to the amounts from 0 to 150 gigalitres (in set increments). adoption of AASB 9. In May 2017, the Minister for Water announced Melbourne households will not face additional charges on their water bills for the 2016/17 50 GL water order and the subsequent 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 111 Financing Our Operations (continued) As per information provided by DELWP (in accordance with the WIA), the Corporation has recognised the following finance lease liability: ($ thousands) Minimum future Present value of minimum lease payments future lease payments 2019 2018 2019 2018 VDP finance lease liability Less than 1 year 490,202 492,863 74,737 70,339 1 year but less than 5 years 1,768,468 1,840,452 151,817 212,869 Later than 5 years 7,414,049 7,957,147 3,491,563 3,786,516 Minimum future lease payments 9,672,719 10,290,462 3,718,117 4,069,724 Less: Future finance charges (5,954,602) (6,220,738) Total finance lease liability 3,718,117 4,069,724 3,718,117 4,069,724 Representing finance lease liability: Current (refer to 5.1)(a) 74,737 70,339 Non-current (refer to 5.1)(a) 3,643,380 3,999,385 Total finance lease liability 3,718,117 4,069,724 Note: (a) The present value of the minimum future lease payments have been discounted to 30 June of the respective financial years using the weighted average interest rate of 11.28% (2017/18: 10.45%). These payments exclude finance charges. Other commitments payable Under the PPP arrangement that the state entered into with AquaSure, the State is required to make base water security payments, provided the plant is maintained to the appropriate standard. This payments is for costs related to the VDP's operation, maintenance and life cycle costs. The nominal amounts for the other commitments below represent the charges payable under the agreement at the end of the reporting period for these costs. The Project Deed requires a minimum number of Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) to be purchased to offset the electricity used by the plant. The number of RECs that are consumed will vary based on the volume of water produced by the plant. The number of banked RECs that remain at the end of the supply period will be controlled by the Department. The other commitments payable are disclosed based on information provided by DELWP (in accordance with the WIA): ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Less than 1 year 235,020 136,762 1 year but less than 5 years 610,662 595,729 Later than 5 years 3,413,353 3,597,462 Total other commitments (inclusive of GST)(b) 4,259,035 4,329,953 Less GST recoverable from the Australian Taxation Office (387,185) (393,632) Total other commitments (exclusive of GST) 3,871,850 3,936,321 Present value of other commitments(c) 1,659,903 1,565,824 Note: (b) The ‘Other commitments’ have been updated to reflect indexation factors, such as Consumer Price Index, Producer Price Index, Chemical Index, and Average Weekly Earnings Index. Commitments are updated for the change in actual amounts paid, and forecast percentage increases are based on the original forecasted indices and applied to the adjusted actual payments. This methodology has been applied to reduce volatility in the forecast ‘Other commitments’ (c) The present value of the ‘Other commitments’ have been discounted to 30 June of the respective financial years. The basis for discounting has been to take each 12 month period of cash flows and discount these cash flows at the end of the period using the annual discount rate. The discount rate used to calculate the present value the commitment is 9.99% (2017/18: 9.99%) which is the nominal pre-tax discount rate representative of the overall risk of the project at inception. The present value for 2017/18 has been restated (increase of $142.3 million) as it did not include GST. 112 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Risk management Introduction The Corporation is exposed to financial risks from both its activities and outside factors. In addition, it is often necessary to make judgements and estimates associated with recognition and measurement of items in the financial statements. This section presents information on financial instruments, contingent assets and liabilities, and fair value determinations regarding the Corporation's financial assets and liabilities. Structure 6.1 Financial instruments 113 6.2 Fair value determination of financial assets 120 and liabilities 6.3 Contingent assets and liabilities 121 6.1 Financial instruments Financial instruments arise out of contractual agreements Classification and measurement of financial instruments that give rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. Due to the Receivables and cash are financial instruments with fixed and nature of the Corporation’s activities, certain financial assets determinable payments that are not quoted on an active and financial liabilities arise under statute rather than a market. Financial assets are initially measured at fair value contract (for example taxes). Such assets and liabilities do plus or minus any direct transaction costs. Subsequent to not meet the definition of financial instruments. initial measurement, receivables are measured at amortised cost as the objective is to collect the contractual cash flows. The Corporation's principle financial instruments are The following assets are held with the objective to collect the contractual in nature and comprise: contractual cash flows: –– Cash and cash equivalents –– Cash and cash equivalents –– Trade debtors and other receivables –– Trade debtors and other receivables. –– Trade creditors, accruals and interest payable Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value. These –– VDP lease liabilities financial instruments are measured at amortised cost with –– Other payables any difference between the initial recognised amount and –– Borrowings (including short term, floating rate notes and the redemption value being recognised in the profit and loss, fixed interest). over the period of the interest bearing liability using the effective interest rate method. The Corporation recognises This is the first set of the Corporation's annual financial the following liabilities: statements in which the new accounting standard AASB 9 Financial Instruments has been applied. AASB 9 replaces –– Trade creditors, accruals and interest payable the provisions of AASB 139 (Financial Instruments: –– VDP lease liabilities Recognition and Measurement) that relate to the recognition, –– Other payables classification and measurement of financial assets and –– Borrowings (including short term, floating rate notes and financial liabilities, de-recognition of financial instruments, fixed interest). impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting. It introduces a new impairment model for financial assets based on expected credit losses, simplifies hedge accounting and changes the accounting for loan/debt modifications. The Corporations policy on financial instruments is noted below. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 113 Risk management (continued) 6.1 Financial instruments (continued) Derecognition of financial assets Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive The Corporation applies the AASB 9 simplified approach cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime been transferred and the Corporation has transferred expected loss allowance for contractual receivables. On substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. this basis, an assessment undertaken by management has identified that historical debt write-offs and future expected losses are immaterial. As such, there is no allowance for expected credit losses as at 30 June 2019. Last years balance was based on the assessment applied under AASB 139 Financial instruments. Categories of financial instruments ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 17,603 2,008 Trade debtors 44,347 48,790 Other receivables 37,836 20,718 Total financial assets 99,786 71,516 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 380,952 349,389 VDP finance lease liabilities 3,718,117 4,069,724 Short term borrowings 206,100 571,079 Floating rate notes 400,000 400,000 Fixed interest 3,495,000 3,020,000 Total financial liabilities 8,200,169 8,410,192 Financial risk management The objectives of the Corporation's Treasury Management Policy are to: –– Manage the Corporation's cost of borrowings through –– Ensure adequate internal controls and staffing effective control and management of interest rate risk –– Maintain an indicative investment grade corporate credit –– Manage the Corporation's cost of borrowings in line with rating and credit metrics. the revenue provided in the 2016 Pricing Determination to cover the cost of debt These objectives are consistent with the Corporate Risk Management Policy and Framework of the Corporation, the –– Manage working capital requirements by ensuring Corporation's Financial Sustainability Strategy, Standing sufficient cash resources and funds are available to meet Directions issued by the Assistant Treasurer and the Victorian daily and long-term liquidity needs within approved Public Sector Debt Management Objectives. parameters, while utilising excess cash to reduce debt balances –– Ensure that adequate financial accommodation facilities are in place to meet the short and long-term liquidity needs –– Ensure that all financial and operational risk exposures are identified and managed 114 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report The Corporation's Treasury Management Policy manages Capital management The Corporation manages its financial risk by: finances in order to maintain a stable and appropriate capital structure given the financial risk profile and the regulated –– Managing the financial risks arising from the regulatory nature of its business. The Corporation’s aim is to maintain price determination process, specifically the mismatch credit metrics consistent with an investment grade longbetween the regulator’s revenue allowance for debt costs term corporate credit rating. and actual debt costs throughout the regulatory period The Corporation has the following externally imposed limits –– Actively managing liquidity and funding risk. in relation to capital management: The following are the key measures used to manage financial –– Financial Accommodation cannot exceed the approval risk: limits set by the Treasurer of Victoria pursuant to the Borrowing and Investment Powers Act 1987 Portfolio composition (i.e. fixed and floating) During the 2018/19 financial year, the Corporation reviewed its Treasury –– The Corporation, with the exception of working capital Management Policy and have made no changes from the accounts with overdraft facilities, is required to borrow prior year bands by which it manages its debt portfolio: and invest exclusively with TCV. Floating interest rate borrowings 0-30% The Corporation's gearing ratio (Total Debt/Total Assets) at Fixed interest rate borrowings 70-100% 30 June 2019 was 51.2% (2017/18: 52.6%) and interest cover cash ratio was 2.1 times (2017/18: 1.9 times). Physical maturity profile Debt maturity of fixed and floating rate notes is not to exceed 15% of the total debt Gearing and Interest Cover ratios are some of a number portfolio in any financial year. of benchmarks that are considered by the Board when considering an appropriate capital structure. These ratios are Interest rate risk profile Interest Rate Swaps and approved via the Corporate Plan. Forward Rate Agreements are used to mitigate the risk from adverse interest rate increases where the actual interest Interest rate risk is the risk that over the regulatory period rates paid to finance debt are at risk of being higher than the actual cost of debt is higher than the regulatory cost of the debt allowance received in revenue to finance debt. debt allowance that the Corporation receives as part of the The Corporation's goal is to align the actual interest rate regulatory determination. risk profile to the profile used by the Essential Services Commission (ESC) in setting our revenue. Interest rate risk is managed by: Aligning the interest rate re-pricing profile of the debt –– Strategic management of the mix of floating and fixed portfolio with the annual regulatory weighted average rate debt within a range of Board approved parameters, cost of capital (WACC) re-set based on the 10-year trailing in order to minimise exposure to fluctuations in variable average approach used by the ESC to determine revenue rates and to minimise the long-term net cost of funding aims to reduce the regulatory interest rate mismatch risk. –– Aligning the Corporation's modified duration with the The Corporation also aims to align the modified duration regulatory benchmark portfolio modified duration of its debt portfolio in line with the regulatory benchmark portfolio. –– The utilisation of interest Rate Swaps to align the repricing of the actual costs of debt with the timing of the Financing arrangements The capacity to borrow funds and setting of the regulatory cost of debt allowance. manage the associated risks is subject to the provisions of the Borrowing and Investment Powers Act 1987. In accordance At 30 June 2019, the Corporation did not have any interest with this Act, the Treasurer of Victoria issues an annual Rate Swaps (30 June 2018: Nil). approval, permitting new borrowings and the refinancing of all loan maturities for that year and non-maturing loans The interest rate exposure table provides details of the upon request. All funding is sourced from the Treasury carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities that Corporation of Victoria (TCV). expose the Corporation to either interest rate fair value risk or interest rate cash flow risk. The Corporation's total approved maximum borrowing limit for 2018/19 of $4,208.4 million (2017/18: $4,157.7 million) was not exceeded at any stage throughout the financial year. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 115 Risk management (continued) 6.1.1 Interest rate risk Interest rate exposure as at 30 June 2019 ($ thousands) Weighted Floating Fixed Non-interest Total carrying average interest interest bearing amount Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1.43% 17,603 17,603 Trade debtors 44,347 44,347 Other receivables 37,836 37,836 Total financial assets 17,603 82,183 99,786 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 380,952 380,952 VDP lease liabilities(a) 11.28% 3,718,117 3,718,117 Short term borrowings 1.64% 206,100 206,100 Floating rate notes 2.25% 400,000 400,000 Fixed interest 4.08% 3,495,000 3,495,000 Total financial liabilities 606,100 7,213,117 380,952 8,200,169 Interest rate exposure as at 30 June 2018 ($ thousands) Weighted Floating Fixed interest Non-interest Total carrying average interest bearing amount Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1.45% 2,008 2,008 Trade debtors 48,790 48,790 Other receivables 20,718 20,718 Total financial assets 2,008 69,508 71,516 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 349,389 349,389 VDP lease liabilities(a) 10.45% 4,069,724 4,069,724 Short term borrowings 1.67% 571,079 571,079 Floating rate notes 2.25% 400,000 400,000 Fixed interest 4.62% 3,020,000 3,020,000 Total financial liabilities 971,079 7,089,724 349,389 8,410,192 Note: (a) The weighted average interest rate for VDP lease liabilities is the interest rate implicit in the lease. Following the adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments, gains or losses from VDP refinancing activities are now required to be recognised immediately through profit and loss. The gains or losses reflect the difference between the original contractual cash flows and the modified cash flows discounted at the original ‘effective interest rate’. Previously these gains (or losses) would have been recognised over the remaining life of the borrowing by adjusting the effective interest rate, on the basis that the terms and conditions of the facility remained largely unchanged. The equivalent weighted average interest rate as at 30 June 2019 without adoption of AASB 9 is 10.23%. Comparative figures have not been restated as per the transitional provisions in AASB 9. 116 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis ($ thousands) Profit or Loss Equity 2019 -50 basis +50 basis -50 basis +50 basis points points points points Cash and cash equivalents (13) 13 (13) 13 Interest Bearing Liabilities 3,031 (3,031) 3,031 (3,031) Total 3,018 (3,018) 3,018 (3,018) ($ thousands) Profit or Loss Equity 2018 -50 basis +50 basis -50 basis +50 basis points points points points Cash and cash equivalents (8) 8 (6) 6 Interest Bearing Liabilities 4,855 (4,855) 3,399 (3,399) Total 4,847 (4,847) 3,393 (3,393) Exposures arise predominately from liabilities bearing points from the year end rates with all other variables held variable interest rates as the Corporation intends to hold constant, the net profit before tax and the impact on equity fixed rate liabilities to maturity. At 30 June 2018 and 30 would have changed by the amounts shown above. June 2019, if interest rates had changed by +/50 basis 6.1.2 Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions in excess of AUD $1.0 million. The Corporation's transactions and recognised assets and liabilities are policy requires all hedging to be undertaken through TCV in denominated in a currency that is not the entity's functional the form of Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts. currency. At 30 June 2019, the Corporation did not have any Forward It is the Corporation's policy to hedge the effect of foreign Foreign Exchange Contracts (30 June 2018: Nil). currency exchange rate movements on the fair values of any 6.1.3 Price risk Price risk is the risk that the Corporation will suffer financial of RECs the Corporation currently holds and future RECs loss due to adverse movements in the price of commodity it will be receiving. The current strategy is to realise on an inputs and/or outputs related to its business operations. ongoing basis the value of the RECs given they are no longer required by the Corporation. Other lower level exposures will The main price risk exposure to the Corporation is the exist with supply and service contracts mitigating this risk potential decline in market value of the Renewable Energy where possible. Certificates (RECs). This may impact on the realisable value 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 117 Risk management (continued) 6.1.4 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Corporation Other Receivables primarily consist of a large number of as a result of a customer or counterparty to a financial residential and business customers across a diverse range of instrument failing to meet its contractual obligations in full industries to which the Corporation provides waterways and and on the due date. The Corporation’s exposure to credit drainage services. These receivable balances are monitored risk is influenced by the individual characteristics of each on an ongoing basis to ensure that exposure to bad debts customer or counterparty. is not significant. The collection of payments and overdue receivables is managed by the metropolitan retail water All receivables are recognised at the amounts receivable businesses as part of billings and collection agreements with less any expected credit loss. Receivables are reviewed the Corporation. In addition any unpaid debt is allocated on an ongoing basis to identify amounts which cannot be against the property title and will be extinguished if there is a collected. Debts which cannot be collected are written off. change in property ownership. The Corporation applies the AASB 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime All financial risk management instruments are transacted expected loss allowance for all receivables. Refer to note 2.3 with TCV, whose liabilities are guaranteed by the (Receivables). Victorian Government. The Corporation potentially has a concentration of credit risk with TCV as the central The major exposure to credit risk arises from Trade Debtors borrowing authority of Victoria. This risk is considered and Other Receivables. minimal. Trade Debtors are comprised predominantly of metropolitan retail water businesses with minimal credit risk exposure to the Corporation. These debtors are invoiced in two parts. The first part is a usage charge that is invoiced weekly and paid within 7 days. The second part is an availability charge that is invoiced monthly and paid within 14 days. 6.1.5 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Corporation won't be able The objective of the Corporation's financial risk management to meet its short-term financial obligations. The Corporation policies is the optimal utilisation of cash with all surplus manages liquidity risk by maintaining and conducting funds used to repay borrowings. efficient banking practices and account structures, sound cash management practices and regular monitoring of the maturity profile of assets and liabilities, together with anticipated cash flows. 118 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Undiscounted maturity analysis of financial liabilities ($ thousands) 2019 Total Total carrying contractual 1 year or Over 5 amount cash flows less 1 to 5 years years Non-interest bearing 380,952 380,952 379,521 1,431 Variable rate 606,100 620,507 290,403 330,104 Fixed rate 7,213,117 14,695,909 1,024,819 3,702,699 9,968,391 Total 8,200,169 15,697,368 1,694,743 4,034,234 9,968,391 2018 Total Total carrying contractual 1 year or Over 5 amount cash flows less 1 to 5 years years Non-interest bearing 349,389 349,389 348,497 892 Variable rate 971,079 1,008,064 590,303 417,761 Fixed rate 7,089,724 14,810,482 1,229,991 3,568,801 10,011,690 Total 8,410,192 16,167,935 2,168,791 3,987,454 10,011,690 6.1.6 Other matters Net holding gain/(loss) on financial instruments by category ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Interest revenue/(expense) Financial assets 70 27 Financial liabilities at amortised cost (618,237) (645,278) Total (618,167) (645,251) 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 119 Risk management (continued) 6.2 Fair value determination of financial assets and liabilities The fair values and net fair values of financial instrument assets and liabilities are determined as follows: • Level 1 – the fair value of financial instrument with • Level 3 – the fair value is determined in accordance with standard terms and conditions and traded in active generally accepted pricing models based on discounted liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted cash flow analysis using unobservable market inputs. market prices • Level 2 – the fair value is determined using inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the financial asset or liability, either directly or indirectly The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities. The fair values are classified as level 2 within the fair value hierarchy with the exception of cash and cash equivalents (classified as level 1). Carrying amounts, fair values and fair value hierarchy ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 17,603 17,603 2,008 2,008 Trade debtors 44,347 44,347 48,790 48,790 Other receivables 37,836 37,836 20,718 20,718 Total financial assets 99,786 99,786 71,516 71,516 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 380,952 380,952 349,389 349,389 VDP lease liabilities 3,718,117 3,718,117 4,069,724 4,069,724 Short term borrowings 206,100 206,100 571,079 571,079 Floating rate notes 400,000 401,224 400,000 402,546 Fixed interest 3,495,000 3,796,836 3,020,000 3,174,886 Total financial liabilities 8,200,169 8,503,229 8,410,192 8,567,624 120 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report 6.3 Contingent assets and liabilities Contingent assets are possible assets that arise from past • present obligations that arise from past events but are events, whose existence will be confirmed only by the not recognised because: occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain –– it is not probable that an outflow of resources future events not wholly within the control of the entity. embodying economic benefits will be required to Contingent liabilities are: settle the obligations • possible obligations that arise from past events, whose –– the amount of the obligations cannot be measured existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or with sufficient reliability. non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the entity Contingent assets and liabilities are not recognised in the Statement of Financial Position, but if quantifiable are disclosed below. ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Contingent assets 19,345 10,045 Contingent liabilities 30,410 32,060 Note: (a) Contingent liabilities are primarily for compulsory land acquisitions where the Corporation will receive an equivalent land asset, which has not been disclosed separately. Total compulsory land acquisitions for 2018/19 are $30.3 million (2017/18: $30.0 million). Compulsory land acquisitions are considered assets due to the Corporation receiving equivalent land. Given the significant estimation uncertainty, these are not treated as provisions. The Corporation only recognises assets and liabilities once the Notice of Acquisition has been issued to the landowner. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 121 Other Disclosures Introduction This section includes those additional disclosures required by Australian Accounting Standards or otherwise, that are material, for the understanding of this financial report. Structure 7.1 Superannuation defined benefit plan 122 7.2 Responsible persons 126 7.3 Remuneration of executives 127 7.4 Related parties 127 7.5 Remuneration of auditors 131 7.6 Ex-gratia expenses 131 7.7 Subsequent events 131 7.8 Prospective accounting and reporting changes 132 7.9 Change in accounting standards 132 7.1 Superannuation defined benefit plan The Defined benefit plan within Equipsuper (the Plan) This approach ensures that the inflation assumption reflects provides lump sum benefits based on length of service and market expectations and is compatible with the marketfinal superannuable salary for employees engaged prior to based discount rate that is used to value the outstanding 31 December 1993. Employees contribute at rates between liability. 0% to 7.5% of their superannuable salary. The Corporation contributes to the Plan based on the Corporation's Remeasurements of the net defined liability or asset, which commitments under the Employee Participation Agreement comprise actuarial gains and losses, return on the Plan assets and Contribution Policy with the Trustee of the Plan. (excluding interest) and effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised immediately in Other Defined benefit members receive lump sum benefits on Comprehensive Income. The Corporation determines the retirement, death, disablement and withdrawal. Some net interest expense on the net defined benefit liability for defined benefit members are also eligible for pension the period by applying the discount rate used to measure benefits in some cases. The defined benefit section of the the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual Plan is closed to new members. At each reporting date, a period to the net defined benefit liability or asset taking liability or asset in respect of defined benefit superannuation into account contributions and benefit payments during obligations is recognised. This is measured as the difference the period. Net interest expense and other expenses related between the present value of the defined benefit obligations to defined benefit plans are recognised in the Statement of at the reporting date and the net market value of the Plan's Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income. assets. When the benefits of the Plan are changed or when a plan The present value of defined benefit obligations is based is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to upon future payments, which are expected to arise due to past service or the gain or loss on curtailment is recognised membership of the Plan to date, taking into account the immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other taxes payable by the Plan. Comprehensive Income. The Corporation recognises gains and losses on settlement when it occurs. Consideration is given to expected future salary levels and employee departures. Expected future payments are discounted to present values using yields applying to longterm Commonwealth Government Bonds. Furthermore, the inflation assumption is based upon the relationship between nominal and index linked bond yields of similar duration. 122 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report The Superannuation Industry Supervision (SIS) legislation There are a number of risks to which the Plan exposes the governs the superannuation industry and provides the Corporation. The more significant risks relating to the defined framework within which superannuation plans operate. benefits are: The SIS regulations require an actuarial valuation to be performed for each defined benefit superannuation plan Investment risk The risk that investment returns will every 3 years, or every year if the plan pays defined benefit be lower than assumed and the Corporation will need to pensions. increase contributions to offset this shortfall. The Plan's Trustee is responsible for the governance of the Salary growth risk The risk that wages/salaries (on which Plan. The Trustee has a legal obligation to act solely in the future benefit amounts will be based) will rise more rapidly best interests of Plan beneficiaries. The Trustee has the than assumed, increasing defined benefit amounts and following roles: thereby requiring additional employer contributions. –– Administration of the Plan and payment to the Legislative risk The risk that legislative changes could be beneficiaries from Plan assets when required in made which could increase the cost of providing the defined accordance with the Plan rules benefits. –– Management and investment of the Plan assets Pension risk The risk is firstly that pensioner mortality will –– Compliance with superannuation law and other be higher than expected, resulting in pensions being paid for applicable regulations. a longer period. Secondly, the risk that a greater proportion of eligible members will elect to take a pension benefit, The prudential regulator, the Australian Prudential which is generally more valuable than the corresponding Regulation Authority (APRA), licenses and supervises lump sum benefit. regulated superannuation plans. The Plan assets are invested by the Trustee in a pool of assets with plans providing defined benefits for other employers. The allocation both globally and across sectors is diversified. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 123 Other Disclosures (continued) 7.1 Superannuation defined benefit plan (continued) Reconciliation of the present value of the defined benefit superannuation obligation ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Present value of defined benefit obligation at beginning of the year 61,265 69,610 Current service cost 5,502 2,397 Interest cost 1,481 1,469 Contributions by Plan participants 616 523 Benefits paid (8,772) (14,173) Taxes and premiums paid (293) (270) Actuarial losses/(gains) arising from changes in financial assumptions 4,162 (1,627) Actuarial losses arising from liability experience 1,891 3,336 Contributions to accumulation section(a) (3,211) Contributions to accumulation section in relation to prior year(a) (260) Present value of the defined benefit obligation at year end 62,381 61,265 Reconciliation of the fair value of Plan assets ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year 85,030 92,199 Contributions by Plan participants 616 523 Benefits paid (8,772) (14,173) Taxes and premiums paid (293) (270) Interest Income 1,996 1,896 Actual return on Plan assets less interest income 2,008 4,855 Contributions to accumulation section(a) (3,211) Fair value of Plan assets at year end(b) 77,374 85,030 Reconciliation of the assets and liabilities recognised in the Statement of Financial Position ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Net defined benefit (asset)/liability at start of year (23,765) (22,589) Current service cost 5,502 2,397 Net interest (515) (427) Actual return on Plan assets less interest income(c) (2,008) (4,855) Actuarial losses/(gains) arising from changes in financial assumptions(c) 4,162 (1,627) Actuarial losses/(gains) arising from liability experience(c) 1,891 3,336 Contributions to accumulation section in relation to prior year(a) (260) Net defined benefit asset at year end (14,993) (23,765) (a) Includes contributions of $3.5 million (current and prior year) to accumulation section of the Plan financed from defined benefit assets (b) Fair value based on level 2 inputs using observable market data (either directly using prices or indirectly derived from prices) (c) Net actuarial losses before tax were $4.0 million (2017/18: gains of $3.1 million) and after tax losses of $2.1 million (2017/18: gains of $2.2 million). 124 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report The Corporation has recognised an asset in the Statement Corporation may be required to increase the contribution of Financial Position in respect of its defined benefit rate, depending on the advice of the Plan's actuary consistent superannuation Plan arrangements at 30 June 2019 with the Plan's deed. (2017/18: asset). If the Plan is in surplus, the Corporation may reduce the required contribution rate, depending on the During 2018/19, the contributions rate continued to be zero advice of the Plan's actuary. If a deficit exists in the Plan the due to sufficient surplus in the Plan (2017/18: zero). Reconciliation of the present value of the defined benefit superannuation obligation ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Assumptions to determine defined benefit cost Discount rate 2.50% 2.20% Expected salary increase rate 3.25% 3.25% Expected pension increase rate 2.50% 2.50% Assumptions to determine defined benefit obligation Discount rate 1.20% 2.50% Expected salary increase rate 2.60% 3.25% Expected pension increase rate 2.50% 2.50% 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 125 Other Disclosures (continued) 7.2 Responsible persons The relevant Portfolio Minister and directors of the Corporation are deemed to be the responsible persons by Ministerial Direction pursuant to the provisions of the Financial Management Act 1994. In accordance with those Directions, the following disclosures are made regarding responsible persons for the reporting period. The names of persons who were responsible persons at any time during the financial year were: Minister for Water Hon Lisa Neville, MP 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Chairman John Thwaites 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Managing Director Michael Wandmaker 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Deputy Chairman Merran Kelsall 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Director Kathleen Bailey-Lord 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Director Hugh Gleeson 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Director Robyn McLeod 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Director Garry Smith 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Director Russell Anderson 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Director Fiona Rowland 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Remuneration The Minister’s remuneration and allowances is set by the Parliamentary Salaries and Superannuation Act 1968 and is reported within the Department of Parliamentary Services Financial Report. Other relevant interests are declared in the Register of Members' Interests which each Member of Parliament completes. The number of responsible persons whose remuneration from the Corporation was within the specified bands were as follows: Total Remuneration 2019 2018 Income Band ($) Number Number 10,000 19,999 2 30,000 39,999 2 40,000 49,999 2 2 50,000 59,999 5 3 90,000 99,999 1 1 510,000 519,999 1 530,000 539,000 1 Total numbers 9 11 Total remuneration ($000) 976 952 126 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report 7.3 Remuneration of executives The number of executives, other than ministers, and their benefits such as allowances and free or subsidised goods total remuneration during the reporting period are shown or services and previously accrued long service leave taken in the table below. Total annualised employee equivalents during the period. provides a measure of full time equivalent executive officers over the reporting period. Remuneration comprises Post-employment benefits include pensions and other employee benefits in all forms of consideration paid, retirement benefits paid or payable when employment has payable or provided by the entity, or on behalf of the entity, ceased. in exchange for services rendered, and is disclosed in the Other long-term benefits include long service leave, other following categories. long-service benefit or deferred compensation. Short-term employee benefits include amounts such as Termination benefits include termination of employment wages, salaries, annual leave or sick leave that are usually payments, such as severance packages. paid or payable on a regular basis, as well as non-monetary Remuneration of executive officers (including executives ($ thousands) defined as Key Management Personnel in note 7.4) 2019 2018 Short-term employment benefits 3,487 3,493 Post-employment benefits 228 199 Other long-term benefits 79 82 Termination benefits Total remuneration(a) 3,794 3,774 Total number of executives 13 12 Total annualised employee equivalent(b) 11 11 Note: (a) The total number of executive officers includes people who meet the definition of Key Management Personnel (KMP) of the entity under AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures and are also reported within the related parties note disclosure. (b) Annualised employee equivalent is based on the time fraction worked over the reporting period. 7.4 Related parties The Corporation is a wholly owned and controlled entity All related party transactions have been entered into on an of the State of Victoria. Related parties of the Corporation arm’s length basis. include: KMPs of the Corporation include the Portfolio Minister –– All Key Management Personnel (KMP) and their close and all Directors or executives who have the authority and family members and personal business interests (i.e. responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the controlled entities, joint ventures and entities they have activities of the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during the significant influence over). financial year. –– All Cabinet Ministers and their close family members The compensation detailed below excludes the salaries and all departments and public sector entities that are and benefits the Portfolio Minister receives. The Minister’s controlled and consolidated into the whole of State remuneration and allowances is set by the Parliamentary consolidated financial statements. Salaries and Superannuation Act 1968 and is reported within the Department of Parliamentary Services’ Financial Report. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 127 Other Disclosures (continued) ($ thousands) Compensation of KMP 2019 2018 Short-term employment benefits 1,336 1,276 Post-employment benefits 79 78 Other long-term benefits 21 20 Termination benefits Total(a) 1,436 1,374 Note: (a) Note that executives that meet the definition of KMPs are also reported in the disclosure of remuneration of executives. Transactions with KMPs and other related parties During the year, related parties of KMPs were awarded Significant related party transactions include transactions contracts on terms and conditions equivalent for those that between the Corporation, a KMP or a KMP related-party prevail in arm’s length transactions under the Corporation’s and a Department or a public body. Transactions have been procurement process. The Corporation has prepared the assessed on an arms length basis with a materiality threshold related party disclosures for the year based on reasonable set at $0.1 million. enquiries made by management in relation to the Portfolio Minister and their close family members and the information available to the organisation. These transactions are as follows: ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Lisa Neville MP Minister for Water The Honourable Lisa Neville is one of the Ministers responsible for the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning (DELWP). All dealings with this entity were on normal terms and conditions during the reporting period. Total payments made to DELWP were (including VDP payments): 675,538 672,571 Robyn McLeod Director Robyn McLeod is a Director of the Victorian Water Industry Association. All dealings with this agency were on normal terms and conditions during the reporting period. Total payments made to Victorian Water Industry Association were: 227 92 All other transactions that have occurred with KMPs and in making and evaluating decisions about the allocation of their related parties have been trivial or civil in nature. In scarce resources and to better understand the effects of this context, transactions are only disclosed when they related party transactions on the financial statements. are considered of interest to users of the financial report 128 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Related parties with significant transactions Entities that have significant influence, the same controlling entity as the Corporation or where a KMP, or their close family member, has significant influence or control over those entities, are considered to be related parties of the Corporation. The following entities are considered to be related parties of the Corporation: Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning (DELWP) DELWP leads and directs the Corporation in the implementation of the framework for achieving the Victorian Government's responsibilities for sustainability of the natural and built environment. DELWP monitors the Corporation's compliance with the Water Act 1989, Water Interface Agreement and the Supplementary Agreement to the Water Interface Agreement for the Victorian Desalination Plan. The Corporation makes Victorian Desalination Plant payments directly to DELWP, who are managing the contract with AquaSure on behalf of the State. Department of Treasury and Finance (DTF) DTF monitors the Corporation's compliance with the Financial Management Act 1994. DTF is responsible for protecting the shareholder's interest in respect of corporate business plans and capital project approvals above $50 million (2017/18: $50 million). DTF also collects income taxes, the Financial Accommodation Levy, Local Government Rates Equivalent and dividend payments from the Corporation. City West Water, South East Water, Yarra Valley Water, Western Water and Barwon Water City West Water, South East Water, Yarra Valley Water, Western Water and Barwon Water are Government owned water corporations with agreements with the Corporation that include bulk water and sewerage, bulk recycled water supply, billings collections and biosolids storage arrangements. These agreements operated on normal terms and conditions during the reporting period. Treasury Corporation of Victoria TCV provides financial accommodation (loans to the Corporation), executes financial arrangements (derivatives) and provides/ arranges the provision of financial services to the Corporation. Any investments above $2 million are also required to be invested with TCV. Development Victoria Development Victoria creates and delivers economic and social value to Victoria. Development Victoria will deliver property and precinct development projects to meet Government’s policy objectives and application of its experience and expertise to the delivery of civic projects. Other related parties –– Environment Protection Agency Victoria –– Department of Health and Human Services –– Level Crossing Removal Authority –– Parks Victoria –– Melbourne Metro Railway Authority –– Southern Rural Water Corporation –– Goulburn Murray Water –– Victoria State Emergency Service –– Westernport Region Water Corporation –– Victorian Water Industry Association –– Southern Rural Water –– Victorian Workcover Authority –– Gippsland Water –– Department of Jobs, Precincts and Regions. –– South Gippsland Region Water Corporation Other related parties with arms-length transactions greater than $0.1 million have been disclosed above. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 129 Other Disclosures (continued) In the below summaries, all other related parties transactions and payable balances below $0.1 million have also been included. Material transactions with related parties ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Receipts from related parties (inclusive of GST) DELWP 3,736 3,279 City West Water 408,898 405,461 South East Water 602,042 588,110 Yarra Valley Water 605,545 589,318 Western Water 9,354 8,682 Barwon Water 214 TCV 15 178 Development Victoria 14,132 4,691 Other related parties 4,401 3,378 Receipt of contributed assets DELWP 34,040 ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Payments to related parties (inclusive of GST) DELWP 675,538 672,571 DTF 196,248 216,387 City West Water 5,240 4,950 South East Water 5,393 5,494 Yarra Valley Water 5,596 5,726 Western Water 192 151 Barwon Water 3 TCV 151,816 177,127 Development Victoria 394 Other related parties 16,005 4,590 Dividend paid DTF 24,400 77,100 Repayment of equity contributions DTF 27,910 27,910 Transfer of contributed assets DELWP 610 122 130 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Material transactions with related parties (continued) Outstanding balances arising from sales/purchases of goods and services ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Receivables City West Water 9,390 8,203 South East Water 8,611 8,579 Yarra Valley Water 10,555 11,510 Barwon Water 122 Other related parties 207 354 Payables DELWP 3,718,117 4,069,975 DTF 33,974 20,607 City West Water 6 South East Water 406 Yarra Valley Water 92 Western Water 3 TCV 4,146,162 4,038,380 Other related parties 187 4,259 Transactions relating to dividends are subject to final services and collection of drainage rates are based on normal determination by the Treasurer after consultation with commercial terms and conditions. the Corporation's Board of Directors and the Minister for Water. Transactions relating to equity contributions are Outstanding balances are unsecured and are receivable/ determined by the Minister for Water in consultation with payable in cash under normal trading terms. There are no the Corporation. Transactions relating to trading activities of guarantees given or received for the current and non-current the Corporation including sale of bulk water, sale of sewerage payables, current receivables and borrowings. 7.5 Remuneration of auditors ($ thousands) 2019 2018 Audit of financial report by the Victorian Auditor-General's Office 179 175 Total amount paid/payable 179 175 7.6 Ex-gratia expenses In accordance with FRD 11A Disclosure of Ex-Gratia Expenses the Corporation must disclose in aggregate the total amount of material (greater than $5,000) expenses. For 2018/19, the Corporation incurred no ex-gratia expenses (2017/18: $0). 7.7 Subsequent events No matters or circumstances have arisen since the end of the reporting period which significantly affected or may significantly affect the operations of the Corporation, or the results of those operations. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 131 Other Disclosures (continued) 7.8 Prospective accounting and reporting changes Certain new accounting standards and interpretations that are deemed relevant to the Corporation have been published, but are not mandatory for the 30 June 2019 reporting period. The Corporation has not adopted these standards early in accordance with DTF guidance. The Corporation's assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below: AASB 16 Leases This Standard will primarily affect accounting by lessees and will result in the recognition of almost all leases on the Statement of Financial Position and is effective 1 January 2019. The Standard removes the current distinction between operating and financing leases and requires recognition of an asset (the right to use the leased item) and a financial liability to pay rentals for almost all lease contracts. There is also a change to the classification, nature and timing of previously classified operating lease expenditures in the profit and loss previously classified as operating lease expenditure now split into depreciation, finance charges and in the cash flow statement as principal repayments. Existing finance lease assets will need to be reclassified as ‘right of use assets’. Accounting by lessors will not significantly change. Management has conducted an initial assessment over current operating leases and its unlikely the new standard will have a material impact on its financial statements. In line with recommendations from DTF, the Corporation is planning to apply a retrospective modified approach and will recognise an asset and liability predominantly for two leased office buildings and a parking area (approximately $57 million additional assets and liabilities, with an immaterial impact to the profit and loss statement). The Victorian Desalination plant finance lease will also be re-classified as a right to use asset and liability (no changes to valuation expected). 7.9 Change in accounting standards This note explains the impact of the adoption of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and AASB 9 Financial Instruments on the Corporations financial statements. AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Corporation has adopted AASB 15 from 1 July 2018 which resulted in changes in accounting policies and adjustments to the amounts recognised in the financial statements. AASB 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised. It replaces AASB 118 Revenue, AASB 111 Construction Contracts and related interpretations. Under AASB 15, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of the goods or services. Determining the timing of the transfer of control – at a point in time or over time – requires judgement. The Corporation has applied AASB 15 as at 1 July 2018 using the modified retrospective method. As a result, comparative information has not been restated. In implementing AASB 15 under the modified retrospective approach, an adjustment has been applied to the opening balance of retained earnings as at 1 July 2018 for: –– contracts which have remaining obligations as of the effective date. 132 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report The Corporation's revenue sources impacted by adoption of AASB 15 include Developer contributions, Developer Contributed Assets (DCA) and Property sales: –– Developer contributions are now recognised at a point in time when all the contract's performance obligations have been met (deemed to be provision of consent by the Corporation to Council to issue a Statement of Compliance (SOC) to developers). Prior to adopting AASB 15 the Corporation previously recognised developer contributions revenue when cash was received. The impact of this change at 1 July 2018 was an increase in total assets $4.7 million, increase in trade, other payables and unearned revenue of $70.4 million, reduction in net deferred tax liabilities of $21.4 million and a reduction to retained earnings of $44.3 million (refer to notes a,b,c in below table of impacts on financial statements and disclosures). –– Developer contributed assets revenue is no longer recognised for land parcels voluntarily transferred from developers to the Corporation (for nil consideration). These transfers relate to land set aside by developers as reserves at the point of subdivision. The transfers are made voluntarily on the basis of the Corporation being the relevant authority to hold and maintain such land for public benefit, rather than being transferred in the context of a contract with a customer. There is no exchange of goods or services from the Corporation to the developers for this land and contracts between Melbourne Water and the developers do not include these transfers of land. Accordingly, the transfer of land is not considered to form part of the transaction price for revenue recognition. As the transferred land satisfies the definition of property, plant and equipment under AASB 116, the initial measurement and subsequent measurement of such land is within the scope of AASB 116 (i.e. the land is now recognised initially at cost (being nil) and subsequently revalued in accordance with the land class of assets. These land parcels were previously recognised as revenue (and assets) at fair value in the year that title was received based on Valuer General Victoria external valuation. There was no financial impact of this change as at 1 July 2018. There are no other financial impacts to remaining DCA revenue (constructed catchment assets) as a result of adoption of AASB 15. Under AASB 15, the transaction price for developer contributed constructed catchment assets revenue will still be determined based on any difference between the fair value of the constructed catchment assets and the reimbursements made to the developer (where reimbursements are applicable depending on the arrangement). The transaction price is uncertain until the date of practical completion of the assets, which usually occurs after the performance obligation (being consent to issue SOC) is met. Therefore at the time the performance obligation is met any revenue associated with the constructed catchment assets to be received is considered to be variable consideration. DCA revenue (and associated infrastructure assets) will therefore continue to be recognised at the date of practical completion of the works (and their acceptance by the Corporation) when the uncertainty regarding the fair value of the assets is resolved. –– Property sales are now all recognised when control has passed on to the customer, which is deemed to be at settlement. Prior to adopting AASB 15 property sales were already recognised on settlement for Development Victoria property sales but were recognised upon signing of an unconditional contract for all other property sales. All other property sales will now align with the existing treatment for Development Victoria property sales. The impact of this change at 1 July 2018 was a $4.2 million reduction to assets and retained earnings (refer to notes a and c in below table of impacts on financial statements and disclosures). There are no other significant impacts to other revenue sources from adoption of AASB 15. The tables below show the adjustment recognised for each individual financial statements line item as a result of the adoption of AASB 15. Line items that were not affected by the changes have not been included. Revised accounting policies are set out in Note 2. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 133 Other Disclosures (continued) AASB 9 Financial Instruments The Corporation has adopted AASB 9 from 1 July 2018 which resulted in changes in accounting policies and adjustments to the amounts recognised in the financial statements. AASB 9 Financial Instruments, which replaces AASB 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, introduces new requirements for recognition, classification and measurement of financial instruments; a new impairment model for financial assets based on expected credit losses; and simplified hedge accounting. AASB 9 also changes recognition of loan modifications that are less than 10%. The Corporation has applied AASB 9 as at 1 July 2018 using the modified retrospective method. The adjustment was a decrease in interest bearing liabilities of $226.0 million (current and non-current), increase in net deferred tax liabilities of $67.8 million and increase in retained earnings of $158.2 million (refer to notes b and c in below table of impacts on financial statements and disclosures). The adjustment have been made in accordance with the transitional provisions in AASB 9 (7.2.15) and (7.2.26), comparative figures have not been restated. There are no significant impacts identified from adoption of AASB 9, other than in relation to loan modifications (where the modification is less than 10%). The only loans affected by this change are in relation to the VDP refinancing activities. Gains or losses from these loan modifications are now required to be recognised immediately through profit and loss. The gains or losses reflect the difference between the original contractual cash flows and the modified cash flows discounted at the original ‘effective interest rate’. Previously these gains (or losses) would have been recognised over the remaining life of the borrowing by adjusting the effective interest rate, on the basis that the terms and conditions of the facility remained largely unchanged. Adjustments have been made to reflect the new policy as at 1 July 2018 through retained earnings and lease liabilities. An assessment has been undertaken by management around expected credit losses. Historical and expected future debt write offs are not material. As such the Corporation did not need to raise an allowance for expected credit losses (previously called doubtful debts) for the 2018/19 financial year. This will be assessed on an annual basis. The tables below show the adjustments recognised for each individual financial statement line item as a result of the adoption of AASB 9. Line items that were not affected by the changes have not been included. There is an additional table below that shows the impact of adoption of AASB 9 to classification and measurement of the Corporations financial instruments. Revised accounting policies are set out in note 5 and 6. Impact on financial statements and disclosures AASB 15 and AASB 9 The following tables show the adjustments recognised for each individual line for both AASB 15 and AASB 9. Line items that were not affected by the changes have not been included. As a result, the sub-totals and totals disclosed cannot be recalculated from the numbers provided in the table. Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income (extract) ($ thousands) 30 June 2019 AASB 15 AASB 9 30 June 2019 as reported adjustment adjustment result without adoption of AASB 15 and AASB 9 Revenue Revenue from contracts with customers 1,864,918 (7,679) 1,857,239 Refinancing gains on financial instruments 59,609 (59,609) Total revenue 1,938,794 (7,679) (59,609) 1,871,506 Expenses Finance expenses (618,237) (1,283) (4,319) (612,635) Total expenses (1,621,455) (1,283) (4,319) (1,615,853) Net profit from operations before tax 317,339 (6,396) (55,290) 255,653 Tax expense (116,373) (2,167) (16,587) (97,619) Net profit for the period after tax 200,966 (4,229) (38,703) 158,034 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period after tax 37,334 (4,229) (38,703) (5,598) 134 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Statement of Financial Position (extract) ($ thousands) 30 June 2019 result without adoption of 30 June AASB 15 AASB 9 1 July 2018 30 June 2019 AASB 15 AASB 9 AASB 15 and Note 2018 adjustment adjustment restated as reported adjustment adjustment AASB 9 Current assets Receivables 83,283 (1,968) 81,315 97,797 (10,031) 87,766 Total current assets 115,678 (1,968) 113,710 153,441 (10,031) 143,410 Non-current assets Land and buildings 15,135,900 2,394 15,138,294 15,053,474 2,555 15,056,029 Total non-current assets 15,212,866 2,394 15,215,260 15,125,488 2,555 15,128,043 Total assets (a) 15,328,544 426 15,328,970 15,278,929 (7,476) 15,271,453 Current liabilities Trade, other payables and 348,497 70,380 418,877 379,521 (71,036) 308,485 unearned revenue Interest bearing liabilities 816,418 (4,378) 812,040 710,837 840 711,677 Current tax liability 9,422 9,422 24,981 788 25,769 Total current liabilities (b) 1,216,394 70,380 (4,378) 1,282,396 1,163,533 (70,246) 840 1,094,125 Non-current liabilities Interest bearing liabilities 7,244,385 (221,599) 7,022,786 7,108,380 280,427 7,388,807 Net deferred tax liabilities 1,238,064 (21,424) 67,794 1,284,434 1,246,337 18,470 (84,380) 1,180,427 Total non-current 8,497,239 (21,424) (153,805) 8,322,010 8,372,377 18,470 196,047 8,586,894 liabilities Total liabilities 9,713,633 48,956 (158,183) 9,604,406 9,535,910 (51,778) 196,887 9,681,019 Net assets (b) 5,614,911 (48,530) 158,183 5,724,564 5,743,019 44,302 (196,887) 5,590,434 Equity Retained profits 2,001,801 (48,530) 158,183 2,111,454 2,291,261 44,302 (196,887) 2,138,676 Total equity (c) 5,614,911 (48,530) 158,183 5,724,564 5,743,019 44,302 (196,887) 5,590,434 The Statement of Cash Flows required one category reclassification as a result of AASB 15. Receipts from customers (inclusive of Goods and Service Tax) has been renamed to Receipts from contracts with customers (inclusive of Goods and Service Tax). No changes were required from adoption of AASB 9. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 135 Other Disclosures (continued) Impact on classification and measurement of financial instruments AASB 9 On 1 July 2018 (the date of initial application of AASB 9), management has assessed which business models apply to the financial instruments held by the Corporation and has classified its financial instruments into the appropriate AASB 9 categories summarised below: Carrying amounts and measurement categories ($ thousands) Measurement Category Carrying Amount Classification Classification under Original under AASB New Under under AASB 139 AASB 9 139 AASB 9 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Amortised cost Amortised cost 2,008 2,008 Trade debtors Amortised cost Amortised cost 48,790 48,790 Other receivables Amortised cost Amortised cost 20,718 20,718 Total financial assets 71,516 71,516 Financial liabilities Trade, other payables and unearned revenue Amortised cost Amortised cost 349,389 349,389 VDP lease liabilities Amortised cost Amortised cost 4,069,724 3,843,748 Short term borrowings Amortised cost Amortised cost 571,079 571,079 Floating rate notes Amortised cost Amortised cost 400,000 400,000 Fixed interest Amortised cost Amortised cost 3,020,000 3,020,000 Total financial liabilities 8,410,192 8,184,216 There were no changes in the carrying amounts of the above financial instruments due to a change in measurement category on transition to AASB 9. 136 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Independent Auditor’s Report To the Board of the Melbourne Water Corporation Opinion I have audited the financial report of the Melbourne Water Corporation (the corporation) which comprises the: • statement of financial position as at 30 June 2019 • statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the year then ended • statement of changes in equity for the year then ended • statement of cash flows for the year then ended • notes to the financial statements, including significant accounting policies • statement by Directors and Chief Financial Officer. In my opinion, the financial report presents fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the corporation as at 30 June 2019 and their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the financial reporting requirements of Part 7 of the Financial Management Act 1994 and applicable Australian Accounting Standards. Basis for I have conducted my audit in accordance with the Audit Act 1994 which incorporates the Opinion Australian Auditing Standards. I further describe my responsibilities under that Act and those standards in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Report section of my report. My independence is established by the Constitution Act 1975. My staff and I are independent of the corporation in accordance with the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to my audit of the financial report in Victoria. My staff and I have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. Key audit Key audit matters are those matters that, in my professional judgement, were of most matters significance in my audit of the financial report of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of my audit of the financial report as a whole, and in forming my opinion thereon, and I do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 137 Key audit matter How I addressed the matter Long term procurement of the Victorian Desalination Plant (VDP) using a private public partnership (PPP) agreement and Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning (DELWP) contracts Note 5.1 – Interest bearing liabilities and Note 5.3 – Commitments VDP finance lease liability: $3.718 billion My key procedures included:  gaining an understanding of the key contractual VDP commitment disclosures: changes for the current year  minimum future lease repayments: $3.718 billion  engaging a subject matter expert to assist in  other expense commitments: $4.259 billion. obtaining sufficient, appropriate audit evidence for I considered this to be a key audit matter because: the finance lease liability and commitment disclosures, including the:  the finance lease liability and future VDP ‒ appropriateness of re-financing adjustments commitments are financially significant ‒ reasonableness and consistency of the finance  the contractual rights and obligations are lease model assumptions complex ‒ identification of any model or assumption  the corporation places significant reliance on changes DELWP for information to account for and ‒ reasonableness of model inputs, with specific disclose its financial liability and commitments reference to underlying data and supporting  the finance lease and commitments model is documentation (i.e. contracts, water orders) highly complex, involves significant management ‒ model’s computational accuracy judgement and is underpinned by various ‒ appropriateness of all VDP related financial report subjective assumptions disclosures as required by AASB 117 Leases.  the accounting for, and disclosures related to the  evaluating the subject matter expert's report, VDP are inherently complex with limited including assessing it for consistency with other authoritative accounting guidance available audit evidence obtained, and the relevance and  small changes to the contractual terms and reasonableness of their workings and concluding the conditions (for example—refinancing work was adequate for the purposes of our audit requirements) significantly impact the liability  obtaining the corporation's representation from carrying value DELWP relating to the underlying data for the  the VDP's commitment disclosures involve accounting and disclosures. significant management judgements and estimates, and amendments were required in prior years. 138 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report 2 Key audit matter How I addressed the matter The fair value estimate of the infrastructure assets is derived from an income-based valuation approach that uses a complex discounted cashflow model ('DCF model') Note 4 Assets available to support delivery output Fair value estimate of infrastructure assets: My key procedures included: $8.801 billion.  obtaining an understanding of management's I considered this to be a key audit matter because: approach to estimating the fair value of infrastructure assets  the infrastructure assets are financially significant  assessing the competence and capability of to the corporation management's expert engaged to assist with the  the fair value estimate relies on management’s valuation process use of an external valuation expert  engaging a subject matter expert to assist us in  the DCF model is highly complex and involves obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence, significant management judgements, including: underpinned by various subjective assumptions ‒ the appropriateness of using an income-based  the calculated value is sensitive to small changes valuation approach in key assumptions used in the DCF model ‒ the reasonableness and consistency of all the  the model's forecast period is long, and includes assumptions used in the DCF model a terminal value, which increases the difficulty in ‒ identify any changes to the DCF model and/or accurately estimating the fair value assumptions.  the applicable accounting standard AASB 13 Fair ‒ the reasonableness of all inputs used in the Value Measurement (AASB 13), and the Assistant model, with specific reference to underlying data Treasurer issued Financial Reporting Direction and supporting documentation 103H Non-financial physical assets (FRD 103H) ‒ the DCF model’s computational accuracy both require extensive financial report disclosures. ‒ the appropriateness of all infrastructure asset related financial report disclosures with regard to AASB 13 and FRD 103H, including the significant observable and unobservable inputs utilised in the model and the sensitivity analysis.  evaluating our subject matter expert's findings and concluding the work was adequate for the purposes of our audit. Board’s The Board of the corporation is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the responsibilities financial report in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Financial for the Management Act 1994, and for such internal control as the Board determines is necessary to financial enable the preparation and fair presentation of a financial report that is free from material report misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial report, the Board is responsible for assessing the corporation’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is inappropriate to do so. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 1393 Auditor’s As required by the Audit Act 1994, my responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial responsibilities report based on the audit. My objectives for the audit are to obtain reasonable assurance about for the audit whether the financial report as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due to of the financial fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is report a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of this financial report. As part of an audit in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards, I exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. I also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the corporation’s internal control • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board • conclude on the appropriateness of the Board’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the corporation’s ability to continue as a going concern. If I conclude that a material uncertainty exists, I am required to draw attention in my auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify my opinion. My conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of my auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the corporation to cease to continue as a going concern. • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial report, including the disclosures, and whether the financial report represents the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. I communicate with the Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that I identify during my audit. From the matters communicated with the Board, I determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial report of the current period and are therefore key audit matters. I describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, I determine that a matter should not be communicated in the auditor’s report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. MELBOURNE Paul Martin 28 August 2019 as delegate for the Auditor-General of Victoria 140 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report 4 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 141 Performance Reporting Contents Performance Report 143 Certification of Performance Report 146 Auditor-General's Report 147 142 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Performance Report Financial Performance Indicators KPI Number 2017/18 2018/19 2018/19 Variance to Variance to [1] Key Performance Indicator Result Result Target prior year Notes target Notes F1 Cash Interest Cover Net operating cash flows before net interest and tax / net interest payments 1.9 2.1 1.9 10.5% [2] 10.5% [2] F2 Gearing Ratio Total Debt (including finance leases) / total assets * 100 52.6% 51.2% 54.3% 2.7% 5.8% F3 Internal Financing Ratio Net operating cash flow less dividends / net capital expenditure * 100 78.6% 93.4% 73.4% 18.8% [3] 27.2% [3] F4 Current Ratio Current assets / current liabilities (excluding long-term employee provisions and revenue in advance) 0.10 times 0.15 times 0.07 times 50.0% [4] 114.3% [5] F5 Return on Assets Earnings before net interest and tax / average assets * 100 6.4% 6.1% 5.4% -4.7% 13.0% [6] F6 Return on Equity Net profit after tax / average total equity * 100 3.8% 3.5% 1.8% -7.9% [7] 94.4% [8] F7 EBITDA Margin Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation / total revenue * 100 72.2% 69.3% 71.0% -4.0% -2.4% Notes — to Performance Report: [1] Performance indicators as mandated in Ministerial Reporting Direction 01 Performance Reporting (MRD 01) have been marked with their MRD 01 reference numbers. As required by MRD 01 any variances of more than 10% for financial performance indicators and 5% for non financial performance indicators have been further explained within these notes. [2] The favourable variance to prior year is as a result of higher cash receipts from contracts with customers ($72.4 million) and lower interest and other costs of finance ($33.9 million), partially offset by higher payments to suppliers and employees ($43.2 million). The 2018/19 result is above the target range and in line with business expectations. [3] The favourable variance to prior year is as a result of higher cash receipts from contracts with customers ($72.4 million), lower interest and other costs of finance ($33.9 million), lower dividend payments ($52.7 million), partially offset by higher payments to suppliers and employees ($43.2 million) and higher payments for property, plant and equipment and intangibles ($52.1 million) compared to prior year. The 2018/19 result is above the target range and in line with business expectations. It's anticipated that future year on year variances will fluctuate in line with expected revenue as per the 2016 Pricing Determination and capital expenditure profile. [4] The favourable variance to prior year is due to an increase in current assets due to higher cash balances ($15.6 million), trade and other receivables of ($14.5 million) and assets held for sale ($5.0 million) in addition to lower current liabilities being lower accrued expenses ($35.0 million) and interest bearing liabilities ($105.6 million) and at the end of June 2018. [5] The favourable variance to target is due to higher current assets being cash balance ($17.6 million), trade and other receivables ($39.4 million) and assets held for sale ($21.6 million). [6] The favourable variance to target is due to higher Earnings Before Net Interest and Tax during the year of ($124.7 million) due to higher revenue partially offset by higher expenditure. [7] The unfavourable variance to prior year is due to lower Net Profit After tax of ($7.9 million) due to higher expenditure partially offset by higher revenue. [8] The favourable variance to target is due to higher Net Profit After Tax of ($103.7 million) compared to plan. Improved performance is mainly due to higher than anticipated revenue predominantly from developer contributions. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 143 Performance Report (continued) Water, sewerage and other service performance indicators KPI Number 2017/18 2018/19 2018/19 Variance to Variance to [1] Key Performance Indicator Result Result Target prior year Notes target Notes WQ1 Water Quality Compliance with Bulk Water Service Agreement (BWSA): Microbiological Standards ­­— E. coli 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% WQ2 Water Quality Compliance with BWSA: Aesthetics — Turbidity 98.9% 95.9% 91.5% -3.1% 4.8% CRM1 Customer Responsiveness Complaints referred to Energy and Water Ombudsman Victoria (EWOV) responded to within EWOV established time 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% EM1 Non-Compliance with other EPA Victoria License and SEPP parameters — Sewerage system failure Zero spills due to sewerage system failure 0.0 2.0 0.0 -100% [9] -100% [9] EM2 Compliance with EPA Victoria discharge licence requirements EM2.1 Western Treatment Plant 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% EM2.2 Eastern Treatment Plant 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% E2 Total net CO2 emissions Net tonnes CO2 equivalent 453,477 431,346 403,829 4.9% [10] -6.8% [11] WW1 Waterways — Drainage and Flood protection 15% reduction in flood effects, achieved by projects in delivery by Melbourne Water by 2021 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% WW2 Waterways condition Waterways that have undergone active management will be maintained or improved against an established baseline by 2021 90.0% 95.0% 80.0% 5.6% [12] 18.8% [12] Notes — to Performance Report: [1] Performance indicators as mandated in Ministerial Reporting Direction 01 Performance Reporting (MRD 01) have been marked with their MRD 01 reference numbers. As required by MRD 01 any variances of more than 10% for financial performance indicators and 5% for non financial performance indicators have been further explained within these notes. [9] The unfavourable variance to prior year and to target is due to the following two sewerage spills that occurred in 2018/19 due to system failure: The first minor sewerage spill occurred at Chute Street, Mordialloc near Mordialloc No.1 Pump Station. The small leak was caused by a 3 cm long hairline crack in the pipe. It was estimated from site inspections that approximately 200L was spilt during the event. The pipe was repaired and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) was notified. There was no impact on public health or the environment. The full length of pipe has been inspected and is in order with no further repairs required. The second sewerage spill was due to an air valve on the Mordialloc No. 1 Pump Station Rising Main failing causing sewage to spill from the valve pit. The spill was contained to the adjacent concrete drainage channels with sand bags and did not enter a waterway. Sewage was educted from the contained area and the air valve was repaired. The EPA was notified and there was no impact to the environment or public health. [10] The favourable variance to prior year is mainly due to a reduction in diesel use, increased electricity production at WTP and ETP reducing the use of electricity from the grid and no fugitive emissions from anaerobic digesters. [11] Melbourne Water has pledged to reduce its greenhouse gas emission and energy use by 50% by 2025 (with yearly targets being progressive toward this overall goal). A range of measures have been undertaken to reduce long term impacts including transitioning to zero emissions vehicle fleet and capturing biogas and generating hydroelectricity to generate renewable energy. Melbourne Water manages large public infrastructure assets that are expensive to replace or change to different technologies. Investigations are underway to identify solutions to reduce emissions from wastewater treatment plants. [12] The favourable variance is due to 95% of waterways that have undergone active management being on track to achieve condition improvement trajectories compared to the monitoring target of 80%. 144 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Water, sewerage and other service performance indicators (continued) KPI Number 2017/18 2018/19 2018/19 Variance to Variance to [1] Key Performance Indicator Result Result Target prior year Notes target Notes RW1 Recycled Water WTP recycled water schemes fully compliant with regulatory obligations and their contractual requirements, as outlined in the relevant Bulk Recycled Water Service Agreements (BRWSAs) RW1.1 Volume demands 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% RW1.2 Reliability 100.0% 97.2% 100.0% -2.8% -2.8% RW1.3 Quality 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% RW2 Recycled Water ETP recycled water schemes fully compliant with regulatory obligations and their contractual requirements, as outlined in the relevant BRWSAs RW2.1 Volume demands 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% RW2.2 Reliability N/A N/A 100.0% N/A [13] N/A [13] RW2.3 Quality 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% Notes — to Performance Report: [1] Performance indicators as mandated in Ministerial Reporting Direction 01 Performance Reporting (MRD 01) have been marked with their MRD 01 reference numbers. As required by MRD 01 any variances of more than 10% for financial performance indicators and 5% for non financial performance indicators have been further explained within these notes. [13] ETP Recycled Water (Reliability) metric is not applicable as the retailer has not specified any contractual service or regulatory obligation based on their customer requirements. Communication protocols have been established between the plant and retailer regarding any scheduled or unexpected outages. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 145 Certification of Performance Report for 2018/19 We certify that the accompanying Performance Report of Melbourne Water Corporation in respect of the 2018/19 financial year is presented fairly in accordance with the Financial Management Act 1994. The Performance Report outlines the relevant performance indicators for the financial year as determined by the Minister for Water and as set out in the 2018/19 Corporate Plan, the actual and comparative results achieved for the financial year against predetermined performance targets and these indicators, and an explanation of any significant variance between the actual results and performance targets and/or between the actual results in the current year and the previous year. As at the date of signing, we are not aware of any circumstances which would render any particulars in the Performance Report to be misleading or inaccurate. John Thwaites Michael Wandmaker Anthony O’Shannessy Chairman Managing Director Chief Financial Officer 23 August 2019 23 August 2019 23 August 2019 Dated this 23 day of August 2019 146 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Independent Auditor’s Report To the Board of the Melbourne Water Corporation Opinion I have audited the accompanying performance report of the Melbourne Water Corporation (the corporation) for the year ended 30 June 2019, which comprises the: • financial performance indicators • water and sewerage and other service performance indicators • the certification of performance report. In my opinion, the performance report of the Melbourne Water Corporation in respect of the year ended 30 June 2019 presents fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the performance reporting requirements of Part 7 of the Financial Management Act 1994. Basis for Opinion I have conducted my audit in accordance with the Audit Act 1994 which incorporates the Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements. I further describe my responsibilities under that Act and those standards in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the performance report section of my report. My independence is established by the Constitution Act 1975. My staff and I are independent of the corporation in accordance with the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to my audit of the performance report in Victoria and have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. Board's The Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the responsibilities for performance report in accordance with the performance reporting the performance requirements of the Financial Management Act 1994, and for such internal report control as the Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation and fair presentation of the performance report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s As required by the Audit Act 1994, my responsibility is to express an opinion on responsibilities for the performance report based on the audit. My objectives for the audit are to the audit of the obtain reasonable assurance about whether the performance report as a whole performance report is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 147 Auditor’s Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, responsibilities for individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the audit of the the decisions of users taken on the basis of this performance report. performance report As part of an audit in accordance with the Australian Standards on Assurance (continued) Engagements, I exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. I also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of performance report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the corporation’s internal control • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the performance report, including the disclosures, and whether performance report represents the underlying events and results in a manner that achieves fair presentation. I communicate with the Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that I identify during my audit. MELBOURNE Paul Martin 28 August 2019 as delegate for the Auditor-General of Victoria 148 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report 2 Appendices Contents Appendix A – Disclosure Index 150 Appendix B – Corporate Information 152 Appendix C – Bulk Entitlements 156 Appendix D – Private Diversion Licences 160 Appendix E – Flooding and Drainage 162 Appendix F – Environmental Data 163 Appendix G – Workforce Statistics 164 Appendix H – Global Reporting Initiative 169 Appendix I – Communication on Progress, UN Global Compact 173 Appendix J – Letter of Expectations 175 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 149 Appendix A – Disclosure index The Melbourne Water Annual Report 2018/19 is prepared in accordance with all relevant Victorian legislation and pronouncements. This index has been prepared to facilitate identification of Melbourne Water’s compliance with statutory disclosure requirements. Legislation Requirement Page reference Report of operations Charter and purpose FRD 22H Manner of establishment and the relevant Ministers 64 FRD 22H Objectives, functions, powers and duties inside cover FRD 22H Nature and range of services provided inside cover Governance and organisational structure FRD 22H Organisational structure & corporate governance 68 FRD 22H Governing board 66-67 FRD 22H Audit committee membership 65, 68 Financial and other information FRD 10A Disclosure Index 150-151 FRD 12B Disclosure of major contracts 152 FRD 22H Employment and conduct principles 47-50, 64 FRD 22H Occupational health and safety policy and performance 44-46, 164 FRD 22H Environmental performance 59-63, 163 FRD 22H Summary of the financial results for the year 55-57 FRD 22H Significant changes in financial position during the year 55-57 FRD 22H Significant changes or factors affecting performance 55-57, 143-145 FRD 22H Subsequent events 131 FRD 22H Application and operation of Freedom of Information Act 1982 152-153 FRD 22H Building Act 1993 154 FRD 22H Competitive Neutrality Policy 152 FRD 22H Protected Disclosure Act 2013 155 FRD 22H Statement of availability of other information 154 FRD 22H Government advertising expenditure 152 FRD 22H Consultancy expenditure 152 FRD 22H Disclosure of ICT expenditure 152 FRD 22H Workforce Inclusion Policy 47-50 FRD 25D Local Jobs First 168 FRD 27C Presentation and reporting of performance information 143-146 FRD 29C Workforce data 164-168 FRD 30D Standard requirements for the design and print of annual reports Entire report SD 5.2 Specific Information Requirements 1-72 SD 5.1.4 Attestation in report of operations 72 SD 5.2.3 Declaration in report of operations 3 150 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Legislation Requirement Page reference Disability Act Disability Act 2006 50 Ministerial Reporting Directions MRD 01 Performance Reporting 143-148 MRD 02 Reporting on Water Consumption and Drought Response 15 MRD 03 Environmental and Social Sustainability Reporting 8-35 MRD 04 Disclosure of Information on Bulk Entitlements, Transfers of Water Entitlements, Allocations and Licences, irrigation Water Usage and Licence Entitlements 156-161 MRD 05 Annual Reporting of Major Non-Residential Water Users 15 MRD 06 Greenhouse Gas and Energy Reporting 163 MRD 07 Disclosure of Information on Letter of Expectation 175 Financial Report Financial statements required under Part 7 of the FMA SD 5.2.2(b) Income Statement 77 SD 5.2.2(b) Balance sheet 78 SD 5.2.2(b) Cash flow statement 80 SD 5.2.2(b) Notes to the Financial Statements 81-136 Other requirements under Standing Direction 5.2 SD 5.2.1 (a) Compliance with Australian accounting standards and other authoritative pronouncements 81 SD 5.2.1 (a) Compliance with Ministerial Directions 81 S.D 5.2.2 Accountable officer’s declaration 76 Other disclosures as required by FRDs in Notes to the Financial Statements FRD 03A Accounting for Dividends 79, 80, 130 FRD 07B Early Adoption of Authoritative Accounting Pronouncements 132 FRD 11A Disclosure of Ex Gratia Expenses 131 FRD 17B Long Service Leave Wage inflation and discount rates for Employee Benefits 88-89, 126-128 FRD 21C Disclosures of Responsible Persons, Executive Officers and other Personnel (Contractors with Significant Management Responsibilities) in the Financial Report 70-72, 126-128 FRD 102A Inventories 94 FRD 103H Non-Financial Physical Assets 97-105, 107 FRD 105B Borrowing Costs 108-109 FRD 106B Impairment of Assets 98, 105, 107 FRD 108C Classification of Entities as For-Profit 81 FRD 109A Intangible Assets 106-107 FRD 110A Cash Flow Statements 80 FRD 112D Defined Benefit Superannuation Obligations 122-125 FRD 113A Investments in Subsidiaries, Joint Venture and Associates in the Separate financial statements 107 FRD 114C Financial Instruments – General Government Entities and Public Non-Financial Corporations 114-120 FRD 119A Transfers through Contributed Capital 79 FRD 120M Accounting and Reporting Pronouncements 132 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 151 Appendix B – Corporate Information Consultancy Expenditure The following is a summary of consultancy expenditure by Melbourne Water over the 2018/19 year. Details of individual consultancies are outlined on Melbourne Water’s website at www.melbournewater.com.au Consultancies valued at $10,000 or greater In 2018/19, there were 34 consultancies engaged during the year where the total fees payable to the consultants were $10,000 or greater. The total expenditure incurred during 2018/19 in relation to these consultancies was $1,268,460 (2017/18: $1,090,992) (excl. GST). Consultancies valued at less than $10,000 In 2018/19, there were four consultancies engaged during the year where the total fees payable to the consultants were less than $10,000. The total expenditure incurred during 2018/19 in relation to these consultancies was $25,314 (2017/18: $12,100) (excl. GST). Advertising Campaigns Melbourne Water had no advertising campaigns with a value greater than $100,000. ICT Expenditure For the 2018/19 reporting period, Melbourne Water had a total ICT expenditure of $55,207,118 (2017/18: $57,284,417) with the details shown below. Non-business as usual (non-BAU) ICT expenditure Business as usual (BAU) ICT (operational and capital Non-BAU ICT expenditure Non-BAU ICT expenditure expenditure ($000) expenditure) ($000) (operational expenditure) ($000) (capital expenditure) ($000) 32,257 22,950 22,950 Disclosure of Major Contracts Melbourne Water has disclosed, in accordance with the requirements of government policy and accompanying guidelines, all contracts greater than $10 million in value entered into during the year ended 30 June 2019. Details of contracts can be viewed on Melbourne Water’s website at www.melbournewater.com.au Competitive Neutrality Policy Melbourne Water is corporatised and therefore has an independent Board, with independent and objective performance monitoring. We face equivalent tax treatment, borrowing requirements and regulations as a private business. As outlined above, we also operate in an environment where the Essential Services Commission determines cost-based pricing. In this regard our processes are consistent with the requirements of the Victorian Competitive Neutrality Policy. Melbourne Water has had no actions for anti-competitive behaviour. Pricing Following an 11 per cent decrease (plus inflation) in 2016/17, Melbourne Water’s wholesale water and sewerage prices will increase approximately in line with inflation for the remaining four years of the Essential Service Commission Price Determination (until 2020-21), which increases an average household water bill by approximately $25 per annum (depending on inflation and cost of debt). The annual waterways and drainage charge of $100.75 for 2018/19 will also increase by inflation. Freedom of Information Melbourne Water is subject to the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (FOI Act) and is committed to releasing documents in our possession unless exempt. We also welcome enquiries about the broad range of documents we provide outside the FOI Act. The designated persons for the purpose of the FOI Act are: Principal Officer Authorised Officer Acting Authorised Officer Mr J Thwaites Mr M Keough Ms J Cowley Chair, Melbourne Water Board FOI and Privacy Advisor and Government Liaison Records Coordinator 152 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Information Management Coordinator Requests We received 16 requests for documents. We finalised ten. Of the remaining requests, two did not proceed, one was not processed and three were still in progress. Five requests were from members of the public, four from law firms, three from a planning consultant, two from a journalist, and one from an interest group. No requests were for personal information. We released 143 documents, 127 of them in full. Exemptions applied where disclosure of personal affairs would be unreasonable or disclosure of information of a business, commercial or financial nature would unreasonably disadvantage an undertaking. Finalised requests 10 Other requests 6 Access outcomes: Outcomes: • Access in full: 6 • Not proceeded with: 2 • Access in part: 1 • Not processed: 1 • No documents: 3 • Not yet finalised: 3 • Access denied: 0 Related to: Related to: • Environment and Planning: 4 • Environment and Planning: 4 • Water quality: 2 • Property damage: 2 • Asset Management: 1 • Property development: 1 • Flooding: 1 • Property damage: 1 Reviews and complaints No notifications were received from the Information Commissioner or the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal in relation to reviews of decisions or complaints made by applicants. Access to documents People wanting access to Melbourne Water documents under the FOI Act may use our online FOI application on our website at: melbournewater.com.au We also accept applications made in writing to: Freedom of Information Officer Melbourne Water PO Box 4342 Melbourne VIC 3001 Each application must clearly identify the documents sought and be accompanied by the required application fee ($29.60 from 1 July 2019). General enquiries about FOI may be made by contacting the Freedom of Information Officer on (03) 9679 7111 between 9am and 5pm Monday to Friday or via email to foi@melbournewater.com.au Information required under Part II of the FOI Act is available on our website, melbournewater.com.au The statement includes information about Melbourne Water functions, decision making, consultation arrangements and publications. It also outlines how to make an FOI request and how to request information outside the scope of the FOI Act. Categories of documents Melbourne Water uses a computerised records management system to manage our correspondence and documents. We use online computer systems to manage our financial, human resource and other operational activities and plans relating to water supply, waterways, drainage and sewerage responsibilities. Historical archives of our activities are available through the Public Records Office Victoria. More information is in the Part II Information Statement on our website at melbournewater.com.au 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 153 Appendix B – Corporate Information (continued) Building Compliance Melbourne Water continues to work toward compliance with the Building Act 1993 across our substantial property and building portfolio. A compliance program is in place which we continue to action. Melbourne Water has developed and is implementing an ongoing compliance program to obtain Maintenance Determinations and is working to update its Asset Management System to ensure the Essential Safety Measures are identified and have maintenance regimes specified and executed. Melbourne Water engages Building Practitioners to conduct Annual Essential Safety Measure Reports for buildings as part of the Compliance Program. Rectification works are initiated by maintenance coordinators and asset managers depending whether the works require maintenance or renewal/replacement respectively. The corporation’s Asset Management System is used to schedule works and record activity undertaken. In 2018/19: number of major works projects undertaken by (greater than $50 000) 9 number of building permits, occupancy permits or certificate of final inspection issued in relation to 9 building permits buildings owned by the entity 2 occupancy permits 2 certificates of final inspection number of emergency orders and building orders issued in relation to buildings 0 emergency orders 0 building orders number of buildings that have been brought into conformity with building standards during the 0 buildings brought into conformity reporting period Privacy Legislation Melbourne Water is subject to the Privacy and Data Melbourne Water is committed to openness and Protection Act 2014 (Vic), the Health Records Act 2001 (Vic) transparency and welcomes queries and suggestions about and, in relation to Tax File Numbers, the Privacy Act 1988 its approach to privacy. We endeavour to resolve any privacy (Cth) and is committed to protecting the privacy of personal complaints quickly and effectively. and health information it collects and handles. Melbourne People may access their personal and health information Water collects and handles personal and health information at Melbourne Water. People wanting to access their only to carry out its functions and activities. information, seek a copy of our Privacy Policy or make a Melbourne Water received no privacy complaints or privacy complaint, should call 131 722 (within Victoria) or notifications of complaints received by the Victorian 9679 7100 (within the rest of Australia) or write to: Information Commissioner, the Health Complaints Privacy Advisor Commissioner or the Australian Information Commissioner. Melbourne Water PO Box 4342 Melbourne VIC 3001 Financial Management Other information as required under the Financial Management Act 1994, but not specifically referred to, has been retained by the Accountable Officer and is available to the Minister, Members of Parliament and the public on request. Other Information Available on Request In compliance with the requirements of the Standing Directions of the Assistant Treasurer, details in respect of the items listed below have been retained by Melbourne Water and are available on request, subject to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act 1982: Further information is available on request about: • pecuniary interests of relevant officers • major promotional, public relationship and marketing • details of shares held by a senior officer as nominee or activities held beneficially in a statutory authority or subsidiary • Melbourne Water’s Code of Conduct. • details of changes in prices, fees, charges, rates and • assessments and measures to improve the occupational levies charged if relevant health and safety of employees • details of Melbourne Water publications • statement of industrial relations • committees chaired by Melbourne Water • details of time lost through industrial accidents and • major external reviews carried out on Melbourne Water disputes • research and development activities • major sponsorships. • overseas visits Phone 131 7822 or (03) 9679 7100 (within the rest of Australia) or visit www.melbournewater.com.au 154 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Protected Disclosure The Protected Disclosure Act 2012 (the Act) assists people to expose wrongdoing in public life and protects them from any reprisals. The Act applies to Melbourne Water and members of our community must be able to have confidence that Melbourne Water and its people are conducting themselves properly. Melbourne Water does not tolerate improper conduct by employees nor reprisals against those who come forward to disclosure such conduct. Melbourne Water is committed to ensuring transparency and accountability in our administrative and management practices and support the making of disclosures that reveal corrupt conduct, conduct involving a substantial mismanagement of public resources or conduct involving a substantial risk to public health and safety or the environment. Our commitment is incorporated in our Code of Conduct and our Protected Disclosure Procedures. Where a disclosure is brought to Melbourne Water’s attention by an investigative body, we will take all reasonable steps to protect people who make such disclosures from any detrimental action in reprisal for making the disclosure. We will also afford natural justice to the person who is the subject of the disclosure to the extent it is legally possible. How do I make a ‘protected disclosure’? You can make a protected disclosure about Melbourne Water or its Board members, officers or employees by contacting the Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission (IBAC) Victoria using the contact details provided below. Please note that Melbourne Water is not able to receive protected disclosures. Melbourne Water has had no incidents of corruption in 2017/18. How can I access Melbourne Water’s procedures for the protection of persons from detrimental action? Melbourne Water has procedures in place for the protection of persons from detrimental action for making a protected disclosure about Melbourne Water or its employees. You can access our procedures at melbournewater.com.au Contacts Bernadette Doyle, General Counsel Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission Melbourne Water Victoria PO Box 4342 Level 1, North Tower, 459 Collins Street Melbourne VIC 3001 Melbourne VIC 3000 Phone (03) 9679 7111 GPO Box 24234 Melbourne VIC 3000 www.ibac.vic.gov.au Phone: 1300 735 135 See the IBAC website for the secure email disclosure process which also provides for anonymous disclosures. Industry Memberships Melbourne Water maintains several industry memberships and associations, particularly those associated with the Australian water industry and provision of infrastructure. We often serve on committees from both a governance perspective and on issue specific initiatives. We engage frequently with the following organisations: • Water Services Association of Australia • Global Compact Network • VicWater • CEDA – Committee for the Economic Development of Australia • Stormwater Victoria • Urban Development Institute of Australia • Water Research Australia (EnviroDevelopment) • Australian Water Association • Association of Land Development Engineers Australia • Climate Research Centre for Water Sensitive Cities • Engineers Australia • Institute of Water Administration • Water Stewardship Australia. • Committee for Melbourne As a State Government-owned entity, Melbourne Water does not make any political donations or contributions 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 155 Appendix C – Bulk Entitlements The Victorian Government introduced bulk water reforms on 1 July 2014. These reforms introduced a ‘source’ and ‘delivery’ bulk entitlements model for Melbourne with a seasonal determination process and rights to carry over unused water allocations from year to year. The four systems currently supplying Melbourne (Thomson River, Yarra River, Silver and Wallaby creeks and Tarago and Bunyip rivers) are collectively known as the Greater Yarra System – Thomson River Pool. Melbourne Water was assigned the source bulk entitlements to the Greater Yarra System – Thomson River Pool. The delivery bulk entitlements to the Greater Yarra System – Thomson River Pool were assigned to Barwon Water, City West Water, South East Water, South Gippsland Water, Western Water, Westernport Water and Yarra Valley Water (the ‘primary entitlement holders’ -PEHs). As the Resource Manager for the Melbourne headworks system, Melbourne Water allocates water to the primary entitlement holders by making seasonal determinations to them. Melbourne Water is also the Storage Manager (under section 171B of the Water Act 1989) for water sources in the Melbourne headworks system. The following table fulfils the reporting requirements in Melbourne Water’s bulk entitlements. Combined Yarra Silver and River, Silver and Wallaby Thomson Tarago and Melbourne Water reporting Wallaby creeks, Yarra River² creeks⁵ River⁷ Bunyip rivers9 obligation Thomson River (WSE000185) (WSE000018) (WSE000168) (WSE000041) The amount of water taken by N/A Clause 15.1 (a) Clause 14.1 (a) Clause 15.1 (a) Clause 15.1 (a) PEHs in 2018/19 (i). 242,739 ML (i). 356 ML (i). 78,488 ML (i). 10,885 ML (i) Total inflows(a); (ii). 381,456 ML (ii). No storage (ii). 445,567 (Tarago) (ii)Total storage volumes(b); (iii). 256, 058 ML is available ML 2,190 ML and in Silver & (iii). 198,850 (Bunyip) (iii)Total outflows(c) Wallaby ML (ii). 20,087 ML (iii). 356 ML (Tarago) No storage is available in Bunyip (iii). 18,096 ML (Tarago) 2,190 ML (Bunyip) Compliance with the diversion 412,237 ML¹ Clause 15.1 (b) Clause 14.1 (b) Clause 15.1 (b) Clause 15.1 (b) limit 213,031 ML³ 5,230 ML⁶ 198,850 ML⁸ 13,980 ML (Tarago)¹⁰ 2,191 ML (Bunyip)¹¹ Any temporary/permanent N/A Clause 15.1 (c) Clause 14.1 (c) Clause 15.1 (c) Clause 15.1 (c) transfer of this bulk entitlement Nil Nil Nil Nil Any temporary/permanent N/A Clause 15.1 (d) Clause 14.1 (d) Clause 15.1 (d) Clause 15.1 (d) transfer of a bulk entitlement Nil Nil Nil Nil which may alter the flow in the waterway 156 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Combined Yarra Silver and River, Silver and Wallaby Thomson Tarago and Melbourne Water reporting Wallaby creeks, Yarra River² creeks⁵ River⁷ Bunyip rivers9 obligation Thomson River (WSE000185) (WSE000018) (WSE000168) (WSE000041) Any amendment to this bulk N/A Clause 15.1 (e) Clause 14.1 (e) Clause 15.1 (e) Clause 15.1 (e) entitlement Nil Nil Nil Nil Volume of water made N/A Clause 15.1 (f) Clause 14.1 (f) Clause 15.1 (f) Clause 15.1 (f) available to PEHs from seasonal N/A Greater Yarra System – N/A N/A N/A determinations (on 1 June 2019) Thomson River Pool⁴ 77,707 ML (City West Water) 104,907 ML (South East Water) 111,771 ML (Yarra Valley Water) 8,137 ML (Barwon Water) 509 ML (South Gippsland Water) 509 ML (Westernport Water) 9,281 ML (Western Water) Any new bulk entitlement of N/A Clause 15.1 (g) Clause 14.1 (g) Clause 15.1 (g) Clause 15.1 (g) water granted Nil Nil Nil Nil Any failures to comply with N/A Clause 15.1 (h) Clause 14.1 (h) Clause 15.1 (h) Clause 15.1 (h) this bulk entitlement and any Nil Nil Nil Nil remedial action Any difficulties experienced N/A Clause 15.1 (i) Clause 14.1 (i) Clause 15.1 (i) Clause 15.1 (i) in complying with this bulk Nil Nil Nil Nil entitlement and any remedial action Any other matters as required N/A Clause 15.1 (j) Clause 13.1 (j) Clause 15.1 (j) Clause 15.1 (j) by the Minister Nil Nil Nil Nil (a). Total inflows for each of Melbourne Water’s bulk entitlements include inflows to reservoir(s) and diversions from weirs available to Melbourne Water under its bulk entitlements. (b). Total storage volumes are as at 30 June 2019 for all reservoirs defined in each of Melbourne Water’s bulk entitlements. (c). Total outflows are the volume of water diverted or released under each of Melbourne Water’s bulk entitlements for consumptive and operational purposes. It excludes spills from reservoirs. Notes for compliance with Bulk Entitlements Combined Yarra River, Silver and Wallaby creeks, Thomson River 1 This is the volume diverted in 2018/19. As noted in the Melbourne Water Annual Report 2017/18, the 2017/18 annual diversion (389,614 ML) was recalculated using the method approved by the Minister for Water in February 2018 for showing compliance with diversion limits for the Yarra River, Thomson River and Silver and Wallaby Creeks bulk entitlements and confirmed to be compliant with this method. Yarra River 2 Melbourne Water holds the Bulk Entitlement (Yarra River – Melbourne Water) Order 2014 – WSE000185. 3 This is the volume diverted in 2018/19. As noted in the Melbourne Water Annual Report 2017/18, the 2017/18 annual diversion (255,317 ML) was recalculated using the method approved by the Minister for Water in February 2018 for showing compliance with diversion limits for the Yarra River, Thomson River and Silver and Wallaby Creeks bulk entitlements and confirmed to be compliant with this method. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 157 Appendix C – Bulk Entitlements (continued) Notes for compliance with Bulk Entitlements (continued) Greater Yarra System – Thomson River Pool 4 The Greater Yarra System – Thomson River Pool includes the following Bulk Entitlements held by Melbourne Water: • Bulk Entitlement (Yarra River – Melbourne Water) Order 2014 – WSE000185 • Bulk Entitlement (Silver and Wallaby creeks – Melbourne Water) Order 2014 – WSE000018 • Bulk Entitlement (Tarago and Bunyip Rivers – Melbourne Water) Order 2014 – WSE000041 • Bulk Entitlement (Thomson River – Melbourne Water) Order 2014 – WSE000168 Silver and Wallaby creeks (Goulburn Basin) 5 Melbourne Water holds the Bulk Entitlement (Silver and Wallaby creeks – Melbourne Water) Order 2014 – WSE000018. 6 Compliance with the three-year total diversion limit of 66,000 ML was assessed and confirmed using a three-year rolling total diversion. Thomson River 7 Melbourne Water holds the Bulk Entitlement (Thomson River – Melbourne Water) Order 2014 – WSE000168. 8 This is the volume diverted in 2018/19. As noted in the Melbourne Water Annual Report 2017/18, the 2017/18 annual diversion (133,540 ML) was recalculated using the method approved by the Minister for Water in February 2018 for showing compliance with diversion limits for the Yarra River, Thomson River and Silver and Wallaby Creeks bulk entitlements and confirmed to be compliant with this method. Tarago and Bunyip rivers 9 Melbourne Water holds the Bulk Entitlement (Tarago and Bunyip Rivers – Melbourne Water) Order 2014 – WSE000041. 10 Compliance with the Tarago River long-term average diversion limit of 24,950 ML was assessed and confirmed using a five-year rolling average annual diversion. 11 Compliance with the Bunyip River long-term average diversion limit of 5,560 ML was assessed and confirmed using a fiveyear rolling average annual diversion. 158 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Melbourne Water’s Maribyrnong Bulk Entitlement Melbourne Water holds a Bulk Entitlement (WSE000117) to the water resources of the Maribyrnong Basin to supply irrigators diverting water from Jacksons Creek, downstream of Rosslynne Reservoir, and the Maribyrnong River between its confluence with Jacksons Creek and Shepherd Bridge. Compliance with the Maribyrnong River Bulk Entitlement held by Melbourne Water The volume of water taken by Melbourne Water to supply licence holders in 2018/19 Clause 19.1 (b), 557 ML Compliance with the five-year rolling average annual bulk entitlement diversion limit of 1,096 ML 342 ML Melbourne Water’s share of flow into Rosslynne Reservoir in 2018/19 Clause 19.1 (a.iii), 237 ML Melbourne Water’s share of storage volume in Rosslynne Reservoir at 30 June 2019 Clause 19.1 (a,ii), 162 ML Transfer and operating losses within the system Clause 19.1 (a,iv), 0 ML Releases made from Rosslynne Reservoir to supply licence holders in 2018/19 Clause 19.1 (a,i), 230 ML Releases from Melbourne Water’s share of flow to meet minimum flows Clause 19.1 (a,v), 40 ML Any temporary or permanent transfers of the bulk entitlement Clause 19.1 (c), nil Any temporary or permanent transfer of the bulk entitlement which may alter the flow in the Clause 19.1 (d), nil waterway Alteration to volume of water under licences issued by Melbourne Water Clause 19.1 (e), nil Alteration to security of supply of entitlements under licences Clause 19.1 (e), nil Transfer of licences (number, amount and places) Clause 19.1 (f), Yes1 Any amendment to the bulk entitlement Clause 19.1 (g), nil Any new bulk entitlement granted to Melbourne Water Clause 19.1 (h), nil Implementation of metering program Clause 19.1 (i), Yes Any failures to comply with any provision of the bulk entitlement Clause 19.1 (j), nil Any difficulty experienced in complying with the bulk entitlement and if so, any remedial action Clause 19.1 (k), nil taken or proposed ¹ In total 29 transfers of licences were made: 1) one licence transferred; 3) 28 licence transfers to Victorian Environmental Water Holder with 300 ML. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 159 Appendix D – Private Diversion Licences Melbourne Water manages 1819 licences to use water from farm dams and waterways in the Yarra River, Maribyrnong River, Stony Creek, Kororoit Creek, Laverton Creek, Mordialloc Creek and Skeleton Creek catchments. Water is mainly used for agricultural, industrial, commercial, domestic and stock purposes. The total number of ‘take and use’ licences (that is, licences for uses such as irrigation) is 1206 with a combined volume of 40,613.4 ML. Melbourne Water applies permanent management trigger and restriction conditions enacted under the Diversions Drought Response Plan (A Water Sharing Plan for all Licenced Water Users) and licence conditions. Melbourne Water has not invoked any additional drought response measures outside of the plan during 2018/19. Metered Licence Totals No. Licences Volume (ML) Usage (ML) Farm Dam Registrations 523 6811.5 15.9 Farm Dam Licences 44 1009.5 208.6 Take & Use Licences Yarra 1158 39847.4¹ 7199.4 Take & Use Licences Maribyrnong 48 1126.0 192.5 Stormwater Licences 46 3026.7 973.4 Environmental Water Licence 7 1514.0 0 Risk-Based Compliance Priorities 2018/19 No of Investigations Major Risk Still Under investigation 8 Moderate Risk Still Under investigation 10 Minor Risk Still Under investigation 0 No. Resolved 2018/19 53 Total Number Still Under investigation 18 Total number of suspected compliance breaches 71 Activities undertaken in response to these priorities For those 53 investigations resolved, Melbourne Water has taken the following actions : Dismissed not enough evidence 1 Referred 0 Advisory Letter issued 5 Warning notice issued 16 Statutory notice issued 0 Customer restriction 0 No further action required 31 Risk-Based Compliance and Enforcement Policy Melbourne Water have an existing Waterways Enforcement Policy supplemented with a Risk Enforcement Matrix and Compliance Procedure Manual. All these documents were finalized according to our delegation policy in 2014. Once DELWP have finalized the Statewide Compliance and Enforcement-Policy, Melbourne Water will update our policy and other documents by the end of 2019. 1 Includes new 7000ML non-consumptive licence BEE075688 160 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Information on Compliance and Enforcement on Corporation’s Webpage There is currently no information on Melbourne Water’s webpage in regards to compliance and enforcement. However as part of the recent Funding Agreement between DELWP and Melbourne Water for Non-Urban Water Compliance & Enforcement Strategies, our webpage will be updated as part of this communication strategy. Public Information and Education Campaigns on Enforcement during 2018/19 None undertaken in 2018/19 but this is planned as per Funding Agreement between DELWP and Melbourne Water for NonUrban Water Compliance & Enforcement Strategies by the end of 2019. However, during drought or low flow conditions, licenced diverters’ access to water may be restricted or banned to protect the environment. Our Drought Response Plan is active at all times, and specifies how water is shared when there is not enough to meet all users’ needs. It states river flow levels which trigger restrictions or bans, and how these are applied to different licence types. These trigger points have been developed together with stream flow management plans or local management rules/ plans. The status of restrictions and bans for individual catchments is posted daily on Melbourne Water’s website at www. melbournewater.com.au/diverters and be available by calling Melbourne Water on 131 722 at any time or via an automated SMS services to subscribed customers. During 2018/19, we sent out 4782 text messages to 235 subscribed customers advising them on waterway pumping restrictions and/or bans. Summary of bans and restrictions 2018/19 Catchment Restriction Days Ban Days Days Available Arundel Creek N/A 0 365 Cockatoo Shepherds Creek (SFMP) 76 194 95 Darebin Creek N/A 215 150 Diamond Creek N/A 333 32 Dixons Creek N/A 358 7 Don River (SFMP) N/A 166 199 Gardiners Creek N/A 31 334 Hoddles Creek (SFMP) N/A 320 45 Kororoit Creek N/A 25 340 Little Yarra River (SFMP) 75 145 145 Maribyrnong River (All Year) N/A 89 276 Maribyrnong River (Winterfill) : 1 Jul 31 Oct only N/A 69 55 McCrae Creek (SFMP) 82 264 19 Merri Creek N/A 11 354 Moonee Ponds Creek N/A 74 291 Mullum Mullum Creek N/A 109 256 Olinda Creek (Lower) SFMP 33 89 243 Olinda Creek (Upper) SFMP 15 245 105 Pauls Creek (SFMP) N/A 365 0 Plenty River N/A 183 182 Steels Creek (SFMP) N/A 358 7 Stringybark Creek (Lower) SFMP N/A 249 116 Stringybark Creek (Upper) SFMP N/A 191 174 Wandin Yallock Creek (SFMP) N/A 115 250 Watsons Creek N/A 65 300 Watts River N/A 0 365 Woori Yallock Creek (SFMP) 65 189 111 Yarra River (Lower) 242 0 123 Yarra River (Lower) 202 37 126 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 161 Appendix E – Flooding and Drainage 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 Underground Drains Total Length of Melbourne Water Assets 1700 1672 1668 km Total Length of Melbourne Water Assets excluding 1076 1065 1061 km drainage scheme areas Mapped 100yr ARI 588 977 867 km Percentage Mapped 55% 91 81 % Mapped 20yr ARI 437 627 517 km Percentage Mapped 41% 59 49 % Mapped 10yr ARI 259 306 196 km Percentage Mapped 24% 29 18 % Mapped 5yr ARI 255 264 154 km Percentage Mapped 24% 25% 15% % Natural Waterways Total Length of Melbourne Water Assets 8688 8665 8684 km Total Length of Melbourne Water Assets excluding 6532 6425 5616 km drainage scheme areas, forested areas and French Islands Mapped 100yr ARI 4275 4270 3990 km Percentage Mapped 65% 66 71 % Mapped 20yr ARI 565 309 254 km Percentage Mapped 9% 5 5 % Mapped 10yr ARI 547 302 256 km Percentage Mapped 8% 7 5 % Mapped 5yr ARI 438 281 236 km Percentage Mapped 7% 7% 4% % Channels Total Length of Melbourne Water Channels 1870 1860 1859 km Mapped 100yr ARI (underground drains) 115 138 134 km Mapped 100yr ARI (waterways) 1344 1416 1416 km Mapped 100yr ARI (total) 1459 1554 1560 km Percentage Mapped 78% 84% 84% % Total Total length of Melbourne Water Assets 12,258 12,197 12,211 N/A Total length of Melbourne Water Assets excluding 9478 9350 8536 N/A drainage scheme areas, forested areas and French Island Mapped 100yr ARI 6322 6801 6417 N/A Percentage Mapped 67% 73% 75% N/A 162 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Appendix F – Environmental Data Energy Consumption Our electricity consumption across our services and other in megawatt hours (MWh) is set out in the following table. Energy consumption reporting (h) renewable energy use Renewable (%) Energy Renewable (a) total Generated energy use Performance energy ( (h)/(a) ) * for Export target (%) Indicator use renewable energy use (MWh) 100 (MWh) pre 2020 (b) (c) (d) (f) solar hydrowind (e) green (g) (h) panels electric power biogas power other total Water 122,273 0 52,817 0 0 0 0 52,817 43.20% 52,633 treatment and supply Sewerage 342,487 0 0 0 100,152 0 0 100,152 29.24% 2,619 treatment and management waterways 7,473 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Transport 10,047 Other (office, workshops, depots etc.) Offsets 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 482,280 0 52,817 0 100,152 0 0 152,969 36.22% 52,252 25.00% Note: Melbourne Water is committed to increasing its use of renewable energy. Please refer to details on pages 59-61. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Our greenhouse gas emissions across our services and others in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent is set out in the following table. Greenhouse gas emissions over the past five years in equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide (t-CO2e) Performance Indicator Tonnes CO2-e Variance (%) Commentary 2017/18 2018/19 Baseline 2018/19 Target result result Water Treatment and Supply N/A N/A 60,398 54,134 -10%¹ Less electrical energy drawn from the grid to treat and supply water in 2018/19 Sewerage Treatment and N/A N/A 385,649 371,303 -4%¹ Operational variance Management Transport N/A N/A 2,564 2,531 -1%¹ Operational variance Other N/A N/A 4,866 3,378 -31%¹ Reduction in stationary energy use 2018/19 Offsets N/A N/A Total 408,860 403,829 453,477 431,346 6.8%² MW is committed to emissions reduction. See Note 3 below. [1] year-on-year [2] based on target [3] Melbourne Water’s reportable emissions grow with population and can vary significantly from year to year with climate and operational conditions. While 2018/19 reportable emissions were higher than the nominal target, they were lower than the 2017/18 reportable emissions as a result of increased generation of electricity from biogas (and associated reduced use of electricity from the grid). Melbourne Water is committed to achieving the committed 50% reduction by 2024/25 and has several initiatives underway to deliver on this commitment. See pages 60-61 for further information on these initiatives. Melbourne Water Corporate Consumption Melbourne Water’s corporate consumption is 512.86kL or 0.74kL/FTE/year based on our operations at our corporate office at 990 La Trobe Street. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 163 Appendix G – Workforce Statistics Safety The following safety statistics are provided as additional information in support of statutory reporting and other obligations. Table G1 – Number of reported safety incidents per 100 full time equivalent (FTE) staff Hazards/ 100 Incidents/ Total/ 100 FTE Hazards FTE Incidents 100 FTE Total FTE 2016/17 1002 503 50.2 438 43.7 941 93.9 2017/18 1029 546 53.1 303 29.4 763 74.1 2018/19 1085 529 48.8 333 30.7 862 79.4 Table G2 – Number of lost time standard claims for the Table G3 – Average cost per claim for the year (including year per 100 FTE payments to date and estimates of outstanding claim costs advised by WorkCover) Number of Claims/100 Cost of Claims FTE Claim $ 2016/17 1 0.10 2016/17: 65,339 2017/18 3 0.30 2017/18: 59,736 2018/19 4 0.37 2018/19 77,333 Table G4 – Types of Injury 2017/18 2018/19 Lost time injury (LTI) 3 7 Restricted work injury (RWI) / 10 9 Medical treatment injury (MTI) First Aid 74 59 Total 88 75 Total lost days in 2018/19 were 44. 164 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report People The following employee-related statistics are provided as additional information in support of statutory reporting and other obligations. Employees have been correctly classified in workforce data collections. Table G5 – Employee profile 2018/19 Full-time Part-time permanent permanent Permanent Fixed-term and Permanent Fixed-term and employees employees employees casual employees employees casual employees (Headcount) (Headcount) (Headcount) (Headcount) (FTE) (FTE) June 18 840 156 996 139 960 94 June 19 874 170 1044 127 1004 92 Employee profile by type 2018/19 Jun-18 Fixed term and All Employees Ongoing casual Number Full Time Part Time Number Headcount FTE Headcount Headcount FTE Headcount FTE Gender M 732 707 620 44 657 68 50 F 403 347 220 112 303 71 44 Age Under 25 31 26 13 1 13 17 12 25-34 279 262 217 25 237 37 26 35-44 386 356 269 80 330 37 27 45-54 252 239 196 32 221 24 18 55-64 166 155 136 13 147 17 8 Over 65 21 16 9 5 13 7 4 Classification Casual 65 28 N/A N/A N/A 65 28 Total 1-Senior Officer 687 658 529 97 603 61 55 1 7 7 0 1 1 6 6 2 52 49 39 4 41 9 8 3 74 73 71 1 71 2 2 4 54 51 43 7 48 4 3 5 115 110 90 13 100 12 10 6 115 112 93 16 106 6 6 7 242 229 173 51 212 18 16 Senior Officer 28 27 20 4 23 4 4 Senior Employees 383 369 311 59 357 13 12 Senior Manager 369 355 298 59 344 12 11 Executives 14 14 13 0 13 1 1 Four employees were acting in long-term senior positions at the last full pay period in June of 2018. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 165 Appendix G – Workforce Statistics (continued) Employee profile by type 2018/19 (continued) Jun-19 Fixed term and All Employees Ongoing casual Number Full Time Part Time Number Headcount FTE Headcount Headcount FTE Headcount FTE Gender M 732 710 620 44 658 68 52 F 439 386 254 126 346 59 40 Age Under 25 34 28 16 0 16 18 12 25-34 279 266 223 21 239 35 27 35-44 419 386 289 85 352 45 34 45-54 253 241 200 42 233 11 8 55-64 164 157 134 18 149 12 8 Over 65 22 18 12 4 15 6 3 Classification Casual 47 20 N/A N/A N/A 47 20 Total 1-Senior Officer 710 678 548 100 623 62 54 1 5 5 0 0 0 5 5 2 58 56 51 4 54 3 3 3 88 88 77 0 77 11 11 4 63 58 43 8 49 12 9 5 105 102 89 11 97 5 5 6 117 113 91 12 100 14 13 7 253 236 180 61 226 12 10 Senior Officer 21 20 17 4 20 0 0 Senior Employees 414 398 326 70 381 18 18 Senior Manager 402 386 314 70 369 18 18 Executives 12 12 12 0 12 0 0 Four employees were acting in long-term senior positions at the last full pay period in June of 2018. 166 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Total number and rates of new employee hires by age Total number and rates of employee turnover by age group and gender group and gender Gender Headcount Gender Headcount M 84 M 85 F 93 F 60 Age Age Under 25 20 Under 25 9 25-34 65 25-34 37 35-44 61 35-44 48 45-54 21 45-54 28 55-64 10 55-64 18 Over 65 0 Over 65 5 Hours of training for the financial year 2018/19 All Melbourne Water Age F M All Total Completed Hours of Training 6315 14249 20564 Total Number of Employees Completed Training 473 774 1247 Average Completed Training Hours Per Employee 13 18 16 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category by significant locations of operation Ratio (F/M) Ratio (F/M) Corporate Base Remuneration Service Delivery Base Remuneration MW EA 1 N/A N/A MW EA 1 1.00 1.00 MW EA 2 N/A N/A MW EA 2 0.98 0.98 MW EA 3 0.99 0.99 MW EA 3 0.99 0.98 MW EA 4 1.02 1.03 MW EA 4 1.02 1.01 MW EA 5 1.06 1.06 MW EA 5 0.98 0.91 MW EA 6 1.02 1.02 MW EA 6 0.98 0.96 MW EA 7 1.00 1.00 MW EA 7 0.98 0.96 SO 0.86 0.86 SO 0.96 0.96 Senior Management 0.98 0.98 Senior Management 0.92 0.91 Executive 0.83 0.83 Executives 0.00 0.00 In addition: • 100% of senior management were hired from the local community at significant locations of operation • there is no minimum notice period regarding consultation of operational changes • there were no grievances about labour practices filed • 94.5% of employees were covered by the Enterprise Agreement • human rights are not part of Melbourne Water’s current training program • no incidents of discrimination have been raised with Melbourne Water • no incidents of violations involving the rights of Indigenous peoples have occurred • no incidents of human rights violations have been recorded. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 167 Appendix G – Workforce Statistics (continued) Local Jobs First The Local Jobs First Act 2003 introduced in August 2018 brings together the Victorian Industry Participation Policy (VIPP) and Major Project Skills Guarantee (MPSG) policy which were previously administered separately. The following projects were commenced or completed during 2018/19 in accordance with the relevant obligations. Projects Commenced – VIPP/Local Jobs First Standard During 2018/19 Melbourne Water commenced 10 projects in metropolitan Melbourne (8 VIPP and 2 LJF) totalling $116,869,587. The MPSG applied to one of the projects. The outcomes expected from the implementation of the Local Jobs First policy to these projects where information was provided are as follows: • The average commitment was 89.12 per cent local content; • a total of 99.98 jobs to be created • retention of 160.83 jobs • 2 new apprenticeships to be created and 7.26 to be retained • creation of 13 new trainees and retention of 6 existing trainees • The MPSG applicable project provided a total of 676 labour hours to apprentices and engineering cadets as at 8 April 2019 Projects Completed – VIPP Standard During 2018/19 Melbourne Water completed 4 VIPP projects in metropolitan Melbourne totalling $34,852,884. The outcomes from the implementation of the Local Jobs First policy to these projects where information was provided, were as follows: • The average commitment was 79.35 per cent • 10 new local jobs were committed and 40 new positions were actually created • 34 existing jobs were to be retained and 35 were actually retained • There were no existing or new apprenticeships or trainees employed in these projects • MPSG was not required to be applied to any of these projects Melbourne Water did not commence or complete any Strategic Projects within the reporting period. 168 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Appendix H – Global Reporting Initiative Melbourne Water is signatory to the UN Global Compact and supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We provide our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact through our Annual Report. Melbourne Water’s approach to reporting against the SDGs is through our Strategic KPIs in our Corporate Plan and through a formal sustainability reporting mechanism, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This report adopts the GRI Sustainability Standards (conforming to Core level of reporting)3 as they are the current global standard for sustainability reporting and represent best practice. They are designed to be used by organisations to report about their impacts on the economy, the environment and/or society. Sustainable development and materiality Sustainability reporting requires an organisation to report on their significant economic, environmental and social impacts or that substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. In order to determine the issues that are material to Melbourne Water, engagement was undertaken to establish the relative significance of the SDGs to Melbourne Water’s strategic activities and to understand our impact or influence on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Melbourne Water stakeholders, customers, and staff contributed to an understanding of what SDGs are material to us and where opportunities for leadership lie. The following activities were undertaken to support this materiality assessment: • external stakeholder interviews • interviews with Melbourne Water Leadership Team and managers • all staff survey • mapping of Melbourne water strategies and activities against the SDGs and targets • review of industry priorities • review of peer reporting. The results showed that Melbourne Water impacts across all 17 goals, albeit to differing degrees. The goals that are most material to us, SDGs 6, 11 and 15, align with the three pillars of our strategic direction. SDGs 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 17 also featured as material with Melbourne Water having less direct impact on SDGs 1, 2, 4, 10 and 16. Melbourne Water’s approach to sustainable development and to supporting the SDGs is to enhance our contribution across all UN SDGs, while demonstrating leadership for SDGs 6, 11 and 15. Given this, our GRI reporting (Core) covers most topics. In the few cases where specific disclosures are not relevant to our organisation they have been noted in the table. We have also reported on issues as they relate to the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (see Appendix I, The UN Global Compact). Reporting The Melbourne Water Annual Report 2018/19 content was defined through extensive, business-wide consultation, including with senior management and executives. Melbourne Water is also required to report a large number of disclosures to satisfy regulatory instruments and the content of this report also reflects these requirements. Unless otherwise specified, topics are relevant across the entire Melbourne Water organisation and only inside the organisation. Refer to Tables H1 to H7 for Melbourne Water’s GRI Standards disclosures. Melbourne Water has not sought to have this report externally assured this year. Our last Annual Report was published in 2017/18. No restatements of information have been made. 3 Melbourne Water’s 2015-16 Annual Report used G4 Guidelines. From 2016/17 we have moved to the GRI Standards framework 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 169 Appendix H – Global Reporting Initiative (continued) H1: General Disclosures Indicator Disclosure Location GRI 102-1 Report the name of the organisation Inside cover GRI 102-2 Report the primary brands, products, and services Inside cover, 8-35 GRI 102-3 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters Rear cover GRI 102-4 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates Inside cover GRI 102-5 Report the nature of ownership and legal form 64-65 GRI 102-5 Report the markets served Inside cover, 37-44 GRI 102-7 Report the scale of the organisation including total number of employees, total number of 164-168, 55-57 operations, net sales or revenue, total capitalisation broken down for debt and equity, quantity of products or services provided GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 164-168 GRI 102-9 Describe the organisation’s supply chain 58 GRI 102-10 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, None to report structure, ownership, or its supply chain GRI 102-11 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation 69 GRI 102-12 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 6-7, 64 initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 155 GRI 102-14 Provide a statement from the most senior decision maker of the organisation about the relevance 2-3, 6-7 of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 47-50, 64 GRI 102-18 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest 64-68 governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision making on economic, environmental and social impacts GRI 102-40 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 10, 18, 23-27, 3334, 41-42, 58, 169 GRI 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 166 GRI 102-42 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 10, 18, 23, 27, 3334, 41-42, 58, 169 GRI 102-43 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 18, 23, 27-34, 37engagement by type and by stakeholder group and an indication of whether any of the 49, 65, 155 engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process GRI 102-44 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how See GRI 102-44 the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 76 GRI 102-46 Report the process for defining the report content and the topic boundaries and how the 169-172 organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content GRI 102-47 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 169-172 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information None to report GRI 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic None to report Boundaries GRI 102-50 Reporting period for information provided Inside cover GRI 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 169 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside cover GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 169 GRI 102-55 GRI content index 170-171 GRI 102-56 External assurance 169 170 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report H2: Economic Indicators Indicator Disclosure Location Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 11-12, 19-20, 24, 28-29, 169 103-2 The management approach and its components 55-57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55-57, 73-141 Material topics 201-1 Economic Performance Direct economic value generated 55-72 and distributed 202-2 Market Presence Proportion of senior management 164-168 hired from the local community 203 -1 Indirect Economic Impacts Infrastructure investments and 8-35 services supported 204-1 Procurement Practices Proportion of spending on local 168 suppliers 205-1 Anti-corruption Confirmed incidents of corruption 155 and actions taken 206-1 Anti-competitive Behaviour Legal actions for anti-competitive 152 behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices H3: Environmental Indicators Indicator Disclosure Location Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 169 103-2 The management approach and its components 11-12, 39-35, 59-63 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66-67 Material topics 301-1 Materials Materials used by weight or 11-17 volume 302-1 Energy Energy consumption within the 163 organisation 303-1 Water Water withdrawal by source 156-161, 163 304-1 Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, 62-63 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 305-1 Emissions Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions 163 306-1 Effluents and Waste Water discharge by quality and 20-21 destination 307-1 Environmental Compliance Non-compliance with 21, 63 environmental laws and regulations 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 171 Appendix H – Global Reporting Initiative (continued) H4: Social Indicators Indicator Disclosure Location Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 51-56 103-2 The management approach and its components 51-56 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 64-65 Material topics 401-1 Employment New employee hires and employee turnover 167 402-1 Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 167 403-2 Occupational Health and Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 44-46, 164 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities withdrawal by source 404-1 Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee 167 405-1 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Diversity of governance bodies and employees 165-167 405-2 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 167 men 406-1 Non-discrimination Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 167 407-1 Freedom of Association and Collective Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 167 Bargaining of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 408-1 Child Labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 58, 64-65 of child labor 409-1 Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 58, 64-65 of forced or compulsory labor 411-1 Rights of Indigenous Peoples Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 167 peoples 412 Human Rights Assessment Employee training on human rights policies or 167 procedures 413-1 Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, impact 34-35, 39-42 assessments, and development programs 414-1 Supplier Social Assessment New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 58 415-1 Public Policy Political contributions 155 416-2 Customer Health and Safety Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 143-145 safety impacts of products and services 418-1 Customer Privacy Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 154 customer privacy and losses of customer data 419-1 Socioeconomic Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 64 and economic area 172 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Appendix I – The UN Global Compact The following index shows where we have reported our policies, programs and actions that align with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact within the 2018/19 Annual Report. Global Compact Principles Description Page Reference Human Rights 1. Businesses Melbourne Water’s commitment to these principles is demonstrated in our commitment should support to building a diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace culture, underpinned by the and respect the fundamental consideration for the health, safety and wellbeing of our staff, customers and protection of community. This commitment is implemented through the following strategies and programs, internationally detailed within this report: proclaimed human • Diversity Strategy and associated programs 49-50 rights 2. Make sure that • Safety performance, measurement and programs 44-46, 164 they are not complicit in human • Our management of customers' confidential and personal information 154 rights abuses • Our actions toward Reconciliation and Aboriginal Engagement 42 Labour 3. Businesses Melbourne Water’s commitment to these principles is demonstrated in our commitment to should uphold building a diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace culture. Our commitment to ensuring the freedom of equality and fair treatment across the business is detailed in this report through: association and • Continued analysis of our workforce statistics to support programs 165-167 the effective recognition of the right to collective • Diversity Strategy and associated programs, including inclusion, gender equity, parental 49-50 bargaining. leave, domestic violence leave and flexible working arrangements 4. The elimination of all forms of forced • Our actions toward increasing cultural awareness 49 and compulsory labour. • The Melbourne Water Enterprise Agreement 2016 sets our terms and conditions of 167 5. The effective employment, and is a collective agreement between Melbourne Water, enterprise abolition of child agreement employees and their union representatives. This agreement does not cover labour. Senior Managers or the Waterways and Land Delivery team. The agreement was 6. The elimination approved by the Fair Work Commission. of discrimination • Our management of suppliers 58 in respect of employment and occupation. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 173 Appendix I – The UN Global Compact (continued) Global Compact Principles Description Page Reference Environment 7. Businesses Our contribution to supporting a healthy environment is one of Melbourne Water’s three should support strategic pillars and part of our core business. We contribute to this through improving a precautionary waterway quality, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and being innovative with resource approach to recovery. We also help protect Melbourne’s natural assets by improving biodiversity and environmental building strong relationships with the community. This commitment is implemented through challenges. the following strategies and programs, detailed within this report: 8. Undertake • Waterway quality programs and the Healthy Waterways Strategy 29-35 initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Our flooding and drainage programs and supporting strategies 24-28 9. Encourage the development • Our biodiversity program and supporting Environmental Stewardship Strategy 59, 62 and diffusion of environmentally • Our environmental programs including energy, resource recovery and climate risk 59-61 friendly management technologies. • Our community engagement and education programs 37-42 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should We are committed to a high standard of governance, with the Melbourne Water Board work against having overall responsibility for corporate governance. We maintain a fraud and corruption corruption in all its framework, including ongoing education and awareness and avenues for reporting any forms, including allegations. We undertake detailed fraud and corruption risk assessments in line with our extortion and Enterprise Risk Management Framework, consistent with the requirements of the Victorian bribery. Government Risk Management Framework 2015. We have an extensive compliance management framework ensuring ongoing compliance with relevant laws and regulations including the Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission 2011 and the Protected Disclosure Act 2012. We provide assurance over our control environment through a robust assurance management program. This commitment is implemented through the following strategies and programs, detailed within this report: • Our corporate governance programs and policies 64-68 • Our risk management program and frameworks 69 • Our compliance in accordance with Acts of Parliament 69, 152-155 • Our Code of Conduct melbournewater.com.au • Our protected disclosure policy and procedure 155 174 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report Appendix J – Letter of Expectations Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Page reference Climate Change E2 161 Emissions reduction E3 60 Climate adaptation Customer and C1M 38, 142 Community Customer satisfaction C2 39 Delivery of engagement strategy Water for Aboriginal AC1 42, 49, 58 cultural, spiritual and Engagement of Aboriginal communities economic values AC2 30, 33-34, 37, 42-43 Engagement of Traditional Owners AC3 42 Reconciliation Action Plan Resilient and liveable L1 9-10 cities and towns Integrated Water Management L2 11-16 Water efficiency Recognising Rec1 29-35 recreational values Recreational values Leadership and Culture G1 49-50 Diversity and inclusion G2 Not required Board performance review G3 44-46, 162 Health and safety Financial Sustainability F1 interest cover 141 F2 gearing ratio F3 internal financing ratio F4 current ratio F5 return on Assets F6 return on equity F7 EBITDA Margin F8 Credit rating. Not required 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 175 176 | 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report ISSN: 1838-3718 (Print) ISSN: 1838-3734 (Online) © Copyright September 2019 Melbourne Water Corporation All rights reserved. No part of this document may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, photocopied or otherwise dealt with without prior written permission of Melbourne Water Corporation. Disclaimer: This publication maybe of assistance to you but Melbourne Water and its employees do not guarantee that the publication is without flaw of any kind or is wholly appropriate for your particular purposes and therefore disclaims all liability for any error, loss or other consequence which may arise from you relying on any information in this publication. 2018/19 Melbourne Water Annual Report | 177 Melbourne Water 990 La Trobe Street Docklands, Victoria 3008 PO Box 4342 Melbourne, Victoria 3001 Telephone 131 722 Fax 03 9679 7499 melbournewater.com.au
