YTL GROUP YTL GROUP Our work stands the test of time by turning the right opportunity into the right thing and the right thing into lasting value. YTL is about building value that is not simply lasting, but is worthy of lasting. SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT 2019 YTL CORPORATION YTL CORPORATION BERHAD 92647-H 11th Floor Yeoh Yeoh Tiong Lay Plaza 55 Jalan Bukit Bintang Sustainability Report 2019 55100 Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Tel • 603 2117 0088 603 2142 6633 Fax • 603 2141 2703 Sustainability Report 2019 www.ytl.com www.ytl.com/sustainability www.ytlcommunity.com www.ytlcommunity.com MAKING MAKING FUTURE FUTURE A GOOD A GOOD HAPPEN HAPPEN The The Journey Journey Continues... Continues... This Report is printed This Report on environmentally is printed on recycled friendly paper Our work stands the test of time by turning the right opportunity into the right thing and the right thing into lasting value. YTL is about building value that is not simply lasting, but is worthy of lasting. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 MAKING A GOOD FUTURE HAPPEN The Journey Continues... Contents 01 About this Report 02 Executive Chairman’s Letter to Stakeholders 08 About YTL Group 08 Creating Sustainable Value 10 Managing Material Risks and Opportunities 11 Awards and Accolades 12 Our Approach to Sustainability 12 Sustainability Framework 12 Sustainability Governance 13 Stakeholder Engagement MAKING A GOOD FUTURE HAPPEN 15 Materiality The Journey Continues... 16 Embracing the Marketplace 24 Protection of the Environment reflects our vision for what YTL Group 54 Empowering Our People sustainability initiatives aim to achieve internally and externally across the four pillars of 68 Enriching Communities YTL Group Sustainability Framework – 94 GRI Content Index Marketplace, Environment, People and Community • Be Part of the Solution SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 About This Report [GRI 102-1, 102-12, 102-13, 102-46, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54] This report is issued in parallel with and complementary to the Reference and Guidelines Annual Report 2019. It covers our diverse achievements in creating This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting economic, environmental and social (EES) value for a wide array of Initiative (GRI) Standards – Core Option. We follow the Bursa Malaysia stakeholders. We present the key priorities of our sustainability Securities Berhad (Bursa Malaysia) Main Market Listing Requirements framework aligned with our core business strategies, where we relating to the Sustainability Statement in Annual Reports and where constantly push for performance improvements. possible, we have referenced material issues with regards to EES aspects. It also has complied with the Sustainability Reporting Guide YTL Corporation Berhad (YTL Corp) and its subsidiaries (YTL Group) issued by Bursa Malaysia and Sustainability Reporting Awards (MaSRA) are members of the Malaysian-Dutch Business Council, as well as Guidelines for Malaysian Companies. We have also reviewed how Global Compact Network Malaysia and Singapore. YTL Corp is a our sustainability framework is aligned with the United Nations signatory of the Paris Pledge for Action, alongside 194 other Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). signatories to ensure that the ambitions set out in the Paris agreement are met or exceeded to limit the global temperature Coverage rise to less than 2ºC. During the year under review, YTL Corp, YTL Power International Berhad (YTLPI) and Malayan Cement Berhad This report covers YTL Group’s significant and active operating units, (formerly known as Lafarge Malaysia Berhad) (Malayan Cement) and those that we have direct operational control over, as reflected were also constituents of the FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index. in the holding company’s Annual Report. Unless otherwise stated, the information presented in this report covers our utilities and This report and our previous reports are available via PDF and property investment businesses in Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, can be downloaded from YTL Group’s corporate website at Australia and the United Kingdom, where there is publicly available http://www.ytl.com. data already in place. We also include sustainability initiatives from other business units and some associated companies in greater detail. Our subsidiaries and associated companies have also produced their own reports, available on their official websites listed below, which Assurance provide more information about their sustainability policies, practices, We have not sought external assurance for this report, but will performance, risks and opportunities. consider it in future as our reporting develops over time. Wessex Water1 – http://wessexwater.co.uk/ YTL PowerSeraya2 – https://ytlpowerseraya.com.sg/ Feedback Starhill Global REIT3 – http://www.starhillglobalreit.com/ We welcome your comments, thoughts, and remarks, which can be directed to: Reporting Period YTL Group Sustainability Division This report covers YTL Group’s performance for the financial year YTL Corporation Berhad ended 30 June 2019 (FY2019) (unless otherwise specified). All Tel : +6018 605 7777 information in this report corresponds with our Annual Report for Fax : +6018 605 7773 the same year. Email : sustainability@ytl.com.my YTL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY TEAM Ruth Yeoh Ralph Dixon Nico Aw Issac Liew Elaine Tan Chua Wai Min Rachel Wong Zaiton Hashim Pooja Bansal Head of Group Director of Senior Manager Executive Executive Executive Office Manager Principal Sustainability Environmental Manager Consultant, and Director of Investments. YTL-SV Carbon Investments CEO, YTL-SV Carbon 1 Wessex Water Limited’s subsidiary, GENeco Limited will be denoted as “GENeco UK” throughout this report 2 YTL PowerSeraya Pte Limited’s retail brand, Geneco will be denoted as “Geneco SG” throughout this report 3 YTL Corp owns an effective interest of 36.46% in Starhill Global Real Estate Investment Trust (SGREIT), YTL Starhill Global REIT Management Limited (YSGRM), the manager of SGREIT, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of YTL Corp 1 YTL GROUP Executive Chairman’s Letter to Stakeholders [GRI 102-14] Dear Stakeholders, The discourse around waste, climate change, and inequality has intensified, and the different stress points appear to be converging with the threat of disastrous consequences. Climate change appears to have entered a vicious feedback loop. Unprecedented Alaskan, Arctic and Amazon wildfires raged during the summer of 2019, and warming in the Arctic is occurring at a rate of two to three times faster than the global average as evidenced by sea ice volume. The Amazon’s fate seems set for irreversible destruction unless drastic changes are made. Once the tipping point is transgressed, experts predict that much of the rest of the forest could follow as deforestation begins to feed on itself, turning large tracts of the Amazon basin into a drier cerrado. TAN SRI DATO’ (DR) FRANCIS YEOH SOCK PING PSM, CBE, FICE, SIMP, DPMS, DPMP, JMN, JP Executive Chairman YTL Corporation Berhad Not-so-glacial pace Arctic sea ice volume, deviation from 1950-2000 average, ‘000 km³ 4 2 Volume Anomaly 0 -2 (km3 x 103) -4 1901-40 1979-2010 trend -6 trend -8 -10 1900 1910 1920 1930 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 Source: “Arctic sea ice volume variability over 1901-2010: a model-based  satellite image showing wildfires consuming large swathes of Arctic forests A reconstruction” by A.Schweiger et al, Journal of Climate 2019 and peat in July 2019 (Image: Pierre Markuse) 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Executive Chairman’s Letter to Stakeholders Apart from the one million species that may be pushed to extinction CLIMATE APARTHEID AND EXTINCTIONS in the next few years, a recent series of 10,000 studies concluded that many animals will not be able to adjust to changes in climate An additional 100 million people could be pushed into poverty by by shifting behaviours such as hibernation, reproduction and migration 2030 due to the effects of climate change and an estimated in order to optimise the continuation of the species. It is also one billion people displaced by climate related disasters by 2050. becoming increasingly clear that humans are going to have an The impacts would likely be far more pronounced in developing and equally difficult and painful journey in adapting to the new state poorer countries. The resulting degradation in those countries or of climate and weather. regions receiving the refugees could be devastating as seen in Turkey and particularly in Cox Bazaar, Bangladesh. In light of this, YTL Group continues to push forward with coral rehabilitation, planting 109,800 mangroves and 55,600 sea pines All this could put additional stress on borders and further fragment and have rescued more than 42,226 turtle eggs from human class structures throughout the world. The message from the United consumption, with more than 30,838 turtle hatchlings released. Nations (UN) is that humanity needs to re-evaluate its relationship with the planet and all of its inhabitants. For example, in places like Chennai, the loss of wetlands to development combined with extreme weather patterns, has resulted in a shortage of water in mid-2019 which lasted not for days, but months. Equally worrying is the state of water conditions in the Mekong and connected lakes such as Tonle Sap which have also resulted largely from a combination of human activity and climate change. If the Vulnerable Twenty5 (V20) group of countries wants to avoid the harm caused by climate change, these countries will need to spend up to USD250 billion a year on adaptive measures, such as Resulting from the partnership with Lang Tengah Turtle Watch, the turtle coastal defences, and ironically, they face higher interest rates than nest adoption programme at Tanjong Jara Resort has seen more than 42,226 eggs being rescued from human consumption similar countries less exposed to climate risks. Developed countries could be equally at risk. Singapore’s Prime Minister announced in The facts are undeniable, the science is clear and only the myriad his 2019 National Day speech that the country would need to spend trajectories of grim projections are uncertain. We have moved past an estimated SGD100 billion over the next 100 years on climate the 11th hour and onto midnight on the issue of climate change. As change associated adaptation measures. in the parable of the workers in the vineyard, we have been standing idle for too long, and in our struggle to get ahead we may have lost sight of the need to sacrifice for the greater good, and be content with equal rewards. How God rewards others should be of no consequence to us4. The operating environment around the globe for businesses has become more challenging. The global trade war rages on in unpredictable directions and with uncertain outcomes, and politics C hennai reservoir in June 2019 Tonle Sap low water levels in August seem to be further polarising society in both developed as well as (copyright Deccan Herald) 2019 (The Diplomat Image Credit: Tran Van Tu) in developing countries. Sustainability is no longer a peripheral consideration for stakeholders, and the issues have never been more influential in our strategic decision making. The approach to organic and acquired growth in YTL Group has now shifted firmly to evaluating whether a sustainable business can be profitable, 4 (Matthew 20:1-16) ‘These who were hired last worked only one hour,’ they rather than whether a profitable business can be sustainable. We said, ‘and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the continue to focus on creating sustainable strategic assets that work and the heat of the day.’ propel long-term economic value, in addition to natural, human and 5 The V20 Group was established in 2015, consisting of the Top 20 nations from social value. all over the world that are most affected by the catastrophes rooted from climate change. For more information, kindly view https://www.v-20.org/about/ 3 YTL GROUP Executive Chairman’s Letter to Stakeholders FROM THROWAWAY LIVING TO EXTENDED PRODUCER RESPONSIBILITY In 1955, Life published an article praising “Throwaway Living” and single use plastic. Following the invention of Parkesine in 1862 and then Bakelite in 1907, it was the perfect storm of an industrial revolution, rapid innovation and an increasingly upwardly mobile society. It was perhaps the turning point that led to the improved quality of life which is now polluting and poisoning us. Startling research published at the time of writing this letter revealed that one litre of Arctic snow could hold up to 10,000 particles of plastic, rubber and ship varnish micro fragments. Unless there are drastic and immediate changes in our industrial processes, habits and regulations, our legacy will be the Anthropocene era6, known for the rate of mass extinctions and deposits of waste. Businesses will need to start to see packaging as part of their inventory and as an asset class which should have value in the balance sheet throughout its active life in the supply chain. At the same time, individuals will need to see it as a valuable resource which must be treated with respect. Whilst technology is largely available, new business and financial models are urgently needed to keep products in use for longer. Designing and establishing circular supply chains is essential to ensure proper recycling and reuse which will eventually lead to reduction and elimination of Pictured are some of the SNAP (Say No to All Plastic) campaign initiatives at mining Earth’s resources. The only way forward is for producers YTL Hotels’ properties and retailers to design products with a full view of closing the loop on the entire supply chain. We will also continue to recycle where possible, as much more can be done in that regard throughout our operations. Countries and In YTL Group, we have committed to the elimination of single use cities are also moving forward. Shanghai has recently launched a plastic globally by 2025, and are now firmly headed in that direction bold and ambitious waste sorting scheme, and Japan has successfully with our Say No to All Plastic (SNAP) campaign which was rolled reduced waste headed to landfills to less than 5% of all municipal out earlier this year. We already have visibility on this goal with an waste after years of building a culture of recycling through taxes, estimated reduction of one million plastic water bottles and 200,000 subsidies, incentives and regulations. This has resulted in the straws from just a handful of our properties. creation of appropriate infrastructure. For example, in our hotels in Niseko, Hokkaido, we now recycle almost 100% of the waste, separating all waste into 17 different categories before sending to Estimated reduction of recycling and composting facilities. Meanwhile, already within reach one million of its target of zero waste to landfill by 2020, Wessex Water has reached 99.8%. 100% of its office waste is already diverted from plastic water bottles and 200,000 straws landfill, and the remaining 0.2% includes items such as contaminated soil and construction waste that are difficult to reuse or recycle. 6 The Anthropocene is the proposed epoch commencing from the start of significant human impact on Earth’s geology and ecosystems, including, but not limited to, anthropogenic climate change 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Executive Chairman’s Letter to Stakeholders PT YTL Jawa Timur’s FABA paving block production (left), used in one of the 680 biogas units (center) and reef blocks (right) near the power plant PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES Our people continue to be our key valued resource, and we have The biogas domes are now using paving blocks made of fly ash and made progress in meeting our goals of equal opportunity employment bottom ash (FABA) originating from our coal-fired power plant for and hiring people with disabilities which now numbers 63 across construction. YTL Group. As mentioned last year, education remains one of the cornerstones For communities where we operate, we also take our commitments of our strategic sustainable development and philanthropic initiatives, seriously. We have continued to extend the rural renewable energy and YTL Foundation has now completed 300 Frog Classrooms7 in programme in Java, Indonesia through PT YTL Jawa Timur’s (YTLJT) Malaysia. They also awarded the first scholarship to a visually efforts across off-grid communities who live in proximity to the impaired scholar, and have built two unique Frog Classrooms in power plant. The tally at the time of this report was 680 biogas Sepang and Perak, that cater to students with special needs and units (each with a capacity of 6 m ), 40 micro hydro units (each 3 learning disabilities. with between 2 – 5 kW), and 65 units of solar panels at 8.71 kWp. A very special classroom was built in Taiping for students with learning disabilities aged between seven and 14 years old, equipped with special toy racks, a pendulum swing, climbing wall, mini ball pit and fun slide 7 The Frog Classroom is an initiative by YTL Foundation in collaboration with FrogAsia, provider of the Frog Virtual Learning Environment. The Programme aims to transform classrooms in government schools throughout Malaysia into 21st century learning spaces that promote technology-enabled, student-focused learning 5 YTL GROUP Executive Chairman’s Letter to Stakeholders Part of the solar PV installation at YTL PowerSeraya power plant in Jurong Island, Singapore ENERGY AND GROWTH Global carbon emissions continue to rise, and in a series of papers from 2011 to 2015, T. J. Garrett, from the Department of Atmospheric Sciences, University of Utah, explains why. He simply says that the growth of human economy “cannot be decoupled” from energy consumption. The data shows that for every USD1 of economic growth, worldwide, human enterprise requires about 9.7 milliwatts (mW) of energy (± 0.3 mW). But these growth targets can be met in different and less harmful ways. For instance, ASEAN wants renewable energy to make up 23% of the region’s energy mix by 2025. As I mentioned in previous letters, the price of solar equipment has The six new enhanced fleet of KLIA Transit and KLIA Ekspres trains have won continued to fall, and YTL Group will continue to focus on ground ERL the “Project of the Year” at the prestigious Global AirRail Awards 2018 mounted and building integrated solar installations within its own assets. We have already installed 970.5 kWp on the roof of YTL PowerSeraya power plant in Singapore, with further expansion planned. This adds to our modest but growing portfolio of solar photovoltaic (PV) in Indonesia, and the UK which now boasts around 1.3 MW of installed capacity. In terms of further carbon mitigation, YTL PowerSeraya has replaced diesel vehicle with electric vehicle (EV), and YTLJT continues to expand its electric motorcycle use at Paiton and in Jakarta. Similarly we have expanded our EV fleets of light vehicles and motorbikes in the UK, Singapore and Indonesia. The KLIA Transit and KLIA Ekspres services now take over four million vehicles off the road every year, and reduces CO2 emissions by 24,000 tonnes. Electric vehicles seen here have been rolled out and are currently in operation at GENeco UK 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Executive Chairman’s Letter to Stakeholders CONCLUDING THOUGHTS Costa Rica is a good example of how a country and the companies that operate there can mitigate environmental impacts, a country with less than five million population. In 2015, Costa Rica pledged to become carbon neutral by 2021. Whilst this is mainly through sometimes controversial hydropower, they also plan to get rid of single use plastic by 2021 through legislation and cultural change. In a slightly more challenging area, they have managed to double their tropical rainforests in just a few decades as a result of reforestation of degraded land largely through tree planting and payments for environmental services. The ancient Greeks had a word for recycling palímpsēstos or palimpsest The “Bristol as a Future City” event tour bus seen here powered by biomethane “again scraped”, a compound word that literally means “scraped clean derived from human excretion and food waste processed at GENeco UK’s and ready to be used again”, and as early as the eighth century BC, anaerobic digestion plant facility in Avonmouth, Bristol, UK the book of Isaiah mentions both recycling and living harmoniously. Isaiah wrote “They will beat their swords into plowshares and their Wessex Water won the Queens Award for Sustainable Development spears into pruning hooks. Nation will not take up sword against for the third time, and their subsidiary GENeco UK celebrated their nation, nor will they train for war anymore. Come, descendants of tenth anniversary by replacing ten GENeco UK diesel vehicles with Jacob, let us walk in the light of the Lord.” (Isaiah 2:4) electric equivalents and the installation of associated infrastructure across four sites. At GENeco UK, we continue to grow our food There is still time for us to work together to halt and mitigate waste digestion facility, where biogas and fertiliser are sold to the environmental damage already done, and at the same time to cease grid and farmers respectively. Another strong example of innovation and prevent injustices perpetrated against one another. That time at Wessex Water is where nitrates are prevented from entering is now. I pray that we find the strength and courage to work together water sources by offsetting through the EnTrade platform, and the at this most challenging juncture in our planet’s recent history so introduction of the Wessex Water Marketplace, a hub where they that future generations will look back at our legacy in awe and not publish the outcomes needed, allowing the market to propose contempt. May God continue to guide us on our journey to Making solutions rather than asking for a price for a pre-determined answer. a Good Future Happen. TAN SRI DATO’ (DR) FRANCIS YEOH SOCK PING PSM, CBE, FICE, SIMP, DPMS, DPMP, JMN, JP By using EnTrade, Wessex Water has: Executive Chairman YTL Corporation Berhad 7 YTL GROUP About YTL Group [GRI 102-10, 102-49, 201-1] YTL Group is an integrated infrastructure developer with extensive operations in countries including Malaysia, the United Kingdom, Singapore, Indonesia, Australia, Japan, Jordan and China. The core businesses of YTL Group comprise utilities, construction, cement manufacturing and trading, property investment and development, hotel operations, information technology as well as e-commerce related business and management services and others. CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE The Key Resources and Value Proposition Contributing to the Focus on Key Business Domains Striving to Mitigate Our Impact Success of YTL Group FY2019 Revenue Utilities RM18.0 billion CO2e emissions8 FY2019 Profit After Tax Construction RM722.8 million FY2019 Cement Manufacturing Total Assets Energy9 and Trading RM76.7 billion Operating across Property Water10 3 Investment and continents Development FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index IT and e-Commerce (YTL Corp, YTLPI, Related Business Waste10 Malayan Cement) Employees Hotel Operations 13,753 Customers Management Health and Safety 20 million Services and Others 8 YTLJT, YTL PowerSeraya, Wessex Water 9 YTLJT, SGREIT, YTL PowerSeraya, Wessex Water 10 YTLJT, YTL PowerSeraya, SGREIT 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 About YTL Group MAKING A GOOD FUTURE HAPPEN Our pillars remain as Marketplace, Environment, People and Community. Sustainability sits at the heart of everything we do, and operating sustainably is an integral and vital component of our business strategy. Our goal is to provide our customers with world-class products and services that meet or exceed their expectations whilst minimising the harmful impacts on the environment and local communities. It is also a reminder that the journey towards a truly sustainable future continues for us and our stakeholders. Continuous Value Creation towards Making 11,441 a Good Future Happen kilotonnes of 94 kilotonnes of Scope 2 total CO2e emissions 2 emissions 90.6% spent on local vendors Marine and Wildlife 11,216 131 kilotonnes 1 kilotonnes of 3 of Scope 3 Scope 1 emissions11 19 young and adult 42,226 turtle Partnership with emissions turtles rescued eggs rescued RCM & LTTW Clean Resources 962 GWh of energy consumption Treats & 1,381 kWp 95.3 kW 248,200 m³ supplies 280 capacity of solar capacity of domestic 3.1 million m3 203,994 m3 million litres of power hydro power biogas water a day installed12 installed produced13 of water of water consumption recycled 480 Employ 63 people interns with disabilities Average training expenditure per employee 114,169 tonnes 110,273 tonnes 90,563 tonnes of total solid of hazardous of waste waste generated waste generated diverted from YTL Jawa Timur SGREIT YTL PowerSeraya Wessex Water landfill INR1,326,083 SGD773 SGD279 GBP881 On average higher than in 2018 expenditure by 22% per employee Community Investment Wessex Water: 9 RIDDOR14 Man-days Lost: > 400 scholarships 300 Frog Benefitting Installed 16.54 kWp reportable incidents Wessex Water: 201 awarded since Classrooms >2,300 people solar panels for off1955 through the grid communities15 YTL PowerSeraya: 20.1 lost YTL PowerSeraya: 19 provision of clean time injury incidents water access 11 YTL PowerSeraya, Wessex Water 14 RIDDOR is the UK law that requires employees, and other people in control of work 12 YTLJT, YTL PowerSeraya, Wessex Water premises, to report and keep records of work-related accidents 13 YTLJT (since the inception of the Alternative Energy Development 15 YTLJT, YTLPI (AED) programme) 9 YTL GROUP About YTL Group MANAGING MATERIAL RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES We believe that the price of energy should reflect the total environmental costs of consumption, allowing market economics to lead the shift to cleaner alternatives and new technologies. Significant action is needed in the shortterm to mitigate the causes of climate change and begin adapting to the negative risks and actual impacts. Our green revenue numbers continue to increase as our commitment to support the Malaysian Government’s vision towards a Climate green growth economy and building a clean energy future. We will continue to reduce the carbon footprint across Change our operations through energy efficiency, and investment in renewable energy and green technology. Our businesses are largely concentrated in highly-regulated industry sectors. We ensure compliance with various national laws in Malaysia, Singapore, the UK, Indonesia, China, Australia, Japan and other overseas markets in which YTL Group has operations and business activities, as well as adhering to environmental and social regulations. We regularly engage and communicate with governments, regulators and authorities to ensure we understand and Political, mitigate the potential adverse impacts of any new or proposed changes. Risks arising from falling short in addressing Economic, these material issues may result in negative public perception of the Company, and non-compliance with regulations Environmental may result in penalties by the authorities. We attempt to mitigate the effects of the risks through enhancing and Regulatory YTL Group’s governance by instituting comprehensive and more stringent policies and procedures in areas such as finance, procurement, human resources, risk management and environment across YTL Group. Our business is exposed to the financial and sovereign risks arising from investments locally and abroad. We maintain a stringent due diligence process to evaluate and manage the potential risks and impacts on the financial performance of YTL Group. We have a robust framework to assess risks and aim to balance the short and long-term interests in our investments. For investment decisions, we consider the economic, social and environmental risks as well as the Financial and political, sovereign and technical risks and their potential opportunities. In May 2019, YTL Cement acquired a 51% Investment stake in Malayan Cement (formerly known as Lafarge Malaysia) to complement its existing core business activities. This also resulted in increased exposure in an attractive industry with robust long-term growth potential. Strategic talent reviews and succession planning occur on a planned basis annually across all businesses. Failure to identify the right skills for the right places will impact retention of talent and our ability to operate effectively. We provide equal opportunity employment and attractive performance-based rewards for all, ensuring that our people are given sufficient support to grow and contribute to our Company’s development. We believe that attracting, Human Capital developing, motivating and retaining talent are key elements of our sustainable and profitable growth. We continue to demonstrate our commitment to operational excellence, which is the foundation to any success we achieve. The health, safety and well-being of our employees, contractors and suppliers may affect their performance and productivity. Whilst we have systems, procedures and processes in place to ensure safe and healthy working conditions for all, we have identified areas where our management approach could be enhanced to reduce possible adverse impacts and associated risks such as improved working conditions across our diverse operations. Moreover, there is Health, Safety a need to establish a system to assess our suppliers’ upstream activities for social and environmental impacts and and manage associated risks in the future. We continue to maintain industry leading safety performance standards and Well-being continue to deliver a strong health, safety and welfare culture for our employees and contractors in our daily operations. Digital transformation has gradually been recognised as an important enabler for innovation. It encourages and promotes unmatched opportunities and capabilities in business growth and value creation. With the increase of global cyber security threats and the potential for losses due to technology failures, data breaches or obsolete technology, YTL Group recognises the need to strengthen our cyber resiliency and crisis management capabilities. Misalignment between businesses and digital risk strategies, may lead to inappropriate prioritisation, missed opportunities, data Digital leakages and restricted business value. We adopt robust measures and technical knowledge by leveraging the power Transformation of Artificial Intelligence (AI), the Internet of Things (IoT) and blockchain to ensure cyber risks are mitigated effectively, connecting our businesses to the world securely and thereby further enhancing our brand reputation and competitive advantage in the marketplace. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 About YTL Group AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Ruth Yeoh has been awarded; Y  TL Corporation won Platinum Award at The Global CSR Award 2019 in the category of “Excellence in Provision of Literacy and Education” for FrogAsia’s – The Singapore Ministry of National Development (MND) Medallion 2019 outstanding initiatives in education and vocational training for teachers for her significant contribution and service to the MND Family of agencies – Asia's Top Sustainability Superwomen Award 2018, an accolade to honour and recognise the inspiring efforts of women in Asia who are leading change within and outside their organisation, at the forefront of sustainability leadership Express Rail Link won the “Project of the Year” award at the prestigious Global  TL Hotels won Company of the Year Hospitality at CSR Malaysia Awards Y AirRail Awards 2018 in recognition of their new fleet of trains with enhanced 2019 for championing environmental conservation and restoration initiatives features, better comfort and greater efficiency YTL Jawa Timur was awarded PROPER Green Rating for their outstanding environmental W  essex Water received the UK Institute of Water Innovation Awards 2019 for their “Sewer Renovation performance in 2018. This is their 12th times ‘Re-rounder’ Robotics” campaign winning since 2006, including two gold ratings for the years 2013 and 2016 11 YTL GROUP Our Approach to Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK [GRI 102-16] YTL Group believes that as an integrated infrastructure developer and utility conglomerate, there is an inherent need to play the role of catalyst in the country’s development agenda. Aligned with our four pillars of sustainability, we consistently reinforce embedding sustainability into our business DNA so that we can adhere to our mission of Building The Right Thing (BTRT) in keeping with our sustainability vision of Making a Good Future Happen. The following value-added Sustainability Framework forms the basis of our longterm sustainable business practices. YTL Group Sustainability Framework Brand Values MORAL Building the HONESTY HARD WORK TOGETHERNESS VITALITY RESPONSIBILITY right thing Sustainability Commitment Making a good future happen EMBRACING THE PROTECTION OF THE EMPOWERING ENRICHING MARKETPLACE ENVIRONMENT OUR PEOPLE COMMUNITIES Aligned to Sustainable Development Goals Our efforts towards incorporating sustainability into our day-to-day operations are aligned with five of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), YTL Group Corporate Statements (Human Rights and Ethics, Environment, Health and Safety, and Commitment to Ethical Purchasing), as well as Code of Conduct and Ethics. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE [GRI 102-11, 102-16, 102-18, 202-2] YTL Group has been committed to setting the highest standards of corporate governance in all our dealings. This level of corporate governance and the creation of economic, social, and environmental value for all stakeholders are mutually dependent and critical to business integrity and the creation of sustainable businesses. At YTL Group, the Board of Directors (the Board) are at the core of its corporate governance practices and oversee how management delivers sustainable value to its stakeholders. YTL governance framework is guided by the principles and recommendations of the new third edition of Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG) 2017, and the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (Bursa Malaysia). Further details are set out in the Corporate Governance Overview Statement and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in YTL Corp’s Annual Report 2019. The Annual Report and YTL Corp’s Corporate Governance Report 2019 can be downloaded from our website at www.ytl.com, as well as the website of Bursa Malaysia at www.bursamalaysia.com. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Our Approach to Sustainability YTL Group Corporate Governance Principles Review and adopt Oversee the Identify principal Succession Oversee the Review the strategic plans for conduct of YTL risks affecting YTL planning development and adequacy and YTL Group Group’s business Group businesses implementation of integrity of YTL operations against and maintain a shareholder/ Group management economic, sound system of stakeholder information and environmental and internal control and communication internal control social performance mitigation policies systems measures YTL Group Sustainability Governance Structure Composition of Governance Body, by Gender Female Female Board Of Directors 3 86 Annual reporting Board of Senior Executive Chairman Directors Management Male Male Bi-annual reporting Ongoing 9 257 YTL Group Composition of Governance Body, by Age Group Sustainability Sustainability Division (<30) Committee (YTL GSC) (50-59) (>60) 10 3 75 (30-39) Quarterly reporting 76 Sustainability Senior Board of Champions Management Directors Quarterly reporting (>60) (40-49) (50-59) Business Units/ 9 92 90 Group Functional Support Divisions 82% Proportion of locally hired in our senior management STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT [GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44] YTL Group emphasises being receptive to its entire stakeholder spectrum. Over the years, the Company’s materiality and stakeholder mapping, and prioritisation has evolved, allowing us to re-align strategy on the most pertinent and material issues identified by internal and external stakeholders. The following table covers a list of key stakeholder groups, various methods of engagement, key issues raised, and how we respond to them. 13 YTL GROUP Our Approach to Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement for YTL Group Stakeholder Modes of Key Concerns Our Frequency Groups Engagement Raised by Stakeholder Strategy • Intranet, newsletters and Annually, • Corporate vision and core values • Opportunity for career broadcasts Quarterly, • Business strategy and direction development • Town halls and Leadership Ongoing • Reward and recognition • Employee benefits and Conference • Training and career development medical coverage Employees • Trainings • Welfare and benefits • BTRT initiatives • Annual performance appraisal • Respect of human rights and • #YTLBiggie • Recreational and team-building ethics • Peer-to-peer sharing sessions • Workplace health and safety session • Code of Conduct and Ethics • Website and social media Ongoing • Product and service quality • General Data Protection • Marketing and promotional • Competitive pricing Regulation (GDPR) programmes and events • Customer experience • Innovative product • Feedback channels such as • Safety and security • Reliable customer service Customers emails, phone calls, hotlines • Appreciation events and surveys • Product launches and roadshows • Annual General Meetings Annually, • Economic performance • Appreciation events • Investor relations events Quarterly, • Company growth and value chain • Supply chain seminars • Annual reports Ongoing • Business strategy and direction • FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia • Analyst briefings Index Shareholders and • Website updates • Consistent profit Investors generation • Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2017 • Regular meetings and site Ongoing • Sharing best practices • Increased compliance visits • Compliance with rules and audits • Product launches and regulations • Appreciation events Suppliers, roadshows • Health and safety excellence • Supply chain seminars Business Partners • Supplier briefings and trainings • Fair treatment of suppliers and • Code of Conduct and and • Supplier assessment system business partners Ethics Industry Groups • Workshops and networking • Ethical and responsible conduct functions • Opportunities for business collaboration • Official meetings and visits Ongoing • Compliance with rules and • Public-Private Partnership • Industry events and seminars regulations • Foreign investment Government and • Opportunities for business Regulators investment • Community investment • Press releases Ongoing • Economic performance • Regular media • Official launches and corporate • Company growth and value chain engagements Media events • Business strategy and direction • Announcement of • Media coverage • New projects and future quarterly Financial Results • Website and social media prospects • Community outreach Ongoing • Minimising environmental and • Corporate donations and programmes social impacts fundraising Communities • Charitable contributions • Community investments including • Corporate social • Website and social media donations and fundraising responsibilities volunteering programmes • Support local SMEs 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Our Approach to Sustainability MATERIALITY [GRI 102-47] We periodically update the assessment to ensure it remains current, accurate, reflective and relevant to our businesses. This helps us to assess the current environmental, social, and governance aspects that are priorities for YTL Group to continue communication, reporting and engagement on these areas internally and externally. We have observed that the eight material issues have remained top priorities on our sustainability agenda and relevant to our businesses and stakeholders. This was already forecast in our 2017 assessment, and our matrix has remained largely unchanged. YTL Group Materiality Matrix Legends: Materiality Assessment 1 Compliance 1 Process 2 Economic Performance 3 3 Customer Privacy 2 4 4 Health and Safety Identification of ESG Issues 6 5 5 Market Presence Importance to Stakeholders 8 High 7 6 Effluent and Waste 13 12 7 Local Communities 14 11 10 9 15 8 Emissions Stakeholders Engagement 17 9 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 17 18 16 10 Energy 19 11 Water Analysis and Prioritisation 20 12 Anti-Competitive Behaviour of Findings Medium 13 Marketing and Labelling 14 Biodiversity 15 Human Rights 16 Training and Education Validation and Review 17 Employment 18 Indirect Economic Impacts 19 Materials Board Sign-Off 20 Supply Chain Low Medium High Importance to YTL Group Our Sustainability and SDGs Commitment At YTL Group, we are proud to take a leading role in advancing the SDGs by aligning with five (5) of these goals which have now become a priority for the Company. Through innovative solutions from our people, we will strive to create economic, social, and environmental value as part of our management strategy. We also endeavour to reduce negative social and environmental impacts resulting from our businesses, and seek a deeper understanding of business risks arising from social and environmental changes to ensure greater sturdiness against them. Specifically, for the material issues, the correlation is as follows: YTL Group’s Material Issues and Correlation with SDGs Local Communities Compliance Effluent and Effluent and Waste Effluent and Economic Performance Waste Emissions Waste Customer Privacy Emissions Health and Safety Market Presence 15 EMBRACING THE MARKETPLACE Reinforcing YTL Group’s reputation as a trust-based organisation that upholds and advocates the highest ethical, sustainable and responsible business practices Our Commitment • Delivering profitable growth through effective risk management and compliance • Maintaining responsible supply chains and procurement processes • Advocating responsible stewardship of resources, products and services Our • Investing in sustainable solutions and innovations Approach • Actively engaging with business partners, customers and communities Aligned To • Six blended cement products certified under SIRIM Eco-Labelling Scheme and Singapore Environment Council’s Green Labelling Scheme • 90.6% of total procurement value was with local vendors • YTL Communications, YTL PowerSeraya and YTL Power Highlights Services are certified with ISO 27001 Information Security Management YTL GROUP Embracing the Marketplace [GRI 102-9, 204-1, 418-1] In keeping with “Building the Right Thing”, our brand values are the Effective Risk Management essence of defining who we are, and what we do. It is also the We are committed to maintain a sound risk management system compass that points us in the right direction. At YTL Group, we to ensure significant risks are identified and adequately managed. commit to managing the key elements of our operations which extend As part of good corporate governance, we have a risk management beyond regulatory compliance. We constantly review our business framework which allows the management teams to handle risks practices and focus on creating long-term sustainable growth for within defined parameters and standards in order to enhance our stakeholders in markets and industries where we operate. stakeholder value. A holistic risk management process has been carried out through regular risk review analysis, internal control systems and adherence to YTL Group’s risk management policies. Going forward, we will continue to; Further details are set out in the Corporate Governance Overview K eep data security and privacy prioritised at the highest level; Statement and Statement on Risk Management and Internal Reinforce sustainable practices across our operations and supply Control in YTL Corporation Berhad (YTL Corp)’s Annual Report chains; 2019. The Annual Report and YTL Corp’s Corporate Governance Report 2019 can be downloaded from our website. Produce world-class products and services at competitive prices. Data Security and Privacy GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE To safeguard the conﬁdentiality, integrity and availability of data of our customers, employees and other stakeholders, we have OUR GOAL: To promote good business practices and integrated all data privacy and cyber security related initiatives into governance whilst minimising impacts from risks our daily operations. We have also taken stringent measures to address possible gaps and minimise the risks of data breaches from At the heart of our business, we continue to deliver growth and cyber threats. In 2018, we updated our Global Privacy Policy17, which value for our stakeholders in order to sustain our business over the is mandated for all employees. long run. Our aim is to achieve the highest possible standards of corporate governance and ethical performance. During the year under review, there were no material customer privacy breaches SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN or non-compliance incidents involving fraud, bribery or money laundering offences. OUR GOAL: To promote responsible and sustainable supply chains Business Ethics and Compliance Managing supply chains in a sustainable manner is of utmost priority Following our introduction of Corporate Statement in 2016, we in our business operations. We believe that collaboration with socially released a new Code of Conduct and Ethics 16 (the Code) as a responsible and environmentally conscious business partners, manifestation of our commitment to business ethics and compliance. contractors and suppliers is the way forward to gain a competitive The Code provides greater clarity and guidance on high ethical edge in the global marketplace. standards in all business dealings. It is communicated to all employees, business partners and suppliers and we expect everyone to behave responsibly, be accountable and to act in compliance with the laws, rules and regulations. 16 Please view our Code of Conduct and Ethics at http://www.ytl.com/governance.asp 17 Please view our Global Privacy Policy at http://www.ytl.com/privacypolicy.asp for more information on how we manage data and communications 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Embracing the Marketplace All vendors are required to abide by ethical procurement standards PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AND INNOVATION and principles stipulated in the procurement policies and YTL Group Corporate Statement on ethical purchasing18, such as business OUR GOAL: To provide innovative and sustainable ethics, confidentiality, human rights and labour practices, health, solutions as well as a satisfactory experience to customers safety and environmental compliance. Vendors’ performance is regularly monitored and we conduct several informal checks at Staying committed to producing world-class products and services sites. Any non-compliance will result in a warning notice which may without compromising quality, whilst delivering exceptional customer lead to penalties and/or termination of contract(s). service and to treat our partners with respect. From design to the customer experience, sustainability and innovation are embedded We ensure high quality control, screening and assessment takes into our business strategy. We strive to cater to those needs through place in all our purchasing, production, and distribution networks. a variety of engagement channels and initiatives, in order to post We continue to work closely with our partners and vendors to technological advancement and progressive value propositions to communicate our evolving product and service needs. YTL Group. During the year under review, Wessex Water performed a thorough Malaysia gap analysis against the sustainable procurement standard ISO 20400 which was verified by an independent expert. Taking Revitalising Sentul Depot recommendations forward, Wessex Water has enhanced good work already undertaken in the business and developed a pre-qualification The unveiling of Sentul Depot by YTL Land & Development (YTL question bank for use during the supplier tender process. L&D) in September 2018 aligns with the Company’s vision of harnessing the rich heritage and cultural background of Sentul which grew from Sourcing Locally a humble railway community into a microcosm of Malaysian living, humming with vibrance, colour and urban texture. A gesture of Operating in different countries, we purchase materials locally to breathing new life into the space and sharing it with the community support the local economies, although we do not have a policy that was in collaboration with RIUH, a creative local platform that hosts specifically favours locally based vendors. We still uphold the spirit a curation of homegrown brands, and champions the work of Malaysian of meritocracy by providing everyone with equal access to creative entrepreneurs, artisans and artists. The unveiling was opportunities. This indicates that we support domestic economic perfectly timed with the 2018 Malaysia Day weekend as Malaysians growth, generate local employment opportunities and improve the celebrated 55 years of the formation of Malaysia. capacity of our workforce in each respective country. At the same time, we have the opportunity to reduce our environmental impacts and support positive social change across our supply chains through responsible sourcing. In FY2019, an average of 90.6% of our total procurement value was spent on local vendors. Proportion of Spending on Local Vendors* Local Overseas Total Percentage (%) 95 5 100 Percentage (%) 99 1 100 T  he collaboration with RIUH in unveiling Sentul Depot is a testament of Percentage (%) 78 22 100 aspirational hope for continuous corporate support towards the local creative ecosystem, the inspiring local entrepreneurship movement and the spirit of togetherness in the community. The event drew over 18,000 visitors across Note: all ages and walks of life over the weekend * Data covers YTL PowerSeraya, Wessex Water and YTL Jawa Timur 18 Introduced in 2016, please view our corporate statement on ethical purchasing at http://www.ytl.com/sustainability/corporatestatement.asp 19 YTL GROUP Embracing the Marketplace YTL L&D’s vision for the urban regeneration of Sentul is all This technology utilises existing street furniture to enable the rapid encompassing. The Company remains committed to its long-term deployment of fibre level connectivity without the need to build plan and strategy to provide the impetus for the regeneration of more telco towers or to open up roads to lay fibre which is both Sentul West and Sentul East under an ambitious urban renewal costly and environmentally impactful. Terragraph is also extremely masterplan. It has realised the transformation of Sentul, once the green – a single Terragraph node consumes the same amount of hub of Malaya’s railway industry, into Kuala Lumpur’s newest address electricity as an LED street lamp. for residential, commercial and cosmopolitan activities. YTL L&D has also been honoured with industry awards and recognition, With strong support from the Penang State Government, YTL Comms attesting to its drive and commitment in creating living environments has built the largest Terragraph network in the world. Given the that are sustainable, engaging and inviting resulting in landmark world heritage city status, George Town is understandably a city communities for future generations. with valuable heritage infrastructure. In line with YTL Group’s motto of “Building the Right Thing”, YTL Comms undertook the effort to repair city infrastructure as part of the Terragraph deployment. Whilst we look to the future of gigabit wireless technologies such as Terragraph and 5G, YTL Comms believes that no one should be left behind in the country’s aspiration to becoming a connected broadband nation. Towards that end, YTL Comms took the position of leadership to tackle the challenges faced by millions of Malaysians living or working in existing buildings with copper wire infrastructure. To Date: 450 Penang Island City Council (MBPP) streetlight poles and 35 teeter pillars remediated to allow for the safe and stable  he historical Sentul Depot located at the heart of Sentul West was Kuala T supply of electricity; Lumpur’s best kept secret until it was unveiled again in its 113-year history. The depot with its stunning colonial-brickwork is rich in heritage and history dating back to 1905. It used to be the largest complex of railway workshops Physical inspection and electrical ‘health which once served the Federated Malay States Railways in the early 1900s check’ as well as isolation of electrical phases up to the KTM era in the early 2000s for existing lamps and new Terragraph nodes for all 450 units of streetlight poles; Staying Connected in Heritage Sites Replacement of faulty existing underground 2019 has been a banner year of innovation in our telecommunications power cables with new overhead power business. YTL Communications (YTL Comms) started the year with cables of up to 3,000 m in length for 50 units of streetlight poles; the launch of the first Terragraph market pilot in Asia. This gigabit wireless network, built together with Facebook Connectivity, has 150 units of streetlight poles with delivered fibre-grade wireless broadband to the historic city of broken pole service boards reinstalled George Town, Penang. It has powered free public WiFi in 50 popular with new pole service boards; and landmarks in the UNESCO world heritage city. As of August 2019, over 26,000 unique users were able to experience world-class public WiFi service with a peak downlink speed of 170 Mbps. This 450 new sets of neutral link bars replaced broken and faulty advanced millimeter wireless network also delivers fibre-grade fixed neutral link bars. wireless broadband to 120 local businesses that allowed them to leapfrog with up to 50 times improvement in speed against existing Internet providers. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Embracing the Marketplace Introduced to Malaysia by YTL Comms, Gigawire is a breakthrough technology that enables heritage buildings to enjoy fibre level Cashless Transactions broadband performance without the need to rewire their existing copper cable infrastructure. YTL Comms has successfully integrated Gigawire with Terragraph to bring fibre level speeds to existing 2019 47% 5% buildings that has opened up tremendous flexibility for the Company to serve many households and businesses struggling with their 2018 42% existing copper based xDSL19 Internet service. YTL Comms has taken industry leadership to support the government’s Total Ridership to Date vision of the National Fiberisation and Connectivity Plan which aims Exceeded to improve broadband quality and coverage, whilst reducing the price of broadband and enabling Internet access for all. 100,000,000 As part of YTL Group’s effort in providing better safety and security riders for its townships and development, YTL Auxiliary Police Command Centre (The Centre) was launched in collaboration with YTL Comms and Royal Malaysia Police. The Centre is equipped with sophisticated Number of Fleets during Peak Hour communications technology backed by Artificial Intelligent (AI) technology Yes Vision from YTL Comms which uses the real-time video analytics and an integrated communications system to create 11 12 a comprehensive surveillance and response capability. This allows Our hospitality arm, YTL Hotels’ objective is to provide a geographical Auxiliary Police Officers to augment and be more effective in their diversification and expansion of YTL Group’s revenue base through responses which ultimately improves the overall safety of the greenfield developments and strategic acquisitions. Marriott community. International launched a new programme in August 2018 which replaces and unifies the previous loyalty brands – Marriott Rewards Digitisation for Seamless Customer Experience (JW Marriott Kuala Lumpur), The Ritz-Carlton Rewards (The RitzOur transportation arm, Express Rail Link (ERL) has embarked on Carlton Kuala Lumpur) and Starwood Preferred Guest whilst “Go Cashless on Public Transport” campaign by forming digital maintaining the higher membership tier in the previous loyalty partnerships with various contactless cards, travel agents, airlines, programmes. This allows YTL Hotels’ guests to exercise their e-commerce platforms and digital/mobile wallets to provide a membership benefits across Marriott International brands without seamless ticketing service experience for travellers. These digital the need to maintain multiple memberships. In Australia, Brisbane partnerships target to promote the reach of ERL’s services to Marriott Hotel and Melbourne Marriott Hotel conducted a series of travellers globally and offer the ease of use and convenience to customer engagement initiatives including a hotel open day, customer their valued customers. Concurrently, ERL also enhanced the train appreciation week, corporate travel shows and hotel reinvention service’s ability to maintain the published timetable by increasing to showcase the hotels to the customers, at the same time showing the number of fleets on the mainline during peak hours. It has appreciation for their support whilst encouraging more business effectively decreased over-carried fleets during the period which and partnership opportunities. contributed to the reduction of delay departures and train or system technical failures in ERL’s operation. In 2018, ERL introduced six The Majestic Hotel Kuala Lumpur new KLIA Ekspres and KLIA Transit trains which offer better features, Certified by ISO 22000 Food Safety better comfort and greater efficiency to customers and operators. Management Systems This enhanced fleet of trains have won the Project of the Year 2018 at the prestigious Global AirRail Awards 2018. Total Number of YTL Hotels’ Properties 36 19 xDSL refer to broadband access technologies based on Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) technology 21 YTL GROUP Embracing the Marketplace Effective Stakeholder Engagement with Local Community Since July 2018, the Company initiated multiple stakeholder engagements to raise awareness on the EDTP, both from the federal SIPP Rail and Syarikat Pembenaan Yeoh Tiong Lay formed a macro perspective as well as the state micro perspective. The consortium to undertake the civil works to upgrade all stations and engagement activities cover areas that are within the project sites tracks from Gemas covering four main districts in Johor which are with some stretching to areas nearby including Segamat, Labis and Segamat, Kluang, Kulai and Johor Bahru under the Gemas-Johor Kluang. The Company also held several school engagement activities Bahru Electrified Double Track Project (EDTP). The main objectives to provide knowledge and safety tips near EDTP’s construction of this project are to improve the quality of rail infrastructure and areas and to introduce KTMB as an affordable rail transport choice rail safety for operation as well as to provide better quality, improved for people and freight. More details can be found in the “Community” safety and passenger-friendly train services. section. Gemas – Johor Bahru Electrified Double Track Project Stakeholder Engagements Approximately 1,520 people attended 11 stations & tracks to be upgraded School Engagements T  o compliment Electrified Train Service (ETS) Four schools and around 500 students were briefed on Safety T  o improve the quality of rail infrastructure & rail safety Tips Near Construction Area whilst KTMB & Anda outreach programme engaged with 150 members of the public Enhancing Innovation and Quality Standards YTL Cement has executed a Quality and Innovation Programme to improve product quality and enhance innovation through collaboration. Their quality and product development committee members meet every two months to discuss the product quality and innovation through the sharing of ideas, experience and expertise. As a result, YTL Cement managed to improve the quality of various products, whilst optimising the cost of production, energy consumption and carbon footprint. In May 2019, YTL Cement acquired a 51% stake in Malayan Cement  pproximately 300 people attending the stakeholder engagement event at A Dewan Serbaguna Taman Pelangi, Paya Pulai, Johor (formerly known as Lafarge Malaysia) to complement its existing core business activities and synergising the operational efficiencies in logistics, distribution and procurement as well as cost synergies realised from economies of scale. This will enhance the ability to offer customers a full range of cement products, and further develop their research and development capabilities to innovate and expand YTL Group’s range of cementitious product offerings. Construction Development Lab and Technical Centre Certified by ISO 17025 Testing and Calibration Laboratories A  project brief at Dewan Orang Ramai Rengam, Kluang which covers the introduction of EDTP to the local community was graced by YB Dr Maszlee Malik, Member of Parliament for Simpang Renggam (center) 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Embracing the Marketplace United Kingdom Singapore For You. For Life. Power to Empower Wessex Water remains one of the top performers in the water Our power generator, YTL PowerSeraya launched Geneco SG, the sector for customers. The Consumer Council for Water, UK confirmed integrated brand for both its business and consumer energy portfolios that Wessex Water had the lowest number of complaints among in 2018. Geneco SG draws its eco-friendly ethos from GENeco UK the water and sewerage companies. to achieve YTL PowerSeraya’s aim of building a sustainable energy future for Singapore. Tailored Assistance Programme O  ffers tailored solutions on customer Following the liberalisation of the retail electricity market in Singapore affordability problems (in particular to the residential segment) that was rolled out in B  enefitted >43,000 customers phases starting Nov 2018, Geneco SG was able to offer several competitive electricity plans catering to the needs of different In September 2018, Wessex Water consulted with more than households. This included green electricity plans for their customers 140,000 customers through surveys and independent focus groups as an option to opt for environmentally friendly plans through offfor their views on bills and services. The outcome of the surveys setting their carbon footprint on electricity consumption or purchasing was positive and a staggering GBP1.4 billion will be invested over green electricity. In addition, Geneco SG collaborated with a leading five years in areas such as tackling leakage to ensure customers Singapore telco, Singtel to offer a range of electricity plans sold have reliable services through renewing ageing pipes, protecting through Singtel Power which helps households to save up to 30% homes from flooding and improving the environment. Meanwhile, on electricity bills. These partnerships allow Geneco SG to drive customer bills, before inflation, will be lower in 2025 than they are their ‘Power the Change’ vision in order to build a sustainable energy today. This is possible as Wessex Water is delivering things in a future for Singapore. different way; through innovation, using state-of-the-art technology and working with others, the Company is able to make substantial investments whilst still reducing customer bills. Wessex Water has forecast a surplus of water supply over demand for the full, 25-year planning period and sets out ambitious proposals to extend their water efficiency work with customers, pursue greater levels of metering and deliver leakage reductions of 15% in the first five years of the plan. Their initiative includes an introduction of a robotic technology in trenchless sewer repairs by using the robot, “Re-rounder” to re-round 150 mm diameter sewer pipes which have suffered up to 25% deformation. Following two years of development and testing, the Re-rounder is now in use throughout the Wessex Water’s network and won Wessex Water the UK Institute of Water National Innovation Awards 2019. An employee of Geneco SG explaining the green electricity plan to a customer To improve customer service and experience, Starhill Global REIT (SGREIT) conducts annual tenant surveys to gather feedback from all their tenants to analyse and identify potential gaps, areas of improvement and appropriate follow-up actions. SGREIT’s proactive approach has ensured that they are able to achieve high satisfaction levels at all stages of services to their tenants. As a result, the surveys show more than 90% satisfaction levels given by both the office and retail tenants.  essex Water deployed ten unmanned aerial vehicles, fitted with leak-spotting W thermal imaging cameras, to help them in detecting leaking pipes during cold spells 23 PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT Integrating responsible and sustainable environmental strategies into our core business decisions to protect and enrich the natural environment for future generations Our Commitment • Reducing GHG emissions • Promoting energy efficiency and development of renewable energy • Improving water efficiency • Optimising resource efficiency Our • Managing waste streams including reduction, responsible disposal, reuse and Approach recycling • Conserving and enhancing terrestrial and marine biodiversity and ecosystems Aligned To • Installed 1,381 kWp solar photovoltaic across YTL Group • Pledged Zero Single Use Plastic by 2025 • Rescued 19 turtles and saved 42,226 turtle eggs from Highlights being sold for human consumption YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment [GRI 302-1, 302-2,302-4, 303-5, 304-1, 304-2, 304-3, 304-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7, 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 307-1] As a responsible conglomerate, we strive to conduct our businesses ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND and operations in an environmentally responsible manner. We adopt COMPLIANCE a holistic approach to continuously improve our environmental performance and avoid any potential adverse environmental impacts We are committed to the highest environmental standards to from our operations, in order to exist in harmony with nature. minimise environmental impacts of our operations, from raw material Protection of the environment is ingrained in all our employees and extraction to waste generation. Reduction targets are set by value system through commitments spelled out in our Corporate respective business units within YTL Group. Environmental Statement on Environment, and the newly released Code of Conduct performance management and regulatory compliance are a part of and Ethics – Responsible Corporate Citizen. Both20 are easily accessible our key metrics. on our corporate website for all employees and the public. All our key business units are certified under ISO 9001 Quality We continuously work to improve efficiency and reduce emissions Management Systems, ISO 14001 Environmental Management from our operations, and at the same time, reduce our water use Systems (EMS) and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety and waste generation to ensure productivity and value for our Management Systems. YTL Cement and YTL Jawa Timur (YTLJT) stakeholders. Our efforts have resulted in a growing portfolio of attained ISO 50001 Energy Management Systems (EnMS) certification, green investments, environmental technologies, solutions and whilst YTL PowerSeraya, YTL Starhill Global REIT Management innovations, carbon mitigation measures, resource efficiency and (YSGRM), the Manager of Starhill Global REIT (SGREIT), as well as waste management, as well as biodiversity conservation programmes YTL Starhill Global Property Management were awarded the Project across YTL Group. We strive to play a leading role by openly sharing Eco-Office certification for their green efforts and practices at best practices with our stakeholders. workplace. To facilitate and ensure effective implementation of environmental Going forward, we will continue to; management, training and awareness programmes are planned and conducted for all our employees. Topics include health, safety and Reduce carbon footprint by improving energy efficiency, venturing environment (HSE) policies and operating procedures, environmental into renewable energy and investing in green technology emergency preparedness and response, waste recycling, energy saving and water use. Optimise resource efficiency and embrace circular solutions and economy Over many years of operations, Wessex Water has experienced E  liminate avoidable single use plastic some unwanted spillage or environmental pollution despite having proper preventive measures in place. In November 2018, Wessex Engage with employees, business partners, suppliers, customers Water was fined GBP975,000 as a consequence of discharging and communities through environmental initiatives and awareness more than 142,000 cubic metres (m3) of sewage into Swanage Bay programmes during two accidental spills in 2016 and 2017. The root cause of Preserve and enrich the population of endangered and threatened the non-compliant events was the extreme weather that impeded species on land and below water the functions of the water recycling centre in Swanage, greatly reducing the capability of the centre to perform as designed that On 6 August 2019, Sydney Harbour Marriott signed an official eventually led to the discharge of untreated wastewater into the agreement of Sustainable Destination Partnership, which is a sea. Wessex Water took this incident seriously by investing GBP3 specific plan that gathers accommodation and entertainment million in an additional treatment plant and keeping the Environment sectors to make Sydney a sustainable destination by committing Agency well informed on the mitigation measures taken. to the 2030 targets: 70% reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and net zero emissions by 2050 Zero increase in potable water use 90% diversion of waste from landfill 20 Please view our Corporate Statement on Environment at http://www.ytl.com/sustainability/corporatestatement.asp and our Code of Conduct and Ethics at http://www.ytl.com/governance.asp 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment Earth Hour Advocacy 2019 For many years, we have been supporting Earth Hour by encouraging all our business units to do more than just switching off the lights. This year, our business units conducted a number of events in conjunction with Earth Hour 2019, targeted to raise awareness on climate change and possible mitigation measures. This year, we managed to determine how much electricity and carbon emissions were saved from the one-hour lights-off. Data was collected from respective business units on the type, capacity and number of lights that were switched off during the event. A total energy of 332,553 watt-hour (Wh) was saved, equivalent to emission reductions of 227.7 kilogrammes of carbon dioxide equivalent (kg CO2e). For a week, Wisma Atria in Singapore hosted a JW  Marriott Kuala Lumpur (JWMKL) conducted a  TLJT ran a Bike to Nature campaign, as part of Y roadshow for World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) candlelight yoga session for its employees and their Green Campaign Programme at Operator at its indoor event space. The event showcased guests to create awareness on climate change Housing Complex (OHC) and around Paiton. Bike interactive activities related to climate change and conservation whilst reducing energy use to Nature campaign aimed to instil awareness amongst the employees and local communities on environmental conservation by reducing the use of fossil fuel-powered vehicles CLIMATE CHANGE GHG Emissions and Mitigation Our in-house carbon consulting company, YTL-SV Carbon (YTL-SVC) OUR GOAL: To reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions strongly advocates integration of measurement, disclosure, reduction to mitigate the effects of climate change and offsetting of GHG emissions. It has compiled YTL Group’s GHG inventory for its Southeast Asian operations for many years, mainly Whilst almost all countries under the 2015 Paris Agreement pledged for internal use, but also for limited external disclosure, to gain to limit global temperature rises, businesses are also increasingly insights on existing emissions, to track energy consumption, measure seen playing an important role in limiting this temperature rise to GHG emission performance, alleviate associated risks, and below 1.5°C. Climate change is now inextricably linked to nearly appropriately support YTL Group in improvement, reduction and everything we do and can potentially affect the long-term offsetting emissions now and in the future. sustainability of businesses, if one fails to take action on climate related risks and opportunities. It also represents a material risk with significant implications across companies’ operations, their Malaysia supply chains, and in the vulnerable communities in which they operate. Pahang Cement is committed to reducing GHG emissions from their operations, through adding limestone to Portland Composite Cement. Aligned with SDG 13 – Climate Action, we are committed to reduce, Addition of limestone to cement slows the clinker burning process, mitigate and adapt to climate change. Our carbon reduction strategy indirectly reducing the GHG emitted from the production line and remains focused on emissions avoidance, increasing energy efficiency process. and tapping into renewable energy technologies. 27 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment GHG Emissions and Intensity YTL Jawa Timur Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Scope 1 kilotonnes 6,839.44 7,338.83 7,576.651 7,800 1.00 Scope 2 CO2e/year 34.04 33.73 32.23 7,600 0.98 kilotonnes CO2e/year 7,400 0.96 7,200 0.94 Emission Intensity tCO2e/MWh 0.86 0.86 0.872 tCO2e/MWh 7,000 0.92 0.90 6,800 0.88 Note: 6,600 0.86 1 The increase in emissions is mainly due to an increase in the overall electricity 6,400 0.84 generation at the power plant. 6,200 0.82 2 The emission intensity remains fairly consistant. This represents efficient 6,000 0.80 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 performance of the power plant which is mainly due to continuous energy efficiency measures and timely maintenance practices. Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Scope 1 3,807.60 3,739.50 3,591.201 kilotonnes YTL PowerSeraya Scope 2 0.17 0.14 0.102 CO2e/year Scope 3 104.40 34.37 120.733 4,000 kilotonnes CO2e/year 3,900 Note: 3,800 1 Compared to the previous year, the Scope 1 emissions have reduced by almost 3,700 4%. This is primarily due to ongoing maintenance of the power plant units which has helped to keep the efficiency level of the power plants in check and 3,600 thus optimal performance. 3,500 2 Indirect Scope 2 emissions have reduced by at least 27%. 3,400 3 Scope 3 emissions have increased mainly due to an increase in electricity FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 purchased from the Singapore electricity pool to meet customer demand. Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY20191 Scope 1 50.35 47.94 47.692 kilotonnes Scope 2 84.23 74.85 62.373 CO2e/year Scope 3 11.76 12.44 10.334 Wessex Water  mission Intensity E 0.30 0.26 0.215 (treated water) 160 0.35 tCO2e/Ml 140 0.30 E  mission Intensity 0.23 0.21 0.185 kilotonnes CO2e/year 120 0.25 (sewage) 100 tCO2e/MI 0.20 80 0.15 Note: 60 0.10 1 Wessex Water’s regulatory year starts from 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019. 40 2 Scope 1 emissions remained relatively consistent with last year. 20 0.05 3 Scope 2 emissions saw another significant drop from previous years. This was 0 0 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 achieved through a combination of energy efficiency improvements, renewable energy generation and the falling carbon dioxide intensity of UK grid electricity. 4 The drop in Scope 3 emissions was mainly due to a small reduction in the energy loss through transmission and distribution of grid electricity. There was also a slight reduction in emissions from third party contractors. 5 The emissions intensity (emissions per megalitre treated) decreased because a marginally higher volume of water and sewage was treated but the total carbon equivalent emissions were reduced. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment Singapore ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY OUR GOAL: To promote energy efficiency and the YTL PowerSeraya’s carbon emission reductions over the years have development of renewable energy been achieved through a progressive switch from heavy fuel oil (HFO) to less carbon-intensive natural gas, as well as through In support of Malaysia’s goal of increasing installed capacity of investments in more energy efficient power generation plants with renewable energy to 20% in the total energy generation mix by co-generation capabilities. Virtually 100% of the energy (electricity 2025, we have been continuously exploring opportunities to reduce and process steam) produced was from natural gas-fired combined our energy consumption, to improve efficiency as well as to expand cycle and cogeneration power plant units. A very small proportion our renewable energy portfolio and use. of total energy was produced from HFO-fired power plants for this financial year. Keeping the energy footprint of the power stations We regularly manage and monitor our energy consumption and low remains a key focus for YTL PowerSeraya especially in view of efficiency strictly to integrate best energy management plans and the onset of the carbon tax since January 2019. strategies into our daily operations. We work closely with our vendors to source energy efficient equipment and explore renewable energy YTL PowerSeraya has met its target of keeping emissions below technologies as a viable alternative. 0.39 tCO2e/MWh and will continue to keep to this target through plant efficiency improvements on existing power plant units and Energy Consumption and Conservation make investments in renewable energy technologies. A variety of energy conservation methods are underway to optimise Indonesia our energy consumption across key energy intensive areas at most of our operations. Through ISO 50001 EnMS, energy conservation measures undertaken include lighting retrofits, upgrading and optimising chiller The increase in the emissions is primarily due to an increase in the plant systems, installing fitting control systems, converting to energy total power generation at the power plant in the current financial year efficient equipment amongst many others. as compared to last year. YTLJT continues to improve its overall efficiency through various initiatives including plant energy efficiency improvements and the use of biodiesel for all its heavy-weight equipment. This year, YTLJT has also replaced diesel used in the boiler with bio-diesel, thus taking an additional step to reduce its long-term emissions. YTLJT has been the first Indonesian coal-fired power plant to be a two-time winner of the PROPER Gold Award. YTLJT’s team is committed to mitigate their power generation efficiency through meticulous preventive maintenance, planned repairs and continuous technological improvements. As a result, and despite being in operation for over 18 years, Paiton II Power Plant still achieved an average plant thermal efficiency of 38.8% that has virtually remained unchanged from its first commercial operation. United Kingdom Pledging to be carbon neutral in its operations, Wessex Water’s net GHG emissions fell to 118 kilotonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in FY2019. This continues a trend of reductions that began ten years ago and is their lowest annual operational carbon footprint since the Company began reporting in 1997. It also meant that the Company met their performance commitment for the year. As in previous years, it was achieved through a combination of energy Wessex Water’s team constantly monitors the plants’ energy usage efficiency improvements, renewable energy generation and the rapidly falling carbon dioxide intensity of the UK grid electricity. 29 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment Energy Consumption YTL Timur YTL Jawa Jawa Timur 440 Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 435 Energy Consumption GWh 432 434 4191 430 GWh 425 Note: 420 1 Energy consumption at YTLJT has declined by 3.4% in FY2019, mainly due to continued 415 energy efficiency efforts at the power plant, timely repairs and maintenance as well as continuous technological improvements. 410 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 YTL PowerSeraya YTL PowerSeraya 265 Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 260 255 Energy Consumption GWh 261 252 2461 GWh 250 Note: 245 1 The energy consumption has reduced by approximately 2% in FY2019. This is a result 240 of continued improvements in the performance of the plant indicating continuous efficiency measures and consistent maintenance. 235 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 SGREIT YSGRM 41.5 41 Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 40.5 40 Energy Consumption GWh 41.1 38.2 38.31 39 GWh Note: 38.5 1 Total electricity energy consumption has increased by 0.5% in FY2019 compared to the 38 past financial year, mainly due to the inclusion of energy use from anchor tenant UNIQLO SG which started its operation at Plaza Arcade in Perth in August 2018, as well as 37.5 increased office occupancy at Myer Centre Adelaide. 37 36.5 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Wessex Water Wessex Water 260 258 Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 256 Energy Consumption 1 GWh 248 256 2592 254 252 Note: GWh 1 Wessex Water’s regulatory year starts from 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019. 250 2 The electricity use rose slightly from FY2018 but remained close to the long-term 248 average, mainly due to energy efficiency work cancelling out increasing energy use 246 caused by tighter water and sewage treatment standards, and the operation of their regional water supply grid. 244 242 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment This would optimise all temperature-controlled equipment with Malaysia delayed starting methodology, capable of reducing running time of the plant such as chillers, pumps and cooling towers. Using energy more efficiently enables us to reduce GHG emissions Additionally, all pumps are now operated on variable speed drives significantly in our business operations. Some of our energy saving providing power savings. initiatives include: Re-certified by Project Eco-Office for the subsequent third year ERL Maintenance Support (E-MAS) replaced 34 units of metal starting from 2018. Project Eco-Office is an initiative between halide lights with 30 Light-Emitting Diodes (LEDs) in 2018, Singapore Environment Council and City Developments Limited resulting in savings of 42 kWh of energy daily. (CDL) that recognises environmentally friendly practices at Midfields 2 at Sungai Besi by YTL Land & Development undertook workplaces. some energy saving measures which included the installation of LED bulbs for all common areas, setting timers for corridor Over the years, SGREIT has strived to be at the forefront of energy lights, guard house lights and management office lights. and resource-efficient building management, and has received The Australia NABERS Energy Base Building (4.5-star rating) certification for its Myer Centre Adelaide (Terrace Tower), whilst Ngee Ann City in Singapore, which SGREIT owns an interest in, was awarded The Singapore Singapore BCA Green Mark Platinum Award 2019 (For Existing NonResidential Building). YTL PowerSeraya continues to enhance the performance of its systems through advances in efficiency, timely inspection and servicing of all its units. YTL PowerSeraya carried out refurbishment Indonesia and servicing for its plant resulting in an overall improvement in efficiency. Starting in 2012, YTLJT implemented ISO 50001 EnMS which is an integrated activity to control energy consumption by implementing SGREIT remains committed to their long-term target of achieving energy conservation programmes. In line with this, YTLJT undertakes a 15% reduction in energy consumption for Wisma Atria. It is yearly programmes to promote the reduction of primary energy mandatory to submit an energy use report to Singapore’s Building consumption (electricity, coal and fuel oil). In 2018, YTLJT successfully and Construction Authority (BCA) through Building Energy Submission saved a total of 33,645 MWh of electricity, 99,642 tonnes of coal System (BESS). For the next financial year, Wisma Atria aims to and 730,234 litres of fuel oil, resulting in reduction of 472,429 continue to reduce their electricity consumption in line with its tonnes of carbon emissions. ten-year goal from FY2017, by replacing the ageing motor and pumps with higher efficiency models. Also, the ongoing modernisation Some primary energy reduction programmes include: of lifts is expected to be completed next year and this will result in greater energy savings. Optimisation of Flue Gas Desulfurisation (FGD) absorbent pump running hours Some other initiatives include: E  nergy saving from water conservation programme Installation of LED lights at common areas and the addition of Optimisation of coal blending composition and coal burning motion sensors onto every LED fitting at the staircases at Wisma elevation at boiler furnace Atria in Singapore, where lights are dimmed by 50% if there is no movement in the particular landing for more than 30 seconds. R eplacement of fluorescent lamps with LEDs In Perth, a more energy-efficient chiller was installed to improve Implementation of new procedure for unit cold start-up to reduce the electricity consumption at David Jones. fuel oil consumption In Adelaide, the upgrading of the Building Management System R eplacement of seal strips to improve turbine heat rate (BMS) at Myer Centre is in progress. Upon completion, this will Installation of solar photovoltaic (PV) units enable improved, integrated control of air conditioning, mechanical and electrical systems. The new BMS has multiple platforms to Elimination of energy loss due to turbine governor valve throttling improve the monitoring of power usage throughout the centre. at full load 31 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment Transition to Renewable Energy In response to increasing global demand for renewable energy, we GET IT GREEN GET SUNNY are expanding our horizons to include elements of renewable technologies with innovative energy efficiency where we operate. Malaysia Zero carbon footprint 100% clean energy for Following the success of the waste heat recovery (WHR) unit in for one year 18 months YTL Cement’s Dama Plant in China, YTL Cement extended this initiative to their plant in Perak-Hanjoong Simen (PHS) – YTL Cement With the nationwide rollout of the Energy Market Authority (EMA)’s Open Electricity Market (OEM) in Singapore, Geneco SG is offering “green” plans for refers to this process as residual heat recovery. The waste heat its customers to reduce GHG emissions using sustainable sources of energy source is the residual heat energy emitted from the pre-heater and 1. “Get It Green” Plan clinker cooler during the cement clinkering process. It is recovered The plan allows customers to buy 100% carbon neutral electricity. The carbon through low temperature boilers to generate steam which is then footprint for customer’s electricity consumption is offset through purchase used to drive a steam turbine that produces electricity for the of carbon credits and their annual retirement on behalf of customers. plants’ own use. The Company invested RM70 million and 2. “Get Sunny” Plan commissioned the WHR unit in 2015. It generates approximately Under this plan the customers will get an option to purchase green 220,000 MWh of electricity annually resulting in a reduction of electricity. Electricity is derived from YTL PowerSeraya’s solar PV system on Jurong Island. No installation of solar panels is required by the users. roughly 150,000 tonnes of carbon emissions per year. The related environmental attributes of the generated electricity (RECs21) will be retired in the name of the consumer on an annual basis to claim usage of renewable electricity. Singapore YTL PowerSeraya, the second largest power generation company in Electric Vehicle at Jurong Power Plant, Singapore Singapore has been providing electricity for over 47 years. In October YTL PowerSeraya made a modest, first step in greening its company 2018, YTL PowerSeraya inaugurated Geneco SG, a brand that fleet of vehicles through the purchase of an electric van in October integrates both YTL PowerSeraya’s business and consumer portfolios 2018 to replace the old diesel van at the plant site. The estimated to provide practical, innovative, cost-effective and sustainable energy mileage covered by the electric van since inception was 2,980 km solutions to businesses and homes across Singapore. With this, (October 2018 – 30 June 2019). Based on the fuel economy of the Geneco SG is able to offer “green” plans to its consumers, providing diesel van, the CO2 emissions avoided with the new electric van green energy options for their preferred electricity source and offwere 0.4 tCO2e for the above-mentioned period. setting their carbon footprint. Geneco SG will continue to expand its renewable energy portfolio in the coming years.  YTL PowerSeraya completed the installation of 970.5 kWp solar project in The new electric van which was purchased as YTL PowerSeraya’s commitment February 2019 in reducing CO2 emissions and tailpipe emissions 21 Renewables Energy Certificates (RECs) represent environmental attribute of one megawatt hour of renewably generated power 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment United Kingdom Indonesia Wessex Water is powering its office using renewable energy derived YTLJT has embarked on a series of solar PV system installations. from sunlight. The Company has installed a 250 kWp solar PV array These installations are projected to reduce grid electricity consumption on the roof of their Bath operations centre at Claverton Down, and by 20%. 50 kWp at Yeovil treatment facility in Sutton Bingham Water Treatment Works (WTW), supplying around 11% of the building’s annual electricity Solar Installations by YTL Jawa Timur demand, which contributes towards Wessex Water’s target of 24% renewable generation by 2020. 51.48 kWp solar installation on Operator Housing Complex (OHC) Community Centre and Sports Hall rooftop Wessex Water is committed to maintaining an active energy efficiency programme fully integrated into its capital investment and asset 222.64 MWh of electricity substitution since installation operation. The Company outperformed its commitment this year with 25% of electricity demand generated from its own renewable sources, Ongoing substitution of 13 units of solar panels with aggregate exceeding its 2020 target of 24%. The renewable energy includes capacity of 8.96 kWp on street lighting at the OHC entrance electricity from combined heat and power fuelled by sewage sludge biogas, electricity generated from food waste, in-pipe micro hydro 3.58 MWh of electricity substitution annually installations and solar power. Ongoing 50.56 kWp solar installation on rooftop of Paiton Following the installation of advanced anaerobic digestion and II Power Plant main office associated electricity generation at Trowbridge water recycling centre, Wessex Water made good progress with a scheme to improve digestion 36.70 MWh of electricity substitution annually at Berry Hill, near Bournemouth. Meanwhile, its operating division GENeco UK continues to export biomethane to the local gas grid, and Moving from in-house renewable energy, YTLJT continues to expand struck an agreement to supply Bristol Energy with renewable gas for the development to power up more local communities with sustainable local homes, in addition to the sale of green gas certificates to Unilever. energy including micro hydro, biogas and solar energy installations. Initiated in 2012, the alternative energy development (AED) GENeco UK Fleet Moves Towards Zero Emissions programme aims to reduce the dependence of local communities GENeco UK has started large-scale trials of electric vehicles in a move on non-renewable and hazardous energy sources. towards eliminating diesel and petrol vehicles from its fleet. Ten electric vehicles were tested to assess the suitability of electric The AED programme has significantly impacted the lives of the vehicles. Associated charge points have also been installed across local communities in Probolinggo and Situbondo regencies. The four sites, at Bristol water recycling centres (WRC), Berry Hill WRC, programme has already generated over 4,248.98 MWh of electricity Trowbridge and Blandford Forum where power is drawn from the and more than 250,000 m3 of biogas, benefitting 1,460 households anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge and food waste. The at the villages. Apart from this, since commencement, this programme environmental benefits of the trial will deliver more than 50 tonnes has prevented over 10,000 tonnes of CO₂ from being emitted into of carbon emissions savings per year, and reduce the negative impact the atmosphere, leading to overall welfare improvements of the on air quality in some areas equivalent to taking 24 cars off the road. local people and the environment. GENeco UK electric vehicle fleet  Employees of YTLJT arriving at work on the Viar Q1 electric motorcycle at Paiton II Power Plant Probolinggo, Java 33 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment YTL Jawa Timur’s Alternative Energy Development Programme Total electricity Installed capacity Equivalent CO2 Cumulative units (kWh)/methane Project (kW/number of cows/ reduction installed up to 2019 generated (m3) Wp¹) (tonnes/year) since installation Micro hydro 392 95.3 kW 4,212,684 kWh 744 Domestic biogas 680 1,360 cows 248,200 m3 10,320 Solar energy 65 8,710 Wp 36,301 kWh 6.8 Note: 1 Wp stands for watt peak, the peak output power achieved by a solar module under full solar radiation 2 40 units of micro hydro have been installed up to 2019. However, one unit was damaged due to flood disaster. A dome-shaped reactor functions as a digestor where biogas is  ne of the micro hydro unit installations at Sumberejo Village O  olar PV street lamps at S generated from the decomposition of cow manure. The residual at Situbondo regency, Java by YTLJT team Watu Panjang Village sludge from the digestion process will be used as fertiliser for agricultural purposes Climate Adaptation United Kingdom According to United Nations (UN) environment report, reducing carbon emissions is no longer adequate to pause or limit the impacts Wessex Water’s adaptation plan for 2015-2020 is derived from a of climate change. Many countries are realising that it may be time climate change risk assessment based on the UK’s climate change to start adapting to a warming world. The 2015 Paris Agreement projections for the 2020s, 2050s and 2080s scenario. Water resource for the first time included a Global Adaptation Goal, while the same quality during warmer weather and the inundation of sewers during goal was reinforced at the 2017 UN Climate Conference in Bonn, intense or prolonged rainfall are two major risks to Wessex Water. Germany. As nations around the world start to develop National To ensure safe water quality, plans and ongoing work to manage Adaptation Plans (NAPs), companies also need to adopt adaptation and monitor water resources, as well as enhanced water treatment strategies to ensure a smoother transition for businesses, supply are in place. chains and associated communities in this changing climate scenario. There are also plans to address sewage treatment and sludge risks Our businesses strive to go beyond being mitigation-centric as they through maintenance and monitoring work, groundwater infiltration understand the need for climate adaptation. Several adaptation prevention, and shoreline management. Work in progress includes plans or initiatives were undertaken across some of our business a GBP5 million scheme to help alleviate flooding in Brent Knoll and units, such as water conservation, reforestation, infrastructure Burnham-on-Sea by building a new sewage pumping station, enhancement and flood alleviation. More details about these installing new sewers as well as improving the existing sewerage programmes can be found in the “Biodiversity” and “Community” system using micro tunneling. sections of this report. 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment Atmospheric Emissions Through ISO 14001 EMS, we constantly monitor the air emission quality closely for all our power and cement plants as part of the regulatory compliance. For instance YTLJT has implemented pollution abatement technologies to ensure the atmospheric discharge from the chimneys complies with the local environmental standards. During the year under review, all our plants achieved 100% compliance with the local air emission standards. Our cement plant in China, Zhejiang Hangzhou Dama Cement recently upgraded its pre-heater and clinker cooler, and also modified some parts of the cement plant to reduce coal consumption and to suppress the emission of NOx by cutting down the use of liquid ammonia during the pyro process. As a result, the standard coal and liquid ammonia consumption have fallen from 117 kgce coal/tonne clinker to 115.7 kgce coal/tonne clinker and 750 litre/hr to 650 litre/hr respectively. Air Emissions Business Units Parameters Unit Target FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) tonnes/GWh 0.36 0.13 0.14 0.14 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) tonnes/GWh 1.21 0.90 0.77 0.782 YTL Jawa Timur Particulates tonnes/GWh 0.16 0.02 0.05 0.092 Carbon monoxide tonnes/GWh – 0.03 0.08 0.102 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) kg/MWh – 0.03 7.30E–6 4.50E–9 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) mg/Nm3 400.00 – – 29 – 36 YTL PowerSeraya1 Particulates mg/Nm3 50.00 – – <1 Carbon monoxide mg/Nm3 250.00 – – 1–5 Note: 1 Data on NOx, particulates and carbon monoxide were not disclosed in FY2017 and FY2018 as the emissions were insignificant and thus not measured. 2 NOx, particulates and carbon monoxide emissions increased in FY2019 due to units upgrading process and maintenance to assure plant availability for electricity generation, resulted in deterioration of coal’s quality. WATER STEWARDSHIP As part of ISO 14001 EMS, all wastewater and/or sewage discharge from power plants, construction sites, sewage treatment sites, cement and quarry sites are regularly assessed and monitored from OUR GOAL: To enhance water efficiency in daily operations time to time by an accredited third-party consultant approved by local authorities. We have also developed technologies to treat, The global water crisis is an issue impacting approximately 1.6 billion reuse and recycle water from our operations so that we can manage people or nearly a quarter of the human population. At YTL Group, our water footprint in a responsible way. This is not only a part of water is used extensively in our daily operations to meet the market’s regulatory compliance requirements and wastewater management demand. Hence, practising good water management and efficiency processes, but also to ensure minimal negative impacts of discharge is one of our utmost priorities to ensure long-term clean water to the environment and ecosystems. accessibility in line with SDG 6 – Clean Water and Sanitation, whilst at the same time benefitting people, planet and profit. During the period under review, we managed to optimise water consumption across various operations, and notably YTLJT has been Water Consumption and Monitoring successful in reducing their water consumption by 40.92% compared to its base year in 2009. YTLJT, YTL PowerSeraya and SGREIT We are vigilant about our water consumption and make informed successfully met their own targets in recycling and reusing an average decisions based on proven methods and best practices, be it 3% of their wastewater respectively, for internal use and/or other technological enhancements, administrative control measures, or purposes. Over the years, we have consistently achieved 100% encouraging conscientious and ethical behaviour within the Company, compliance to water discharge quality under local standards. There along our supply chains and with our customers. were no significant chemical and oil spills during the reporting period. 35 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment Water Consumption and Intensity YTL Jawa Timur 610 0.1 Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 600 590 Water Usage ’000 m3 548 581 6041 0.08 580 m3/MWh Water Intensity m3/MWh 0.072 0.071 0.0721 ’000 m3 570 0.06 560 550 Note: 540 0.04 1 Though water consumption in FY2019 increased by 4%, the overall water 530 intensity remained relatively consistent due to more efficient water reduction 520 0.02 efforts. FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 YTL PowerSeraya Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 2.05 0.06 Water Usage million m 3 1.89 2.02 1.98 2 0.05 0.04 Water Intensity m /MWh 3 0.048 0.042 0.0171 million m3 m3/MWh 1.95 0.03 1.9 Note: 0.02 1 There were two major projects involving the replacement of leaking tubes in 1.85 0.01 the Heat Recovery Steam Generator systems of two plant units. This contributed to considerable decrease in water loss in the cogeneration process which resulted 1.8 0 in 60% drop in water intensity as compared to previous year. FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY20191 SGREIT Australia ’000 m3 63 49 52 600 Singapore ’000 m3 75 68 752 500 Malaysia ’000 m3 363 353 3653 400 ’000 m3 Note: 300 1 For the coming financial years, SGREIT targets to review and look into area to improve its water usage across properties to maintain its water efficiency and 200 conservation. 100 2 Overall total water consumption of SGREIT properties hike by 5.2% mainly due to an increasing number of food and beverage tenants in Wisma Atria and Lot 0 10 as well as tenant’s additional facade cleaning of window panels in Wisma FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Atria. 3 Though the water consumption of Malaysia’s properties seems larger, water intensity (total water usage per area) is relatively comparable, which is about 1.4 times the water intensity at Wisma Atria. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment Wastewater Treatment and Recycling Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 YTL Jawa Timur Total Treated Water ’000 m3 203 226 2411 250 70 Recycled/Reused % 65 63 573 240 60 Water2 230 50 ’000 m3 220 40 % Note: 210 30 1 For the period of review, YTLJT had treated 241,227 m3 of wastewater, wherein 200 20 57% of it was either recycled or reused. 190 10 2 Percentage of recycled/reused wastewater is derived from total treated wastewater. 180 0 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 3 Compared to last year, the 6% drop in wastewater reused or recycled was due to a declination in reused wastewater consumption for the coal plant’s dust suppression as a result of frequent rainfalls has achieved the target by diverting more than half of its treated wastewater for internal use. YTL PowerSeraya Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 90 6 80  otal Treated T ’000 m3 81 85 651 5 Wastewater 70 60 4 Total Recycled/ % 4.9 3.2 3.4 ’000 m3 50 % 3 Reused Water2 40 30 2 Note: 20 1 1 Total treated wastewater declined by 24% in FY2019 compared to the previous 10 year, due to a drop in electricity and process steam generation. 0 0 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 2 Percentage of recycled/reused water is derived from total water consumption. Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 SGREIT-Wisma Atria NEWater Utilisation NEWater Utilisation1 ’000 m3 26 25 292 30 Note: 29 1 NEWater is a high-grade reclaimed water that has gone through a series of ’000 m3 28 high-tech filtration processes, making it extremely safe to be used as potable 27 and non-potable water. 26 25 2 At Wisma Atria, utilisation of NEWater increased by 4,000 m3 as the implementation of NEWater usage has been expanded progressively over the year since 2008 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 to include non-essential areas such as taps for air handling unit (AHU) rooms, bin centre and ad-hoc cleaning like façade cleaning, other than for use in cooling towers and fire protection systems. 37 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment Water Efficiency and Conservation On the other hand, one of our retail malls in Singapore, Wisma Atria has been practising a Water Efficiency Management Plan (WEMP) We are committed to ensuring sustainable water use and optimising since 2015, which involves the use of private water meters at water efficiency throughout all our operations. Water conservation certain areas as mandated by the Singapore Public Utilities Board measures include the use of water efficiency fittings, rainwater harvesting, the installation of sub-metering for early detection of (PUB). The water meters are able to monitor water use and serve water leakage, exploring alternative ways to process clean water, as an advance warning on possible pipe leakage. These translate developing efficient ways to recycle water from operations, and into water and cost savings for tenants and discourage excessive protecting water sources from contamination and pollution. use of water through Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme (WELS) rated fittings. Other water-saving facilities installed at Wisma Atria Malaysia property include waterless urinal systems. As part of YTL Group’s water saving commitments, rainwater harvesting Indonesia and sustainable use of water are practised in our daily operations. YTLJT initiated a water conservation programme in 2009, aiming – ERL Maintenance Support (E-MAS), YTL Construction and YTL to reduce the amount of service water, potable water and deCement use rainwater to clean trains, trucks and vehicles. mineralised water used within Paiton II Power Plant. A Work – YTL Hotels and shopping malls such as Lot 10 Shopping Centre Improvement Team (WIT) has been established to conduct research (Lot 10) and Starhill Gallery use rainwater for landscaping and on the process of water flows in the power plant, subsequently irrigation purposes within their premises. formulating plans and initiatives to enhance water efficiency. The initiatives, which include water reduction, reusing and recycling – YTL Hotels invests in low flow fixtures at their properties, such have successfully lowered water consumption within the plant by as shower heads, water taps and smart controllers and at the 40.92% compared to 2009 (base year). same time encourages guests to reuse towels and bed linen. Australia Water Recycling Recycle rinsed water from mixed bed resin regeneration process During the recent refurbishment of Brisbane Marriott, the hotel Recycle water from sampling panel to de-carbonator tank as feed replaced all bathrooms’ tapware and shower fittings in guest rooms. water reverse osmosis (RO) With the installation of new tapware and fittings, water consumption  ecycle monsoon rainwater to be processed as wastewater R has been greatly reduced by 14 litres for each shower taken. Besides treatment plant (WWTP) effluent and subsequently used as service that, the new tapware has substantially lessened the need for water tank maintenance for failed fittings, and reduced water use from nine litres to a minimum of 6.5 litres per minute. In addition, Sydney Water Reuse Harbour Marriott also emphases water conservation in their daily operations, through carrying out water assessment and benchmarking Reuse of oil cooler cooling water in main cooling water pump to map out water saving opportunities with practical value. Their  euse of WWTP effluent as submerged scraper chain conveyor R newly installed water flow restrictors, at the common areas and make up and cleaning water guest rooms have successfully resulted in annual water savings of Reuse of WWTP effluent for ash disposal area 4.6 million litres.  euse of WWTP effluent for dust suppression system at coal R stockpile area Singapore Installation of new ultra-filtration unit to increase the amount of WWTP effluent utilisation and use rain water from ash lagoon for YTL PowerSeraya has been relatively self-sufficient in water, with plant usage about 94% of its water needs at the power plant met by its inhouse desalination plant and close to 5% met from reclaimed water Other Water Reduction Initiatives (i.e. NEWater). Less than 1% of plant water requirements originate from freshwater sources. Plant water consumption has decreased M  odification of chain spray system from open to closed system by 2.3% versus the previous year, which is aligned to the drop in R  eduction of sealing water vacuum condenser losses electricity and process steam production while 60% improvement S  peed up the start-up time with degassed cation conductivity in water intensity (m3 per MWh) was contributed by plant improvement C  ontrol of ammonia impurities in the cycle chemistry control works at the cogeneration plant. 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment United Kingdom Water Quality and Environmental Stewardship Serves more than 2.8 million customers L aunched a new drainage and wastewater management portal enabling public to be wellinformed of Wessex Water’s long-term plans for sewerage network M oney back guarantee scheme to encourage customers to switch to a meter More than 90% of the customers have saved money Recently published their plan for 2020-2025 Detailed the stewardship and long-term commitment of the businesses in looking after the environment, delivering water efficiency, ensuring the highest water quality and minimising sewer flooding  roviding outstanding sustainable water and environmental services is a priority P for Wessex Water Drinking Water Compliance WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCE 99.96% compliance in 2018, which was below their EFFICIENCY target of 100% (nine failures out of approximately 26,000 water tests) OUR GOAL: To manage waste streams through effective These failures were all attributed to customers’ and responsible disposal, reuse or recycling internal plumbing and service pipes Global waste generation amounted to 2.01 billion tonnes in 2018, Environmental Performance which contributed to approximately 5% of global emissions, or 1.6 Rated as ‘Good’ in the Environment Agency’s annual billion tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. With rapid population environmental performance assessment (EPA) growth, we currently live in a linear economy where we take 100% compliance with both water discharge permits resources from the earth and then dump waste generated from and sludge standards human activities in landfills or even worse in the waterways and oceans. The proportion of pollution incidents reported by Wessex Water rather than other parties fell to 74%. In Malaysia, over 23,000 tonnes of waste is generated daily, where This is just below the 75% threshold for a leading less than five percent of it is recycled. If the trend of indiscriminate EPA rating and unsustainable disposal continues, the country will run out of Water Resources and Catchment Management Approaches disposal sites and ultimately, clean water sources. In the 11th Malaysia Plan 2016 – 2020, the stated solid waste management goals are Met performance commitment for the abstraction to achieve a rate of 40% waste diversion from landfill and a recycling incentive mechanism at Mere by halting abstraction rate of 22% by 2020. In 2018, Malaysia announced its aim to abolish when groundwater level was below the trigger single use plastic by 2030. threshold W  orking with 20 farmers through EnTrade To address this challenge, we place a strong focus on the importance In the Bristol Avon catchment, 42 tonnes of of resource efficiency at all our business units. All resource use is Phosphorus have been saved (target = 31 tonnes) carefully planned, efficiently utilised and processed to optimise through catchment permitting output levels. Also, we continuously look for ways to reduce In the Poole Harbour catchment, over 40 tonnes of unnecessary consumption and waste, aiming for zero waste to Nitrogen reduced per year for the past three years landfill and towards a circular economy. 39 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment Waste Generation Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Waste Bank’s Recyclables1 0 0 9.7 Special Waste2,3 103.9 127.6 112.3 YTL Jawa Timur Bottom Ash3 14,070 16,268 19,6074 tonnes 120,000 100 Fly Ash3 77,252 83,255 90,4624 90 Total Waste Diverted from 77,485 73,042 90,272 100,000 80 Landfill 80,000 70 Waste Diverted from % 80 73 82 Tonnes 60,000 60 % Landfill 50 40,000 40 Note: 20,000 1 Recyclables consist of paper, plastic, metal and glass refuses collected from 30 Waste Bank at both Operator Housing Complex (OHC) and Power Plant unit 5 0 20 & 6. FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 2 Comprises of Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) sludge, oil waste, insulation fibre-glass wool, contaminated waste, battery waste, laboratory waste, used resin, clinic waste, fluorescent light fitting waste, cutting fluid waste, and degreasing solvent. 3 In accordance with local regulations, all hazardous waste is collected by licensed collectors for disposal and recycling, sold to cement and ready-mix industries to be reused as construction materials, or re-processed as alternative fuels or materials for internal usage. 4 Total hazardous waste increased by 11% in FY2019 as compared to the previous year, mainly due to intensive generation of electricity that burnt more coal and subsequently produced more fly ash and bottom ash. YTL PowerSeraya Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 700 45 Industrial Waste1 314.3 129.3 92.0 600 40 General Waste tonnes 265.3 195.0 146.7 35 500 30 Recyclable Waste 12.8 200.2 124.3 Tonnes 400 25 % Waste Diverted from % 2 38 342 300 20 Landfill 15 200 10 Note: 100 5 1 All industrial waste in accordance with local regulations, is collected by licensed collectors, or sold for recycling. 0 0 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 2 Percentage of waste diverted from landfill has decreased this year, due to a decrease in industrial waste as well as used fuel oil, used diesel and used lube oil. 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment Waste Generation Type of Waste1,2 Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY20195 Non-Recyclable Waste3 1,804 1,775 1,820 tonnes Recyclable Waste4 142 195 167 SGREIT Waste Diverted from % 7 10 8 2050 12 Landfill 2000 8 Note: 1950 1 Data collected from SGREIT’s properties in Singapore, Australia and Malaysia. 1900 In Australia, the waste data collected does not include Plaza Arcade and David 6 Tonnes Jones Building as waste collection was conducted by the City of Perth. 1850 % 2 The Management Corporation Strata Title (MCST) 1471 tabulates actual waste 1800 4 generated, which is largely dependent on the type of tenancy, such as an 1750 increase in food and beverage tenants will result in higher non-recyclable waste 2 generated. Moving forward, SGREIT plans to maintain and/or increase the amount 1700 of recyclable waste. 1650 0 3 In Malaysia, data on non-recyclable waste is unavailable, as the waste collector FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 only weighs recyclable waste. 4 Recyclable waste included hazardous waste such as electronic waste (e-waste) and used cooking oil. 5 For FY2019, total non-recyclable waste has increased by 2.5% while total recyclable waste has dropped by 14.3%, mainly due to an increasing number of food and beverage tenants in Wisma Atria and Lot 10 whereby most of the waste generated from those tenants are non-recyclable. Type of Waste1,2 Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Wessex Water’s Non-Sludge Waste Diverted from Landfill Non-Sludge Waste Diverted % 97.6 99.1 99.8 100 from Landfill 99.5 99.0 Note: 98.5 1 Wessex Water’s regulatory year starts from 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019. 98.0 2 The performance data is collated from landfill diversion figures by contractors 97.0 and waste management companies. % 96.5 3 Wessex Water has set a challenging target of sending no waste to landfill by 96.0 2020 and through concerted efforts are consistently diverting more than 95% 95.5 of their non-sludge waste from landfill. In FY2019, the Company has continued 95.0 to achieve zero waste to landfill from all their office facilities and their zero to FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 waste soil and stone contract covers 99% of construction waste. The Company is in the process of rolling out a new zero to waste contract for skip waste and general waste which should allow them to reach their goal of zero waste to landfill by 2020. 41 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment Waste Diversion in Action Driving Behaviour Change Towards Zero Single Use Plastic (SUP) by 2025 YTL Sustainability Newsletter Plastic waste has become a critical global concern and we recognise Our quarterly newsletters keep our that ending plastic pollution is a complex issue, yet still needs to employees updated on the current be dealt with urgently. In October 2018, the Ministry of Energy, sustainability trends and provide Science, Technology, Environment and Climate Change (MESTECC) guidance on what each individual can launched the “Roadmap Towards Zero Single Use Plastic by 2030” do to minimise use of resources and for Malaysia to provide a target and direction to all stakeholders to deal with other environmental issues. address plastic pollution in a holistic manner. Spearheaded by our Executive Chairman, Tan Sri Dato’ (Dr) Francis Yeoh and championed by YTL Sustainability Division, we rolled out our company-wide roadmap to eliminate all SUP by 2025, to raise awareness amongst our employees and introduce measures to curb use of plastic across YTL Group. To support this goal, we took a series of important foundational steps from establishing a baseline across our operations, raising awareness within YTL Group through our Say No to All Plastic (SNAP) campaign, introducing initiatives to reduce and eventually eliminate SUP, as well as taking collective action through partnerships and collaboration. #YTLBiggie 3.0 Plastic Reduction Initiatives Initiated in 2016, #YTLBiggie is an ideas contest to reward Going Plastic-Free concepts on how sustainability can be embedded in YTL’s operations and/or management. This year’s theme is “Free Plastic? Plastic Free!”, fostering ideas to find alternatives for plastic, and 203,300 straws have been saved annually to transform waste into something creative, practical and through removal of straws sustainable to replace plastics use within YTL Group. 1,044,900 plastic water bottles have been Social Media saved by setting up water dispensers, filtration Across YTL Group, our business units and RO plants and subsidiaries continuously share tips on waste reduction at offices or home using the 5R concept – Refuse, Reduce, 3,000 coffee pods have been recycled yearly Reuse, Repurpose, Recycle. Switching to compostable food containers and cutlery for takeaways Awareness in Action Reusable bags, cutlery sets, mugs/water bottles, metal straws and food Switching to cloth/reusable laundry bags containers are distributed to employees. Using ceramic bottles and switching to longer in shower wall mounted fixtures for amenities 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment Collective Action Engaging and inculcating a zero waste mindset among various stakeholder groups through sharing best practices at environmental conferences, organising outreach programmes and supporting eco-related events; T  he day-long forum ended with a post-networking session which was On 17 October 2018, Ralph Dixon, Director of Environmental Investments, graced by the Minister of MESTECC, YB Mdm. Yeo Bee Yin, accompanied YTL Corp presented “The Many Rs in YTL at Sustainable Brands Kuala Lumpur by Executive Chairman of YTL Corp, Tan Sri Dato’ (Dr) Francis Yeoh, Executive Director of YTL Corp, Dato' Yeoh Soo Min, Director of Environmental Sustainable Brands 2018 Investments, YTL Corp, Ralph Dixon and Managing Director of The Plastics Circle, Trish Hyde. Some pressing issues surrounding plastic sustainability Ralph Dixon, Director of Environmental Investments, YTL Corp were discussed along with role of the government and corporations in tackling plastic pollution issues across Malaysia invited as speaker at Sustainable Brands Kuala Lumpur 2018. The presentation showcased initiatives undertaken by YTL Group Plasticity in reducing and refusing SUP, reusing water and other waste Utilising the “Ted-Talk” style format, we co-organised Plasticity streams, reforming hazardous waste into new products and Malaysia, a two-day forum and workshop in October 2018 to recycling waste into useful materials. create awareness on practical sustainability concepts that are relevant to today’s business world, and showcasing new market Say YES to Waste Less opportunities for creating circular economies, transforming plastic Together with Geneco SG, Wisma Atria is partnering with National waste into valuable second-life resources, etc. Environment Agency of Singapore (NEA) in launching Say YES to Waste Less nationwide campaign in June 2019. The objective of Hydrate Feel Great the campaign is to encourage consumers and the general public to Wessex Water’s Hydrate Feel Great campaign promotes the health reduce excessive use of disposable items through substituting and cost benefits of tap water, as well as encourages people to single use item with reusable and sustainable alternatives, steering use refillable bottles rather than buying bottled water or other towards the “Zero Waste” ambition. NEA-103-T19_6 shts_10.ai 1 31/5/19 4:45 PM drinks in SUP, flexible and rigid packaging or multi-layered packaging. Waste management facility  oster with a message “Make P the Right Choice. Choose MAKE THE RIGHT CHOICE. Reusables” to encourage the CHOOSE REUSABLES. general public to favour reusable In 2018 alone, we discarded around 164,500 tonnes of disposables. We canʼt go on like this. Letʼs choose to use reusable bags, bottles and alternatives over disposable items, as one of the steps to takeaway containers, and keep Singapore green for future generations. W  essex Water has been sponsoring reusable water bottles for sporting Image is for illustrative purposes only. event participants and charity bodies to help them stay hydrated while In support of: reduce the environmental impact of waste Learn more at cgs.sg reducing the use of SUP © National Environment Agency 2019 PROPRIETARY/CONFIDENTIAL: Clear Channel 6 shts Date & Time: Job No: Client: Media: Colour: Insertion Date: AD: GH/CD: Product / Prices 29-5-2019, 4.45pm NEA-103-T19 NEA 6 shts 4C Elijah Thomas Grid / Logos usage Size: Terms & Conditions 1800mmH x 1200mmW (M) Studio Artist: Traffic: Head Of Studio: CW: AS: 1750mmH x 1160mmW (D) mui ling Ira Jessica Edwin Leong Novelyn/Kerina Promo 43 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment Recyclable Waste At YTL Group, we have adopted the principles of 5Rs – refuse, Enforcing the zero waste promise, plastic, paper and sanitary reduce, reuse, repurpose and recycle waste across all our corporate materials from non-flushable items such as wet wipes and nappies offices and key business units. We have also contracted licensed are screened out from water recycling centres (sewage treatment recycling companies to collect and recycle waste, such as paper, works), as well as grit from the road falling into sewers that are plastic, glass, metal, used cooking oil and e-waste. In FY2019, we traditionally sent straight to landfill. diverted more than 90,564 tonnes of waste from landfill, through waste segregation and recycling effort, despite not all waste At Avonmouth water recycling centre, Wessex Water’s subsidiary collectors are able to furnish the waste data in weight. company GENeco UK composts these materials, as well as those from other companies, and is currently in discussion with the UK Environment Aiming to reduce waste on a broader front, our other business units Agency to determine the agricultural benefits of the resulting also initiated outreach recycling programmes for the public, through compost-like output. The resulting compost is already gaining interest clothes collection drives and giving pre-loved items a second life. from farmers due to its nutrient content and soil improving qualities.  proper waste segregation area was established by The Majestic Hotel Kuala A E  RL initiated a used-clothes collection programme from 8 April to 24 April Lumpur to segregate the recyclables into plastic, paper, cardboard and metal 2019 in conjunction with Earth Hour 2019. Despite being set up for only two weeks, a total of 400 kg of clothes was collected, benefitting those in need E-Waste Recycling We also launched an electronic waste (e-waste) disposal campaign in conjunction with Earth Hour this year. The respective IT departments across YTL Group in Malaysia were in charge of the e-waste collection, inspection and proper disposal to licensed thirdparty scheduled waste carriers. SGREIT similarly launched an e-waste initiative in Singapore that was extended to its tenants at Wisma Atria. With the overwhelming response, we aim to hold this campaign annually by placing e-waste collection bins in our corporate offices and extend these to our overseas business units and tenants. Collection of e-waste in L  ot 10 Shopping Centre has been collaborating with Kloth Care since 2017 to FY2019 collect and recycle used clothes, handbags, belts, linen and soft toys from the public, for charity purposes. A total of 1,622.2 kg of clothes was collected, showing great response from the public who were willing to join hands in 164.3 kg 482 kg giving pre-loved items a second life 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment Tackling Food Waste Zero Waste Revolution: The Circular Innovations Tackling food waste is crucial yet extremely challenging as it is At YTL Group, we strive to be a zero waste organisation and are most often associated with the behaviour of consumers, retailers committed to finding new ways of doing business in a circular and the food service sector across the food supply chains. As such, economy or closed loop system. a number of food waste management initiatives have been undertaken, including tracking food waste data, low waste menu planning, food procurement and preparation, tapping into food United Kingdom waste innovation, employee training and education, customer engagement and working with partners. Operating in a circular system, GENeco UK treats over 700,000 tonnes of varied waste per annum, including food, liquid and solid materials which are especially resistant to biodegradation. Through its processes, the waste is transformed into usable products such as biofertilisers, and renewably-sourced biogas and channelled into generating electricity powering many thousands of local homes. Following the success of the Bio-Bug and Bio-Bus, GENeco UK launched the Bio-Bee – UK’s first truck that collects and runs on commercial food waste. To date, the Bio-Bee has collected over 430 tonnes of waste where the biomethane generated from the food waste is sufficient to power 50 households with renewable energy for a year. The Majestic Hotel Kuala Lumpur and Hotel Stripes Kuala Lumpur work with Injected into Kechara Soup Kitchen to donate excess food to those in need. More information the national can be found in “Community” section gas grid Commercial Food Waste Slim My Waste-Feed My Face A food waste recycling campaign was kick-started in 2018 via partnership between GENeco UK and Bristol Waste Company. The campaign “Slim My Waste-Feed My Face” aims at diverting food waste from residents’ black refuse bins and encouraging them to Biogas produced Power Vehicles Low Emission and upgraded Food Waste use their brown food waste caddies to recycle food waste. There to biomethane Collections was a 20% increase in food waste recycling across Bristol City Council area. The collected food waste was then treated by anaerobic digestion at GENeco UK’s facility in Avonmouth, where it generated Processed by anaerobic renewable energy and biofertilisers for further utilisation. digestion at sewage works A  simple diagram showing how Bio-Bee transforms commercial food waste into alternative energy that fuels the vehicle, whilst reducing the amount of landfilled food waste  ictured here are various images from the “Slim My Waste-Feed My Face” P campaign 45 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment To date there are two Bio-Bee vehicles in the Bristol area Each year, GENeco UK recycles more than 230,000 tonnes of ‘biosolids’ from sewage treatment works across the Wessex Water region as an end product of the separate anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge and food waste. Biosolids can provide replacement phosphate for normal crop off-take in year one and residual availability for the following two to three years. Based on bagged fertiliser values, the total value over two years equates to GBP130.32/ha and represents a saving of GBP40/ha over bagged fertiliser. Utilisation of FABA paving blocks to construct the Bermi Eco-Park at Probolinggo, East Java During the digestion process, the biosolids that GENeco UK produce are further treated by screening and dewatering. The resulting reduction in pathogens is a requirement of the Safe Sludge Matrix Malaysia and produces a more stable product that can be spread close to houses. YTL Cement has embarked on the co-processing of industrial waste by reusing certain types of approved scheduled waste as raw materials and/or as a source of energy in their clinker and cement operations. Indonesia Through co-processing, the use of finite resources such as fossil fuels, limestone, clay, iron ore, sand and coal are minimised whilst Fly Ash and Bottom Ash (FABA) generated from the incineration reducing the volume of landfilled scheduled waste. As of June 2019, process in coal-fired power plants is regarded as hazardous and the Department of Environment Malaysia (DOE) has approved nine potentially harms the environment if mismanaged. Managing such waste generators to dispose the scheduled waste at Pahang Cement, waste poses a common challenge for all coal-fired power plants, where the consumption was recorded at 28,440 tonnes. hence requiring YTLJT to continuously explore innovative solutions to shift towards a sustainable circular economy. Recycling used cooking oil brings two major benefits: reduction in unpleasant odours and drain blockages by solidified grease, as well YTLJT initiated a paving block production programme in 2012 using as generation of biodiesel for power and heat generation, which has FABA waste after undergoing several years of research. Following a lower impact on the environment. Since January 2014, SGREIT malls the issuance of a permit granted by Ministry of Living Environment in Malaysia, Lot 10 and Starhill Gallery initiated a used cooking oil and Forestry in Indonesia, the high quality FABA paving blocks are (UCO) recycling programme, collecting UCO and selling to a third-party now being used for road pavement at public facilities, cementing recycling company that processes it into biodiesel. To date, a total blocks for the coral transplantation project and brick masonry for fixed of 18,945.9 kg of UCO has been recycled. Just one litre of UCO can dome biogas installations. In FY2019, a total of 763,529 FABA paving power a television for three hours, a phone charger for 1,000 hours blocks were produced, resulting in a significant reduction of landfill or provide enough ‘green’ energy to make 240 cups of tea22. waste and contribution to community well-being and development. 22 Source: https://www.torfaen.gov.uk/en/News/2014/November/19-Recycleyourcookingoil.aspx 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment BIODIVERSITY Indonesia OUR GOAL: To conserve biodiversity below water and The power plant is equipped with an online system to monitor and on land ensure that all water from the power station falls within the local standard prior to discharge into the sea. Apart from that, on-site The United Nations (UN) reported that approximately one million water sampling and testing are also conducted by an appointed animal and plant species are facing the threat of extinction. As a third-party environmental authority and an independent laboratory consequence, emerging risks associated with biodiversity loss, on a monthly basis for regulatory compliance evaluation. In attempts ecosystem degradation and natural resource scarcity are affecting to preserve biodiversity in close proximity to the power plant, marine most organisations’ bottom line. In line with our long-term aspirations biota and coral reef surveys are performed quarterly. During the for meeting SDG 14 – Life Below Water and SDG 15 – Life on Land, year under review, 100% regulatory compliance was achieved, we have embarked on numerous approaches in protecting marine seeing marine life such as plankton, fish, coral and many more and terrestrial species and their habitats. flourishing over the past 18 years of operations. Biodiversity Screening and Monitoring Restoration and Protection for Life Biodiversity screening is a necessity in the initial stage of construction Life on Earth is complex and highly interdependent. The ecological and operational activities of YTL Group, in order to address the services provided by all other living organisms inhabiting land and scarcity of finite resources and biodiversity loss to meet regulatory water supply both tangible resources (food, pest control, water compliance requirements. Through assessment, species inventory purification, etc.) and intangible benefits (tourism and aesthetic or baseline information can be determined prior to project planning. value) to society. As stewards of our good Earth, we have long Subsequently, monitoring work will take place in the later phase of supported conservation efforts through non-governmental groups the project activities, which involves continuous scrutinisation in in meeting our aim to safeguard and restore for life on land and tracking anticipated impacts caused by the operations, followed by below water against any kind of threats. Through partnerships, proper improvement steps to minimise the associated risks. these help us to address issues that we may not have the expertise, skills or resources to manage on our own. United Kingdom Wildlife Conservation Before construction starts, Wessex Water investigates for any Malaysia potential impact on the environment, wildlife, archaeology and geology. This includes checking for the presence of protected and Save Our Sea Turtle rare species. The latest innovation was to develop the ability to use a sniffer dog to support terrestrial great crested newt surveys. Save Our Sea Turtle Wessex Water’s compliance with the national Site of Special Scientific Classified as an endangered species under International Union Interest (SSSI) target is now at 99.5% of SSSI-designated land in for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List, the sea turtle is one favourable or recovering condition of which 62.5% is in favourable of the significant species in marine ecosystems facing possible condition. This exceeds the national target of 95% favourable or extinction. For years, YTL Hotels has been putting in conservation recovering with at least 50% favourable. efforts to preserve the population of sea turtles, through rescuing turtles or hatchery establishment to save the turtle eggs from This year Wessex Water continues their work to achieve their being sold for human consumption in the market. Over the past performance commitment to assess 100% of their eligible landholding seven years, Gaya Island Resort Marine Centre (GIRMC) in Sabah for its biodiversity value by 2020. By the end of the financial year has rescued a total of 19 turtles, nine of which have been the Company brought the total land assessed to more than 95% released back into the sea and two have undergone long-term of over 2,000 hectares of eligible land. rehabilitation spanning three to five months. Whilst in Terengganu, Tanjong Jara Resort (TJR) has been collaborating with a non-profit organisation, Lang Tengah Turtle Watch (LTTW) in establishing turtle hatcheries to save and incubate turtle eggs from poachers. Kindly refer to “Partnering for Effective Conservation” section for more details. 47 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment Safeguard the Landed Species The Gaya Island Resort Wildlife Centre (GIRWC) was established in October 2016 as a research and conservation centre by Gaya Island Resort (GIR) and has identified a total of 245 new flora and 415 new fauna species. Key highlights of GIRWC in FY2019 are: Proboscis Monkey (Nasalis larvatus) Classified as endangered species under IUCN Red List In collaboration with Sabah Wildlife Department and Sabah Park, GIRWC has initiated its ‘genetic rescue’ of the proboscis A proboscis monkey spotted on Gaya Island monkey by translocating the species from one population to the existing population in Gaya Island. This project will develop a healthy genetic structure and population of proboscis monkeys at Gaya Island. White-Bellied Sea Eagle (Haliaeetus leucogaster) On 9 April 2019, an immature white-bellied sea eagle incapable of flying was found by our GIR Ground Supervisor floating in the sea. The sea eagle was later handed over to GIR’s naturalist team for treatment and rehabilitation for a few days before being released back into the wild on 12 April 2019. Reticulated Python (Python reticulatus) A  white-bellied sea eagle being released back into the wild following a period of care and treatment On 4 February 2019, a 4.47 kg reticulated python with ticks all over its body was found slithering around GIR complex looking for a warm place to regulate its body temperature. After diagnosis, it was concluded that certain parts of its skin were damaged due to the infection of ticks. Immediate treatment was given by GIR naturalist, and after more than a month of rehabilitation and recovery, the python was released back into her natural habitat on 30 May 2019. Python with skin infection caused by ticks Preserve Our National Bird The Great Hornbill (Buceros bicornis) is categorised as vulnerable species under IUCN Red List. Both the Great Hornbill and Oriental Pied Hornbill (Anthracoceros albirostris) species can be found within the boundaries of Pangkor Laut Resort (PLR), one of their nesting grounds. PLR has taken the initiative in building four hornbill nesting boxes from recycled materials. Since the commencement of this project, a total of four juvenile hornbills were successfully bred.  pair of hornbills were spotted stopping by one of the nesting boxes to A feed the juvenile hornbills 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment Eyes on Flying Fox The giant fruit bat commonly known as a flying fox (Pteropus sp.) is a protected species under Wildlife Conservation Act 2010 (Act 716) and IUCN Red List. The low density in the flying fox’s population is mainly due to habitat loss, hunting and human-animal conflict. Thus, the sighting of flying foxes in Malaysia is increasingly rare. To protect the flying fox, PLR has been supporting a RIMBA23 research project in providing a suitable and safe roosting site that is free from encroachment and harassment. In addition, PLR also helps RIMBA to spread awareness of the bats by disseminating conservation information to the public, as well as conducting Coral nubbins transplanted on cement blocks seen here growing into colonies regular monitoring to document the abundance of flying fox colonies. Similarly, GIRMC is committed to reform healthy coral colonies by utilising the concept of attaching broken coral fragments onto We have also seen the partnership between GIR and University poly-tubes rooted in a concrete base. In FY2019, GIRMC transplanted College Sabah Foundation set up to monitor flying foxes around 1,200 coral nubbins onto 100 cement blocks. As a result, the coral the island areas. GIR is also planning to build another 15 roosting colonies recorded a survival rate of 85% indicating the feasibility boxes for research and monitoring purposes moving forward. of the transplantation project. Indonesia In Indonesia, YTLJT has initiated a coral seed planting programme in the vicinity of Paiton II Power Plant. Applying the same coral transplantation method used by GIR and PLR, coral fragments are planted on the paving blocks made from FABA waste as a growth medium prior to being submerged onto the sea bed. This year, YTLJT deployed a total 850 pieces of FABA paving blocks with 2,000 coral nubbins, recording an average 88.8% survival rate of the transplanted corals. Two species of flying foxes that occur in Malaysia: Island flying fox found only on islands (Pteropus hypomelanus) and large flying fox on the mainland (Pteropus vampyrus) Coral Reef Restoration Approximately 95% of coral reefs located in Southeast Asia are facing threats through exposure to pollution, over-fishing and coastal development. Most of YTL Hotels are blessed with stunning eco-tourism spots where the coral reefs are located. Hence, the conservation of coral reefs is consistently carried out by teams of YTL Hotels via numerous approaches. Over the past ten years, PLR has partnered with Reef Check Malaysia (RCM) in reef conservation and rehabilitation. The collaboration has kick-started the coral transplantation project by relocating broken coral fragments onto concrete blocks which act as a growing medium for the nubbins, at both Mentagor Island and the PLR jetty. For more C  oral seen here transplanted on blocks made from the coal-fired power plant waste – Fly Ash and Bottom Ash (FABA) information, kindly refer to “Partnering for Effective Conservation”. 23 RIMBA is a Malaysian non-profit research group focused on conducting conservation science 49 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment Coastal Habitat Restoration Coastal habitats such as mangrove and seagrass are crucial to alleviate coastal erosion, reduce atmospheric CO2, purify water and protect from flooding. Nevertheless, these habitats are facing threats from climate change, as well as stress from pollution. Acutely aware of the issue, business units across YTL Group are undertaking several initiatives that involve intensive research and development, to substantially increase afforestation and reforestation to fight climate change.  ne of the mangrove saplings embedded in a hexagonal concrete block being O Enriching the Mangrove Forests monitored by GIR naturalist team Malaysia In 2014, a mangrove nursery was set up by GIR to plant mangrove saplings in an effort to enrich the habitat along the coastline. As of now, over 3,000 mangrove saplings have been sowed and flourished into shrubs. Naturalists from GIR consistently carry out research on constraining factors that could impede the survival rate of mangroves. Investigations to identify the most suitable method to plant the saplings with reduced mortality rates have seen great progress this year. Instead of using recycled plywood material, Randutatah Conservation Area has become a recreational tourist spot adopting hexagonal concrete blocks is far more durable to hold the saplings against strong currents and waves. This method has proven Reviving the Seagrass Habitat successful where over 70% survival rate has been recorded. Malaysia Indonesia Funded by GIR, the in-house naturalists have embarked on coastal monitoring and research works in 2016 and discovered that the Aiming to improve coastal erosion issues, YTLJT engaged with local poor condition of the seagrass habitat had deteriorated around groups since 2013 to carry out a mangrove and sea pines plantation Gaya Island. GIR responded by building a seagrass nursery in December programme at Randutatah Beach, Probolinggo, East Java, Indonesia. 2018 to cultivate the seagrass seedlings collected from the nearby The Company has targeted to plant at least 10,000 mangroves and water village. A few months after cultivation, propagated seagrass 5,000 sea pines every year. was relocated to a planting site with 12 hexagonal hollow concrete blocks embedded around the seagrass to enhance their rooting To date, over 55,600 sea pines (Casuarina equisetifolia) and 109,800 progress. Through consistent implementation, three out of five mangroves (Sonneratia alba, Rhizophora mucronata, Avicennia species of seagrass recorded encouraging results. In future, GIR will marina, Rhizophora tylosa) have been planted over a 55 km stretch increase their project scale to produce at least six planting sites, of coastline. In addition, 500 bamboo and 700 Tahitian Chestnut each constituting an area of 400 m2. trees were also seeded in FY2019. An increase in the number of mangroves, sea pines and other trees species has driven the proliferation of biodiversity in that area. It has seen an increase in the Biodiversity Shannon-Weiner Index from 0.6 to 2.43 for flora and 2.71 to 2.84 for birds over the last five years. On 16 January 2018, YTLJT signed an agreement with the local government to develop parts of Randutatah Conservation Area into an eco-tourism and recreational zone. The Randutatah Conservation Area programme has been a success where it has brought people, planet and profits together in the journey towards sustainability.  eagrass contained in hexagonal hollow concrete blocks to minimise soil loss S caused by strong currents and wave attrition 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment Partnering for Effective Conservation With support from PLR, RCM initiated a coral reef transplantation project in 2015 to restore the population of hard coral species in the waters around PLR. The table below indicates three years of data on the number of coral colonies and their survival rates, accordingly. 2017 2018 2019 Number of Coral Colonies at 847 722 6381  or the corals that have grown well, marine organisms are found inhabiting the F Mentagor Island colonies at Mentagor Islands (Photo courtesy of Edmund Lau from RCM) Coral’s survival rate at 142 85 881 Mentagor Island (%) Number of Coral Colonies at 36 37 39 PLR Jetty Coral’s survival rate at PLR 44 103 1052 Jetty (%) Note: 1 Slight reduction in the number of coral colonies as some weaker colonies were unable to survive the bleaching event back in 2016, coupled with the devastating effect from high sedimented water. However, the survival rate of coral stood at 88%, manifesting the stability in survivorship of most colonies. 2 Survival rate is more than 100% due to new coral recruits that have settled naturally on the concrete blocks. C  orals are flourishing into healthy colonies residing at PLR jetty (Photo courtesy of Edmund Lau from RCM) At Mentagor Island, the coral colonies have grown into large colonies (picture on the left, taken in September 2016) before they were affected by a bleaching event (picture on the right). Nevertheless, they slowly revived after the bleaching event had subsided (Photo courtesy of Edmund Lau from RCM) Aside from the coral transplantation project, RCM conducts annual Reef Check surveys at Sembilan Islands near PLR to examine the health of coral reefs prior to implementing proper mitigation measures. In March 2019, the RCM team conducted a survey at nine sites around the Sembilan Islands and one in Pangkor Laut. Ghost nets are commonly found around the survey sites, and immediate action has been put forward to regulate or prohibit RCM  team member is carrying out the Sembilan Islands’ survey to assess the fishing activities at both sites. During their surveys, a number of status of coral reefs around the area (Photo courtesy of Edmund Lau from seahorses were spotted. These are part of a significant local RCM) population that are being studied extensively. 51 YTL GROUP Protection of the Environment 2016 2017 2018 20191 Number of nests 34 83 129 152 Number of turtle eggs 5,837 7,567 12,116 16,766 saved from being sold This is the fourth year of partnership between LTTW and TJR in to market saving sea turtles and their offspring from potential threats and poaching. The capacity of hatcheries remains the same as the Hatchling released 4,936 5,546 9,158 11,198 previous year, where it comprised a total of three guest hatcheries Hatchling success rate 85 742 76 673 and one larger research hatchery, known as the Jennifer Tan Research (%) Hatchery. Buried within the hatcheries are the eggs of sea turtles Note: and critically endangered painted terrapins. Regular nest inspections 1 Data obtained from January 2019 to September 2019. are conducted by the LTTW team to examine the eggs’ and hatchlings’ 2 Hatchlings’ success rate dropped by 11% in 2017 as compared to the previous year due to dry monsoon season, resulting in poor sand renewal rate which conditions. eventually led to the proliferation of bacteria that greatly impeded the process of hatching. To mitigate this issue, LTTW and TJR teams are currently exploring Apart from that, the turtle conservation programme also actively ways to renew/wash the sand starting from the new 2020 season. involves the participation from the public, via a nest adoption 3 There are 840 eggs still incubating in the hatcheries at present, which led to lower hatchling success rate in 2019. programme. Since its launch, this nest adoption programme has received overwhelming response from guests, wherein adoptees receive regular updates from the conservation team throughout the egg incubation period. To date, a total of 398 nests have been adopted by guests over four seasons. One  of the juvenile sea turtles hatched in one of the nests adopted by guests from TJR (Photo courtesy of LTTW) T  anjong Jara Resort guests checking  Resort guests seen here quietly Once a nest is adopted, a signboard written with the adoptee’s name is placed out the hatchling nest area (Photo cheering the hatchlings at the next to the nest (Photo courtesy of LTTW) courtesy of LTTW) designated “runway” during the release (Photo courtesy of LTTW) 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Protection of the Environment Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) Partnership Programme Wessex Water’s Partners Programme has been an integral part of their Biodiversity Action Plan since 1998 and offers funding to practical conservation and research projects across the Wessex Water region. The following are four projects supported by Wessex Water between April 2015 and March 2020: Project in Partnership Aim To take a catchment wide approach to restoring and recreating wildlife habitat along 1. D  orset Wild Rivers – Dorset Wildlife Dorset rivers – this will also improve water quality, flood storage and community involvement Trust in water issues. 2. W essex Chalk Streams Project – To help improve the iconic River Avon chalk streams in Wiltshire and safeguard their rare Wiltshire Wildlife Trust biodiversity. 3. South Wiltshire Farmland Conservation To work with land managers in Wiltshire and Dorset to create bigger and better habitats on – Cranborne Chase Area of agricultural land, reduce pollution going into rivers and enhance wildlife populations including Outstanding Natural Beauty declining arable bird species. 4. N orth Somerset Levels and Moors To restore and manage grazing marshes on the North Somerset Levels and Moors to benefit Grazing Marsh – Avon Wildlife Trust aquatic plants and invertebrate; habitats for otters, water voles and bats; and flood alleviation. Wessex Water’s Partners Programme is also offering individual small grants of between GBP2,500 and GBP5,000 for standalone projects applied for and awarded every six months until October 2019. The small grants scheme is designed to fund short-term, smaller scale practical projects which address catchment, ecosystems and science and research issues, such as habitat creation and restoration, ancillary conservation works (eg. fencing, support services for grazing), land management action to improve water quality, provision of land management advice, dissemination and communication of information, and to meet immediate research or monitoring needs. Date Project Funded Spring 2018 Holt Heath Monitoring Project – Wessex Chalk Streams and Rivers Trust and Dorset Wild Rivers Project Blackwater and Brown Hairstreaks Project – Somerset Wildlife Trust Autumn 2018 Hedgerow Project – Great Bustard Group Devils Brook Multi Benefit Project – Farming Spring 2019 and Wildlife Advisory Group South West (FWAGSW) and Dorset Wild Rivers Bristol Avon Catchment Partnership Wessex Water also supported four catchment partnerships within their region, including co-hosting the Bristol Avon and Dorset partnerships. Since 2016, 14 projects have been delivered via the Bristol Avon catchment fund and have restored 64 hectares of Further details can be found at http://www.wessexwater.co.uk/ habitat, improved 15 km of river and engaged or supported more environment/catchment-partnerships/bristol-avon-catchmentthan 30 farmers. partnership. 53 EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE Recognition of YTL Group as an employer of choice Our Commitment • Promoting and embracing diversity and inclusiveness • Fostering fair and equitable workplace conditions • Nurturing human capital by growing workplace capacity and skills • Bridging gaps through training, on the job learning and career development Our Approach • Caring for employees through active engagement and encouraging healthy work life balance • Ensuring the health, safety and well-being of employees Aligned To • Total workforce of 13,753 employees globally • Employs 63 people with disabilities • 31% of total workforce made up by women Highlights YTL GROUP Empowering Our People [GRI 102-8, 201-3, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 402-1, 403-1, 403-4, 403-5, 403-9, 404-1, 404-2, 402-3, 405-1, 408-1, 409-1] In our effort to be an employer of choice, we regard our people as Group Employee Profile our greatest asset and strive to continuously create an engaged and conducive workplace to meet the ever-changing requirements Age Profile of tomorrow’s business and to remain competitive. To date, we Top Management have a total workforce of 13,753 employees globally, of which 69% 35 Senior/Middle Management are male, which reflects the nature of our business activities, 30 Executive especially in areas such as construction and utilities services. 25 Non-Executive Percentage (%) 20 Promoting our brand values of “Building the Right Thing” (BTRT) 15 and encouraging a good work ethic and integrity have been a key 10 focus this year. Following our introduction of Corporate Statements, 5 we released a new Code of Conduct and Ethics in FY2019, which 0 sets out acceptable practices and ethics that guide our employees <30 30-39 40-49 50-59 >60 and others who work with us as suppliers, contractors and communities that we serve. Both24 are made available and easily accessible on Gender Profile our corporate website for employees and the public. 1% 4% Going forward, we will continue to; F  ocus on promoting women in leadership roles; 2% 10% Recognise, respect and support our people with difference in Top Senior/Middle personal characteristics or disabilities; Management Management Further enhance in-house training as well as to establish holistic training and development; 8% 19% Keep our employees engaged and our workplace healthy and safe. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 14% 42% Executive Non-Executive OUR GOAL: To embrace diversity and inclusion across our workplace and offer equal opportunity for advancement Male Female Adopting the United Nations Global Compact principles of human Ethnicity Ethnicity rights, we strictly oppose all forms of discrimination or practices (Malaysia) (Global) that do not ensure equal opportunity for everyone. We do not tolerate any form of child and forced labour and we take extra 27% 31% precautions to prevent this from happening in all our businesses 39% and supply chains. We also respect our employees’ rights to freedom of association and to be members of trade unions. During the reporting period, we are pleased to report that we have had no incidents in relation to discrimination, forced labour or child labour. 73% 20% 10% We employ 63 people with disabilities across YTL Group and they Bumiputera Malaysians are given equal and fair treatment and suitable job responsibilities. Chinese Others We also provide physical and mental support to help them overcome Indian any detrimental physiological and emotional states which may affect Others execution and the workplace self-efficacy negatively. 24 Please view our Corporate Statements on Human Rights and Ethics as well as Health and Safety at http://www.ytl.com/sustainability/corporatestatement.asp and our Code of Conduct and Ethics at http://www.ytl.com/governance.asp 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Empowering Our People YTL Group Employment Data Total Number of Employment Local Female Employees Type Workforce Workforce FY2019 13,753 88% 76% 31% permanent employees FY2018 11,949 85% 78% 33% permanent employees FY2017 11,141 89% 84% 31% permanent employees Employee Retention and Turnover FY2017 FY2018 FY2019* Labour Practices Male Female Male Female Male Female New Hires 1,075 666 1,798 1,120 1,802 1,226 Employee Turnover 1,208 639 1,720 1,207 1,656 1,194 Interns 185 233 198 199 217 263 Note: * Data of Malayan Cement (formerly known as Lafarge Malaysia) is not incorporated To further support our commitment to conduct business with integrity, over 600 YTL Leaders from Malaysia and overseas were briefed by our Executive Chairman, Tan Sri Dato’ (Dr) Francis Yeoh, during YTL Leadership Conference 2018. Topics covered included anti-bribery and corruption, business ethics, human rights and whistle-blowing, which YTL Leaders would then be responsible for, in terms of governance, training and engagement at each business unit 57 YTL GROUP Empowering Our People Malaysia United Kingdom In August 2018, YTL Group participated in Merdeka Parade 2018 that This year Wessex Water undertook a significant project on diversity took place in Putrajaya as the largest contingent in the private sector and inclusion across the Company, canvassing the views of more category. The contingent demonstrated the diversity in YTL Group, than 200 colleagues via workshops and interviews, assessing their consisting of not only junior and senior employees, but also those gaps against best practices and formulating plans to continue with different cultural backgrounds and a good mix of male and improving the diversity and integration. This included training on female employees. The marching practice started a month before avoiding non-deliberate bias. Wessex Water commits to promoting the parade. Through this, we are able to demonstrate patriotism and an equal opportunity in their employment and career advancement express our aspirations for Malaysia to grow healthier and stronger. regardless of gender. 60  employees from YTL Corporation, Syarikat Pembenaan Yeoh Tiong Lay and Last year, the number of women in the workforce remained constant at 22%, YTL Cement participated in the Merdeka march-past whilst the number of women managers increased by 1% to 20% in leadership roles Since 2015, YTL Group’s women’s network, “W@Y” or “Women at Since April 2017, the UK government requires all companies with YTL” was launched to empower and support women across the more than 250 employees to publish their gender pay gap data. organisation, helping them to grow and reach their full potential. The gender pay gap is the difference in average hourly pay received Following the success of last year’s W@Y initiatives, we went the by men and women. The following data represents Wessex Water’s extra mile this year by empowering women beyond YTL Group. This gender pay gap figures as at 5 April 2019. It should be noted that year, W@Y worked with Women of Will (WOW), a non-profit the gender pay gap is different to equal pay, the right for men and organisation to transform the lives of disadvantaged women in women to be paid the same rate of pay for doing work that is of Malaysia and their communities through micro-credit financing equal value. combined with an Entrepreneurial Development Programme. More details can be found in the “Community” section. Gender Pay Gap 2017 2018 2019 Mean25 7.3% 5.4% 4.9% Median26 4.4% 1.5% 4.6% The mean gender pay gap has fallen over the years from 7.3% in 2017 to 4.9% in 2019, and it remains significantly lower than the UK average of 17.9%27. This reflects gender distribution in job roles 25 The mean gender pay gap is the difference in average hourly pay for men across the Wessex Water workforce rather than any equal pay compared to women at all levels across Wessex Water 26 The median represents the midpoint across a list of values in numerical order. issues, Wessex Water has a robust job evaluation process and If we list the average hourly pay in numerical order, the median is the middle operates a framework of grades and pay ranges within each grade number. The median pay gap is the percentage difference in average hourly to ensure that the pay is not influenced by gender. pay for the middle man compared to the middle woman across Wessex Water 27 Source: Office for National Statistics (ONS) median pay gap 2018 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Empowering Our People In common with many businesses with a predominance of Science, NURTURING HUMAN CAPITAL Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) skills, the water industry is heavily male dominated. Wessex Water recognises that OUR GOAL: To elicit the right fit for our people to grow diversity is a strength and continues to create a diverse and inclusive and develop their career with us environment to improve the representation of women within their business and the industry. Our approach to talent management is simple, and we believe in growing capabilities of our workforce by attracting, developing and The following are the current areas of focus which will contribute retaining the right people. We empower and invest in strengthening to reducing Wessex Water’s gender pay gap over time: our people at all levels with relevant skills and knowledge through training, professional development and engagement activities. Reflecting the diversity of the community they serve; Providing community education; We continue to operate a robust talent review process to build an Providing apprenticeships, graduates and early careers; effective talent pipeline and succession planning. At the same time, we also provide fair remuneration and rewards, as well as Promoting and encouraging flexible working; opportunities and resources to our employees to acquire new skills Improving all forms of diversity and inclusion at all levels. and enhance existing ones. Employee Benefits and Welfare Singapore In the highly competitive labour market, the demand for skilled workers keeps growing. As a responsible employer, we strive to Guided by TAFEP’s (Tripartite Alliance of Fair and Progressive uphold fair and safe workplace practices and promote work-life Employment Practices) principle of Fair Employment Practices, YTL balance culture in accordance with local labour laws where we operate. PowerSeraya promotes inclusiveness in the workplace, embracing diversity amongst different races, genders, backgrounds and All employees undergo an annual performance and career development nationalities. The Company also ensures that employees are review to assess performance, areas for improvement, development compensated based on their skills and experience, performance needs and career plans. Key performance indicators (KPI), both for and the market value of the position they hold. As at FY2019, the the business as well as for employee development, are in place to ratio of base salary (Male: Female) for the entire Company stood ensure that performance goals are aligned with our business objectives. at 1: 0.80. This compares well with Singapore’s Wage Equality Score of 0.81428. In FY2019, 150 female employees went on maternity leave and 151 male employees took paternity leave. 269 returned to work, resulting in a retention rate of 89%. Employee Remuneration and Rewards Programme Sport & Parental Annual Fitness Leave Leave Activities Flexible Learning & Employee Entitlement Working Developing Share Hours Opportunities Options (Only For Working Schemes Parents) Medical Birthday Coverage & Wedding & Mobile Phone Leave Group Child Birth With Data Insurance Plan Vouchers Plans Note: Certain benefits and entitlements are applicable to selected business units only 28 Source: World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2016 59 YTL GROUP Empowering Our People Training and Development Various programmes were held which focused on upgrading the competencies of our people and increasing their productivity whilst creating a talent pool for effective succession planning. Investments are made in structured on-the-job trainings, workshops and seminars covering areas ranging from management, technical, communications, leadership to soft skills. In support of continuous professional development, we support our employees in their career development through coaching, feedback, advice, as well as access to learning opportunities for performance enhancement. The training is provided either in-house, e-learning or through external training providers. Average Training Expenditure per Employee YTL Business Units FY2017 FY2018 FY20191 Wessex Water GBP751 GBP810 GBP881 YTL PowerSeraya SGD560 SGD361 SGD2792 YTL Jawa Timur IDR1,908,090 IDR770,700 IDR1,326,083 YTL Starhill Global REIT Management SGD250 SGD594 SGD773 Note: 1 The average training expenditure per employee increased in FY2019 which reflects our priority in developing competent employees 2 YTL PowerSeraya’s average training expenditure per employee decreased in FY2019 due to greater emphasis on in-house training initiatives Malaysia Singapore In December 2018, our hospitality arm, Cameron Highlands Resort YTL Starhill Global REIT Management (YSGRM) continues to enhance (CHR) conducted a food safety management training session to educate the Executive Development Programme which nurtures high-performing employees on safety and food hygiene environment relating to business unit leaders by providing them with additional knowledge ISO 22000 Food Safety Management Systems. There were 70 employees and experience through training, workshops and seminars on mainly from the kitchen as well as food and beverage department management, technical skills, communication, leadership and other involved in the training. As a result, CHR is able to control food safety topics. In FY2019, each employee underwent an average 30.5 hours hazards and provide an assurance to guests regarding food quality of training, surpassing its target to maintain at least 25 training hours and hygiene. a year per employee. YSGRM Average Training Hours per Employee Employee Category Male Female Rank and File 0 18.8 Executives and Supervisors 24.8 44.8 Management 29.0 33.2 Senior Management 30.6 36.8 Average by Gender 29.0 31.6 ISO 22000 Food Safety Management Systems can be applied to any organisation in the food chain, farm to fork. CHR is preparing for the certification through Average per Employee 30.5 providing training sessions to its employees In addition, the ongoing training initiatives for maintaining competency YTL PowerSeraya’s training expenditure per employee saw a drop. sustainability of ERL Maintenance Support (E-MAS) are targeted at all This is aligned with the company-wide cost management measures levels of employees, including initial training, refresher training and in the challenging power generation business in Singapore as well as re-skill training in technical areas. YTL Cement also conducted a greater shift towards in-house training programmes. competency training to support the continuous skill development and lifelong learning of its employees as well as to enhance business operations. 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Empowering Our People United Kingdom Wessex Water has delivered 800 courses with an average of 3.4 days’ development training per employee. A partnership with Weston College enables Wessex Water to achieve leadership and management qualifications programmes in line with the National Apprenticeship Standards. This year, 45 leaders have started their studies to develop their skills in this area. Wessex Water runs in-house development programmes for new and experienced managers, as well as full soft skills training programmes, coaching and mentoring initiatives for employee development. Wessex Water has also focused on further developing their e-learning platform, iLearn, and through delivering a blended approach to learning they have To support the mental health and physical well-being of Wessex Water's delivered a record amount of training. Training is now more accessible employees, more than 300 leaders and colleagues were trained with the to their employees than ever before by offering a mix of interactive skills to identify and manage their own stress levels and how best to courses, learning bites, video content and online training programmes. support others Grooming Future Talents To nurture our talent pool, we have undertaken Internship and Apprenticeship Programme to identify and develop future leaders as well as to offer rich and diverse learning opportunities. The internship opportunities offer extensive knowledge and hands-on experience to gain real-life work exposure, develop new skills and broaden their knowledge during their attachments with our diversified business units guided by senior officers. Interns who excel in internships are considered for a placement in YTL Group with a permanent role. Today, we have a robust young talent pool, comprising interns, apprentices, scholars and management trainees. Malaysia E-MAS initiated the National Dual Training System (NDTS) in February 2019 and successfully registered as an accredited training centre for Sijil Kemahiran Malaysia in May 2019. The content and material of the competency certification which covers Level 2 Rolling Stock Maintenance was developed by E-MAS in-house expertise with the guidance from an appointed third party consultant. The training modules have received necessary approvals from the Ministry of Human Resource. These training modules aim to provide quality education and experience to the apprentices and its existing employees. Yee Khai Chee is a YTL Scholar who started his internship at FrogAsia As an undergraduate studying Civil Engineering at the University of Nottingham Malaysia, Yee Khai Chee believes that education elevates society and improves lives, “At first, I didn’t know what to expect when I was applying for this internship programme. However, I was determined to help make changes in our education system, be it small or large. While working in FrogAsia, I had the opportunity to develop virtual learning sites and revision quizzes which will be used by millions of students across Malaysia. I really enjoyed this internship programme. It does not only allow me to be part of the impact FrogAsia is bringing to education, but it E-MAS providing training to young people at its depot area through its Apprentice also helped me learn soft skills which are beneficial for my future”. Drive 61 YTL GROUP Empowering Our People United Kingdom ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE OUR GOAL: To bridge the gap leading to increased Encouraging widening participation in early career opportunities employee satisfaction and motivation has been a key focus for Wessex Water in 2019. Wessex Water engages with young people excluded from traditional education We actively engage our employees through various avenues, including through activities with Pupil Referral Units and Secure Units to the annual YTL Leadership Conference, town halls, YTL Connect, provide an early career opportunity. Wessex Water has significantly YTL Community website, BTRT and YTL Sustainability newsletters, increased the appointment of people from Black, Asian and Minority HR broadcast, engagement surveys, and YTL Group Sustainability Ethnic (BAME) backgrounds to their early career opportunities and Committee for the effective flow of information and latest updates, supported the BAME 5 Cities Project with Bristol City Council. Wessex alignment of business goals and objectives, as well as stories and Water also introduced the first management graduate programme interviews with management and employees across all levels of attracting young local and national talent into the business. the workforce. Apprenticeship recruitment has been successful across the region We have an open-door policy, allowing all employees to obtain a with widespread interest and a significant increase to 92 people fair review and a prompt response to problems or concerns relating who joined for the technical apprenticeship roles. Almost 10% of to any aspect of their work, harassment, grievance handling and Wessex Water’s workforce currently undertakes learning and whistle-blowing, by raising their concerns to superiors, heads of development through apprenticeships, further or higher education. department, higher management or to the HR Department. We view Wessex Water works with the local community to promote all types of employee feedback mechanisms across YTL Group as apprenticeships as a valued and respected career pathway. essential in creating effective communication channels. The Wessex Water technical apprenticeship applications have a strong success rate from female applicants with a continued 13% of the annual cohort being female. This is significantly higher than the national benchmark for the sector. The Company works closely with the education providers, Weston College and Bridgwater & Taunton College to develop the skills, knowledge and behaviours of colleagues to increase service quality and productivity within the business. Australia As part of Marriott’s Take Care Programme, Brisbane, Sydney Harbour and Throughout the year, Brisbane Marriott organised several career Melbourne Marriott hotels participated in Stepathlon 2018 to promote walking activity among employees as part of their healthy lifestyle and at the same talks with local schools, colleges and universities to provide the time to foster team spirit through sharing a common goal students with an insight into employment opportunities with Marriott. More than 390 students attended the events and a lot of interest was shown by the students. In April 2019, Marriott Journey Week was held by Brisbane Marriott to provide an opportunity for their associates to foster and further their careers with Marriott through various career coaching sessions. Melbourne Marriott has hired 54 interns from multiple local and international schools to assist with the growth and development of students to gain the practical skills needed for a future in the hospitality industry. The 12 interns who excelled in internships were later hired as permanent employees. Pictured here, some of the 100 University of Queensland hospitality students that Brisbane Marriott hosted during careers talk and tour of the hotel 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Empowering Our People Malaysia The annual YTL Leadership Conference is a forum which gathers key senior managers and leaders across all business units to present progress on their respective projects or business units as well as exchange thought leadership matters. With different themes every year, “Building Resilience in a Changing World” was the theme in 2018. The Leadership Conference aims to stimulate and encourage diverse thoughts and approaches to accelerate the performance of YTL Group in an ever-changing world. YTL Group recognises the extra mile efforts from employees and honours their contributions through the peer-to-peer recognition platforms. The BTRT Awards were introduced in September 2016 as an appreciation to those exemplary individuals who embody the Y  TL Leadership Conference provides an ideal opportunity for senior managers YTL brand values, and go beyond the call of duty for the Company and leaders to refresh and enlighten their thinking through workshops and and its people. The BTRT Awards committee selected five people sharing sessions from different divisions who were nominated by their peers, and presented them with a BTRT Light Brick trophy and cash rewards during the annual YTL Leadership Conference. #YTLBiggie is an ideas contest launched by YTL Group Sustainability Division to raise awareness on sustainability related issues and to reward concepts on how they can be implemented in YTL Group’s operations or management. The theme for #YTLBiggie 2018 was “Biomimicry: Inspiration from nature” and the winner was Mohd Noor Zakuan Bin Ab Malik with his Villi Trap idea. The idea is a rubbish trap mimicking the villus that absorbs nutrients in the human intestine. With numerous pillars created from extremely durable materials installed in waterways, the Villi Trap potentially offers more surface area to trap rubbish and prevent flooding as a result of reduced rubbish blockages in waterways.  inners of BTRT Awards 2018 receiving their BTRT Light Brick trophies from W Executive Chairman of YTL Group, Tan Sri Dato’ (Dr) Francis Yeoh Similarly, E-MAS launched the Employee Improvement Programme (EIP) in 2002 to allow its employees to contribute ideas in enhancing E-MAS operations, services, processes, work conditions, cost effectiveness and promoting continuous improvement. As of June 2019, this exercise generated 1,550 suggestions on process, work as well as safety and health related improvements. One notable EIP from the Electrification Department is to reduce the manpower from five to three personnel in the operations team, resulting in a splicing jig being fabricated to improve work process. As a result, this programme creates good work ethic, innovation, cooperation and respect amongst employees, which all are the foundation for a sustainable operation. W  inners of #YTLBiggie 2018 receiving their cash prizes and certificates from YTL Corp’s Head of Group Sustainability, Ruth Yeoh 63 YTL GROUP Empowering Our People United Kingdom Indonesia The 2019 internal employee survey shows that 88% of Wessex Water’s A group of YTL Jawa Timur (YTLJT) operations and engineering employees employees rated the Company as a good employer to work for, an volunteered in the implementation of the micro hydro programme. increase of 4% compared to the previous year. Wessex Water values They helped to conduct feasibility studies and supervise micro hydro their employees, listens to their feedback and puts action plans in construction projects in remote villages. Following completion, they place to address key areas of feedback increasing overall employee continue interaction with local communities to transfer knowledge in engagement to 81%. Wessex Water recognises their employees via operating and maintaining the units. Similarly, in the solar energy the “Eureka Programme” for suggestions on ways to save money, programme, volunteer employees provide exposure to the local schools, improve services to customers, reduce risks and improve the way they and university students are involved in the entire process, commencing work. Last year, there were 62 suggestions, with seven deemed from material preparation, installation, and solar energy utilisation so suitable for further development or reward totalling GBP1,750. that they are equipped to learn more about the technical aspects. Wessex Water launched its People Programme, a dedicated programme Singapore of initiatives to address current and future strategic people priorities in areas including resourcing, talent management, reward and recognition, YSGRM promotes a family-like culture and focuses on employee bonding future working, diversity and employee well-being. In FY2019, this to forge stronger team dynamics through active engagement. Its programme was embedded into the business with a focus on mental employees celebrate festive joy in the office, attend incentive trips, health awareness and training of colleagues in mental health first aid. participate in group cooking classes as well as arts and crafts sessions. Around 100 qualified mental health first aiders (MHFA) have been To encourage a healthy lifestyle, YSGRM introduced the ‘Perfect trained to spot early signs and symptoms of mental health issues, Attendance Award’ which is issued quarterly to reward employees for offer initial help and guide a person towards support. staying healthy. In FY2019, 66.2% of YSGRM’s employees, excluding senior management, regularly received the Perfect Attendance Awards. GENeco UK, a subsidiary company under Wessex Water organised team building celebratory events over two dates in September 2018, with 50 attendees invited to both days. The events were arranged for Wessex Water Enterprise employees and internal business partners to maximise participation and engagement across the Company. It provides greater cross departmental teamwork and communication to enhance the appreciation of other people’s skills, expertise, strengths and capabilities. The initiative was highly successful with participants responding positively to questionnaires after the event. The incentive trip to Batam, Indonesia to promote bonding amongst YSGRM’s employees, and enhance the team spirit and cohesiveness W  essex Water Force, launched in April 2018, is the volunteering programme open for Wessex Water employees to work with local charities across the region one working day per year. More than 400 employees took part in the first year  essex Water’s mental health champions have been trained to spot early W signs and symptoms of mental health issues 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Empowering Our People MANAGING WORKPLACE HEALTH, SAFETY AND ensure that any similar situation does not recur. Facilities maintenance, WELL-BEING management and audits are also carried out regularly to minimise the occurrence of accidents due to the breakdown of amenities. OUR GOAL: To improve workplace health and safety All performance against health, safety and welfare is closely towards zero fatality and accident monitored by the Health and Safety Committees of each business unit and reported to top management. During the year under review, The management of health and safety is critical to us and is there were no incidents resulting in fatalities. embedded across all business areas to ensure our employees can work safely. Protecting the health, safety and welfare of our YTL PowerSeraya and YTLJT adopts the OHSAS 18001 to ensure employees, contractors and communities we serve is a shared safety at the power plant. Every year, the power plant is audited responsibility and we continue to emphasise the importance of a against the standards to ensure that the safety management systems health, safety and welfare oriented culture in our day-to-day is working well to keep the workplace safe. The Workplace Safety operations. and Health Committee, comprising representatives from different departments as well as employee union representatives, meet on As guided by our Corporate Statement on commitments to health a monthly basis to discuss safety and health issues. Permit-to-work and safety, all of our key business units are certified with global systems, regular safety inspections and the maintenance of fire standard – ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001 and detection and protection systems help to keep the workplace safe. in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Accident Frequency Rate for Employees and Contractors Occupational Health and Safety Accident Frequency Rate1 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 We are committed to provide a sound and safe environment for our stakeholders; employees, suppliers, contractors and customers. YTL PowerSeraya2 1.1 3.0 2.1 We constantly monitor, review and improve our current health and YTL Jawa Timur 0 0 0.468 safety procedures and practices in all our business units. Note: 1 No. of workplace accidents per million man-hours worked in our operations in In any case where accidents or incidents occur, a study for corrective Singapore and Indonesia action and a thorough improvement plan will be implemented to 2 Data is for Pulau Seraya Power Station and Jurong Power Station Wessex Water’s Health and Safety Data All incidents Incidents of near misses and service strikes Overall, 601 incidents were reported in the 12 months to 31 December 2018, 2018 266 including 133 near misses and 133 service strikes. The principal cause of all 2017 252 incidents after near misses and service strikes remains as slips, trips and falls. 2016 265 This is in line with other companies and the national situation. 245 250 255 260 265 270 Reportable incident rate Reportable incident rate per 1,000 employees This is the measure of the number of reportable incidents per 1,000 employees. 2018 4.00 2017 5.04 2016 4.91 0 1 2 3 4 5 Lost time incident rate Lost time incident rate per 1,000 employees This includes all reported incidents involving employees that resulted in absence 2018 14.24 from work of one or more days. In 2018 there were 32 lost time incidents, 2017 12.82 with an increase of 18% from 2017. The principal causes of lost time in 2018 2016 19.85 were slips, trips and falls, and manual handling. 0 5 10 15 20 25 65 YTL GROUP Empowering Our People Health, Safety and Security Training and Communication Malaysia All employees, workers and contractors undergo safety awareness and induction courses in the office or on site, and also regularly Perak-Hanjoong Simen (PHS) participated in the Workplace Accident updated on matters including safety and security action plans, Free Week 2018 (WAFEW), a programme organised by Department accident and/or incident reporting procedures, relevant training of Occupational Safety and Health (DOSH) to promote culture of programmes, as well as related articles, which are also available on occupational accident and disease prevention through the use of the intranet and newsletters. Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk Control concept. PHS has also organised in-house health and safety awareness Training topics included Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and training inclusive of on-site safety toolbox briefing, hearing first aid, safety and security awareness, office and construction conservation, fire drill and proper usage of personal protection safety, Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) policies and operating equipment. PHS also conducted a self-audit to comply with the procedures, HSE risk management, emergency preparedness and workplace assessment checklist. As a result, PHS has been awarded response, fire evacuation, as well as specialised subjects such as with a WAFEW participation certificate by DOSH after the successful safe use of electrical equipment and working at heights. implementation and zero accident throughout WAFEW. Other activities held throughout the year include annual health PHS also participated in Systematic Occupational Health Enhancement screenings, lunch-time health and fitness talks, sports and recreational Level Programme (SoHELP), a one-year programme supported by activities, such as stress management, understanding dementia, DOSH that aims to prevent the development of occupational disease prevention of flu, measles and chronic diseases, badminton, futsal, due to exposure to excessive noise, chemicals and ergonomic risk bowling, and many more. factors in the marketplace. PHS established a working committee led by two PHS competent Safety and Health Officers to conduct workplace inspection based on SoHELP checkpoints where they develop, plan, organise and implement all the SoHELP requirements in the OSH management systems. As a result, PHS was certified with the achievement of full Level Five (Excellent) by DOSH in January 2019.  omplimentary support by a local hospital to provide basic health checks for C employees of The Ritz-Carlton Koh Samui Emergency Response Plan Mock Up Drill was held by Environmental, Health and Safety Team of Gemas-Johor Bahru Electrified Double Track Project (EDTP) at Bukit Siput, Segamat with the involvement from local government agencies to test the readiness and preparation of the contractor in an emergency situation The Ritz-Carlton Kuala Lumpur and JW Marriott Kuala Lumpur conducted an annual Job Safety Analysis in April 2019 to provide more understanding on safety method of working procedures for employees. The training session intended to raise employees' awareness about hazards and risks at the workplace to prevent any accident or incident in future. T  homas Baake, CEO of E-MAS speaking at the Safety, Health and Environment Day to promote awareness of safety, health and environment to all employees 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Empowering Our People E-MAS conducted an accidental spillage exercise at Dangerous This theme was also celebrated during Safety Day, an event that Goods and Chemical Storage (DGCS) area as part of its Emergency encourages employees to take responsibility for their own health Response Plan (ERP) initiative to gauge the capacity of sump pit whilst also touching on the Company’s safety performance over the at DGCS, and to evaluate the effectiveness of Material Management year and giving due recognition to fire-fighting and first aid teams. Department Response Team (MMT) in managing accidental spillage. The outcome shows that the sump pit did not meet the DOSH YTL PowerSeraya’s focus in the coming year is to develop a Safety guidelines, and a proposal to modify the sump pit was put forward Case with the aim of assessing its current ability of preventing to the top management as part of the corrective measures taken. major accidents and mitigating risks should a major accident occur. At the same time, MMT also initiated a study on chemical packaging The Safety Case is a new regulatory requirement under Singapore’s and looked into the possibilities of reducing chemical packing sizes. Workplace Safety and Health (Major Installations) Regulations. Over This resulted in the Company's saving on renovation costs of the time, the Company will boost the organisation’s capability in sump pit and possible disruption to operations. addressing major accident hazards through the implementation of preventive measures. Indonesia United Kingdom Our utility operation in Indonesia, YTLJT is committed to the safety of its people and community residing within the Operator Housing Wessex Water continues to embed a positive health, safety and Complex (OHC) in Paiton, East Java. Therefore, safety training on welfare culture in their daily operations and activities. Where possible, ‘Confined Space and High Angle Rescue Training’ was conducted they look to share innovation and best practices and also to learn to educate the team on how to deal with rescue operations in from internally and externally reported incidents. limited spaces and at high altitudes. Conducted at the OHC Video Room and Fire Ground Training Facilities, the training saw 45 Wessex Water launched a new worker protection system – Safe participants from the operation shift and core teams participating. Hub for lone workers, in June 2019. The Safe Hub app is a reporting app that is installed in smart phones, tablets and laptops to monitor the health and safety of workers, incidents and near misses, and Singapore at the same time replacing the existing paper-based systems. The app will monitor reports made by Wessex Water’s workers on their YSGRM continues to promote the merits of healthy living and observations on safety practices and incidents. Depending on the encourage employees to embrace a holistic lifestyle through severity of the case reported, further actions can be taken by Workplace Health Programme (WHP). The WHP comprises a series Wessex Water including additional investigation, planning and of sports and health related activities organised for employees to execution of rectifying solutions to ensure that the similar incidents stay fit, healthy and productive. Regular badminton sessions were do not recur. To-date, the app monitors about 1,600 employees in held to promote healthy lifestyles, and educational talks were given total, where up to 750 users who are deemed to be at greater risk to create safety awareness. The activities also created team bonding are provided with a dedicated SOS button for immediate assistance. opportunities among employees to become closer in other aspects besides work. In FY2019, YSGRM experienced a zero-injury, fatality, and occupational disease rate.  warded a Highly Commended in the A Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) Construction YTL PowerSeraya’s continued emphasis on health is aligned with Engineering Industry Sector Award 2018 its aim of keeping its aging workforce active and healthy so they can lead meaningful and productive lives both at work and outside.  DF HPC Best Safety Performance E The Company conducts annual health screening exercises that help – Local Supplier Award in the 2018 identify health risks and improve employees’ well-being. In addition, Hinkley Point C Excellence Awards a number of safety and health awareness initiatives were also conducted in FY2019, in line with the Company’s Safety and Health theme for the year: Work Safely, Work Responsibly, Stay Healthy. 67 ENRICHING COMMUNITIES Positively impacting and enriching the lives of communities where we operate Our Commitment • Developing future generations of leaders by supporting education initiatives • Engaging and supporting local community groups, social institutions, NGOs, social enterprises and non-profit organisations Our • Promoting arts and culture by showcasing unique heritage assets and providing Approach alternative media and venues for artistic expression and communication Aligned To • 300 schools across Malaysia have been recipients of the Frog Classroom transformation • Installed more than 17.03 kWp solar energy for off-grid communities in Malaysia and Indonesia • Built 29 infiltration wells, seven water storage tanks Highlights and eight hydram pumps benefitting more than 1,900 people in Indonesia through the provision of clean water access SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities [GRI 413-1, 413-2] In line with our vision of ‘Making a Good Future Happen’, YTL Malaysia Group is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen, driving positive impact and sustainable change as well as Established in 1997, YTL Foundation strives to build better societies enriching the lives of communities in which we operate. through better education, believing that education empowers individuals and communities to be catalysts of change. YTL Foundation Through employee volunteerism, engagement programmes, is dedicated to the mission of redefining teaching and learning partnerships, fundraising, and in-kind donations, we aim to processes through programmes, funding, thought leadership and play a pivotal role to do good for the communities in need, by championing the use of technology. and make a difference with a more structured and holistic approach. We believe in improving the lives of local communities YTL Foundation Scholarship Programmes by creating equal opportunities in education and employment. We also support the underprivileged society through financial 384 applications received. assistance and donations, as well as building safe communities. After screening, 25 scholars were awarded YTL scholarships in FY2019. Foundation T he scholars selected were mainly in Going forward, we continue to streamline Scholarship construction related courses followed by our efforts and leverage our skills and Programme business and accounting courses. competencies under three key pillars: A n excellence award that sponsors Education – To promote 21st century learning approach extraordinary candidates to pursue tertiary and technology to shape values, skills and education in top universities around the world. knowledge towards sustainable communities Two candidates were awarded the Yeoh Local – T o improve health and well-being of Tiong Lay Award in 2018; Yeoh Tiong Communities communities, and elevating their livelihoods 1. Dorcas Chua – Oxford University (Psychology, Lay Award towards greater socio-economic development Philosophy and Linguistics) Arts and – To protect and preserve arts and culture for 2. Vythilingam Siva Shanmugam – Cambridge Culture the next generations for learning, growing University (Bachelor of Medicine and and enriching experiences Surgery) YTL Foundation Induction Ceremony NURTURING EDUCATION On 29 August 2018, YTL Foundation held its annual induction OUR GOAL: To promote 21 century learning approach st ceremony for the new cohort of scholars at The Hotel Stripes Kuala and technology Lumpur (HSKL). The 2018 cohort of scholars and their parents were given a briefing on the culture and values of YTL Group. YTL The progress and maturity of a nation is often determined and Foundation Trustee and former Secretary General of the Ministry measured by growth, development, and the quality of its future of Finance, Tan Sri Aris Othman and his wife, Puan Sri Sherina L. leaders. Likewise, education is at the heart of nurturing future Aris shared their experiences on how education opened doors for generations. At YTL Group, education is a central theme of YTL them to achieve their goals despite coming from humble backgrounds. Group Sustainability Framework as we believe in the empowerment They also advised the scholars to make full use of the opportunities of individuals and communities through education. We constantly given to them. The event ended with dinner and games with YTL invest in programmes that contribute to the strengthening and Foundation’s existing scholars joining in to get to know and welcome improvement of education standards within society. the new scholars. 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities UK Scholar Training 2018 In September 2018, 16 YTL Foundation United Kingdom (UK) a range of outdoor challenges, the scholars worked in groups to Scholars spent the weekend in Cambridgeshire at an outdoor understand the preferences of other styles and how to work centre to start their academic year at the annual YTL Leadership better and more collaboratively with diversity. The outdoor Training weekend. challenges included sailing, navigating a course blindfolded and raft building. The aim of the weekend was to develop self-awareness and personal effectiveness. To achieve this, the scholars completed The impact of the training a personal DISC (Dominance, Influence, Steadiness and Conscientiousness) profile before the event and were introduced 92% would recommend this training to a friend to the concept of thinking preferences using the DISC analysis. 83% increased confidence in new social situations The trainer commented that, ‘without exception, the scholars gained a great deal of personal insight from the session.’ Using 75% increased ability to feel comfortable receiving feedback Local Scholar Training 2019 Trainers from the UK conducted a weekend programme for the YTL Foundation Local Scholars at HSKL on 12 and 13 January 2019. The scholars discovered their working styles (DISC profile) and the roles best suited for them in a team (Belbin Team Roles). They learnt to distinguish between leaders and managers, and dived deep into discussions on personal power. The scholars enjoyed the two-day programme, with many feeling that the DISC profile enabled them to understand their working styles better.  enzon Yeoh (center), YTL Foundation’s first visually impaired scholar also K “I definitely learnt how to determine my work personality attended the training event. It was heartwarming to see the other scholars and be more effective in a team,” Voon Pei Si, YTL Scholar come together to make sure Kenzon felt included and was able to participate in all the activities during the training YTL Foundation Scholars Alumni Association YTL Foundation has been providing scholarships to deserving students since 1997. Over the years, YTL Foundation has developed a scholar alumni community within YTL Group. YTL Foundation believes that by bringing the scholar alumni together as a single force, they can positively impact the workplace. A gathering was held for YTL Foundation Scholars Alumni at HSKL in May 2019. During this gathering, an executive committee was formed with the aim to work better towards mentoring and empowering a new generation of scholars and employees in the YTL Foundation Scholars Alumni treated to a scrumptious dinner during the organisation. gathering 71 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities Puan Sri Kai Yong Yeoh Book Prize An annual book prize to empower, nurture and strengthen the creativity, critical thinking and problem-solving skills of the next generation in YTL Group. Open to the children of YTL Group employees between the ages of 15-21 years, participants submit a 1,000word essay and a video on a specified topic. Five winners received prizes worth USD12,000 in 2018. After six years of running the Book Prize, the Book Prize was redesigned in 2019 to make it more accessible. The Book Prize will include a new age category of 10-14 years and allow for submission in three languages; English, Bahasa Malaysia and Mandarin. More details of Puan Sri Kai Yong Yeoh T  he participant being presented with certificates by Datin Kathleen Chew, Book Prize is available at https://ytlfoundation.com/ Programme Director of YTL Foundation book-prize/ (center) and Cheryl Fernando, the Country Director of GSLM (right) Puan Sri Kai Yong Yeoh Book Prize winner 2016 turns social entrepreneur Sarina Saddiq, used her prize money to start a sustainable clothing business called Smart  articipants teamed up for group activities P Squid. during the leadership workshop Smart Squid uses garments from certified, Global School Leaders Malaysia (GSLM) sustainable suppliers, and low-impact inks Incubated by YTL Foundation, GSLM curates and examines best practices in for designs. This business venture was her school leadership. By 2021, GSLM hopes to be independent, raising its own winning entry in the Book Prize and we hope funds and continuously supporting principals and school leaders from all more children of the YTL Group employees will around Malaysia. participate in the Book Prize. Some initiatives that have been carried out by GSLM include: Two-year fellowship programme for school leaders in underperforming schools, focusing on improving the quality of teaching and learning in schools. Engaging with 25 schools and over 50 school leaders for its pilot programme in 2018/19. K  ey success: Improving rating of school leaders and classroom practices. Conducting leadership workshops for adopted schools under the PINTAR Foundation. “It is estimated that the fashion industry is the second most polluting industry after oil. I believe R aising funds from various other corporates with the guidance of that transparency in the fashion industry YTL Foundation to continue the programme and expand to a new cohort is key to positive change.” Sarina Saddiq next year. 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities Lottie’s Science Adventure In October 2018, YTL Foundation in partnership with PETROSAINS organised a STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Art and Acumen Fellows Programme Mathematics) themed fair at Lot 10 Shopping Centre (Lot 10), Kuala Lumpur. The launch was officiated by Tan Sri Datuk Seri YTL Foundation, in partnership with Acumen Academy Malaysia, Panglima (Dr) Abu Hassan Bin Othman, a member of YTL launched the Acumen Fellows Programme, an intensive leadership Foundation Board of Trustees. development programme which brings together individuals building solutions to tackle some of Malaysia’s biggest social issues. Guests at the launch were treated to a science skit which set the mood for the three-day event. On 5 July 2019, YTL Foundation held its fifth dialogue series in collaboration with Acumen to bring together leaders from different The participants at the various workshops made slime, built fields to spark new conversations of creating hope in a cynical world. catapults, constructed scribbler machines, documented insects O  ver 200 guests from the public and private sectors attended and created Apps. The colourful decorations, free balloon animals the event at JW Marriott Kuala Lumpur (JWMKL). and popcorn made the Lot 10 concourse festive and vibrant. T  he keynote speaker for the event was Jo-Ann Tan, Director of The theme was chosen to increase interest among youth to pursue +Acumen. This was followed by a panel discussion with science-based courses. YTL Foundation sponsored students from representatives from Pitched, Yayasan Hasanah, Epic Collective seven public schools to attend and enjoy the many fun and and Acumen Global Fellow, Navin Muruga. educational activities available throughout the event.  iscussions were around the importance of moral leadership in D driving social change, with the aim of changing ways to tackle Proceeds from the sale of the ‘Lottie Bears’ and the toys collected poverty and building a more equitable society based on dignity. during the fair were donated to Toy Libraries Malaysia. Panellists sharing their personal experiences in socially driven businesses S  tudents from public schools channelling their “inner scientist” whilst trying interesting science experiments Indigenous children performing at Lottie’s Science Adventure in their traditional costumes One of the social innovators, The Asli Co. empowers indigenous people through the sale of homemade plants and soaps 73 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities 54C Holiday Programme The full-day 54C Holiday Programme is organised for YTL Group employees’ children during the school term holidays. This year the activities carried out were team building games, Lego Robotics, science experiments, balloon modelling, wood work, speech and drama, financial literacy, and playing the Ukulele. “My children enjoyed themselves as they were exposed to activities and learnt things that are not taught in school. I saw them communicating with confidence with other children. This made me really happy.” –Amelia, YTL Cement. C  hildren having fun learning how to model and twist balloons into interesting shapes during the 54C Holiday Programme 54C After-School Educational Programme The After-School Educational Programmes focus on academic, vocational and soft skills. Students from around Bukit Bintang attend the programmes that are run at the centre. The centre conducts more than 13 programmes and workshops for children on a weekly basis. Since its launch in December 2015, 54C has supported over 450 underprivileged children from 15 community schools and engaged over 40 volunteer teachers from University Tunku Abdul Rahman, Heriot-Watt University and YTL Scholars.  he After-School Educational Programme helps kids enjoy learning through T fun and engaging workshops Creative Learning Information Centre (CLiC) Located in Sentul UTC (Urban Transformation Centre), CLiC hosts after-school activities conducted by YTL Foundation for the local communities in Sentul area. 240 children have benefitted with eight distinctive programmes and workshops such as English, Science Projects, Ukulele and many more. CLiC is a joint initiative between YTL Foundation, Sentul Raya, Kuala Lumpur City Hall and FrogAsia. Children cheering on their mini robots created during the workshop 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities This programme transforms ordinary classrooms into 21st century This year’s theme was “Fostering National Unity and learning spaces. 300 Frog Classrooms have been transformed Integration” with the objective of further encouraging 21st across Malaysia that promote student-focused and technologycentury learning and enabling schools to carry out related initiatives. enabled learning. 80 applications were received from schools who each submitted A fully digital school creative ideas, detailed implementation plans and budgets on adopting 21st century learning and teaching to fostering National SK Stowell in Bukit Mertajam took a leap into the future with Unity and Integration. the full adaptation of digital learning for students from primary one to six. Five winning schools received RM20,000 each to turn their ideas into reality. The winning schools were SMK Dengkil, SK Teriang, The school has been equipped with a Frog Classroom and 18 SMK Ampang Pecah, SK Merbok Pusat and SMK Sindumin Sabah. projectors enabling all classrooms to be fully digitalised – a shared 21st century teaching and learning space designed to elevate collaboration and creativity among students. The first higher learning institute to have a Frog Classroom is National Universiti of Malaysia (UKM), launched by Professor Dato’ The new equipment and the Frog Classroom was jointly funded by Ir. Dr Mohd Marzuki Mustafa, the Deputy Vice Chancellor of Academic YTL Foundation and a contribution by YB Steven Sim, member of and International Affairs. parliament for Bukit Mertajam and Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports Malaysia. Dr Radha led a study on the impact of Frog Classrooms published in 2017 – A Study on the Impact of Redesigned Malaysian Classrooms A special needs Frog Classroom was installed in SJKC Sin Min on Teacher Pedagogy and Student Learning Behaviour and Outcomes in Perak in 2019, benefitting 15 students with learning difficulties for the 21st century. At UKM, the setting up of a Frog Classroom aged seven to 14 years experiencing autism, attention deficit resulted from a long collaboration between Dr Radha and YTL hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), dyslexia, cerebral palsy, delayed Foundation, which began with a research grant in 2016 to study development, and slow learning disorders will now have the the effectiveness of Frog Classrooms in improving student opportunity to learn in a classroom designed specially to cater to engagement and learning efficacy as well as upgrading teaching their learning needs. through the integration of technology. S  pecially designed Frog Classroom to assist children with slow learning abilities  fficiating ceremony for the first Frog Classroom at UKM by Prof. Radha M.K. O in Taiping, Perak Nambiar, Professor of Literacy of UKM, Prof. Dato’ Ir. Dr Mohd Marzuki bin Mustafa, Deputy Vice Chancellor of UKM, Datin Kathleen Chew, Programme Director of YTL Foundation and Prof. Dato’ Dr Imran Ho Abdullah, Deputy Vice Chancellor of UKM (left to right) 75 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities Transforming Education Through Technology Founded in 2012, FrogAsia believes that everyone should have equal access to a 21st century education regardless of background and location. FrogAsia strives to provide every child with equal opportunity to be equipped with knowledge, information and skills that empower them to be changemakers in their own communities and across the globe. With a firm belief in a world where students love learning and where technology removes boundaries, FrogAsia connects educators and students to the tools to learn as well as to other communities of teachers and students where knowledge and information can be shared. An extension of FrogAsia’s annual Leaps of Knowledge conference to leverage education for the communities through Over 1,000 parents, teachers and educationalists gathered to available technology tools provided. celebrate the collective effort of the education community and were inspired to work together to “Power Up” the nation. Over 12,000 attendees benefitted from the conference held across Penang, Kedah, Johor and Perak. Attendees obtained new skills to make a difference in their classrooms, communities and country through the nationwide Centred around the commitments of educators, parents and content sharing platform, Frog VLE (Virtual Learning Environment). individuals. A total of 12,000 participants from 14 countries worldwide joined the Frog World Championships 2018 and 2019, which used gamification to develop critical thinking, collaboration and communication skills. 42 winning schools competed in Frog Championships: World Challenge where participants designed solutions to real world problems through the Design Thinking method and created awareness on the global SDGs. Frog Championships: Level Up is another series of subject-based championships riding on the usage of Frog Boost, which are ready-to-use lessons sites that incorporate curriculum-aligned and interactive content to enhance teaching and learning. It saw the participation of over 7,000 schools worldwide. W  inners of Frog World Championships 2018 were presented with their  tudents having a fun and fruitful day at Frog World Championships 2018: S trophies during YTL Foundation Awards Night at JWMKL World Challenge 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities Providing Finance Support for Education YTL Power Services believes that education is the key element to nurture talent, cultivate leadership and is essential to long-term community stability. Thus, the Company mobilised their resources to provide financial support to a selected group leading the way in supporting education, particularly in Malaysia. RM1,000 sponsored annually to Universiti Putra Malaysia (UPM) Engineering Faculty to reward and encourage one outperforming student with potential talent for the Company. This is a fiveyear project totalling RM5,000.  he appearance of ‘Beary The Bear’ stimulated the interest of students to T learn more about engineering in the rail sector RM2,000 sponsored annually to German-Malaysian Institute’s (GMI) Convocation Award for the “Best Final Year Project Award” under the category Singapore Sustainable Energy and Power Distribution. YTL PowerSeraya strives to promote a positive and sustainable environment as well as to improve their social contributions to local RM4,000 sponsored to the State Department of communities with the aim to fulfil their corporate social responsibility Education in conjunction with Teacher’s Day (CSR) vision. To support this aim, the Company organised various Celebration to improve communications amongst outreach programmes to the community including youth groups namely: schools. 1,000 teachers and officers attended this event. PLAY Punggol Learning Adventure for Youths (PLAY) seeks to raise young RM16,200 sponsored to 20 local schools people’s awareness and knowledge on water issues at both local in communities surrounding Paka Power Station and global levels. This water education programme developed by in Terengganu for the “I Can Challenge” YTL PowerSeraya, in partnership with NGO Waterways Watch Society, programme, enabling children to take the lead in saw the participation of more than 190 students across six upper creating impacts within the communities and primary and secondary schools across Singapore in FY2019. Students instilling children with creative thinking, empathy, went through an education trail to learn about water-climate change problem-solving and leadership skills. issues, causes of water pollution and also to gain an appreciation of water as a precious resource through activity stations. Schools Engagement with YTL Construction YTL Construction anchored on YTL Group’s philosophy of Building The Right Thing (BTRT), through the five brand values of Honesty, Hardwork, Moral Responsibility, Togetherness and Vitality. A series of activities were carried out to share and educate the local community on the Gemas – Johor Bahru Electrified Double Track Project (EDTP) as well as to highlight some health and safety measures during the construction period. YTL Construction also organised knowledge sharing sessions at four primary schools, on safety tips and ‘Do’s & Don’ts within the construction site’ of EDTP.  tudents learning about water and climate change through group activities S and games 77 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities REAP (Junior) Last year, 35,212 children and students benefitted from school visits and trips to Wessex Water’s water treatment and water Responsible Energy Advocates Programme, REAP (Junior) seeks to recycling centres, where the sessions included interactive educate and engage pre-tertiary students on issues surrounding presentations, demonstrations and hands-on science investigations. energy and climate change. Schools that signed up to REAP (Junior) And as part of Wild about Wessex, their advisers promoted educational were provided education materials via its microsite which ended access for young people to their reservoirs. with an energy-climate change quiz to test their knowledge on energy and its relationship to climate change. This programme saw Ignite Work Experience Programme more than 200 students taking part in it. Students were also invited Ignite is an exclusive work experience programme that assists to participate in a jingle contest to sing about behaviour that helped students in a smooth transition from education into working life to reduce energy waste. by providing them the opportunity to experience what a job in the sustainability sector looks like, with the aim of bridging the gap of young people between the disadvantaged and affluent areas. It United Kingdom allows students to enhance their key employment skills through activities such as group projects, workshops and site tours. This Wessex Water’s endeavours in educating its communities and year, five students had the opportunity to participate in this customers on water conservation and public health, with the programme at Bristol Bioresources and Renewable Energy Plant during the last week of June 2019. They were also involved in site inception of education centres and education services to schools tours at the Wessex Water Clean Water site in Ashford and Wessex helps to ensure a long-term and sustainable business. GENeco UK, Water Operation Centre in Claverton. a subsidiary of Wessex Water, believes that diversity is an asset to their business and encourages young people to work with waste and recycling by organising programmes for students to experience working life in the sustainability discipline. Wessex Water education adviser seen here teaching students about the water cycle and issues during one of the school visits to Wessex Water’s water treatment and water recycling centres Education Service Wessex Water’s long-standing free education service to schools continues to deliver topics associated with water, sewage, public health and the environment. Their three education advisers cover Bristol, Bath, Somerset, Wiltshire, South Gloucestershire and Dorset and not only visit schools, but also offer sessions at their education centres. Currently, there are eight education centres across Wessex  tudents visited the water treatment plant as part of Ignite Work Experience S Water’s region. Programme 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities Indonesia Understanding the impact of its operations on surrounding communities, YTL Jawa Timur (YTLJT) continues to create environmental awareness as the Company believes that education is the key to achieving betterment in environmental protection and conservation. To meet this goal, the Company conducted various programmes in local schools and communities around Probolinggo, East Java. Scholarship and Education Support Some of the 2,000 students receiving packages containing education material 21 full scholarships awarded to excellent local students/orphans in Paiton and Banyuglugur districts 2,000 education packages distributed to schools in Probolinggo and Situbondo regencies 100 students benefitted from support packages funded by YTLJT Children from U-15 Jawa Power participating in YTL Tournament 2019 Soccer Academy Programme was held for kids under 12 years by YTLJT in cooperation with ASA (Asian Soccer Academy) Foundation. Two kids from Jawa Power YTL Elite Soccer Academy were SERVING LOCAL COMMUNITIES invited by The Indonesian Soccer Association to OUR GOAL: To improve community well-being and join the trial for the U-15 National Soccer Team livelihoods and nominated for AIA Elite Football Training in Phuket, Thailand. Serving local communities and creating value in society has long been YTL Group’s practice. As a responsible employer, we Adiwiyata Green School Awards are committed to improving the livelihood and socio-economic well-being of local communities, supporting socially disadvantaged 60 schools participated with the groups in terms of empowerment and development, and giving support of local government back to local communities through charitable causes. Through partnerships, we combine our collective resources and leverage our Year 2016 2017 2018 competencies to make a good future happen to communities in Nasional Adiwiyata 5 7 4 need. Over the years, we have supported various programmes that have benefitted local communities we serve. Mandiri Adiwiyata 0 0 0 Elevating Communities Towards a Better Society We believe that our ability to participate proactively in society is vital to bringing forth thriving communities, from tackling poverty to supporting their long-term welfare in sustainable and holistic manner. 79 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities Malaysia Providing Local Communities with Basic Necessities Clean water and electricity are basic necessities for everyone, and YTL Group has a long-standing commitment to community development. We strive to improve sanitation and access to drinking water as well as to ensure universal access to affordable and sustainable energy for local communities. In 2018, YTL Power International Berhad (YTLPI) entered into a collaboration with Agensi Inovasi Malaysia29 (AIM) and the Global Peace Foundation 30 (GPF) to fund Communities Unite for V  illagers from Kampung Sion were V illagers from Kampung Semada Purewater (CUP), a social intervention programme that seeks to provided access to clean water for Belatok attending the workshop under daily use the CUP programme uplift the welfare of targeted rural and underserved communities through the provision of clean water. Funded 70 units of clean Benefitted over RM184,600 water filters 400 people from for CUP project installed for indigenous Kampung Sion and communities in Sarawak Kampung Semada Belatok Following the success of the CUP programme, YTLPI continued its partnership with GPF on another community uplift project at Kampung Sion, Sarawak. YTLPI sponsored a solar project called “Solar for Sion” to provide the villagers with sustainable and renewable solar energy, whilst simultaneously reducing their financial burden and ensuring sustainable livelihood. RM90,010 funding for “Solar for Sion” project Solar Education Workshop conducted by solar engineers and volunteers from GPF “Sometimes I use my phone’s flashlight to shine on their books while they read. But then the battery runs out and I can’t even Benefitted 42 houses and charge it without electricity. We end up going to sleep early.”, 200 villagers said Aida, a labourer at a construction site and a mother from Kampung Sion of two boys. Her children now have a more conducive study environment. 29 Agensi Inovasi Malaysia (AIM), Malaysia’s National Innovation Agency is a statutory body under the Prime Minister’s Department created to jump start wealth creation through knowledge, technology and innovation to stimulate and develop the innovation ecosystem in Malaysia. 30 The Global Peace Foundation (GPF) is an international non-profit organisation with a stated mission to promote “an innovative, valued-based approach to peacebuilding, guided by the vision of One Family under God”. 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities Empowering Women through WOWED In 2019, YTL Group’s very own women’s network, “W@Y” or “Women This programme aims to improve the socio-economic status and at YTL” had the privilege to work with Women of Will31 (WOW) to livelihoods of single mothers and their families in B40 categories empower the local community through the 12-month WOW as well as develop B40 communities in a wholesome manner, Entrepreneurship Development programme (WOWED), which aims addressing not only poverty alleviation, but also health and education to uplift the socio-economic mobility of B4032 single mother by enhancement. providing 50 of them with an opportunity to initiate or grow small businesses and earn an income. WOW Entrepreneurship Development Programme Stage 2 – The beneficiaries giving back through Community Stage 1 – Providing capacity building programme for Development programmes, once the business is up and single mothers to start and run a business running, and profitable Business 20% repayment Entrepreneur Community Impact Equipment Support value of grant Training Course Project (Grant) of RM1,500 received Community Practical Skills Business Coaching Community Days Leadership Training Support Engagement Programme Malaysia Australia Blood Donation Drive Red Cross Blood Donation Drive 50 people from E-MAS and the public participated in the blood Eight associates from Sydney Harbour Marriott participated in the donation campaign, which contributed 32 packs of blood to blood donation drive which contributed to the blood bank of Red the National Blood Bank. ERL also organised two blood donation Cross Foundation. drives which saw donations by 176 donors in October 2018 and April 2019. Business Cleanup Australia Day 11 associates from Sydney Harbour Marriott came together on 26 Community Cleanup February 2019 for a cleanup at Circular Quay. Ten E-MAS employees and their family members took up the worldwide initiative #ChallengeForChange to cleanup the community recreational area at Sungai Mahang in Nilai, Negeri Sembilan. Around 200 kg of trash was collected at the end of the operation. 31 WOW is a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that aims to transform the lives of less-fortunate women in Malaysia and their communities. These women are single mothers, widows, abandoned or abused women and women with incapacitated husbands living in poverty. 32 B40 refers to the bottom 40% of households with monthly income of RM3,000 and below. 81 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities Doing Good the Green Way Singapore YTL PowerSeraya also worked with GROW on the ‘Give your Trash YTL PowerSeraya believes in reaching out the community at large. a Second Life’ initiative, collecting older items which were still in The Company is actively involved in organising various activities for good condition. This initiative aims to educate employees about its adopted charity, GROW 33 as part of its corporate citizenship giving old items a second life rather than disposing of them. Old programme. Similarly, Geneco SG, the retail energy brand of YTL items that are still in good condition are donated to GROW’s Thrift PowerSeraya, does not just generate and supply electricity, but shop which not only generates revenue for GROW but also gives also powers change for a more sustainable energy future by the items renewed worth and purpose. harnessing the positive energy of like-minded individuals and organisations who share its vision. Powering Change with Geneco SG ChangeMakers Geneco SG has partnered with four sustainable organisations, where their inspiring stories and initiatives were shared through Geneco SG’s digital platform. Within six months, their stories reached five million viewers across Singapore Press Holding’s network. At the same time, about 500 children participated in four Geneco SG-led events, held in collaboration with each of four partners. These events showcased how Singaporeans are able to adopt a wellrounded sustainable lifestyle, one step at a time. Old clothes were sorted before going on sale at GROW’s Thrift shop Coastal Cleanup at Punggol Beach 33.5 kg of man-made trash was picked up by 12 employees and their family members across YTL companies in Singapore, namely YSGRM, YTL Cement and YTL PowerSeraya on 15 September 2018. They joined more than half a million people around the globe cleaning up coastal areas, and they focused on Punggol Beach as part of the International Coastal Cleanup effort. V  olunteers from Repair Kopitiam guiding local communities in repairing their defective devices and equipment at their monthly workshop ComCrop – Engages communities by hiring retires and disadvantaged people to harvest affordable, healthy and locally produced food Cultivate Central – Creates urban food gardens to connect children to nature and provide spaces for learning and community development Repair Kopitiam – Hosts monthly workshops to combat the throwaway culture and also aims to reduce e-waste Food Bank – Redirects excess food to over 200 beneficiaries, turning food waste into energy for the hungry YTL PowerSeraya’s employees and their family members had a productive day cleaning the coastal area at Punggol Beach 33 GROW (Goodwill, Rehabilitation and Occupational Workshop) is a sheltered workshop under CPAS (Cerebral Palsy Alliance Singapore) that provides vocational training and sheltered employment for adult aged 18 years old and above with Cerebral Palsy and other associated disability conditions. 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities Community and Environmental Funding United Kingdom Wessex Water’s community and environmental funding supported 46 Wessex Water is committed to engaging and giving back to the groups across its region in the last year. The environmental Watermark community whilst constantly working towards protecting and improving Awards included Curry Rivel in Bloom who received a grant of GBP300 the environment for the community’s well-being. The Company has towards a water supply project, and the Companion Planting community been expanding their work and including a range of new initiatives: organisation in Bristol who received GBP1,000 towards their Water Stories project. The Company helped support stronger communities Hydrate Feel Great through its partnership work with local community foundations in Bristol, Wiltshire, Dorset and Somerset. Hydrate Feel Great campaign promotes drinking tap water for healthy living. Wessex Water has supported and sponsored youth sports teams and organised local races with water and refillable bottles. Working in partnership with local communities and councils, the Company helped to provide public access to water refill points in Freshford and Bradford on Avon, Bath, Salisbury, Trowbridge and Weymouth. ‘Companion Planting’, a small dynamic allotment project in Bristol receiving the Watermark Awards Wild about Wessex The Wild about Wessex scheme, set up to protect the natural environment and for customer health, well-being and enjoyment, has supported the local Yellow Fish campaign to raise public awareness  ponsorship of water refill bottles and sports attire was warmly received by S of drains connected directly to rivers and streams, and for protecting Wells City FC youths local river health. The Company supported Dorset Wildlife Trust to Wessex Water Force protect and encourage biodiversity through promoting water efficient planting for pollinators and insects. More than 400 colleagues took part in the Wessex Water Force employee volunteer programme, working with local charities from beach cleanups, to painting a local school classroom and collecting Christmas trees for charity recycling. The scheme was successfully relaunched for 2019 with a marketplace, attended by several of the charities they work with, to recruit new volunteers.  ellow fish are painted beside drain Y C  ertification provided for successfully covers to raise awareness on water twinned toilet pollution issues Toilet Twinning GENeco UK, partnering with Toilet Twinning, has recently twinned their main office toilets, and will be sponsoring bathroom facilities in Volunteers from Wessex Water Force came together for a beach cleanup developing countries in support of sanitation and access to clean water. 83 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities Indonesia YTLJT is committed to improving the quality of life of the local community in which the Company operates. Since the inception of Bhinor Cooperative Development in 2005, YTLJT has now further developed a number of economic empowerment programmes in collaboration with the local government and community members. 11 community groups including “Bhinor Green Community”, “Mangrove Pantai Harapan” and many more Sea Pines and Impact: Mangrove Self-propagated seeds for Randutatah Sea Pines and Mangrove Conservation Areas Cultivation  eveloped into eco-tourism destination, which improves income of the community D Programme  ducational site for camping and the study of biodiversity E Bhinor Jaya Abadi engaged 325 members to provide financial assistance and business coaching for small businesses Cooperative  elobanteng Jati Makmur conducted teakwood craftmanship development programme S Development Impact: Programme  elf-sustained and able to offer services to other power plant S  rovided job opportunities P  ave leftover teakwood a second life G YTLJT Economic Empowerment Programmes  00 bamboo plants and 700 Gayam seeds have been planted by local youth in Sumberejo and also 5 Water in neighbouring villages Conservation Programme at  apacity building and community participation C Sumberejo Impact: Village  reserving water streams and strengthening catchment areas P  ight hydram pump units installed for small houses and mosques, called “Musholas” E Water Impact: Access Programme  ater irrigation to inaccessible and remote houses W  lean water access and better sanitation for local community C  9 infiltration wells and seven water storage tanks were built 2 Infiltration  ormalisation of intake pipe in water spring N Well for Water Improvement of water distribution system Conservation  ommunity participation C and Water Impact: Access Programme  ulfilling daily water needs, whilst conserving water stores over long periods F  enefitting more than 1,900 people B  ducational activities in conservation area by youth from “Duta Learning Centre” E Development  ll-women group of Pantai Duta developed products from mangroves and provided training for A of Randutatah people who want to learn Coast to  7 people joined the group managing conservation area 2 Conservation Impact: Area and Eco-Tourism  co-tourism and recreational areas E  rovided job opportunities P 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities Fundraising and Charitable Giving YTL Group strives to “Making a Good Future Happen” through meaningful fundraising and charitable contributions to communities, in the form of cash or in-kind gifts. We cultivate values of “Togetherness” and “Moral Responsibility” among YTL families and propagate the act of kindness through various initiatives. In FY2019, some of our in-kind donations included hotel room nights, meal and gift vouchers, event spaces, food and beverages, and used amenities like towels and soaps. Speak Up – There’s An Elephant In The Room YTL Foundation supported Hospis Malaysia in the “Speak Up” campaign launched in October 2018 by adopting the blue elephant ‘Cik Biru’ to: Educate society on palliative care and to improve the quality of ‘Cik Biru’, part of the Cik Gajah Limited Edition Elephant Sculpture Series by life for those with serious or advanced illnesses; Yusof Gajah, was displayed at Suria KLCC Encourage conversations that matter for patients living with life-limiting illnesses; Encourage the public to advocate better access to quality palliative care. The 14th Funder’s Roundtable: Culture, Faith and Inclusivity As the nation started its journey towards Malaysia Baru, YTL Foundation hosted a funder’s roundtable on ‘Culture and Faith: Why we need more inclusivity’. The speakers included Rita Sim from Centre of Strategic Engagement (CENSE), Irfan Amal from Peace Generation Indonesia, Zainah Anwar from Musawah and Pastor Elisha from Dignity for Children Foundation. The panel was moderated by Dina Zaman from Iman Research, with the hope of private funders will play more of a role in funding programmes that aim to foster better intercultural and inter-religious understanding. Panel discussion on why we need more inclusivity Singapore Committee for UN Women YTL Corp’s Head of Group Sustainability, Ruth Yeoh, as the new Donations to UK Charities executive of Singapore Committee for UN Women, participated in Wessex Water aspires to be a responsible member of the community, the fundraising event. In conjunction with UN Women’s 20th and they donated GBP336,292 to UK charities (2018 GBP334,780) anniversary, a private screening of movie blockbuster, “Crazy Rich of which GBP186,230 (2018 GBP224,690) was donated to local Asians” was organised by Ruth Yeoh, together with Hollywood debt advice agencies to help provide debt and financial advice to actress, Michelle Yeoh to raise funds, where all the proceeds raised customers who are struggling to pay their water bills. amounting to SGD500,000 were dedicated to supporting the work of Singapore Committee for UN Women in empowering women and girls in Singapore. 85 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities “Steptember” Fundraising by Cerebral Palsy Alliance Singapore (CPAS) YTL PowerSeraya raised close to SGD9,000 for GROW, inclusive of employee donations with the Company matching dollar-for-dollar, as well as donations pledged from third parties. More than 50 employees clocked in and challenged 10,000 steps a day in September 2018. Giving Back through Sports YTL employees participated in sports and physical activities to help raise funds for;  alaysian AIDS Foundation at the Hot and Cold Charity Run (YTL M Corp and YTL Land) YTL PowerSeraya’s workplace health activities contributed to the 10,000 steps National Kidney Foundation at the Run to Give 2018, where The challenge Ritz-Carlton Kuala Lumpur (RCKL) and JWMKL also sponsored three dialysis machines Pink October with Breast Cancer Foundation Starlight Children’s Foundation at Run to Give 2018 (Brisbane, Sydney Harbour and Melbourne Marriott) The Majestic Hotel Kuala Lumpur (TMHKL) helped to fundraise for Malaysia Breast Cancer Foundation with the sale of orchids. Total YTL Communications (YTL Comms) has continuously supported donations amounting to RM8,000 were used to raise awareness community events such as Star Walk Penang & Ipoh, and has and improve accessibility to treatment and care for breast cancer returned as Platinum Sponsors for the seventh time. Star Walk at all levels of society. sponsorship for 2019 includes RM70,000 in cash and RM11,000 worth of prizes. Y  TL employees participating in Hot and Cold Charity Run to raise awareness for HIV and AIDS Employees from Brisbane Marriott ran to raise funds for The Starlight Foundation  he Majestic Orchids – The Gift Collection represents love, elegance and joy, T and made a perfect gift in support of Breast Cancer Awareness Month 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities Mater Little Miracles In support of Mater Hospital’s Little Miracles charity, which invests in life-saving research, care and equipment, Brisbane Marriott has organised a 12 days Christmas Raffle and an Easter Raffle, which Fundraising for Starlight Children raised a total of AUD1,006 for Mater Little Miracles. Trivia Night Space for Charity 26 associates from Brisbane Marriott participated in the fundraising and raised a total of AUD3,628, together with other Marriott In optimising the retail space of malls under SGREIT, Wisma Atria properties in Brisbane. in Singapore, Myer Centre Adelaide in Australia and Lot 10 Shopping Centre in Malaysia often provide space for non-government Raised  AUD1,100 by 80 associates from Melbourne Marriott. organisations to raise funds and awareness for social causes. In FY2019, these charities included The Salvation Army, World Wildlife Sleep at the “G” Fund for Nature (WWF), Singapore Bone Marrow Donor Programme The GMs’ from Melbourne Marriott, Sheraton and Four Points and many more. participated in the Melbourne City Mission event to highlight the issue of homelessness of young people in the city and raised a total of AUD1,100. Starlight Day Six associates from Sydney Harbour Marriott attended and raised AUD500. Fundraising Against Child Marriage In September 2018, YTL Hotels sponsored a total of RM832 worth of dinner vouchers in support of a fundraising charity event – “Still Too Young” to Voice of the Children, an NGO that advocates for law and policy reform to ensure the rights of every child in Malaysia are protected and not at risk of violation. Roadshow for Bone Marrow Donor Programme at Wisma Atria “Buy a cake bring a smile” RCKL and The Ritz-Carlton Koh Samui (RCKS) jointly raised RM6,500 (245 cakes sold) and USD4,358 (601 cakes sold) during the Smile Asia Week – a fundraising initiative to treat children with cleft palates. Fight against child marriage at “Still Too Young” charity event Uniting Care Business Leaders Forum 20 Brisbane captains of industry attended the Uniting Care Business Leaders Forum to show their support for Uniting Care which is committed to deliver quality health, aged care, disability and community services. Brisbane Marriott assisted Uniting Care to The proceeds from cakes sold were donated to children at Smile Asia Foundation profile their charity, which raised a total of AUD1,359. 87 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities Helmet Hero Amazing Parent’s Day 2019 60 students from a local primary school (Ban Had Ngam) in Thailand In conjunction with Mother’s and Father’s Day 2019, YTL Comms participated in Helmet Hero event arranged by RCKS and five other and The China Press Berhad introduced the ‘Amazing Wefie Photo’ Marriott International Hotels. This event aims to inspire children campaign, with YTL Comms contributing to a grand total of over with the importance of safety helmets in protecting them and RM70,000 worth of prizes celebrating strong family values amongst saving lives. Children are encouraged to paint and decorate their Malaysians through capturing family moments and sharing their own helmets and bring them back home. most creative instants on social media. Children painting their white helmets to create colourful art pieces P  articipants celebrating Mother’s and Father’s Day by joining the Parent’s Day Photo Competition English Class for Local Students Donations to Needy Communities An English class was arranged by RCKS for 60 students at Plai Laem The Surin Phuket and TMHKL, part of YTL Hotels continue to donate school to improve their English language proficiency and instil old hotel uniforms, stationery, towels and soap to local schools, orphan confidence to speak English with foreigners. centres and communities where they operate. Brisbane Marriott donated obsolete hotel equipment valued at approximately AUD70,000 in 2018.  tudents from Plai Laem School were delighted to learn new words and S  he Surin Phuket donating bar soap to an orphanage in Phuket after switching T vocabulary preparing them to speak with the next foreigner they met to liquid soap as part of their effort to reduce waste 88 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities Zero Food Waste – Feed the Hunger Not the Landfill S  ponsored by YTL Corp, the truck has helped TLFP to rescue one million kg of  olunteers from TMHKL and Kechara Soup Kitchen collecting leftover food to V excess food and avoid 1.8 million kg in carbon emissions be delivered to feed people in need The Lost Food Project YTL Corp donated a two-tonne truck to The Lost Food Project (TLFP), allowing them to transport excess food to 56 charities and two PPR (People’s Housing Project) communities. Zero Food Wastage by Tengku Zatasha In support of #Zerofoodwastage2019, TMHKL and HSKL joined hands with Selangor Princess, Tengku Zatashah and Kechara Soup Kitchen to bring awareness of food waste. 362 kg of leftover food from the festive buffet was saved and delivered to feed those in need. Fighting Hunger with Foodbank  ry food items and some non-perishables were sorted and donated to Foodbank D Australia Brisbane Marriott and their associates donated canned food and some non-perishable items worth AUD600 in support of Foodbank Australia, which then contributed the items to help feed over 116,000 school students around the country. Wessex Water organised collections for eight foodbanks and helped to distribute an incredible 100 kg of food and toiletries. Last year, around GBP1.3 million worth of food parcels were given out across the UK. Donation to Local Shrine and Community Church The Surin Phuket made their annual donation of food and fresh ingredients to the local shrine in conjunction with Phuket Vegetarian Festival. Sydney Harbour Marriott donates food which is then prepared and served in Redfern Community Church to the homeless by ten participating associates.  ood was donated to the local shrine which provides free food to the local F community during the Vegetarian Festival 89 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities Bringing Festive Joy to the Less Fortunate Spreading Christmas Joy T  hrough the “Make-A-Wish” event, Christmas wishes of 50 children from local schools, churches and special children homes were fulfilled by hotel guests and visitors at RCKS  ore than 15 YTL PowerSeraya’s employees volunteered to celebrate Christmas M with over 80 individuals from CPAS at Pasir Ris, Singapore Through the annual event “Toys for Tots” organised by JWMKL, a total of 189 children from various charity homes had their Christmas wishes granted through contributions from hotel guests and employees. RCKL and JWMKL also organised a dry food drive for PPR Desa Rejang and United Learning Centre during Christmas in support of eradicating hunger and poverty in the local community Y  TL Infoscreen and YTL Land teamed up to visit Kirtash Home for the handicapped and disabled, to spread some Christmas cheer. They donated sundry goods and spent a quality day at the home. An awareness video was 18 children from Charwiki, a non-profit organisation based in Kuala Lumpur were produced to promote the qualities and care that Kirtash Home provides to its treated for a day out at the Christmas Creative Workshop held by Lot 10 dependents, with a call to action for potential donors and volunteers 90 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities Celebrating Ramadhan RCKL & JWMKL – 25 children from Pertubuhan Kebajikan Dan Perlindungan Nur Qaseh Malaysia were treated to a feast during the fasting month. YTL Cement – Perak-Hanjoong Simen (PHS) donated RM18,650 to local mosques and suraus during the month of Ramadhan as well as holding in-house Majlis Buka Puasa (breaking fast) with employees, local communities and government officials. In the spirit of giving back, a total of RM52,500 was donated by Pahang Cement to schools, social clubs, government and non-government organisations in cash and in-kind. ‘Majlis Rumah Terbuka Aidilfitri 2019’ was honoured by Directors of Rail Division, Member of Parliament Sekijang, Secretary of Development Division (MoT), local authority representatives and SIPP-YTL Kluang employees SIPP-YTL JV – ‘Majlis Rumah Terbuka Aidilfitri 2019’ was organised in Kluang main office to instil and share the spirit of togetherness amongst internal and external stakeholders in conjunction with the Raya month. ERL – ERL organised a buka puasa with 35 orphans from Pertubuhan Kebajikan dan Bimbingan At-Taqwa. ERL employees joined the orphans in breaking fast and had their Tarawikh prayers together. Y  TL Comms supported cultural celebrations such as Pesta Kaamatan and Christmas festivities in Sabah for the fourth and fifth time respectively, and gifted several sponsorships to local communities to promote and keep cultural heritage alive during the festive season. YTL Comms recently contributed to the following events; 1. DBKK Christmas Celebration 2018 – RM180,000 2. Harvest Festival Carnival 2019 – RM40,000 SIPP-YTL JV visited the old folks house at Pusat Jagaan Murni Bahagia (Segamat), and orphanages at Grace Manna Homecare (Labis) and Damo Children Home (Kluang) on 13 December 2018 to share festive cheer with the less fortunate. Other festive engagements included the gifting of Indian snacks, murukku, during Deepavali 2018 and mandarin oranges during Chinese New Year 2019. The orphans breaking fast with ERL employees at the arrival hall in KL Sentral 91 YTL GROUP Enriching Communities PROMOTION OF ARTS AND CULTURE Promoting Health and Mental Wellness A stimulating series of wellness-related events were held to OUR GOAL: To protect and preserve arts and culture for encourage visitors and locals to focus on their well-being and health, future generations both physically and mentally. Preserving the arts and culture is a shared ambition of the global Wellness at The Gainsborough community. Rooted in a multiracial community, we realise the importance of preserving diverse artistic and cultural heritage to pass on to future generations. Hence, we support programmes that promote and foster arts and culture in the countries that we operate in, whilst at the same time supporting artists and others working in this area to gain better visibility as well as promoting body wellness and mentally stimulating experiences which in turn enable the public to have better access to arts and culture. United Kingdom Sponsorship of the Thematic Art Exhibition ”Eye on the Tiger” In 2018, YTL Hotels continued its partnership with wildlife charity initiative Save Wild Tigers through an exclusive exhibition at the famed Royal Albert Hall, London, “Eye on the Tiger”. In association with YTL Hotels and Eastern & Oriental Express, Save Wild Tigers enlisted over 30 of the world’s best photographers to display stunning 5  0 people attended the wellness talks on subjects of ‘The Power of Sleep’ and and powerful images of these majestic creatures and raise awareness ‘Looking After Number One’ of the plight of these critically endangered cats. Feel Good February at Thermae Bath Spa T  his event celebrates Bath’s natural thermal waters, which are seen positively as 1 4-month-old sibling cubs cool off in a watering hole in India’s Bandhavgarh celebrating the history, culture and well-being synonymous with Bath National Park, India Bathscape Walking Festival A  Sumatran tiger suspected of “man-eating” is saved by a unique rehabilitation project in Sumatra, Indonesia T  hermae Bath Spa was the key supporter of this festival, which encouraged participants to explore the countryside in a 20-mile Circuit of Bath Walk 92 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enriching Communities Malaysia Supporting Local Artisans – Handcrafted Products, Food and Culture “Art is a serious business”. A series of art events were held throughout the year in support of local artisans and art enthusiasts to display a curation of unique handcrafted products from limited edition handcrafted jewellery to local fashion apparel and homemade food, desserts and cookies. We. Women Market Event Art Plus D Merdeka Kraf W  e. Women Market, held in support of women T  he artisan booths at Lot 10 allowed local artisans T  aking up the patriotic spirit, crafters gathered to exhibit empowerment presented a Raya themed market with to present their wares for sale, attracting a huge their woodworks, ceramics and paintings with a the floor designed in the shape of “Ketupat” in Lot 10 crowd of art enthusiasts homegrown studio in support of literary and fine arts #Lot10NomNom Singapore The Social Exchange S  ince the kick off of #Lot10NomNom initiative in August 2018, the monthly event has attracted a huge crowd and brought people together over food with live music performances, featuring a wide selection of local delicacies from Lot 10 Hutong and international bites Cinema Paradiso Lot 10 Cinema Paradiso featured a local social documentary entitled “Rediscovering Each Other” by The Rojak Projek, which focused on the rich diversity of race, language and the culture of Held in October and November 2018 at Wisma Atria, this was a community market Malaysia which brought together quirky and bespoke products and crafts 93 YTL GROUP GRI Content Index [GRI 102-55] CUSTOM CONTENT INDEX – ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ CORE This Content Index provides an overview of the GRI Standards Disclosures made in this report and the YTL Corporation Berhad Annual Report 2019. GRI Standards Description Page GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of the organisation 1 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Annual Report 102-3 Location of headquarters Annual Report 102-4 Location of operations Annual Report 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report 102-6 Markets served Annual Report 102-7 Scale of the organisation Annual Report 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 5 102-9 Supply chain 18-19 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 8-9 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 12-13 102-12 External initiatives 1 102-13 Membership of associations 1 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2-7 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 12-13 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 12-13 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 13-14 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13-14 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 13-14 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13-14 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report, 1 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 1 102-47 List of material topics 15 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements were made 102-49 Changes in reporting 8-9 102-50 Reporting period 1 102-51 Date of most recent report 1 102-52 Reporting cycle 1 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 1 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 1 102-55 GRI content index 94 102-56 External assurance No external assurance was made 94 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI Content Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Standards Description Page GRI 200: ECONOMIC GRI 201: Economic Performance 103 Management Approach Disclosures 59 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual Report, 8-9 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 59 GRI 202: Market Presence 103 Management Approach Disclosures 13 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 13 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 103 Management Approach Disclosures 18-19 204-1 Proportion of spending on local vendors 19 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 302: Energy 103 Management Approach Disclosures 29-34 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 30 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation 30 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 31-34 GRI 303: Water 303-5 Water consumption 35-39 GRI 304: Biodiversity 103 Management Approach Disclosures 47-53 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas 47-53 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 47-53 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 47-53 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected 47-53 by operations GRI 305: Emissions 103 Management Approach Disclosures 27-29 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 28 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 28 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 28 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 28 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 27 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 35 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 103 Management Approach Disclosures 39-46 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 37 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 40-46 306-3 Significant spills 35 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 40-46 95 YTL GROUP GRI Content Index GRI Standards Description Page GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL (CONT’D.) GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 103 Management Approach Disclosures 26 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 26 GRI 400: SOCIAL GRI 401: Employment 103 Management Approach Disclosures 56-59 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 57 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 59 employees 401-3 Parental leave 59 GRI 402: Labour/Management Relations 103 Management Approach Disclosures 59 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 59 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 65-67 403-4 Worker participation, consultation and communication on occupational health and safety 65-67 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 65-67 403-9 Work-related injuries 65 GRI 404: Training and Education 103 Management Approach Disclosures 60-62 404-1 Average hours of training per employee 60 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes 60-62 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 60-62 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103 Management Approach Disclosures 56 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 13, 56 GRI 408: Child Labour 103 Management Approach Disclosures 56 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour 56 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labour 103 Management Approach Disclosures 56 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour 56 GRI 413: Local Communities 103 Management Approach Disclosures 70-93 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 70-93 programmes 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 70-93 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 103 Management Approach Disclosures 18 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer 18 data 96 MICROPLASTICS Tiny Yet Destructive and Dangerous 01 WHAT ARE MICROPLASTICS? 03 WHY SHOULD YOU CARE? Small pieces of plastic • Microplastics are everywhere: in the food we eat, in the water we drink, and in the air we breathe LESS THAN • Potential negative health impacts resulting from 5mm long bioaccumulation and biomagnification of microplastics and chemical contaminants in our body 04 DO YOUR PART TO LIMIT MICROPLASTICS 02 WHERE DO MICROPLASTICS Choose personal COME FROM? hygiene products Choose reusable without items (bags, microbeads cutlery, bottles, Most microplastics come from manufactured products that enter containers, the environment and are broken down into smaller pieces through DO YOUR PART straws, cups, degradation, attrition and decay etc.) TO LIMIT Personal hygiene products – microbeads MICROPLASTICS Choose Clothing – fibres eco-friendly products made Choose clothing with recycled or made with natural Larger plastic products – broken down into biodegradable materials (cotton, silk, smaller pieces materials wool, plant fibre, etc.) Nurdles (small plastic pellets used in industry) SNAP – Say No to All Plastic Join us and Be Part of the Solution. Together we can make a difference. Sources: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/324420845_Trophic_transfer_of_microplastics_and_mixed_contaminants_in_the_marine_food_web_and_implications_ for_human_health https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/facts/microplastics.html
