DBS GROUP HOLDINGS LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Live more Sust a inably Introduction Overview We are on a journey to become a leading bank that creates sustainable solutions  ur approach O Introduction 1 to serve the rapidly growing economies of Asia. While we are pleased with our Summary of key performance 3 and strategy CEO message 4 progress so far, we fully appreciate that there is always more that can be done. Sustainability overview 5 Governance 9 This year, we are issuing a standalone sustainability report to provide a clearer Material ESG matters 10 articulation of our progress. It is an expanded version of the “Sustainability” Stakeholder engagement 11 section in the Annual Report 2018 and presents two perspectives: how DBS is impacted by changes in the environment and society, and the impact Articulation of Pillar 1: Responsible banking we have on them. Taken together, they paint a more holistic picture of our sustainability A. Responsible financing 13 B. Climate change 15 sustainability journey. matters C. Digital finance 17 D. Financial inclusion 18 E. Fair dealing 19 About this report Reporting principles F. Cyber security 19 G. Data governance 20 This Sustainability Report is approved by the Board and is prepared The content of this report follows the GRI Standards Reporting H. Preventing financial crime 21 in accordance with the following regulations, standards and principles. guidelines: Pillar 2: Responsible business practices •  Principle 1 Stakeholder Inclusiveness I. Talent management and retention 22 • Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (SGX-ST) Listing We identify key stakeholders, engage them and respond to J. Diversity and equal opportunity 24 Rules 711A and 711B on Sustainability Report, and Practice Note the key topics and feedback received. K. Workplace well-being 25 7.6 Sustainability Reporting Guide issued in July 2016 •  Principle 2 Sustainability Context L. Sustainable procurement 26 • The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards – Core Option, We present performance in the wider context of sustainability. M. Managing our environmental footprint 27 issued in October 2016 and the G4 Financial Services sector •  Principle 3 Materiality N. Responsible tax management 29 disclosures by the GRI Global Sustainability Standards Board We focus on matters that impact business growth and are of • The Guidelines on Responsible Financing issued in October 2015 importance to our stakeholders. (revised June 2018) by the Association of Banks in Singapore •  Principle 4 Completeness Pillar 3: Creating social impact • Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related We include coverage of material topics and their boundaries O. Social entrepreneurship 31 Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in June 2017 to reflect significant ESG impact, and to enable stakeholders to P. Employee volunteerism 32 assess our performance in the reporting period. We are a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and are committed to the 10 Principles. This report serves as our Feedback Appendix Geographic profit segmentation 35 Communication on Progress (CoP). We welcome feedback on this report and any aspect of our Information on employees 36 Coverage sustainability performance. Please address all feedback to DBS 10 Principles of UN Global Compact 39 Group Sustainability at sustainability@dbs.com. Mapping to GRI Standards 40 This report covers the environmental, social and governance (ESG) principles, initiatives and performance of our operations in our core GRI Content Index 41 markets. It contains information for the financial year 1 January to Methodology for Task Force on 47 31 December 2018, unless otherwise stated. The report is to be read in conjunction with the Annual Report 2018 and other sustainabilityClimate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) related disclosures on our website. Selected ESG-related awards, 49 indices and ratings Commitments and memberships 50 Abbreviations 51 Independent limited assurance report 53 on sustainability information 1 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION | 2 Summary of CEO key performance message There is no question that, in many ways, we live in the best of times. An increase in life expectancies Pillar 1: Responsible banking and a dramatic reduction of people living under the poverty line are just two measures of progress. At the same time, it is equally true that the world is faced with enormous, complex challenges. Some Responsible financing Financial inclusion of these continue to be developmental, with the spectre of jobless growth and increasing income inequalities being big concerns. Other challenges are social, which include gender inequalities, the SGD 38 Provided sustainable impact of new technologies on individual privacy, and the potential unknown consequences of financing(1) amounting to Total artificial intelligence. Perhaps the biggest challenges are environmental, and one of the gravest issues of our time is the threat of irretrievable harm being done to our planet. more than lending billion It is our firm belief that companies such as ours have a central role to play in seeking to find solutions SGD 2.4 billion to SMEs to these challenges. Our licence to operate comes from civil society, and we need to ensure that we are addressing the needs of multiple stakeholders, not just for our generation but for generations to come. Our approach to sustainability is guided by this sense of purpose: to create value for the long term, by managing our business in a balanced and responsible way. Digital finance Climate change Data Preventing Cyber 5.6 governance financial crime security Balance is an important dimension in our approach, and it is not always easy to achieve. There are Task Force on First bank No material No numerous examples of inherent tensions. For example, digitalising our business allows us to reach a Climatein Singapore to be instances material larger number of customers at lower costs, enabling financial inclusion. At the same time, it increases risks of data privacy compromise through cyber attacks, as well as possible financial exclusion related certified with of noncompliance with instances through the unintended effects of artificial intelligence models. Perhaps most tricky is the inherent Financial Data Protection laws and of customer trade-off even in some of the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), with the million regulations in quest for improvement in basic living conditions sometimes coming at the cost of environmental Trustmark data loss Disclosures: financial crime degradation. Providing finance for smallholder farmers creates jobs and livelihoods, but can also lead to increased deforestation if not appropriately governed. digital customers(2) Conducted inaugural No material instances In seeking an appropriate balance, we are thus mindful that more often than not, there are numerous trade-offs that need to be made. These trade-offs must be carefully evaluated as the scenario analysis of non-compliance concerning fair dealing solutions are often not binary. In many cases, we need to work with our customers to encourage them to adapt their business models, and this needs to be a calibrated process as well. Pillar 2: Responsible business practices Pillar 3: Creating social impact A distinguishing feature of our approach is the use of digital technology to create innovative solutions for customers. We believe that digitalisation and sustainability are the two major forces shaping the Talent management and retention Managing our Social entrepreneurship future, and hence we have adopted them as the twin underpinnings of our business strategy. As environmental footprint an example, we recently partnered our client Halcyon Agri Corporation to launch HeveaConnect, Named DBS Foundation awarded a digital marketplace for trading sustainably-processed natural rubber. We have also joined the RE100: 14% Sustainable Digital Finance Alliance, an alliance to leverage digital technologies and innovations Asia Pacific Best Employer 2018 renewable energy for our major SGD 1.25 to enhance financing for sustainable development, and the UN Task Force on Digital Financing of the SDGs. (Regional) by AON operations million In this standalone sustainability report, we will be sharing the commitments and progress we have made on the SDGs and material sustainability matters over the past year. I am convinced that we grants to 12 social have a growing role in the sustainable development of our markets, and I welcome you to join us on Enhanced enterprises the journey ahead. Diversity Workplace and equal well-being iHealth@DBS programme opportunity Employee volunteerism Included in the Sustainable procurement Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for the 99.6% of new suppliers signed Sustainable Sourcing Over second year running Principles 65,000 Piyush Gupta hours CEO Responsible tax management DBS Group Holdings Income tax expense of > SGD 1 billion (1) Green loans, sustainability performance-linked loans and renewable financing (2) Consumer and SME businesses (Singapore and Hong Kong) and digibank customers (India and Indonesia) 3 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CEO MESSAGE | 4 Sustainability overview Sustainability pillars Creating social impact Responsible banking We seek to be a Force for Good by supporting social enterprises – Our approach to sustainability is based on three pillars – (i) Responsible businesses with double bottom line – and giving back to the communities SDGs Related ESG 2030 UN established Selected Performance banking, (ii) Responsible business practices and (iii) Creating social impact. in which we operate. Through our “People of Purpose” volunteerism matters targets initiatives achieved movement, we also help to drive impact in the areas of ageing, education Financial inclusion Support women’s equal Underwrote the Women’s • Supported the Responsible banking and the environment. rights to economic Livelihood Bond, the world’s empowering of We deliver products and services that promote sustainable development, resources, as well as first social sustainability > 385,000 women in and conduct our business in a fair and responsible manner. This includes Progress on Sustainable ownership and control of bond listed on a stock Cambodia, Philippines advancing responsible financing and financial inclusion, and ensuring that we take a proactive stance to protect our customers’ information. Development Goals (SDGs) land and other resources exchange and Vietnam As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we are committed Responsible business practices to driving progress towards achieving SDGs. We believe that we have a We do the right thing by our most important resource – our people – and role to play in promoting sustainable development. take into account environmental and societal considerations in our dayClimate change Promote financing of Continued to ﬁnance a • 17 renewable energyto-day business operations. We provide an inclusive work environment We have chosen to focus on the following six SDGs which we believe we renewable energy in the wide spectrum of clean related projects where every employee can develop professionally and personally. We can make meaningful contributions to, and after taking into account the global energy mix and renewable energy mandated or completed are conscious of our need to manage our direct environmental footprint markets we operate in. technologies from in 2018 and seek to influence our supply chain towards sustainable practices. We geothermal, hydro to wastealso pay our fair share of taxes and make economic contributions to the to-energy, wind, etc communities in which we operate. Financial inclusion Encourage and expand Launched Migrant Workers’ • In collaboration with access to banking, insurance Centre (MWC)-POSB MWC, the POSB and ﬁnancial services for all Membership programme jolly App provides which brings together remittance, insurance various merchant partners to and telecommunications offer exclusive benefits and services for migrant savings to migrant workers workers Financial inclusion Increase access of smallParticipated in government • The total amount of scale industrial and other schemes in some markets, outstanding loans to enterprises to financial such as SME working Singapore Governmentservices, including affordable capital loan and SME micro Assisted Schemes and credit and integration into loan, and green project Taiwan SMEs Guarantee value chains and markets bond Scheme were SGD 977 million and SGD 638 million respectively • Star Energy’s Wayang Windu geothermal green project bond Responsible ﬁnancing Encourage companies to Continued to implement • Conducted ESG risk adopt sustainable practices Responsible Financing assessments of our Standard and Sector Guides customers Responsible ﬁnancing Improve education, Completed green loans, • Loans amounted to over awareness-raising and sustainability performanceSGD 2.4 billion human and institutional linked loans and renewable capacity on climate change energy financing mitigation, adaptation and impact reduction 5 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW | 6 Responsible business practices Creating social impact SDGs Related ESG 2030 UN established Selected Performance SDGs Related ESG 2030 UN established Selected Performance matters targets initiatives achieved matters targets initiatives achieved Diversity and equal Ensure women’s full and Established a Board Diversity • Board female percentage: Social entrepreneurship Support productive activities, Continued to support • SGD 1.25 million grant to opportunity effective participation and Policy to promote diversity 18% decent job creation, social enterprises via our 12 social enterprises equal opportunities for amongst Board of Directors • Group Management Employee volunteerism entrepreneurship, creativity annually administered Social • Over 65,000 volunteering leadership at all levels of Committee female and innovation through Enterprise Grant Programme hours to serve decision-making percentage: 32% access to financial services and procurement of their communities • Total workforce female goods and services percentage: 53% Digital/ financial literacy for elderly and youth/ children Managing our environmental Substantially increase the Joined RE100 with • 14% of renewable Social entrepreneurship Increase access of smallContinued to address the • 534 customers under footprint share of renewable energy commitment to 100% energy for our major scale industrial and other needs of social enterprises Social Enterprise Package in the global energy mix and renewable energy use in operations enterprises to financial through DBS Social • SGD 2.35 million of drive improvement in energy our Singapore operations by services Enterprise Package committed unsecured efficiency 2030 social enterprise business loans as at 31 December 2018 Talent management and Achieve higher levels of Continued to invest • Cloud-based learning Social entrepreneurship Substantially reduce Continued to support • Six of the 2018 DBS retention economic productivity in employee digital management system waste generation through social enterprises via our Foundation (DBSF) grant through diversification, transformation (DBS Horizon) prevention, reduction, annually administered Social awardees are solving technological upgrading and • Accelerator programme recycling and reuse Enterprise Grant Programme environmental issues innovation and hackathons • DBS SkillsFlex programme Managing our environmental Upgrade infrastructure Transformed DBS traditional • Electricity consumption Social entrepreneurship Improve education, promote Sponsored the Climate • > 1,000 millennial footprint and retrofit industries to data centres into cloudfor our Singapore awareness and raise human Action theme at UNLEASH thought leaders make them sustainable, optimised centres operations reduced by and institutional capacity for 2018 collaborated on ideas and with increased resource9% in 2018 climate change mitigation, solutions to help achieve use efficiency and greater adaptation and impact the UN SDGs adoption of clean and reduction environmentally sound technologies Sustainable procurement Promote public procurement Established Sustainable • 99.6% of new suppliers practices that are sustainable Sourcing Principles (SSP) signed SSP in 2018 Managing our environmental Improve education, Continued to broaden Green • 100% of our branches in footprint awareness-raising and Mark certiﬁcations across our Singapore have obtained human and institutional branch network BCA Green Mark capacity on climate change certifications mitigation, adaptation and impact reduction 7 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW | 8 Governance Material ESG matters The Board has overall responsibility for sustainability and integrates Material ESG matters have the most impact environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters in the formulation on our ability to create long-term value. These of DBS’ strategy. The Board also determines what material sustainability matters inﬂuence how the Board and senior matters are and provides guidance on their management and monitoring. Identify management steer the bank. We identify ESG matters that may We review our materiality matrix annually for relevance and prioritisation. impact the execution of our strategy. Board of Directors This is a group-wide effort taking The material ESG matters to DBS are highlighted in red and depicted in the into account input from all business illustration below. and support units, and incorporating feedback from stakeholders. Read more about the material matters in the Annual Report on page 67. Chief Executive Officer Read more about the ESG matters on pages 13 to 34. DBS Sustainability Council (chaired by Chief Sustainability Officer) ESG materiality matrix Sustainability governance structure in DBS Roles and responsibilities Engagement The CEO is assisted by the Group Sustainability Council on sustainability The Board has overall responsibility for sustainability and integrates Prioritise Cyber security matters. environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters in the formulation Data governance From the list of identiﬁed ESG of DBS’ strategy. The Board also determines what material sustainability The Group Sustainability Council is chaired by the Chief Sustainability matters, we prioritise those that Responsible Financial matters are and provides guidance on their management and monitoring. crime Officer and consists of senior members from various business and support most signiﬁcantly impact our ability financing Importance to stakeholders units. It develops the sustainability framework, which includes setting The Group EXCO is engaged on all material sustainability-related matters, to successfully execute our strategy Digital finance key performance indicators (KPIs) in consultation with stakeholders and including the development of the Group Responsible Financing Standard. and deliver long-term value to our Talent stakeholders. Financial management overseeing the execution of sustainability initiatives across the bank. inclusion and retention The topics discussed by the Group Sustainability Council during the year The Group Sustainability Council also advises the CEO on material included the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Climate change Fair dealing sustainability matters that contribute to the overall materiality assessment, Special Report, human rights issues, as well as memberships of various which is then utilised by the Board for strategic planning. The Group sustainability-related organisations. Sustainability Council meets monthly and provides periodic updates to the CEO, Management Committee and the Board. We recognise that ownership of sustainability matters by local management Responsible tax teams is crucial to meeting our sustainability goals. They are updated on management To ensure sustainability is embedded in the organisation, Local the Group’s sustainability strategy and specific local issues by the Local Social entrepreneurship Sustainability Councils are established across our key markets – China, Sustainability Councils and the Chief Sustainability Officer. Diversity and equal opportunity Hong Kong, India, Indonesia and Taiwan. They follow a similar structure Employee as the Group Sustainability Council and have a broad mandate to execute As the former Development Bank of Singapore, being purpose-driven has Integrate volunteerism initiatives in line with the Group’s sustainability approach while adapting always been part of our DNA. Today, our drive to embed sustainability Workplace well-being into the organisation is systematically organised under the three pillars Those ESG matters that are material Sustainable them to local market conditions. to value creation are integrated into procurement responsible banking, responsible business practices and creating social our balanced scorecard, which is used Performance measurement impact. As these pillars permeate our policies and practices, the embrace to set objectives, drive behaviours, Managing our of sustainability will be increasingly pervasive across the organisation. This environmental footprint Progress in our sustainability strategy is reflected directly in the balanced will enable us to create societal impact in greater measure. measure performance and determine scorecards of the Group, key markets, business and support units. The the remuneration of our people. balanced scorecard is used to set objectives, drive behaviours, measure performance and determine the remuneration of our people. Importance in DBS’ value creation Read more about “Balanced scorecard” in the Annual Report page 26. 9 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MATERIAL ESG MATTERS | 10 Stakeholder engagement Regulators Regulators and policy and policy Shareholders Customers Employees Society makers Shareholders Customers Employees Society makers We provide institutional We interact with We communicate with We engage the We engage directly We provide institutional We interact with We communicate with We engage the We engage directly investors with customers to better our employees using community including with regulators and investors with customers to better our employees using community including with regulators and information on understand the multiple channels Non-Governmental government bodies information on understand the multiple channels Non-Governmental government bodies our sustainability environmental and to ensure they are Organisations (NGOs) when requested. More our sustainability environmental and to ensure they are Organisations (NGOs) when requested. More commitments and social issues of engaged in driving our and opinion makers to broadly, we seek to be commitments and social issues of engaged in driving our and opinion makers to broadly, we seek to be progress for them importance to them so sustainability efforts. understand how we can a strong voice for Asia progress for them importance to them so sustainability efforts. understand how we can a strong voice for Asia to make informed that we can propose the help address the needs in sustainability-related to make informed that we can propose the help address the needs in sustainability-related investment decisions right ﬁnancial solutions of society. forums. investment decisions right ﬁnancial solutions of society. forums. about DBS. for them. about DBS. for them. How • Meetings with investors • Focus group study to • “DBS Open” – quarterly • Engage social enterprises • Meetings and What • Our approach to financing • DBS’ response to climate • Avenues in which • Our approach to financing • Financing towards did we to understand their evaluate interest of group-wide townhalls (SEs) to understand their consultations with were environmentally-sensitive change employees can contribute environmentally-sensitive sustainable development expectations on retail customers for hosted by the CEO needs and help them United Nations bodies, industries • Availability of ESG-related • Importance of leadership industries • Policies and processes engage? the key sustainability reporting sustainable products • “Tell Piyush” – an online become commercially governments, regulators • Alignment with investment products and role modelling • Approach to deforestation to address increasing and Green Bond • Annual Future Leaders forum where employees viable and other public policy topics international protocols and human rights risks in financial crime, • Reduction of single• Recycling-related financing Programme to raise can freely share their • Employees volunteer agencies raised and pledges (e.g. Equator use plastics and its concerns violation issues cyber security and data • Ongoing conversations awareness of DBS’ feedback and post their time for social • Active participation and Principles) associated waste • Ageing population and governance with major ESG sustainability strategy questions to the CEO causes in various industry feedback • Frameworks/ policy/ • Fair dealing and conduct digital literacy • Fair dealing and conduct rating agencies and commitment • “Yammer” – a digital • Social enterprise summit sustainability-related received? processes for material • Responsible use of data • SEs continue to face • Tax practices to address • Seminars on emerging community platform • Awareness campaigns forums organised by the ESG matters challenges such as the fair share of tax payment, issues including where employees can such as Association of Banks lack of funding and Base Erosion and Proﬁt environmental engage each other #RecyclemoreWasteless in Singapore (ABS) and commercial expertise, Shifting (BEPS) sustainability, women • Annual employee and partnerships Singapore Institute of and have expressed the • Our approach to financing and children in Asia, and engagement with organisations International Affairs (SIIA) need for targeted training environmentally-sensitive ageing populations and sustainability including the Singapore industries • Awareness campaigns awareness survey Environment Council and such as • Employee sustainability leading supermarkets How The engagement informed Recommendations by the Sustainability interest groups The engagement informed We explored opportunities in #RecyclemoreWasteless focus groups • Meeting with NGOs did we the formulation of our Task Force on Climate-related were established to volunteer the formulation of our financing sustainable bonds, and partnerships about their specific Responsible Financing Financial Disclosures (TCFD) work time in support of Responsible Financing as well as sustainability • Sustainability intranet respond? with organisations portal concerns Standard. were adopted for selected DBS’ sustainability objectives. Standard. performance-linked loans. including the Singapore • Active participation sectors in our corporate Responses to frequentlyWe joined the Sustainable • Employee engagement We disclosed our approach Environment Council and in various industry lending portfolio. asked questions, including Digital Finance Alliance. campaigns such as to palm oil sector which leading supermarkets sustainability-related how employees can engage DBS Climate Week and A new suite of sustainable included requirements We were certified with the • Sustainability disclosures forums organised by more, and the broad Eco-Cup investment products for for “No Deforestation, Data Protection Trustmark launched on our World Wide Fund for sustainability KPIs of each • Sustainability interest wealth management was No Peat, No Exploitation” (DPTM) which demonstrates websites Nature (WWF) Singapore work stream were shared on groups – volunteers lead introduced. (NDPE) policies, and invited accountable and responsible the intranet portal. initiatives within DBS specialists to conduct an data protection practices. • Annual group leadership We initiated Piyush personally responded awareness workshop on We also led discussions conference for senior #RecyclemoreWasteless to all the questions and modern slavery. on developing digital management pledges to reduce the use of comments raised on “Tell ecosystems for consumer single-use plastics. Piyush” which addressed POSB rolled out various and SME banking, and on employees’ concerns. initiatives such as providing using data and analytics to We engaged regulators digital literacy training to and industry associations Where applicable, issues or improve ﬁnancial crime risk suggestions were directed seniors and launching Smart management. on developments and Buddy – the world’s ﬁrst incollaborations. to relevant departments for follow-up. school wearable technology Fair dealing commitment is We developed one of the – to cultivate ﬁnancial literacy embedded in our Code of world’s first frameworks on Internal awareness on proper among the young and create Conduct and all fair dealing responsible use of data. recycling practices and a digital payment system outcomes are reported to the recycling bins were increased. within schools. Board Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. We continued to generate awareness and advocacy Our approach to BEPS is for SEs in our key markets disclosed publicly. through digital outreach and signature events. The engagement informed the formulation of our Responsible Financing Standard. 11 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT | 12 Pillar 1: Identification Evaluation Decision making Monitoring Responsible banking Credit approval by relevant credit approving authority Credit risk We deliver products and services that promote sustainable development, and conduct manager Approve with mitigation measures or reject if action our business in a fair and responsible manner. plan cannot be agreed upon Institutional Banking Conduct enhanced due A. Responsible financing Bank Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines and International diligence (e.g. site visits, Monitor ESG risks, metrics Labour Organisation (ILO) Conventions and Recommendations. independent reviews or at transaction and portfolio levels Group (IBG) Sustainable certification requirements) Sector Guides Why it matters We developed seven Sector Guides which outline the ESG standards we Report to Group Credit Risk For high risks cases, recommend Finance Team require of our borrowers. These cover the agricultural commodities, palm financing conditions/ Committee on a half-yearly What we finance has a bearing on the trajectory of the transition to a basis oil, chemicals, oil and gas, mining and metals, power generation and covenants to mitigate ESG risks low-carbon future, and the type of business activities that will shape infrastructure sectors, and provide our RMs and CRMs with a structured economic and social development. As a duty to society and shareholders, approach to assess ESG risks. we support our customers’ transition to more sustainable models of doing Check if customer operation Complete Generic or Follow up on No material ESG business. We also recognise that customers who lack the commitment, These Sector Guides make reference to certification schemes, international falls under Exclusion List Sector-Specific ESG Risk risk identified agreed mitigation Relationship capacity or capability to mitigate ESG risks can ultimately affect our Assessment as part of credit measures and action plan best practices and conventions such as the International Council on own credit and reputation risks. We take a long-term view and adopt a application, capital markets Mining and Metals (ICMM) principles and position statements, Roundtable Preliminary screening of transaction clearance, or balanced approach in supporting sustainable development. on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Principles and Criteria, The Stockholm risks associated with the manager during annual review and Rotterdam Convention for chemicals, UNESCO World Heritage customer/ project Approach Convention and ABS’ Haze Diagnostics Kit. Escalate to industry and ESG risks identified Engage customers on specific sustainability specialists if In 2017, we expanded our Group Core Credit Risk Policy to incorporate In addition, we have also published the following: ESG risks on a timely basis material risks identified principles and approaches to managing ESG issues in our lending practices. These ESG standards are applicable to all capital markets i. Our Approach to Responsible Financing transactions as well. This is supplemented by the Group Responsible Roles and responsibilities in the ESG risk assessment process, which enables us to develop an overall understanding of the customer’s approach to ii. Our Approach to the Coal Sector managing ESG issues including commitment, capacity and track record. Financing Standard(1) and seven Sector Guides pertaining to areas with iii. Our Approach to the Palm Oil Sector elevated ESG risks, including palm oil, power generation and others. The Group Responsible Financing Standard is subject to annual review. Prohibited financing ESG due diligence Initiatives Engaging stakeholders We will not knowingly finance activities or projects which we know Engagement with key stakeholders helps us define our strategic priorities. Relationship managers (RMs) conduct ESG risk assessments for each to be in deliberate violation of local or national laws, or are involved in This year, we expanded and updated our policies with more stringent We continue to hold regular conversations with institutional investors, borrower. The Institutional Banking Group (IBG) Sustainable Finance team the following: ESG standards, robust assessment processes and escalation mechanisms. employees, industry associations such as ABS, customers, communities, conducts additional evaluation on cases that are escalated. Enhanced due diligence may take the form of site visits, independent reviews or We continued to conduct training, engage stakeholders and introduce NGOs and regulators. We also participate in sustainability-related forums • Forced or child labour, and human rights abuses sustainability-related financial products. certification requirements. In addition, credit risk managers (CRMs) review organised by policy makers, banking associations, academic institutions Read more about our statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act these ESG risk assessments and make decisions on credit approval. and share our thoughts on specific ESG matters. • Illegal logging Training • Land clearance by burning Training allows our employees to be equipped with the knowledge to Sustainability-related financial products Monitoring our customers’ adherence to our ESG standards and • Production and movement of military goods and lethal weapons apply our policies and standards consistently. This year, we developed We completed four sustainability performance-linked loans amounting implementing good ESG practices involve numerous steps. They include including arms, ammunitions, bombs, tanks, imaging devices, military a new mandatory training module on responsible finance for our RMs to over SGD 600 million. These loans are structured to enable borrowers tracking progress in addressing past incidents, following negative media aircraft, warships, chemicals, anti-personnel mines, cluster munitions and CRMs. In 2018, a total of 1,462 employees were trained using our to pay less interest when they achieve a set of pre-agreed ESG coverage, engaging customers in establishing policies that align with and weapons of mass destruction (WMD)(2), in which normal use eLearning module, and a total of 716 employees from our core markets performance targets which are verified by an independent ESG rating international standards and best practices, and following up on agreed violates basic humanitarian principles were trained in a classroom-based setting. At the industry level, ABS is agency. Our borrowers are able to leverage such incentives for meaningful mitigating measures and action plans. If the customer is not willing to • Trading (wholesaling or retailing) in wildlife or wildlife products, such as coordinating efforts to develop industry-wide e-learning content which is sustainability impact, while we play our part to motivate this positive adequately manage and mitigate the identified ESG risks, we are prepared ivory and rhino horn, in violation of CITES(3) scheduled to be rolled out in 2019. transition and strengthen our banking relationships. In 2018, we also to turn down the transaction or reassess the banking relationship. • Trading (wholesaling or retailing) of shark fin or shark finning and provided approximately SGD 1.8 billion in financing towards renewable deriving material revenue from such activities In 2018, we invited Hope for Justice, a global non-profit organisation energy and other green loans. At the portfolio level, the Global Industry Councils periodically review the • Violation of the rights of local communities, or operations that take which aims to end human trafficking and modern-day slavery, to conduct exposure to industries with elevated ESG risks for any unusual trends or place in locations of significant social conflicts a capacity building workshop with the Group Sustainability Council. The Additionally, we introduced a suite of ESG investment products including movements that warrant further attention. objective is to raise internal awareness and enhance our understanding of Parvest Global Environment Fund, Social Responsible Investment ESG risk and mitigation the relevance of the issue to our business. Kehati Index Fund and Wellington Global Impact Fund to our wealth ESG risks may include a combination of environmental matters such management customers. as biodiversity loss, climate change, deforestation, hazardous waste contamination, water scarcity and pollution, as well as social matters including labour rights, occupational health and safety and involuntary resettlements. We reference industry best practices such as the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards, World (1) We comply with ABS guidelines on responsible financing (2) WMD include nuclear, radiological, chemical, biological or other weapons that can kill and cause significant harm to a large number of people or cause great damage to man-made (e.g. buildings) and natural structures (3) Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora 13 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PILLAR 1: RESPONSIBLE BANKING | 14 Status As a leading financial services group in Asia, we have a role to play in Status supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy. Such a transition In 2018, a total of 178 ESG risk assessments conducted for large brings about higher carbon price regulatory risks, as well as green DBS announced its support for the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 2017. TCFD was established by the Financial corporate clients were escalated for enhanced due diligence. This financing opportunities. In 2018, this transition gained greater urgency Stability Board to devise guidelines on climate-related disclosures that are comparable across companies, consistent over time and reliable in represented 5% of the large corporate clients assessed. and accordingly, climate change was elevated in our materiality matrix. their measurement. Number of ESG risk assessments escalated (by sector) Approach We commissioned a globally recognised independent environmental consultancy firm to assist in conducting a pilot study(1). The study focuses on customers in five sectors that are most likely to be impacted by efforts to combat climate change. The five sectors are: 7 3 Through our lending activities, we are committed to promoting an 10 orderly transition to a low-carbon economy, whilst balancing the need for economic growth and social inclusion. Sectors Subsectors 10 Agriculture Agriculture, Food & Beverage (F&B) upstream, F&B midstream and Rubber The climate-related risks facing our customers ultimately affect our Chemicals Chemicals credit and reputation risks. Consequently, climate-related risks are 10 considered as part of the environmental, social and governance (ESG) risk Energy Oil & Gas and Power assessment we conduct on customers in our corporate lending and capital Infrastructure, real estate and transportation Auto upstream, Auto midstream, Aviation, Real estate and Shipping markets business. Mining and metals Coal, Metal (ferrous) and Metal (non-ferrous) 11 Read more about “Responsible financing” on page 13. Carbon footprint 84 Initiatives We selected 303 listed customers for the study. They represented between 25% and 50% of our exposure in their respective five sectors. Collectively, they accounted for about 10% of our total gross loans and advances to customers as of May 2018. We have focused on the following three key areas: We measured the carbon intensity of each customer, using the metric “carbon to revenue”, which is the amount of carbon produced (in metric tonnes) Financing for SGD 1 million of revenue generated by each customer. This metric provides an indication of the risks a company faces from future regulations to curb We are incorporating climate action considerations in our business carbon emissions. The amount of carbon produced by the customers form the basis of Scope 3 emissions(2) for us. 43 activities. Some of the initiatives include: • Adopting a responsible financing approach towards the coal sector Industry sectors Sector weight as % of Sample population Carbon to revenue (3) • Issuing our green bond report that quantified 11,423 MWh of energy (N = 303 customers) sample population as % of gross loans Tonne CO2e (4) / SGD saved and 4,848 tonnes of carbon emissions avoided (by exposure) and advances to million Other sectors Mining & metals customers • Supporting clients’ issuances such as Star Energy’s Wayang Windu Oil & gas Chemicals geothermal green project bond and State Bank of India’s maiden Agriculture 6 0.6 321 green bond Infrastructure Power Chemicals 1 0.1 523 • Participating in BCA’s Building Retrofit Energy Efficiency Financing (BREEF) Scheme and Singapore Economic Development Board (EDB) Energy 22 2.3 1,059 A  griculture excluding Palm oil crude palm oil Energy Efficiency Financing Pilot Programme. These schemes offer Infrastructure, real estate and transportation 67 6.8 189 financing to help SMEs offset high upfront costs through an energy performance contract arrangement. The total amount of outstanding Mining and metals 4 0.3 1,622 Targets loans to BREEF and EDB Energy Efficiency Financing Pilot Programme Total 100 10.1 was SGD 5.1 million. The retrofits resulted in a reduction of over In line with evolving global disclosure expectations, we will continue to 13,174 MWh of energy consumption and enabled two buildings to be Our study showed that the highest carbon to revenue intensity sectors were the energy sector as well as the mining and metals sector. Our aggregate develop robust KPIs to track our performance. certified as BCA Green Mark. exposure to selected customers from both sectors accounted for approximately 2.6% of the total gross loans and advances to customers as of May 2018. Supported SDGs Other sectors have relatively lower intensities. We actively encourage our customers to use digital banking including cashless payments and paperless cheques to reduce Scenario analysis environmental impact. We analysed the potential cost to the 303 customers from carbon-related regulations using scenarios reflecting three different carbon prices(5). We applied our credit risk models to a percentage of these customers to evaluate their potential credit deterioration arising from the impact of higher carbon cost on Operations their cash flows. All functions of the bank have been engaged in reducing carbon emissions from our operations. Some of the initiatives include: • Making RE100 progress in managing our environmental footprint • Engaging green ambassadors in managing our environmental footprint • Conducting inaugural Climate Week in March 2018 Advocacy We launched initiatives to raise awareness on the issue of climate B. Climate change change and to encourage the public and passionate changemakers to take steps in effecting change: Why it matters • Sponsoring the Climate Action theme at UNLEASH 2018 • Securing > 50,000 pledges to reduce the use of single-use plastics Climate change is one of the most threatening issues of our time. The #RecyclemoreWasteless (1) The scope of our pilot study covers greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a component of GHG emissions. The term “carbon” is used UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Special Report broadly in this section and is consistent with market norms to describe GHG has called for urgent and unprecedented actions to limit climate (2) “Scope 3” emissions are emissions incurred via our lending to companies in these five sectors. Scope 3 emissions are derived from customers’ “Scope 1” change catastrophe. The course that governments, organisations and emissions which refer to all direct GHG emissions and “Scope 2” emissions which refer to indirect GHG emissions from the consumption of purchased individuals undertake now will impact the future of this planet and electricity, heat or steam its inhabitants. (3) The weighted average carbon intensity (WACI) of all five sectors is 567 tonne CO2e / SGD million. This is a metric recommended by TCFD (4) CO2e (Carbon dioxide equivalent) is a standard unit for measuring carbon emissions by converting all types of GHG emissions into a CO2 basic unit (5) We considered three climate-related scenarios based on research by the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The three scenarios are differentiated by the assumed increase in carbon prices (ranging from USD 10 to USD 120 by 2030) and probability of limiting temperature increase to 2°C 15 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PILLAR 1: RESPONSIBLE BANKING | 16 The results of the pilot study indicated the following: Approach Targets We are the bank of choice for many migrant workers in Singapore. In 2018, we launched a free membership programme that offers migrant • Certain carbon-intensive customers in our core markets may be Our digital transformation is pervasive. It encompasses technology and We will continue to invest in our digital transformation. Our ongoing workers discounts and benefits on insurance and remittance. Through negatively affected by transition risk(1), especially if the increase in embraces a startup culture, while building upon and improving the collaborations with SDFA and UN Task Force on Digital Financing the POSB jolly App, services such as remittance, telecommunications, carbon-related costs cannot be passed on to their customers; and holistic customer experience at DBS. We have joined the Sustainable for SDGs aim to reshape the financial system to better align with the insurance and travel perks are provided. • Our exposure to customers in the study most impacted by transition Digital Finance Alliance (SDFA) and the UN Task Force on Digital needs of sustainable development. risk is not material to our overall loan book. Financing for SDGs. These collaborations address the potential for Women and men face different challenges when planning for fintech-powered business innovations to reshape the financial system Case study retirement. We factored in life expectancy, wage gap, career breaks and We focused our initial efforts on transition costs because we view this in ways that better align with the needs of sustainable development. financial literacy to develop a plan for women to achieve a secure and as the biggest climate-related risk. In future, we may expand the scope HeveaConnect – A digital trading marketplace for independent retirement. of our risk assessment by evaluating the costs of the physical impact of Initiatives sustainable rubber climate change. We recognise that climate change assessments inherently We partnered Halcyon Agri to launch HeveaConnect, a digital Read more about women and retirement. have a high degree of uncertainty because weather patterns can be We have identified three key areas in which digitalisation of the financial marketplace for the trading of sustainably processed natural rubber. unpredictable, assumptions used in climate risk modelling may be faulty, system can help promote sustainable banking practices. HeveaConnect simplifies the buying, selling and financing of trade in the Together with Singapore Stock Exchange (SGX), we provide financial and policy outcomes may have unforeseen positive or negative effects. rubber industry by connecting stakeholders in an integrated ecosystem. education and resources for different groups of individuals, including The analysis and prognosis related to climate change can therefore change Financial inclusion The platform allows producers and consumers to track pricing and supply students, fresh graduates and women. Specific financial literacy over time as scenarios evolve. A key tenet of our sustainability efforts is improving the access to financial information, and conduct transactions while providing value-added workshops are curated and organised under the collaboration Financial services for all segments of the population. Examples include: services on financing, insurance and logistics. We will also offer financing Literacy for You (FLY). Nevertheless, the pilot study represents the initial step of our commitment services to smallholder rubber producers who previously may not have had to understanding climate change and how it will impact our business. The • Helping to alleviate the social problem of first-time borrowers not ready access to banking credit facilities, as well as provide working capital, Read more about FLY. findings will provide the basis for us to engage carbon-intensive customers being able to access loan facilities. By collaborating with a leading trade and commodity financing for buyers. telecommunications company, we now have an alternative measure of We supported clients’ issuances such as IIX Women’s Livelihood Bond and and guide our effort to structurally shift our portfolio towards lowercredit-worthiness based on the user’s behaviour. Read more about HeveaConnect. Korea Housing Finance Corporation’s social covered bond. carbon activities. • Increasing use of our digital account opening which allows us to Read more about Women’s Livelihood Bond. Read more about “Methodology for TCFD” on page 47. expand our reach to customers at lower cost. Supported SDGs • Digitalising frequently used content such as documentation to reduce SMEs Targets the costs associated with issuance of bonds, creating the potential for Through our participation in government schemes in some markets, we wider distributions. enable a wider segment of SMEs to access financing. These include: We will continue to engage our employees and customers on climate action-related initiatives. Sustainable finance i. Singapore Government-Assisted Schemes which offer collateral-free Through strategic collaboration with pertinent partners, we go beyond working capital loans for SMEs, micro loans for startups to fund their Supported SDGs what a bank traditionally does. Examples include: business expansions and the Internationalisation Finance Scheme, which help fund companies’ overseas expansion. • Working with Agrocorp International to launch an end-to-end crossii. Taiwan SMEs Guarantee (SMEG) Scheme, which assist SMEs to secure border blockchain trade platform which enables farmers, logistic financing from financial institutions. companies and banks to track, trade and finance their commodities iii. India priority sector lending. shipments online, and in real time. • Encouraging the use of renewable energy through blockchain. DBS is now trading on one of the world’s first blockchain-powered Social enterprises DBS Social Enterprise Package was designed to address the needs of C. Digital finance Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) marketplaces launched by D. Financial inclusion social enterprises. Under this package, the bank offers unsecured business Singapore Power Group. loans at a preferential rate of 5% fixed per annum. Why it matters Promoting sustainable practices Why it matters Status As a responsible bank, we have a role to influence our stakeholders towards becoming more sustainable. Examples include: Access to financial services enables vulnerable segments of society to Digital finance, which encompasses technologies such as Big Data, As of 31 December 2018, our total lending to SMEs was SGD 38 billion. improve their circumstances, reduce inequality and can drive economic artificial intelligence (AI), mobile platforms, blockchain and the Internet More than 20,000 SME accounts opened were created through our digital • Giving customers sustainable choices. The DBS Electricity Marketplace growth. Recognising that many of our key markets are developing of Things (IoT), are increasingly overhauling the infrastructure on which services in 2018. allows retail customers the option to pick from carbon-neutral economies with significant income inequality, we view financial inclusion banking and finance sectors have relied on for centuries to achieve electricity providers. We are exploring a customised process that can as a material matter for the financial services sector. The total amount of outstanding loans to Singapore Government-Assisted sustainable and inclusive growth. Through digital finance, the cost of create “personal carbon footprint” reports. By adding this dimension Schemes and Taiwan SMEG Scheme were SGD 977 million and SGD 638 transactions, acquisitions and networking processes can now be reduced Approach to existing customer data, we can help customers understand their million respectively. significantly. Progress in digital finance is also reshaping consumer impact on the environment and offer options on how they can reduce behaviour, banking habits and expectations. We are committed to bringing affordable banking services to customers or offset this. Read more about “POSB” in the Annual Report on page 40. • Launching of the banking carbon footprint (Phase 1) on our website to in our major markets, including communities, SMEs and social enterprises, These same capabilities are also easing the way for directing finance keeping in mind our footprint and relative size in each market. We will use towards alleviating environmental and social challenges. With help educate retail customers about their carbon emissions footprint Targets involved with banking services. digital means to achieve this, where feasible. better information integrity, investors can better price ESG risks and • Improving financial inclusion and literacy through lifestyle. Wearable We aim to always remain at the forefront of providing pioneering financial opportunities, boosting the likelihood of positive impact investments. With Digital transformation is a credible step to enhancing financial inclusion, devices like the POSB Smart Buddy and the POSB Smart Senior can solutions that cater to the evolving needs of our key markets. improved ease of access to basic financial services, financial institutions by providing scalable, faster and cheaper delivery. We have digitalised our can now reach traditionally underserved segments of the population help schoolchildren and seniors access financial services in ways relevant to their lifestyles and needs (e.g. encouraging financial literacy banking services so that our customers can perform banking transactions Supported SDGs and start to actively explore the potential of “crowdfunded” sustainable anytime and anywhere. Digitalisation also allows us to expand our reach investments. This promotes financial inclusion and literacy, as well as among children and empowering independence among seniors). beyond the confines of our physical footprint. sustainable development. Status Read more about “Digital finance” on page 17. Our digital customers(2) have grown from 4.3 million in 2017 to 5.6 million Initiatives in 2018. Communities In Singapore, subsidised banking services are provided to a large segment of the market. Fees are waived for many customers, including the young, (1) Transition risk is concerned with a lower-carbon economy which may entail extensive policy, legal, technology and market changes to address seniors, national servicemen and people under public assistance schemes. mitigation and adaptation requirements related to climate change We also waive fees for ex-offenders to help their reintegration into society. (2) Consumer and SME businesses (Singapore and Hong Kong) and digibank customers (India and Indonesia) 17 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PILLAR 1: RESPONSIBLE BANKING | 18 E. Fair dealing Status We implement multi-layered defences, combined with employee Approach education and industry collaboration. We keep abreast of techniques In 2018, we made significant improvements in using data analytics to and threats as they evolve to develop appropriate counter-measures and Our approach is to focus our corporate governance efforts on the Why it matters detect client vulnerabilities and predict the need for greater supervisory conduct periodic phishing and social engineering exercises which translate responsible use of data, whilst ensuring that existing consent regimes attention or action. theoretical knowledge into day-to-day application for our employees. are complied with. Our framework for data governance comprises Customers are naturally concerned about their experiences when the following: dealing with financial products and services, and the value they There were no material instances of non-compliance concerning fair In 2018, we strengthened our collaboration with cyber security authorities receive. The Monetary Authority of Singapore has issued Guidelines dealing during the year. and regulators, and scaled up our capabilities around monitoring for i. Data Governance and Data Management Policies on Fair Dealing to promote fair dealing by financial institutions when unusual employee behaviour in the use of data. We will further scale Provides control over data collection, data quality, data transfer and conducting business with their customers. Our priority is to consistently Targets the implementation of virtual isolation to secure internet access for our data retention. deliver fair dealing outcomes to our customers and build long-term employees and enhance our response capabilities towards cyber threats ii. Privacy Policy We continue to encourage a corporate culture of fair dealing and the relationships. with security orchestration technologies. Defines our internal policy on personal data processing. It represents achievement of fair dealing outcomes. Importantly, we aim to maintain our promise to protect and manage our customers’ personal data in a Approach zero material instances of non-compliance in fair dealing. While we proactively predict, prevent, detect and respond to cyber threats, responsible manner. it is equally important that our customers protect themselves online. We are committed to fair dealing outcomes for our customers. We Supported SDGs Complementing this approach, we have been providing security tips and Initiatives believe in: security alerts and news for the public. We also provide hotlines for our customers to report abnormal transactions in their accounts. Our policies on data governance and data management are periodically i. Being responsive to our customers’ needs and requests; ii. Selling products and services which are appropriate; SDGs Additionally, we have piloted an ecosystem risk management framework reviewed to ensure our data processing aligns with evolving legal and regulatory requirements. iii. Ensuring our sales employees are trained to deal with customers to ensure that customer data transmitted to an ecosystem partner is fairly; and managed in accordance with DBS standards. We have also purchased Our ecosystems’ risk management framework extends beyond DBS’ iv. Communicating with our customers in a clear and transparent manner. a cyber security insurance policy to cover cyber-related risks. These data governance to include our ecosystem partners, as customer steps enhance our overall risk treatment for potential unknown cyber data transmitted to them must continue to be managed according to risk events. This commitment is embodied in our Code of Conduct Standard F. Cyber security DBS’ standards. Principle 4. Status Status Oversight of fair dealing is the responsibility of the Group Fair Dealing Why it matters and Conduct Committee (FDCC), which is chaired by the CEO. As There were no material instances of customer data loss during the year. In 2018, we developed a framework for the responsible use of data, practices and trends on fair dealing and suitability are inextricably Cyber security threats to infrastructure and information continue to which seeks to ensure that even as DBS continues with analytics work, Targets data and output from the data are used appropriately, not just in linked with conduct, we have, since 2018, included conduct as part of increase in frequency and evolve in sophistication. New trends, such as the mandate of the FDCC. business ecosystems, create wider interconnected computer networks We adopt a zero-tolerance mindset for operational risk, including accordance to legal standards but also within reasonable expectations which increase the surface of potential vulnerability. New laws, including cyber security. of society. Metrics on fair dealing and conduct are tracked, and actions are taken laws applicable to critical infrastructure and anticipated laws around “fake in response to incidents and/ or trends which raise concerns around We will continue to strengthen our cyber security capabilities to protect There were no material instances of customer privacy breaches during news” trends, impact the way we protect ourselves and our customers. suitability or conduct risk. Fair dealing outcomes are reported to the our data and maintain high security hygiene in our technological the year. DBS adopts a converged risk management approach to ensure that cyber Board Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. security and data governance risks are managed hand in hand. environment. We will also continue to monitor the landscape for cyber DBS is the first bank in Singapore to receive Data Protection Trustmark threats and enhance our protective technologies and cyber incident Initiatives Approach response capabilities. (DPTM) certification by Singapore Infocomm Media Development Authority (IMDA), demonstrating our responsible data protection practices. We have taken proactive steps towards delivering fair dealing DBS is a trusted brand name. We are committed to upholding our Supported SDGs outcomes for our customers in Singapore, including: customers’ trust in us by protecting and using their personal data in a responsible manner. i. Subjecting investment products distributed by us to a rigorous due diligence process; We have developed the following framework: SDGs ii. Strengthening our sales process to ensure that our products and services meet the needs of our customers and are marketed i. Cyber Security Risk Management Approach appropriately; and Includes identification, assessment, control and mitigation, monitoring, iii. Ensuring that our employees are fully trained and equipped to give reporting and measurement, underpinned by risk appetite. sound advice and recommendations. ii. Group Information Security and Governance Policy G. Data governance Outlines broad principles on handling information in electronic and We adopt high service standards in handling complaints to ensure physical mediums, as well as dealing with external and internal that customer feedback and concerns are looked into and resolved in cyber threats. Why it matters a timely, effective and fair manner. They can be received via phone or through other channels. The metrics on data protection and cyber security are reported to Current trends in data and use of data are raising new challenges for the Group Operational Risk Committee and ultimately to the Board us, to ensure that the wave of innovation is not ultimately leading to Employee remuneration is based on a balanced scorecard approach Risk Management Committee. Material cyber issues or incidents are unacceptable and unintended effects for our communities. The focus on Infocomm Media Development Authority (IMDA) Data Protection which ensures alignment between the interests of our employees independently reported to the Board Audit Committee. how data is collected and protected has morphed as new frontiers have Trustmark (DPTM) launch event and customers. A significant proportion of employee remuneration opened with innovative uses of data – including how data is shared with is dependent on the demonstration of proper sales processes and Initiatives and used by ecosystem partners, governance frameworks for artificial Targets embracing of our cultural values. intelligence, and how to monitor the performance of analytics models. We have a long-established 24x7 Security Operation Centre (SOC), In 2019, we will be implementing the Responsible Data Use framework DBS adopts a converged risk management approach to ensure that cyber All our employees receive annual training on compliance and fair and with the support of the Server and Network Operation Centre, we which provides corporate oversight and governance processes to ensure security and data governance risks are managed hand in hand. dealing, in addition to training in our suite of products. They also constantly monitor any potential cyber attacks and take appropriate data usage is evaluated and balanced against the needs of the individual, undergo product knowledge and skills tests regularly. We take a preventive measures before they become a significant event. DBS SOC is business and society. serious view on any oversight by our sales employees and hold an approved member of Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams their supervisors accountable for their coaching, monitoring and (FIRST) — a global leader in incident response. Supported SDGs supervision. In the interest of improving our products and services, we provide customers with various channels for feedback. SDGs 19 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PILLAR 1: RESPONSIBLE BANKING | 20 H. Preventing financial crime “Speak Up”, an independent whistleblowing service managed by Deloitte, was implemented to ensure that arrangements are in place Pillar 2: Why it matters Responsible business practices for concerns to be raised on possible improprieties or misdeeds. These concerns are independently investigated for appropriate follow-up action. Financial crime is a severe threat to the financial industry. ComplianceThe service ensures anonymity and protection when disclosures are related issues, associated costs and related reputational impact are made in good faith. significant. With financial innovations taking place at an unprecedented We do the right thing by our most important resource – our people – and take into pace, threats are evolving and becoming more sophisticated. Globally, the Read more about DBS Speak Up account environmental and societal considerations in our day-to-day business operations. Financial Action Task Force (FATF) was established in 1989 to develop and promote policies to protect the global financial system. At home, we are Status members of the Anti-Money Laundering (AML)/ Combating Financing In 2018, we improved our processes and controls in dealing with financial I. Talent management and retention We continue to operate a robust talent review process to grow our Terrorism (CFT) Industry Partnership (ACIP), which was established to share own timber and build a pipeline of successors. This has yielded positive information on financial crime risks, typologies and mitigations. crime risk and enhanced front office controls, transaction monitoring and outcomes as reflected in our recent key leadership appointments. collaboration with regulators. Why it matters Approach We believe an engaged workforce will drive better outcomes. As such, There were no material instances of non-compliance with laws and we extended the peer-to-peer recognition platform with weTQ, Being named “Best Bank in the World” by Global Finance reflects our Our definition of financial crime includes bribery, corruption, fraud, money regulations in the context of financial crime during the year. which enables managers to recognise teams who have displayed our determination to redefine banking, embrace digitalisation and embed laundering and terrorist financing. We are committed to conducting PRIDE! values. Targets the bank’s culture to be a 26,000-person startup. The key factor to business in accordance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and the our success is our employees. It is imperative that we remain as an highest ethical standards. This commitment is embodied in our Code of employer of choice to continually attract, retain and develop talent. Status We have zero tolerance for any acts of bribery, corruption and fraud, Conduct. and will comply with applicable AML, CFT and unilateral and domestic Awards sanctions laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate. Approach Accordingly, we have developed a framework consisting of the following: Our continued efforts in being an employer of choice is evident in the Our value proposition to employees is to live fulfilled: providing our various awards we have won. i. Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy and Standard Supported SDGs employees the flexibility to grow and develop, be supported and Encompasses elements of risk assessment, controls and monitoring, Read more about “Selected ESG-related awards, indices and ratings” on recognised for their pursuits. Embedding agility in our employees due diligence, rules over gifts and entertainment, and reporting. page 49. allows them to be innovative and empowered to initiate changes, All these are underpinned by senior management commitment SDGs and make our mark by reimagining banking and creating sustainable and communication. Employee engagement scores impact beyond banking. ii. Anti-Fraud Policy and Standard We were ranked at the 87th percentile in AON Hewitt My Voice Survey Includes elements of reporting and analysis, identification and This proposition is realised by applying the following human resources with our employee engagement score maintained at 82%. We also assessment of fraud risks, fraud controls and monitoring, investigation (HR) policies: introduced the Manager Effectiveness Index in My Voice. The score of and remediation, all of which are underpinned by strategy, governance 86% placed rating managers positively in their managerial effectiveness. and culture. i. Resource Management Policy iii. AML, CFT and Sanctions Policy and Standard Covers recruitment, onboarding and separation. Establishes correspondent banking services requirements from an AML/ ii. Remuneration Policy CFT perspective. Outlines the key remuneration and risk management principles. iii. Learning and Talent Development Policy Any employee who contravenes the policies may be subject to disciplinary Creates the “triple-E” framework on experience, exposure and education. action up to and including termination of employment. If the breach is significant, it may also lead to prosecution of the parties involved. Initiatives The Group Head of Financial Crime and Security Services is ultimately As we continue to acquire new competencies to support our accountable in this area. The Group Operational Risk Committee aspirations and grow our franchise, we introduced new talent regularly reviews reports on ﬁnancial crime, and material issues are raised acquisition strategies to identify the best talent. Beyond hackathons, to the Risk Executive Committee and, if necessary, to the Board Risk we created Jobs Intelligence Maestro (JIM), a virtual recruitment bot Management Committee. powered by artificial intelligence (AI), to improve job application experience in Singapore. This innovation earned us the accolade to be Initiatives the first AI-based virtual bank recruiter in Southeast Asia. Our anti-financial crime culture includes a training and awareness Additionally, we extended our Skills Enhancement Education programme with associated activities. Every employee is expected to Programme (SEED) programme from Singapore to India. The two-year recognise financial crime and is empowered to take the necessary actions programme is designed to train a group of technology specialists with to mitigate such risks. To that extent: new competencies to support our digitalisation ambition. i. All our employees complete mandatory anti-money laundering training In 2018, we enhanced the “triple-E” framework and refreshed the annually; career management platform iGrow to further develop our workforce. ii. All new employees complete mandatory anti-bribery and corruption The enhanced platform provides employees with an additional training; channel to connect with mentors from different units and markets. iii. All employees read and acknowledge our Code of Conduct annually, We expanded our Explore programme – which lets employees which contains our stance on anti-corruption; and participate in projects of other units, and to build new capabilities iv. The Board attends a training session on “Anti-Money Laundering and beyond Singapore. Terrorism”. 21 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PILLAR 2: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES | 22 Statistics Targets Breakdown of senior management positions (SVP to MD) by gender i. Total number of employees and voluntary attrition rate(1) We will continue to uphold ourselves as an employer of choice by In 2018, 40% of senior management positions (SVP-MD) were held by Our voluntary attrition rate increased in 2018. This is largely attributed to Indonesia and Taiwan which completed the integration of the promoting exceptional employee experiences. This is implemented women as compared to 38% in 2017. acquired business from ANZ. Our employee retention for Singapore remained best-in-class. The implementation of the human capital analytics through our employee proposition – “Be the Best, Be the Change and Be model in Singapore helped in retaining employees and we subsequently developed similar models in other markets. the Difference”. Aligned with our vision of being a learning organisation, Female Male we will continue to provide opportunities and resources to our employees to acquire new skills and enhance existing ones. Year 2018 Year 2018 Year 2017 Year 2016 40% 60% Supported SDGs Year 2017 26,857 15% 38% 62% Year 2016 24,174 13% 38% 62% 12% J. Diversity and equal opportunity 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 22,194 Headcount Read more about “Information on employees“ Why it matters Read more about “Information on employees“ on page 36. 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 0 3 6 9 12 15 on page 36. Diversity in the workplace helps to promote inclusiveness. As we continue Targets Total number of employees Voluntary attrition rate to compete for talent, it is important to be able to reach out to potential employees across channels and platforms. Recognising our diversity as We are committed to workplace diversity. Moving forward, we aim to ii. Average training hours(2) per year per employee by gender and employee category a source of strength, we continue to focus on gender, generational and deepen our discussion and efforts to enhance cross-generational, cultural The average training hours for permanent employees increased from 31.5 in 2017 to 36.6 in 2018. Our learning platform, Horizon, allows employees cultural diversity in delivering value to our stakeholders. and disability acceptance. to have access to learning 24/7 and to reach out to different communities to experiment and learn. Approach Case study Year 2018 Year 2017 Year 2016 We give equal opportunities to all and create a conducive working DBS celebrated International Women’s Day on 8th March 2018 by environment where individuals are respected, supported and included. hosting a session on women at work and in leadership positions. We 33.2 DBS’ commitment to diversity and equal opportunity is covered through invited consultants from Korn Ferry and PwC to speak at “Women CEO SVP to MD 35.6 our Board Diversity Policy to promote diversity within our Board of 24.5 Speak” and “Women at Work” respectively. DBS’ Group Management Directors. In our Resource Management Policy, we hire based on merit, Female 36.6 Committee Members Jeanette Wong, Pearlyn Phau, Lee Yan Hong and For permanent employees 30.1 28.0 competencies and organisational fit (based on DBS PRIDE! values), Shee Tse Koon were also invited as panellists to the session. 35.7 regardless of gender, race, religion or physical attributes. 38.3 Analyst 31.5 33.6 Initiatives to VP 39.2 37.7 Embracing gender, generational and cultural diversity and providing equal opportunities in DBS means that we support our employees as they grow Male Senior Officer 36.4 32.9 31.9 and thrive in different aspects of their lives. 26.6 and below 38.5 30.8 Our flexible work arrangements provide employees with various options to allow them to be their best. From part-time, to flexi-time, to working from home or taking sabbaticals, employees can leverage different Average training hours per year Average training hours per year Average training hours per year programmes depending on their personal requirements. This arrangement per employee per employee per employee is particularly relevant for working mothers who may need to juggle the demands of family life with their careers. iii. Percentage of positions filled internally iv. Percentage of employees who receive regular career Status The percentage of positions filled internally has remained consistent development reviews over the past three years. All our male and female employees received regular career In 2018, we enhanced our parenthood leave which include maternity, development reviews in 2018, as compared to more than 99% paternity and adoption. With this enhancement, our entitlement is above Year 2018 Year 2017 Year 2016 in 2017. regulatory requirements in many locations. We also introduced neonatal care leave for employees who require additional support when their child DBS celebrated International Women’s Day on 8 th March 2018 is born prematurely. Supported SDGs 28% We have been recognised for our efforts in promoting gender equality in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for a second consecutive year. The overall gender pay gap across our six key markets, adjusted for ranks and Internal mobility locations, is insignificant at 2%. 28% 30% (1) The rates exclude involuntary termination as well as contract, temporary and agency staff attrition (2) Excludes informal learning methods such as community-based learning; and exposure opportunities such as immersion 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 programmes including customer and employee journeys Percentage of positions filled internally 23 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PILLAR 2: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES | 24 K. Workplace well-being Save well risk categories. For competitive tenders in high-risk categories, we Being a financial institution, we provide our employees with more options incorporated organisational sustainability into the evaluation and selection and opportunities to take care of their financial needs. Beyond banking of suppliers. This sourcing philosophy encourages our suppliers to consider Why it matters privileges for employees, we also organise financial health roadshows to more sustainable solutions and modes of operation. share tips on personal financial management. Employees spend at least a third of their time working in the office. As We incorporated circular procurement practices in our supply chain, such, it is important to provide a safe and healthy work environment. Employees and their families are also covered by our corporate medical and trained our sourcing managers to work with our suppliers in the Good workplace well-being practices result in reduced costs, increased and insurance benefits, where applicable. responsible management of materials and conservation of resources. productivity and higher employee morale. Some of our key initiatives include eliminating the use of single-use Status plastic bottles and reducing packaging for laptop delivery. Consequently, Approach associated freight costs and related carbon emissions were also reduced. The bank introduced the “Investment 101“ electronic direct mailer series to We are committed to providing a supportive environment for employees. raise financial awareness of our employees. Status The iHealth@DBS programme, an online healthy lifestyle management solution, focuses on four important tenets to boost employee well-being: Targets In 2018, 99.6% of our new suppliers signed their commitment to our SSP. live well, eat well, stay well and save well. We will continue to monitor the needs of our employees, collaborate with No suppliers were identified to have significant negative environmental Initiatives external organisations and explore avenues to enhance workplace well-being. or social impact in their operations and supply chains, nor required Annual onsite health screenings to show improvement. There were also no terminated relationships Live well Supported SDGs post assessment. Our flexible work arrangements aid employees in managing different To enhance our employees’ work experience, we expanded JoySpace, commitments and work demands. Our iFlex programme, a flexible online an activity-based shared workspace arrangement, designed for better Targets spending account, offers tools and incentives to promote health and collaboration and ideation. We also established an active recreation work life balance among our employees, and complements their health, club where employees can engage in various activities to enliven their With over 4,500 suppliers predominantly from Singapore and Hong Kong, wellness and insurance choices. Nursing rooms are also provided for DBS experience. we believe that we are in a good position to drive innovation and support our employees at our offices. Most recently, we invited Thrive Global to experimentation to make a meaningful impact. We will continue to engage our employees on sustainable, science-based solutions to enhance ensure that 100% of our new vendors are committed to the SSP and will their overall well-being, performance, and sense of purpose while creating be building on the circular procurement experience in Singapore across a healthier relationship with technology. All these initiatives are in place to L. Sustainable procurement our key markets. support our employees in their social, emotional and mental well-being. Case study Why it matters We are the first Asian bank to fully utilise DHL’s innovative GoGreen Building a strong and reliable supply chain is fundamental to sustainable Climate Neutral Service, an eco-friendly solution which allows us to send operations. Sustainable procurement helps to reduce waste, contributes to carbon neutral shipments and provides visibility to our carbon footprint. decent work and enables economic growth. We purchase a diverse range Using a patented methodology, the carbon emissions of every shipment of products and services, with the bulk being professional, real estate and are calculated based on the weight and distance travelled. This partnership corporate services. helped to offset carbon emissions through reinvestments by the carbon management programme into global climate protection projects. Engaging suppliers may carry financial, legal and reputation risks. As such, we consider environmental and social issues alongside financial factors when making procurement decisions. Approach JoySpace at DBS Our procurement is managed by the Group Procurement and Services (GPS) team, under the Technology and Operations support unit. GPS DBS Singapore participated in the 4th National Steps Challenge (Corporate) functions in accordance with the following: organised by the Health Promotion Board, which encourages walking as a form of physical activity towards a healthy lifestyle. i. Group Procurement Standard Extends throughout the procurement cycle, from identification and Arianna Huffington (second from the right), founder and CEO of Thrive Global and founder of The Huffington Post, at our leadership specification of requirements to the awarding of contracts to vendors. conversations ii. Group Procurement Policy Outlines guidelines for the purchasing of goods and services to meet Eat well DBS’ requirements while ensuring minimum risks and maximum value. It is equally important for employees to be proactive in managing their Sustainable Sourcing Principles (SSP) have been central to our approach health. Facilitating this, we invite dieticians and wellness consultants to since 2017. The SSP outlines the expectations we have of our suppliers share their experience during lunch-time workshops. in four key areas – human rights, health and safety, environmental sustainability, as well as business integrity and ethics. DBS international In addition, our cafeteria vendors offer a choice of healthy foods including express shipments salad and brown rice, among other options. We have also installed delivered via DHL Initiatives GoGreen Climate vending machines to provide salads, healthy snacks and no-sugar Neutral Service beverage options. Our SSP sets out the minimum principles and standards of behaviour that we expect of all suppliers. All new suppliers are reviewed against the SSP Stay well Supported SDGs during registration and at regular intervals as part of our ongoing supplier We provide fitness facilities including gyms and dance studios within management process. In 2018, we developed an assurance checklist in our offices to support our employees’ physical well-being. Annual onsite accordance to the SSP and conducted selected onsite assurance. health screenings are organised for our employees. In 2018, 3,258 employees participated in this programme. In addition, we introduced Singapore Health Promotion Board Steps Challenge – 2018 DBS The sustainability risk materiality assessment further helps us identify Automated External Defibrillator (AED) training to our employees as part internal winning team spend categories with high ESG risks. Our last biennial assessment of Business Continuity Management (BCM) Awareness Day. for Singapore was carried out in 2017 which identified 18 high25 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PILLAR 2: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES | 26 M. Managing our environmental footprint One such campaign was the DBS Eco-Cup campaign, a six-week pilot Status Data centre transformation behavioural change programme conducted in collaboration with the We have transformed our data centres to be more efficient through Building and Construction Authority, that resulted in employees practising We have made significant investments in driving energy efficiency in our the innovative use of cloud technology and optimisation of our IT Why it matters better recycling habits with reduced contamination of recyclables. markets, and this has enabled us to operate a larger banking franchise infrastructure operations. Electricity consumption from data centre IT load Another campaign involved distributing 4,000 reusable bags, 2,000 with a smaller environmental footprint. Specifically, our total electricity fell by 3,590 MWh, or about 25% in Singapore, our largest location. As a bank with extensive operations across Asia, it is important for us to Sporks (a hybrid metal cutlery tool shaped like a spoon and a fork at consumption fell by more than 1,600 MWh in 2018, despite an increase manage our environmental footprint. This is especially critical because either end) and 2,500 sets of metal straws to help our employees lead in real estate footprint following the integration of the ANZ franchise 2018 2017 the Asian markets that we operate in are experiencing tremendous more eco-friendly lives. Working with our cafeteria vendors in Singapore, and expansion in Hyderabad, India. A contributing factor to our smaller growth. As DBS continues to grow our franchise, we are committed to we stopped providing single-use plastic straws and replaced plastic environmental footprint is the optimisation of our data centres’ electricity IT load from Singapore co-location data 10,950 14,540 conducting our business sustainably by incorporating environmental and cutlery with more environmentally friendly materials. Employees were consumption given the migration to cloud technology, in addition to our centre partners (MWh) social considerations. also given token incentives for using their own cups or containers to growing use of renewable energy. Consequently, the absolute Scope 2 IT load includes servers, network equipment and voice equipment. IT reduce the use of disposables. In Hong Kong, our office buildings at One emission decreased by more than 7,300 tCO2, which translated to a lower load is part of total electricity consumption. Approach Island East, Millennium City 6 and Miramar Tower have been awarded Scope 2 emission intensity from 0.015 to 0.012 (tCO2/sf) year-on-year. the Environmental Campaign Committee’s Wastewi$e Label. The label In 2018, we purchased a total of 8,330 litres of diesel for our Singapore We minimise our environmental footprint by reducing our consumption was awarded in recognition of DBS’ adoption of measures to reduce operations. The related Scope 1 emissions(1) amounted to 23kgCO2. Targets and improving our overall efficiency. We achieve this by actively tracking waste generation. key environmental metrics relating to our infrastructure and employee Renewable energy We aim to source 100% renewable energy for our Singapore operations behaviour. These metrics form the basis of strategies and initiatives DBS has committed to utilising 100% renewable energy in all our by 2030. We work towards improving our energy consumption through that drive the improvement in sustainability across our operations. We markets, with an interim target of 100% in Singapore by 2030. We regular reviews and monitoring of energy consumption, optimising continuously improve the completeness of these metrics. are making steady progress and today, 14% of our total electricity mechanical and electrical equipment operations and replacing aged consumption is sourced from renewable sources. We are actively working equipment and lighting with more energy efficient models. Initiatives with partners and energy providers as the availability of renewable energy improves in our markets. Building sustainable infrastructure We incorporate sustainable design and sustainable principles across all our Sustainable workspaces physical spaces – from office buildings to retail branches to data centres. 100% of our branches and almost all our offices in Singapore have We actively adopt energy efficiency enhancements (e.g. LED lights and obtained Building and Construction Authority (BCA) Green Mark enhanced building controls) in our operations. We have been pursuing Certifications. We have achieved a total of 75 BCA Green Mark certifications that incorporate best practices in environmental design, Certifications for our Singapore retail branches, comprising 10 Platinum, construction and environmentally friendly building technologies. 40 Gold Plus, 18 Gold and seven Green Mark certifications. DBS is among the first in the banking sector to achieve the BCA Green Mark Driving sustainable behaviours Certification under the Retail category. We actively encourage employees in our key markets to adopt sustainable lifestyle habits through campaigns that raise awareness on how individuals can be the change. DBS Singapore takes reference from the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources for annual focus topics, including incorporating circular economy thinking and practices in our operations. Reusable bags to reduce single-use plastics Singapore Hong Kong Rest of Greater China (2) South and Southeast Asia (3) Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Energy and Scope 2 emissions (1) Electricity consumption (MWh) 67,117 73,795 10,833 11,470 13,613 12,160 12,222 8,013 103,785 105,438 Non-renewable sources (MWh) (4) 53,081 73,795 10,833 11,470 13,613 12,160 12,222 8,013 89,749 105,438 Renewable sources (MWh) (5) 14,036 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 14,036 0 Scope 2 emission from electricity consumption (tCO2) 22,252 31,319 7,204 9,022 8,963 8,412 11,267 8,324 49,686 57,077 Scope 2 emissions intensity (tCO2/sf) 0.013 0.019 0.014 0.016 0.009 0.010 0.010 0.010 0.012 0.015 Scope 3 emissions (1) Scope 3 emissions from air and shuttle bus travel (tCO2) 5,563 5,490 1,081 1,064 N.A. N.A. 670 N.A. N.A. N.A. Scope 3 emissions intensity (tCO2/headcount) 0.48 0.50 0.23 0.24 N.A. N.A. 0.11 N.A. N.A. N.A. Water consumption Water consumption (m3) 75,821 90,708 2,338 2,170 51,688 42,064 46,854 N.A. 176,701 N.A. Water consumption intensity (m3 /sf) 0.045 0.054 0.004 0.004 0.053 0.051 0.041 N.A. 0.041 N.A. Waste Waste recycled (tonnes) 259 256 151 179 55 42 10 9 475 486 N.A.: Not Available (1) We follow the requirements of GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and GHG Corporate Value Chain Standard (2) Rest of Greater China includes Mainland China and Taiwan. It includes the impact of a larger footprint from acquisition of ANZ‘s retail portfolio (4) Includes all purchased electricity (e.g. power, lighting, air-conditioning) used in our operations in our respective markets (3) South and Southeast Asia includes India and Indonesia. It includes the impact of a larger footprint from acquisition of ANZ‘s retail portfolio (5) Renewable energy from onsite solar power generation and renewable energy certificates (REC) purchased in 2018 27 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PILLAR 2: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES | 28 Case study Approach (1) Transfer pricing Status Our transfer pricing approach aims to be in compliance with the Leadership in renewable energy We are committed to paying our fair share of taxes in the locations arm’s-length principle and we have established policies and standards DBS is a regional bank. The tax we pay is a function of where we In 2017, we became the first Asian bank and Singapore company to join where we operate, and complying with all relevant tax laws and which govern transfer pricing between related parties of the DBS operate and the applicable tax laws in those locations. In 2018, we RE100. RE100 is an initiative by The Climate Group in partnership with the regulations. This includes the fulfilment of local tax filing obligations Group. Our approach is aligned to the domestic tax laws where we contributed SGD 1,006 million in income taxes (2017: SGD 671 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) which brings together over 100 influential and timely payment of taxes. operate and the requirements of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines million). Our effective tax rate includes permitted concessionary tax companies seeking to make a difference for climate change. As an initial for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations (OECD TP rates and income not subject to tax for specific banking activities. step towards achieving this goal, we have installed 1,200 solar panels It is the sovereign right of governments to set tax laws and regulations Guidelines). We also examine our approach in the context of evolving at our premises in Changi Business Park, capable of providing over 460 in the context of the competitive global marketplace. Globally, international standards such as the OECD/ G20 Base Erosion and Profit Read more about “Geographic profit segmentation” on page 35. MWh annually. competition for investment and capital is robust, and it is not the role Shifting Project Reports and Action Plans (OECD BEPS). of businesses to determine what level of tax would meet the needs In addition to income taxes, DBS also collected Goods and Services Enabling employees to drive change and expectations of society. Tax incentives and exemptions are an Initiatives Tax (GST)/ Value-Added Tax (VAT) on behalf of governments across the In mid-2018, we set up Sustainability Interest Groups in DBS. These effort by governments to encourage investment, employment and locations where we operate. groups bring together employees from across the bank who are economic growth. To balance the interests of our stakeholders, we We regularly engage tax authorities based on mutual respect and trust. interested in volunteering 5% of their work time in support of DBS’ claim legitimate incentives and exemptions that are granted to us. We aim to be transparent in our tax filings and will provide authorities Targets sustainability objectives. The volunteers meet monthly to ideate, plan and with sufficient information such that robust conclusions regarding the We seek to align our tax contribution in any tax jurisdiction with the We support the consistent implementation of OECD BEPS measures, drive sustainability initiatives, with the bank providing them necessary tax treatment of our activities can be made. value created in those locations, and only undertake transactions and the contributions of the tax jurisdictions collaborating to implement infrastructure support. For example, we drove bank-wide awareness which we would be prepared to fully disclose. Our approach to In all locations, we seek opportunities to meet with tax authorities measures targeted at tackling BEPS. As domestic tax laws and campaigns that reminded employees to make sustainable consumer transactions with clients is guided by our Tax Sensitive Transactions to exchange views and ensure our local business is understood. international tax standards continue to evolve, we will continue to fulfil choices during the Christmas festive season. Currently, we have three Standard. We will not knowingly engage in tax structures that aim For example, we participate in the Enhanced Taxpayer Relationship our role as a responsible and compliant taxpayer to pay our fair share of taxes. such interest groups focused on initiatives around food waste, plastics and paper in Singapore. We plan to increase the number of such groups in 2019. to evade tax. In addition, we have in place a process to ensure that Programme introduced by the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore transactions that may lead to tax avoidance are escalated and reviewed to engage with them in a transparent manner and facilitate timely by risk and control functions as and when required. resolution of our tax matters. Tax governance and risk management framework 5 The Board of Directors’ responsibility for sustainability includes Group (in SGD million) 2018 2017 WAYS responsible tax management. The Group CFO, supported by the Profit before tax 6,659 5,175 TO WASTE LESS Head of Group Tax, oversees the tax function which is responsible for ongoing tax compliance and robust management of tax risks Income tax expense charged to income statement 1,006 671 AND FEEL LESS GUILTY THIS CHRISTMAS 1 PLAN PROPER FOOD PORTIONS and exposures. Tax as a percentage of profit before tax 15%(2) 13%(2) Singaporeans threw out an equivalent of For a dinner party, about 500grams of DBS has a low tolerance for tax risk and adopts a clearly defined tax two bowls of rice each day last year! food per person is enough. 2 EAT YOUR LEFTOVERS risk management framework that promotes transparency, fairness Payment of GST/ VAT collected from customers 222 178 Three times as much food is wasted during the holidays as compared to any time of the year. Send leftovers home with family and friends or freeze them and have them another day! But remember, food safety comes first. and accountability. This is implemented through our Group Tax Policy, which is approved by the Group CFO. The policy is further Read more about DBS subsidiaries’ accounts on the basis for determining the domestic taxes paid. 3 SAY NO TO SINGLE USE PLASTICS 820 million supermarket plastic bags & Bring your own reusable bag for your Christmas supplemented by standards and procedures to ensure continued 473 million disposables are used in Singapore each year. shopping and opt to use reusable cutlery and tableware at your party. adherence with the framework. Supported SDGs 4 GIFT IT RIGHT Choose to do Secret Santa assigned gifting at your Christmas parties where Our tax risk management framework is based on the following friends receive a relevant gift and cherish it even more, and use recycled paper for your gift wrapping! principles: 5 DRIVE SMARTLY Walk or take the public transport to the supermarket for your party shopping. If you need to drive, plan your journey and start with the furthest destination first. i. We only undertake transactions which are underpinned by strong This Christmas, let’s all commercial motivations that we are prepared to fully disclose; Celebrate More, Waste Less. Brought to you by T&O Sustainability and the Sustainability Interest Groups ii. We carefully consider the potential tax sensitivity of transactions and are guided by a set of established escalation and approval procedures; iii. We have sufficient skilled employees in each major location and we Supported SDGs will seek independent advice on transactions with significant tax uncertainty; and iv. We take our tax compliance responsibilities seriously and fulfil all our obligations as a compliant taxpayer. Senior management and independent tax consultants review our returns and filings prior to submission. Approach to base erosion and profit shifting Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) refers to tax avoidance N. Responsible tax management strategies that exploit gaps and mismatches in tax rules to artificially shift profits to lowor no-tax locations. Singapore is part of the BEPS Project led by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Why it matters Development (OECD) for the global implementation of an action plan that will address BEPS issues in a coordinated and comprehensive Taxes play a central role in contributing to economies and manner across locations and tax jurisdictions. DBS welcomes and communities. As a significant taxpayer in Singapore and in the other supports the consistent implementation of measures under the locations that we operate in, we acknowledge our part in contributing BEPS Project. to communities via the payment of direct and indirect taxes. Governments and the general public are placing higher expectations on companies to be ethical in their tax dealings. We accept our duty to comply with all taxes responsibly and adhere to local and international tax standards. (1) We comply with the requirements under the United Kingdom Finance Act 2016. The statements presented in the “Approach” section serve as DBS’ Tax Strategy, in compliance with Schedule 19, Part 2, Paragraph 19 of the said Act. These statements are effective for 2018 and 2019 (2) Refer to Note 13 of DBS Annual Report 2018 financial statements for reconciliation against Singapore basic tax rate 29 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PILLAR 2: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES | 30 Pillar 3: The Kommon Goods, a SE nurtured by DBSF, raises awareness about the Creating social impact importance of sustainable living and hopes to change the consumption habits of individuals through their brand of eco-friendly lifestyle products. “I think what’s great about DBS is the kind of holistic support that it We seek to be a Force for Good by supporting social enterprises – businesses with provides beyond the financial grant, like the mentorship, the connections with senior management and opportunities for us to be exposed to the double bottom line – and giving back to the communities in which we operate. market and the public.” Alvin Li, CEO of The Kommon Goods, Hong Kong O. Social entrepreneurship Why it matters Product offerings from HelpUsGreen, a social enterprise in India Supported SDGs supported by DBS Foundation. The SE collects flower waste from temples The dynamism of Asian economies has improved the lives of millions over which is then hand-processed by women self-help groups to produce charcoal-free incense. the past decades, greatly contributing to the prosperity of generations. Yet there are continued challenges such as widening income disparities, ageing populations and gender inequality, among others. We see In addition to our DBSF grant programme, DBS Bank pioneered the opportunities for social enterprises (SEs) to address social issues in an SE banking package that waives charges on most transaction banking innovative way and believe catalysing the growth of an ecosystem of SEs services and allows qualifying SEs to be offered loans at preferential rates. can help to build a more inclusive Asia. DBSF maintains Asia For Good, a curated online directory of SEs Approach working on various social causes, including those helping women and girls, assisting rural communities and protecting the environment. This Entrenched in our DBS culture is a deep sense of purpose that goes is aimed at providing consumers and businesses with information to beyond the day-to-day business interests of the bank. This is the driving make socially informed purchasing decisions, as well as to support force behind our efforts to help shape a better future for the communities these SEs. P. Employee volunteerism we operate in. CEO Piyush Gupta addressing over 300 social entrepreneurs who attended DBS Foundation’s Social Enterprise Summit, held in Singapore Aiming to help address Asia’s evolving social needs, DBS Foundation in October 2018. The theme was “Social Impact + Profit: Can boundaries iii. Integrate be blurred?” As a bank, we walk the talk by embedding social entrepreneurship Why it matters (DBSF) was launched in February 2014 with SGD 50 million to champion social entrepreneurship. DBSF works in partnership with other parts of the within the bank’s operations. We do so by making conscious choices has received over 4,000 submissions from across Asia. Meanwhile, Organisations increasingly see the importance of engaging employees in ecosystem to promote the development of social entrepreneurship and to procure goods and services from SEs for DBS events. In 2018, DBSF has reached out to more than 30,000 SEs through events corporate social responsibility programmes and are providing opportunities businesses with double bottom lines – businesses for good. DBS employees also mentored more than 50 SEs across our six core and competitions, and nurtured over 310 SEs through incubation for employees to offer not only money but also their time and skills to help markets to help scale their businesses. programmes, mentorships and boot camps across Asia since DBSF’s communities. Such engagements leverage the capabilities of employees Initiatives who want to contribute to the greater good. inception in 2014. Targets DBSF has three pillars in our strategy: Advocate, Nurture and Integrate. We believe that it is important to build such a culture of giving in DBS. DBSF also works with governments and other partners to help build Moving ahead, DBSF will strengthen the three pillars of support. In i. Advocate SE ecosystems in our core markets. In October 2018, DBSF partnered the Advocate pillar, we will continue to expand partnerships to build a Approach We want to raise awareness that businesses can pursue profitability the Singapore Centre for Social Enterprise (raiSE) to organise Social stronger ecosystem for the sector. In the Nurture pillar, we will increase our and create social impact. A key programme in our advocacy efforts is Enterprise Week. It was marked by competitions, retail marketplaces, efforts to provide DBSF capacity building programmes to help SEs scale People of Purpose (PoP) is DBS’ employee volunteer movement that brings the DBS-NUS Social Venture Challenge, a collaboration between DBSF conversations and workshops, attracting close to 9,000 participants. their business and social impact. In the Integrate pillar, we will continue our values to life, engages our employees, and leverages our time and and NUS Enterprise. The challenge aims to identify and support ideas The week brought together impactful events which gave a boost to to tap on the expertise of our employees to add value to SEs and increase skills to make meaningful contributions to the communities we live and and social ventures that can deliver positive, scalable and sustainable Singapore’s social enterprise sector, including the 5th DBS-NUS Social our procurement from SEs. work in. social benefits within Asia. The 5th DBS-NUS Social Venture Challenge Venture Challenge Asia Finale, the DBSF Social Enterprise Summit, in 2018 received 870 entries from 42 locations across Asia. This is the the President’s Challenge Social Enterprise Corporate Networking and Case study Our volunteering efforts are sustained and focused on three areas, active highest number of participating locations the competition has seen FestivalForGood. ageing, education and environment, which address pertinent social issues since its inception five years ago, and testifies to the growing interest WateROAM, a DBSF grant awardee, develops highly portable water across our six core markets. in social entrepreneurship in the region. To date, the competition In Taiwan, DBS was a key partner in organising the first Asia-Pacific filtration systems for communities in rural regions and disaster-hit sites. Social Enterprise Summit along with the government and our sector With funding support from DBS, WateROAM has deployed its patented Initiatives partner, Social Enterprise Insights. The summit, consisting of a systems through partner NGOs to more than 25,000 people in Cambodia, conference and exhibitions, brought together over 3,000 participants. Indonesia, Nepal, Pakistan, Malaysia, Myanmar and Vanuatu. The SE is Regular PoP programmes are planned with community partners in the now starting mass manufacturing processes. three focus areas. These programmes consider the skills of our employees, UNLEASH 2018 brought together 1,000 changemakers from across the needs of the community and are communicated on a regular basis. the globe. DBS sponsored the Climate Action theme at the event. “We have greatly benefitted from being involved with the ecosystem Our employees in Singapore can access a digital platform to browse of SEs supported by the DBSF. At each gathering organised by the various programmes and register their participation. ii. Nurture Foundation, we exchanged precious lessons learnt from our different social enterprise journeys, and never failed to walk away with a greater We demonstrate our commitment to volunteerism by institutionalising We take a holistic approach to nurturing our SEs, providing both sense of encouragement for the journey ahead. We are also highly two days of volunteer leave for our employees across our core markets. financial (e.g. grants, SE banking) and non-financial (e.g. mentoring, market access) support. DBSF annually administers the Social Enterprise grateful for the mentors assigned to us from the DBSF, who went the extra mile to guide us in overcoming our challenges through the Status Grant Programme. The programme enables SEs to develop a prototype of their idea, add critical capabilities for business sustainability, or scale sharing of their vast experience. Being a DBSF grant awardee has truly In 2018, our employees contributed over 65,000 volunteering hours to up existing businesses, leading to greater social impact. In 2018, a allowed us to achieve our vision of ending global thirst with much more serve the community. The total value of time committed is estimated to be total of SGD 1.25 million was awarded to 12 SEs from Singapore, effectiveness.” over SGD 6 million since 2014. Hong Kong, India, Indonesia and Taiwan. The grants are intended to help these SEs deploy social innovations in areas such as social David Pong, CEO of WateROAM, Singapore inclusion, employment and income generation for the marginalised, DBSF Grant awardee from Indonesia, SukkhaCitta is bringing in inclusive environment protection, waste management solutions, as well as economic change by building a new generation of women artisans who can thrive on the global market and feel pride from their work food sustainability. 31 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PILLAR 3: CREATING SOCIAL IMPACT | 32 We undertook the following programmes to connect with communities through volunteering: In China The ‘Green More, Carbon Less’ charity bazaar was held with 331 employees closing 631 deals. This raised more than RMB 30,000 for the ‘Qing Teng Yi Xue’ Fund which aims to help children living in poverty-stricken areas in China. DBS China employees then followed up by visiting these children and involving them in special programmes designed to encourage and build their self-confidence. In Taiwan Led by the senior management team, employees volunteered with the SE Buy Directly from Farmers (BDFF), a DBS Foundation Grant Awardee, by In India helping to weed the lotus pond and peel lotus Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Mumbai is home to seeds. Employees also volunteered with the a population of forest-dwelling tribal communities. Society of Wilderness, an organisation dedicated Most of the inhabitants belong to a lower income to the reconstruction of ecology and protection group of unskilled wage earners called the Adivasis. of wilderness. They helped to weed out Mikania Their living conditions are challenging and dire. micrantha, an exotic plant known to displace native About 100 employees from the Institutional plant species and disrupt the natural ecology of Banking Group set out to beautify 20 of their indigenous wildlife. homes by painting them using environmentallysafe paints and turning them into brighter, more cheerful living spaces. In Hong Kong In partnership with Tung Wah Group of Hospitals and Senior Citizen Home Safety Association, our volunteers took elderly participants on a trip down memory lane, chatting about their favourite foods and feasting together. More than 100 DBS employees spent time to create unique, personalised storybooks that captured the seniors’ life experiences for each senior to bring home. In Singapore 1. At DBS Marina Regatta, an annual sports event of In Indonesia the bank, our employee volunteers trained with DBS Indonesia employees designed a financial youths from underprivileged backgrounds and literacy programme, Kedai DBS, a play-and-learn persons with disabilities to participate in a special simulation activity that aims to educate users on community race. expense calculation and the merits of saving. DBS 2. Approximately 30 DBS employees came together volunteers utilised Kedai DBS to educate orphans in to solve business challenges of DBS-supported Bandung and Medan on the importance of saving SEs. They were involved in areas such as financial and finance planning. cashflow modelling, financial forecasting, and data management. They also helped fine-tune the business models of these SEs. Targets Supported SDGs As a purpose-driven organisation, we believe our employees can make a difference in society through the investment of their time, donations and skills to serve communities. In 2019, we aim to commit more than 65,000 hours to volunteerism across our six key markets and encourage over 30% of our employees to participate. This includes skills-based volunteering with SEs, where employees use their expertise to solve business challenges faced by SEs. We are also planning to deepen and expand partnerships with community partners to drive greater positive change in the communities. In the long term, we hope to make volunteerism an intrinsic part of our work culture and aligned to our businesses in a deeper way. 33 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PILLAR 3: CREATING SOCIAL IMPACT | 34 Geographic Information profit segmentation on employees Table 1. Total number of employees by contract type and gender Group (in SGD million) 2018 (1) 2017 (1) Profit before tax 6,659 5,175 2018 2017 2016 Type of contract Singapore 4,413 3,606 Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Hong Kong 1,612 1,185 Permanent of which: 13,828 11,772 25,600 13,005 10,591 23,596 12,163 9,613 21,776 Rest of Greater China 351 92 Full time 13,747 11,768 25,515 12,932 10,588 23,520 12,088 9,611 21,699 South and Southeast Asia 36 55 Part time 81 4 85 73 3 76 75 2 77 Rest of the World 247 237 Contract/ Temporary (1) 482 775 1,257 278 300 578 186 232 418 Total 14,310 12,547 26,857 13,283 10,891 24,174 12,349 9,845 22,194 Income tax expense charged to income statement 1,006 671 Tax as a percentage of profit before tax 15% 13% Table 2. Total number of employees by geography and gender 2018 2017 2016 Geography Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Singapore 6,649 5,044 11,693 6,417 4,545 10,962 6,226 4,155 10,381 Hong Kong 2,383 2,244 4,627 2,391 2,146 4,537 2,272 2,078 4,350 Rest of Greater China (2) 2,948 1,432 4,380 2,835 1,396 4,231 2,359 1,250 3,609 South and Southeast Asia (3) 2,205 3,650 5,855 1,524 2,638 4,162 1,386 2,201 3,587 Rest of the World (4) 125 177 302 116 166 282 106 161 267 Total 14,310 12,547 26,857 13,283 10,891 24,174 12,349 9,845 22,194 Table 3. Total number of employees by geography and contract type 2018 2017 2016 Geography Contract/ Contract/ Contract/ Permanent Total Permanent Total Permanent Total Temporary Temporary Temporary Singapore 11,567 126 11,693 10,844 118 10,962 10,284 97 10,381 Hong Kong 4,479 148 4,627 4,398 139 4,537 4,244 106 4,350 Rest of Greater China (2) 4,276 104 4,380 4,129 102 4,231 3,591 18 3,609 South and Southeast Asia (3) 4,989 866 5,855 3,960 202 4,162 3,398 189 3,587 Rest of the World (4) 289 13 302 265 17 282 259 8 267 Total 25,600 1,257 26,857 23,596 578 24,174 21,776 418 22,194 (1) Headcount on DBS’ payroll (2) Rest of Greater China includes Mainland China and Taiwan (3) South and Southeast Asia includes India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand, Myanmar and Philippines (1) E xtracted from Note 46.2 of DBS Annual Report 2018 financial statements (4) Rest of the World includes Australia, South Korea, Japan, Dubai, United States of America and United Kingdom 35 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES | 36 Table 4. Total number and rates of new employee hires and voluntary attrition by age group, gender and geography (5) Table 5. Breakdown of employees by employee category according to gender and age group 2018 2018 Headcount (6) Work force No. of New hire No. of voluntary Voluntary SVP to MD Analyst to VP Senior Officer and Below Total mix new hires (6) rate (7) attrition attrition rate (8) Headcount (12)(13) 2,076 18,559 6,222 26,857 By age group (x = age) By gender x <= 30 6,889 26% 3,677 53% 1,366 22% Female 40% 51% 63% 53% 30 < x < 50 17,280 64% 3,881 22% 2,144 13% Male 60% 49% 37% 47% x >= 50 2,688 10% 170 6% 141 6% By age group (x = age) By gender x <= 30 0% 24% 41% 26% Female 14,310 53% 3,678 26% 1,923 14% 30 < x < 50 70% 66% 49% 63% Male 12,547 47% 4,050 32% 1,728 15% x >= 50 30% 10% 10% 11% By geography 2017 Singapore 11,693 44% 2,308 20% 1,323 12% Headcount 1,800 16,807 5,567 24,174 Hong Kong 4,627 17% 1,165 25% 819 19% By gender Rest of Greater China (9) 4,380 16% 1,383 32% 687 16% Female 38% 52% 69% 55% South and Southeast Asia (10) 5,855 22% 2,799 48% 794 17% Male 62% 48% 31% 45% Rest of the World (11) 302 1% 73 24% 28 10% By age group (x = age) Total 26,857 100% 7,728 29% 3,651 15% x <= 30 0% 23% 40% 26% 30 < x < 50 74% 68% 50% 64% 2017 x >= 50 26% 9% 10% 10% Headcount (6) Work force No. of New hire No. of voluntary Voluntary 2016 mix new hires (6) rate (7) attrition attrition rate (8) Headcount 1,607 15,095 5,492 22,194 By age group (x = age) By gender x <= 30 6,162 26% 2,635 43% 1,319 27% Female 38% 53% 69% 56% 30 < x < 50 15,545 64% 3,199 21% 1,482 10% Male 62% 47% 31% 44% x >= 50 2,467 10% 208 8% 89 3% By age group (x = age) By gender x <= 30 0% 24% 43% 27% Female 13,283 55% 3,001 23% 1,505 12% 30 < x < 50 74% 68% 48% 63% Male 10,891 45% 3,041 28% 1,385 14% x >= 50 26% 8% 9% 10% By geography Singapore 10,962 45% 2,072 19% 1,187 11% Hong Kong 4,537 19% 1,163 26% 721 17% Rest of Greater China (9) 4,231 18% 1,619 38% 580 16% South and Southeast Asia (10) 4,162 17% 1,135 27% 381 10% Rest of the World (11) 282 1% 53 19% 21 8% Total 24,174 100% 6,042 25% 2,890 13% 2016 Headcount (6) Work force No. of New hire No. of voluntary Voluntary mix new hires (6) rate (7) attrition attrition rate (8) By age group (x = age) x <= 30 5,931 27% 2,023 34% 1,000 23% 30 < x < 50 14,048 63% 1,909 14% 1,460 9% x >= 50 2,215 10% 91 4% 87 4% By gender Female 12,349 56% 1,823 15% 1,308 11% Male 9,845 44% 2,200 22% 1,239 13% (5) The tables exclude involuntary termination as well as contract, temporary and agency staff attrition By geography (6) Headcount and new hires include permanent, contract and temporary employees, and excludes agency employees (7) New hire rate is computed based on number of new hires divided by headcount at the end of the year Singapore 10,381 47% 1,438 14% 1,000 10% (8) Voluntary attrition rate is computed based on number of voluntary attrition divided by monthly average headcount for permanent Hong Kong 4,350 20% 783 18% 617 14% employees only Rest of Greater China (9) 3,609 16% 738 20% 575 16% (9) Rest of Greater China includes Mainland China and Taiwan South and Southeast Asia (10) 3,587 16% 1,027 29% 342 11% (10) South and Southeast Asia includes India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand, Myanmar and Philippines (11) Rest of the World includes Australia, South Korea, Japan, Dubai, United States of America and United Kingdom Rest of the World (11) 267 1% 37 14% 13 5% (12) Headcount and new hires include permanent, contract and temporary employees, and excludes agency employees Total 22,194 100% 4,023 18% 2,547 12% (13) Includes Singapore, Hong Kong, Rest of Greater China, South and Southeast Asia and Rest of the World 37 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES | 38 10 Principles of Mapping to UN Global Compact GRI Standards Principles Report section Report page No. ESG matters Coverage GRI Titles/ Aspects Topic boundaries Human Rights Pillar 1: Responsible banking Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed • Responsible Pages 13 and 26. • ESG risk assessment • Human rights assessment • Customers human rights financing 1 Responsible financing • Product portfolio (Financial • Shareholders • Sustainable Services Sector Disclosure) • Society Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses procurement • Low-carbon transition • Emissions • Employees Labour 2 Climate change • Task Force on Climate-related • Customers Financial Disclosures (TCFD) • Society Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the • GRI Content Index Page 41. • Sustainable development • Local communities (Financial • Customers right to collective bargaining Services Sector Disclosure) • Employees 3 Digital finance • Product and service labelling Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour • Responsible Pages 13 and 26. (Financial Services Sector financing Disclosure) Principle 5 Effective abolition of child labour • Sustainable procurement • Access to financial services • Indirect economy impacts • Customers • Product and service labelling • Employees Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Diversity and equal Page 24. 4 Financial inclusion (Financial Services Sector Disclosure) • Society opportunity • Local communities (Financial Services Sector Disclosure) Environment • Product suitability • Marketing and labelling • Customers Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Managing our Page 27. • Grievance management • Product and service labelling • Employees environmental 5 Fair dealing (Financial Services Sector • Regulators and policy makers Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility footprint Disclosure) • Shareholders • Society Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Cyber security • Customer privacy • Customers 6 Cyber security Anti-corruption • Regulatory compliance • Employees • Regulators and policy makers Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery • Preventing financial Page 21. • Responsible use and protection • Shareholders crime 7 Data governance of data • Regulatory compliance • Anti-money laundering • Anti-corruption • Customers • Countering the financing of • Employees terrorism • Regulators and policy makers 8 Preventing financial crime • Fraud • Shareholders • Anti-bribery and corruption • Society • Regulatory compliance Pillar 2: Responsible business practices Talent management and • Talent development • Employment • Employees 9 • Training • Training and education retention Diversity and equal • Anti-discrimination • Diversity and equal opportunity • Employees 10 • Diversity opportunity • Medical coverage • Occupational health and safety • Employees 11 Workplace well-being • Mental health • Workplace health and safety • Supplier assessments • Supplier environmental standard • Society 12 Sustainable procurement • Sustainable procurement • Supplier social assessment principles • Human rights assessment • Energy consumption • Energy • Employees Managing our • Water consumption • Water • Society 13 environmental footprint • Carbon emissions • Emissions • Recycling • Effluents and waste • Regulatory compliance • Economic performance • Regulators and policy makers 14 Responsible tax management • Shareholders • Society Pillar 3: Creating social impact • Support for social enterprises • Indirect economic Impacts • Employees 15 Social entrepreneurship • Local communities • Society • Volunteerism • Local communities • Employees • Product and service labelling • Society 16 Employee volunteerism (Financial Services Sector Disclosure) 39 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MAPPING TO GRI STANDARDS | 40 GRI Content Index GRI Externally GRI Externally Disclosure requirement Where have we disclosed this? Disclosure requirement Where have we disclosed this? Standards assured? Standards assured? General Disclosures General Disclosures GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organisation DBS Group Holdings Ltd 102-51 Date of most recent report 31 December 2017 General 102-2 Activities, brands, products How we create value our business model, Annual report page 62. Disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual and services 2016 102-53 Contact point for questions Feedback, page 1. 102-3 Location of headquarters 12 Marina Boulevard regarding the report Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3 Singapore 018982 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance About this report, page 1. with the GRI Standards 102-4 Location of operations DBS is a leading financial services group in Asia, headquartered in Singapore with a presence in 18 markets. 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index, page 41. 102-5 Ownership and legal form Public limited company listed on the Singapore Exchange. 102-56 External assurance Assurance statement, page 53. 102-6 Markets served DBS has a growing presence in the three key Asian axes of growth: Greater China, Southeast Asia and South Asia. 102-7 Scale of the organisation Information on employees, page 36. GRI Externally Disclosure requirement Where have we disclosed this? Financial statements, Annual report page 102. Standards assured? 102-8 Information on employees and Information on employees, page 36. Material Topics other workers GRI 200 Economic Standard Series 102-9 Supply chain Sustainable procurement, page 26. Economic Performance 102-10 Significant changes to the There were no significant changes to our organisational profile and supply chain organisation and its supply chain during the reporting period. GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and CFO statement, Annual report page 20. Management its boundary 102-11 Precautionary Principle We do not explicitly refer to the precautionary approach or principle in our risk Geographical segment reporting, Annual report page 177. or approach management framework. Approach 103-2 The management approach and 2016 its components How we distribute value created, Annual report page 66. 102-12 External Initiatives Commitments and memberships, page 50. 103-3 Evaluation of the Responsible tax management, page 29. 102-13 Membership of associations Commitments and memberships, page 50. management approach Key memberships include Institute of International Finance and the Association of Banks in Singapore. GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated Economic and distributed 102-14 Statement from senior CEO message, page 4. decision-maker Performance 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards and The DBS Code of Conduct (Code of Conduct), Annual report page 55. norms of behaviour Indirect Economic Impacts 102-18 Governance Structure Corporate governance, Annual report page 42. GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Financial inclusion, page 18. Governance, page 9. Management its boundary Social entrepreneurship, page 31. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder engagement, page 11. Approach 103-2 The management approach and 2016 its components 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Our house union in Singapore, the DBS Staff Union, is an affiliate of the National Trades Union Congress (NTUC). As at 31 December 2018, 1,518 of our employees 103-3 Evaluation of the are eligible for collective bargaining under the Memorandum of Understanding management approach between DBS and DBS Staff Union. We do not have unions in other markets. In addition, three employees who are officers and below in DBS Vickers are eligible for GRI 203: 203-2 Significant indirect Indirect economic impact collective bargaining under the Collective Agreement between DBS Vickers and The Singapore Manual and Mercantile Workers’ Union. Economic 102-42 Identifying and Impacts selecting stakeholders 2016 102-43 Approach to Stakeholder engagement, page 11. Anti-Corruption stakeholder engagement GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Preventing financial crime, page 21. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Management its boundary 102-45 Entities included in consolidated Subsidiaries and consolidated structured entities, Annual report page 135. Approach 103-2 The management approach and financial statements Associates, Annual report page 136. 2016 its components 102-46 Defining report content and Reporting principles, page 1. 103-3 Evaluation of the topic boundaries Mapping to GRI Standards, page 40. management approach 102-47 List of GRI topics Mapping to GRI Standards, page 40. GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training Antiabout anti-corruption policies 102-48 Restatements of information Managing our environmental footprint, page 27. and procedures Corruption 102-49 Changes in reporting Material ESG matters, page 10. Employee volunteerism, Social entrepreneurship, 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption Data governance and Digital finance were added. and actions taken 102-50 Reporting period Coverage, page 1. 41 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX | 42 GRI Externally GRI Externally Disclosure requirement Where have we disclosed this? Disclosure requirement Where have we disclosed this? Standards assured? Standards assured? GRI 300 Environmental Standard Series GRI 400 Social Standard Series Energy Employment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Managing our environmental footprint, page 27. GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Talent management and retention, page 22. Management its boundary Management its boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and Approach 103-2 The management approach and its 2016 its components 2016 components 103-3 Evaluation of the 103-3 Evaluation of the management management approach approach GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee Energy 2016 the organization Employment turnover 302-3 Energy intensity 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Occupational Health and Safety Water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Workplace well-being, page 25. Management its boundary GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Managing our environmental footprint, page 27. Approach its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its Management 2016 components Approach 103-2 The management approach and 2016 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 403: 403-6 Promotion of worker health Occupational GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Health and Water 2016 Safety 2016 Emissions Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Managing our environmental footprint, page 27. GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Talent management and retention, page 22. Management its boundary its boundary Climate change, page 15. Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and Approach 103-2 The management approach and 2016 its components 2016 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach management approach GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Training and per employee 2016 GHG emissions Education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) 2016 regular performance and career GHG emissions development reviews 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Diversity and Equal Opportunity 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Board of directors, Annual report page 4. Management its boundary Effluents and Waste Diversity and equal opportunity, page 24. Approach 103-2 The management approach and GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Managing our environmental footprint, page 27. 2016 its components Management its boundary 103-3 Evaluation of the Approach 103-2 The management approach and management approach 2016 its components GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 103-3 Evaluation of the Diversity and employees management approach and Equal 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and Opportunity remuneration of women to men Effluents disposal method 2016 and Waste Human Rights Assessment 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Responsible financing, page 13. Supplier Environmental Standard Management its boundary Sustainable procurement, page 26. GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Sustainable procurement, page 26. Approach 103-2 The management approach and Management its boundary 2016 its components Approach 103-2 The management approach and 103-3 Evaluation of the 2016 its components management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that have been subject management approach Human to human rights reviews or Rights impact assessments GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened Supplier using environmental criteria Assessments Environmental 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in 2016 Standard 2016 the supply chain and actions taken 43 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX | 44 GRI Externally GRI Externally Disclosure requirement Where have we disclosed this? Disclosure requirement Where have we disclosed this? Standards assured? Standards assured? Local Communities GRI G4 Financial Sector Disclosures GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Social entrepreneurship, page 31. Product FS1 Policies with specific environmental Responsible financing, page 13. Management its boundary Portfolio and social components applied to Employee volunteerism, page 32. business lines Approach 103-2 The management approach and 2016 its components FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social 103-3 Evaluation of the risks in business lines management approach FS3 Processes for monitoring GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community clients’ implementation of and Communities engagement, impact assessments, compliance with environmental 2016 and development programs and social requirements included in agreements or transactions Supplier Social Assessment FS4 Process(es) for improving staff GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Sustainable procurement, page 26. competency to implement the Management its boundary environmental and social policies Approach 103-2 The management approach and and procedures as applied to 2016 its components business lines 103-3 Evaluation of the FS5 Interactions with clients/ investees/ Stakeholder engagement, page 11. management approach business partners regarding environmental and social risks Responsible financing, page 13. GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that were screened and opportunities Supplier using social criteria Local FS14 Initiatives to improve access Digital finance, page 17. Social 414-2 Negative social impacts in the Communities to financial services for Assessment supply chain and actions taken disadvantaged people Financial inclusion, page 18. 2016 Product FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale Fair dealing, page 19. Public Policy and Service of financial products and services GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Under our Code of Conduct Standard, all employees are prohibited from Labelling FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial Digital finance, page 17. its boundary making payments on behalf of or using DBS’ assets to support political literacy by type of beneficiary Management Financial inclusion, page 18. Approach candidates or parties. 103-2 The management approach and Employee volunteerism, page 32. 2016 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 415: Public 415-1 Political contributions Policy 2016 Marketing and Labelling GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Fair dealing, page 19. Management its boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and 2016 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 417: 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance Marketing concerning product and service and Labelling information and labelling 2016 Customer Privacy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and Cyber security, page 19. Management its boundary Data governance, page 20. Approach 103-2 The management approach and its 2016 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints Customer concerning breaches of customer Privacy 2016 privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of material topic and There were no material instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations in Management its boundary this context during the year. Approach 103-2 The management approach and 2016 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and Socioeconomic regulations in the social and Compliance economic area 45 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX | 46 Methodology for Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Data collection Methodology on climate-related scenario TCFD recommends that companies report their Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions. These terms are elaborated on in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Our scenario analysis focused on potential credit risk arising from climate-related factors for the 303 customers in the pilot study. In addition to losses from Corporate Standard(1). credit costs, our portfolio might also be affected by the loss of future revenues to us from customers that may have become economically unviable. TCFD has categorised climate-related risks into transition risk and physical risk(5). We focused on transition risk as the potentially largest risk to the customers in Read more about DBS’ Scope 1 and 2 emissions in “Managing our environmental footprint” on page 27. our pilot study. The largest part of our Scope 3 emissions arise from our loans to customers. To determine these emissions, data for customers’ Scope 1 and 2 emissions is As a measure of transition risk, we consider the possible increase in carbon prices by year 2030 that may arise from future carbon-related regulation. required. This data is not readily available for all listed companies and rarely available for unlisted ones. This presents a challenge for our data collection. Carbon pricing assigns a monetary cost on carbon (in fact, on all greenhouse gases) emissions and serves as a proxy for the impact on the cash flows of customers in our lending portfolio. We commissioned a globally-recognised independent environmental consultancy to develop a methodology and extract data for the pilot study covering 303 listed companies in our corporate lending business. The data was as at May 2018, when the study commenced. We analysed the change in cash flow for the 303 customers in our study from the increased carbon prices. Data for customers’ Scope 1 and 2 emissions, revenue and enterprise value was based on the latest available information, which often was for December We considered three climate-related scenarios based on research by the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation 2017, from external sources such as annual reports, regulatory filings and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) database. and Development (OECD)(6). For customers with partial or no Scope 1 and 2 emissions disclosure, the environmental consultancy benchmarked them with listed companies believed to • High carbon price scenario: This scenario represents the implementation of policies by year 2100 that are considered sufficient to reduce greenhouse have the most similar energy production facilities, taking into account technology and location. gas emissions in line with the goal of limiting the temperature increase to 2°C from pre-industrial age. This is equivalent to the scenario Energy Technology Perspective – 2 Degrees Scenario (ETP-2DS) with 66% probability of staying below a 2°C increase. To derive the Scope 3 emissions relating to the pilot study, the principle of apportionment was applied. The principle, which is defined in the Greenhouse • Medium carbon price scenario: This scenario assumes that policies will be implemented to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and limit climate change Gas Protocol technical guidance note(2), is built on the principle of proportionality and is intended to avoid multiple parties accounting for the same to a 2°C increase in the long term, but with action delayed in the short term. This is equivalent to a hybrid between ETP-2DS and New Policies Scenario emissions. As an example, if DBS has extended a credit facility equal to 1% of a customer’s enterprise value(3), DBS would “account for” 1% of the (NPS). Forecast future carbon prices under the ETP-2DS scenario have been scaled down based on evaluations of Nationally Determined Contributions customer’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions. The use of apportionment in determining our Scope 3 emissions might be affected by factors not within our control by Climate Action Tracker(7). The medium scenario assumes that carbon prices will rise to levels consistent with the ETP-2DS scenario in all countries such as the company’s enterprise value. by 2050. • Low-carbon price scenario: This scenario considers broad policy commitments and plans announced by countries, including pledges to reduce Carbon metrics greenhouse gas emissions and phase out fossil fuel subsidies, even if the measures to be implemented have yet to be identified or announced. Prices in We disclose the following carbon to revenue metrics: this scenario are considered to be insufficient to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement. The important secondary effects on changes to the natural environment are considered in this scenario only qualitatively. This is equivalent to the IEA NPS scenario. No. Carbon Formulas Indications Metrics We subjected a number of these customers, a sample of about 10% of the 303 companies, to our credit risk models to evaluate their potential credit i deterioration arising from the impact of higher carbon cost on their cash flows. 1 Carbon to ∑ (DBS’ credit exposure)ᵢ * (Customer’s CO2 e Scope 1 + 2)ᵢ Expresses the amount of CO2e emissions embedded in the generation of n=303 revenue (Customer’s enterprise value)n revenue (i.e. carbon efficiency) at sector level(4). i intensity ∑ (DBS’ credit exposure)ᵢ * (Customer’s revenue)ᵢ n=303 (Customer’s enterprise value)n 2 Weighted i Expresses the average of carbon efficiency at customer level, weighted average carbon ∑ (Customer’s credit exposure)ᵢ (Customer’s credit exposure)n * (Customer’s CO2 e Scope 1 + 2)ᵢ (Customer’s revenue )ᵢ by DBS’ exposure to the customer as a percentage of DBS’ total exposure to the customers selected for analysis. n=303 intensity (5) Transition risk is concerned with a lower-carbon economy which may entail extensive policy, legal, technology and market changes to address (1) Source: https://ghgprotocol.org/corporate-standard mitigation and adaptation requirements related to climate change. Physical risk is concerned with event-driven (acute) or longer-term shifts (2) Source: https://ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/standards/Corporate-Value-Chain-Accounting-Reporing-Standard_041613_2.pdf (chronic) in climate patterns (3) Enterprise value = Equity + Debt Cash (6) Source: https://www.irena.org/DocumentDownloads/Publications/Perspectives_for_the_Energy_Transition_2017.pdf (4) Sector refers to the pool of credit exposure selected for analysis for each of the five sectors (7) Source: https://climateactiontracker.org/ 47 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 METHODOLOGY FOR TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) | 48 Selected ESG-related awards, Commitments indices and ratings and memberships A. Awards and indices Collaboration: The Prince’s Accounting for Sustainability, Project (A4S) Circle of Practice in Singapore World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Digital-related: Sustainable Digital Finance Alliance (SDFA) Bloomberg GEI Index 2018 FTSE4Good Index 2018 DJSI (Asia Pacific) 2018 Champion of Good 2018 UN Task Force on Digital Financing for SDGs Reporting framework: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Integrated Reporting <IR> Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) AON Best Employer – Singapore Apex Corporate Sustainable Business SGX ESG Indices – Asia Pacific Best Employer 2018 Sustainability Award – Awards Singapore – Leaders Index and (Regional) Sustainable Business Best Flagship Initiative Transparency Index Sustainable development: Global Compact Network Singapore (GCNS) B. Human resources-related awards United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Asia Pacific Hong Kong India 1. AON Asia Pacific Best Employer (Regional) 1. Human Resources Asia Recruitment Awards 1. “Great Place To Work” certified – Best Recruitment Innovation 2. LinkedIn Top Companies 2018: Where India Others: Singapore 2. Human Resources Asia Recruitment Awards wants work now – Grand Winner Corporate HR Team (3 3. Economic Times: India’s finest workplaces Asian Venture Philanthropy Network 1. TAFEP – Pinnacle Award years in a row) 4. AON Best Employer India 2. TAFEP – Fair and Progressive 3. Human Resources Distinction Awards – HR 5. Tata Institute of Social Sciences Chief RE100 Employment Practices Innovative Team of the Year Learning Officers (TISS CLO) Awards – Gold 3. Human Resources Director Asia’s 2018 Top Award in Best Simulation based Learning United for Wildlife Financial Taskforce HR Teams Taiwan category for Box-office 4. AON Best Employer 6. Working Mother and AVTAR 100 Best 5. AON Best of the Best Employer 1. HR Asia Best Companies to Work for in Asia Company for Women 6. The Institute of Banking and Finance (Taiwan Edition) Inspire Award 2. Asian Banking and Finance Retail Banking China Awards, Employer Award of the Year – Gold Indonesia 3. Taiwan Academy of Banking and Finance 1. AON Best Employer Innovation Cube Award (TABF) – People Development Award 2. Universum Most Attractive Employers Award 1. Indonesia Human Capital Award by 3. Outstanding Employer Award by American Economic Review – Best Private Sector Bank Universities’ China Association – Non Tbk 2018 Buku III C. Ratings Carbon Disclosure Dow Jones Sustainability MSCI ESG Sustainalytics Project (CDP) Indices (RobecoSAM Score) Rating Current B 69/ 100, Included in DJSI (Asia AA 60 Pacific) January 2019 December 2018 March 2019 September 2018 Previous C 71/100 AA 52 49 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 COMMITMENTS AND MEMBERSHIPS | 50 Abbreviations ABC Anti-Bribery and Corruption IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ABS The Association of Banks in Singapore IR Integrated Reporting ACIP Anti-Bribery and Corruption/Combating Financial Terrorism Industry Partnership JIM Jobs Intelligence Maestro AED Automated External Defibrillator KPIs Key Performance Indicators AI Artificial Intelligence MWC Migrant Workers’ Centre AML Anti-Money Laundering MSCI Morgan Stanley Capital International BCA Building and Construction Authority NDPE No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation BCM Business Continuity Management NGOs Non-Governmental Organisations BDFF Buy Direct from Farmers NPS New Policies Scenario BEPS Base Erosion and Profit Shifting NTU Nanyang Technological University BREEF Building Retrofit Energy Efficiency Financing Scheme NTUC National Trades Union Congress CBG Consumer Banking Group NUS National University of Singapore CDP Carbon Disclosure Project OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development CFT Combating Financial Terrorism PoP People of Purpose CITES Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora PRIDE! Purpose-driven, Relationship-led, Innovative, Decisive, Everything Fun! CO2 Carbon Dioxide PwC PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP CO2e Carbon Dioxide Equivalent raiSE Singapore Centre for Social Enterprise CoP Communication on Progress REC Renewable Energy Certificates CRMs Credit Risk Managers RMG Risk Management Group DBSF DBS Foundation RMs Relationship Managers DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index RSPO Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil DPTM Data Protection Trustmark SEED Skill Enhancement Education Programme EDB Economic Development Board of Singapore SDFA Sustainable Digital Finance Alliance ESG Environmental, Social and Governance SDG Sustainable Development Goals ETP – 2DS Energy Technology Perspective – 2 Degrees Scenario SEs Social Enterprises EXCO Board Executive Committee SGX-ST Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited FATF Financial Action Task Force SIIA Singapore Institute of International Affairs F&B Food & Beverage SME Small and Medium Enterprises FDCC Fair Dealing and Conduct Committee SMEG SMEs Guarantee FIRST Forum of Incident Response and Security Team SOC Security Operation Centre FLY Financial Literacy for You SSP Sustainable Sourcing Principles FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange TABF Taiwan Academy of Banking and Finance GCNS Global Compact Network Singapore TAFEP Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive Employment Practices GEI Gender Equality Index TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures GHG Greenhouse Gases TISS CLO Tata Institute of Social Sciences Chief Learning Officers GPS Group Procurement and Services TP Transfer Pricing GRI Global Reporting Initiative T&M Treasury and Markets GSMC Group Strategic Marketing and Communications T&O Technology and Operations GST Goods and Services Tax UN United Nations HR Human Resources UNESCO United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation IBG Institutional Banking Group UNGC United Nations Global Compact ICMM International Council on Mining and Metals VAT Value-Added Tax IEA International Energy Agency WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development IFC International Finance Corporation WM Wealth Management ILO International Labour Organisation WMD Weapons of Mass Destruction IMDA Infocomm Media Development Authority WWF World Wide Fund for Nature IoT Internet of Things 51 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ABBREVIATIONS | 52 Independent limited assurance report on sustainability information To the Board of Directors of DBS Group Holdings Ltd Our Responsibility We have been engaged by DBS Group Holdings Ltd (DBS) to undertake a limited assurance engagement in respect of the selected sustainability Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Identified Sustainability Information based on the procedures we have performed and information from the 2018 Sustainability Report of DBS described below for the year ended 31 December 2018 (the “Identified Sustainability the evidence we have obtained. We performed our limited assurance engagement in accordance with Singapore Standard on Assurance Engagements Information”). 3000 (Revised) Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information (the “Standard”). This Standard requires that we plan and perform our work to form the conclusion about whether the Identified Sustainability Information is free from material misstatement. The Identified Sustainability Information extent of our procedures depends on our professional judgement and our assessment of the engagement risk. The Identified Sustainability Information for the year ended 31 December 2018 is set out below: A limited assurance engagement involves assessing the suitability in the circumstances of DBS’s use of the Reporting Criteria as the basis for the preparation of the Identified Sustainability Information, assessing the risks of material misstatement of the Identified Sustainability Information whether due to fraud or • GRI 102-8: Information on employees and other workers error, responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the overall presentation of the Identified Sustainability Information. • GRI 102-9: Supply chain The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance • GRI 102-41: Collective bargaining agreements engagement, in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response • GRI 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed to the assessed risks. Consequently, the level of assurance in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have • GRI 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether • GRI 302-1: Energy consumption within the organisation DBS’s Identified Sustainability Information has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. • GRI 303-1: Water withdrawal by source The procedures selected included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the • GRI 305-1: Energy direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. Given the circumstances of the • GRI 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions engagement, we also performed the following: • GRI 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions • interviewed management and personnel in Group Procurement Services, Group Human Resources and Corporate Real Estate Strategy & Administration • GRI 305-4: GHG emissions intensity in relation to the Identified Sustainability Information; • GRI 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions • obtained an understanding of how the Identified Sustainability Information is gathered, collated and aggregated internally; • performed limited substantive testing, on a selective basis, of the Identified Sustainability Information i) to verify the assumptions, estimations and • GRI 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method computations made in relation to the Identified Sustainability Information; and ii) to check that data had been appropriately measured, recorded, • GRI 308-1: New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria collated and reported, to the extent we considered necessary and appropriate to provide sufficient evidence for our conclusion; and • GRI 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover • assessed the disclosure and presentation of the Identified Sustainability Information. • GRI 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee In designing these procedures, we considered the system of internal controls in relation to the Identified Sustainability Information and reliance has been • GRI 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews placed on internal controls where appropriate. Because of the inherent limitations in any accounting and internal control system, errors and irregularities • GRI 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees may nevertheless occur and not be detected. • GRI 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men • GRI 414-1: New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Our assurance engagement was with respect to the year ended 31 December 2018. We have not performed any procedures with respect to (i) earlier the Identified Sustainability Information for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the periods; and (ii) any other elements included in the 2018 Sustainability Report of DBS, and in the annual report, website and other publications, and Reporting Criteria. therefore do not express any conclusion thereon. This report, including our conclusion, has been prepared solely for DBS in accordance with the agreement between us. To the fullest extent permitted by Reporting Criteria law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than DBS for our work or this report. The Identified Sustainability Information has been assessed against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 (the “Reporting Criteria”). Management’s Responsibility for the Identified Sustainability Information Yours faithfully Management of DBS is responsible for the preparation of the Identified Sustainability Information in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of the Identified Sustainability Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our Independence and Quality Control PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority Code of Professional Public Accountants and Chartered Accountants Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and Accounting Entities (ACRA Code), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, Name of Partner: Fang Eu-Lin professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Singapore Our firm applies Singapore Standard on Quality Control 1 and, accordingly, maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented 26 March 2019 policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 53 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | 54 BANK OF THE YEAR – GLOBAL The Banker BEST BANK IN THE WORLD Global Finance The WORLD’S BEST DIGITAL BANK World’s Euromoney Best WORLD’S BEST BANK FOR SMEs Bank Euromoney SME BANK OF THE YEAR – GLOBAL (PLATINUM WINNER) Global SME Finance (International Finance Corporation) CASH MANAGEMENT GLOBAL BEST SERVICE – OVERALL: #1 Euromoney #1 BEHIND THE LOGIN EXPERIENCE MyPrivateBanking BEST PRIVATE BANK FOR INNOVATION PWM/ The Banker BEST PRIVATE BANK FOR ENTREPRENEURS – GLOBAL Global Finance 12 Marina Boulevard Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3 Singapore 018982 (65) 6878 8888 | www.dbs.com Co. Reg. No. 199901152M facebook.com/dbs twitter.com/dbsbank 1 | DBS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
