OFFERING IN ROADMAP FOR PUBLIC SECTOR DIGITAL SUSTAINABILITY A FOSSIL FREE SWEDEN TAKES THE AI LEAD 12 18 20 MAKERS OF T O M O R R OW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MAKERS OF TOMORROW The Fourth Industrial Revolution is on the way. Virtually all companies and organisations are stepping into a digital reality. And things are moving fast. For Cybercom, this is our home playing field. We are making tomorrow, today. We help our clients capture the opportunities of digitalisation. We provide innovative, secure and sustainable solutions in IT and communications technology by combining technical edge and strong business insight. This applies whether the issue is transforming products into services, developing new business models or helping the public sector get closer to citizens. We are found where technology and business development meet. We think big. We test, learn and adapt. And the distance from planning to action is short. The single objective is for our clients to succeed in the connected world. This is how we are making tomorrow, today. 2 THIS IS CYBERCOM P. 6 CEO’S COMMENT P. 8 WORLD AND MARKET P. 10 THE DIGITALISATION CONSULTANCY INDUSTRY’S IOT SAVES SPAWNING FISH IN THE LILLÅN RIVER THE MOST INNOVATIVE CINEMA IN EUROPE P. 19 ROADMAP FOR A FOSSIL FREE FUTURE P. 18 P. 18 AR APP HELPS KIDS FEEL BETTER P. 19 DIGITAL SIGNATURES ARE MAKING OFFICIAL EMPLOYEES P. 22 ­SWEDEN MORE EFFICIENT P. 21 CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MAKERS OF TOMORROW MAKING TOMORROW MAKING PROGRESS 6 This is Cybercom 18 IoT saves spawning fish in the Lillån River 28 Material sustainability aspects 8 CEO’s comment The digitalisation consultancy industry’s Materiality analysis 10 World and market ­roadmap for a fossil free future Results of the materiality analysis 11 Offering 19 AR app helps kids feel better Stakeholders and engagement 14 Targets and outcomes 2018 The most innovative cinema in Europe 29 Governance 15 Strategy for 2021 AR guides citizens to public services 30 Employees 20 Leading-edge technology for higher 32 Clients ­occupational safety 33 Internal environmental work IoT and gas springs for more efficient 34 Risks and risk management industry 35 Economic performance The public sector takes the AI lead 36 Executive leadership team 21 S Group contributes to a more sustainable Finland Auditor's report Digital signatures are making Official Board of directors' signatures Sweden more efficient 38 GRI and UNGC Index 22 Employees This Sustainability Report is presented by the board of directors of Cybercom Holding (reg. No. 559025-7001). Cybercom issues annual sustainability reports. This is the company’s ninth Sustainability Report, and the most recent previous report was published in April 2018. The Sustainability Report was prepared based on the requirements set forth in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL) and GRI Standards, Core option. The Sustainability Report also serves as Cybercom’s annual report to the UN Global Compact. A complete list of disclosures under GRI and the Global Compact is provided on pages 38–39. The auditor’s opinion on the statutory sustainability report is on page 36. The Sustainability Report has not been externally reviewed. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3 4 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 M A K I N G 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 C Y B E R 0 0 0 C O M 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 Cybercom has its sights set on the future: we are passionate about helping companies and organisations succeed in the connected world. And we are committed to doing it better than anyone else. The time has come to put words into action. We are cross-pollinating technical expertise with business insight and creating innovative solutions for a sustainable society. This is our contribution to future-proofing our clients’ business. And our own. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 5 This is Cybercom About us Cybercom is an innovative IT consultancy firm. We are working every day to connect people, machines and services to make them work more smoothly together. Our consultants and the solutions they create take us all the way from e-services in the Nordic public sector to streamed media and driverless cars in Europe, national eIDs, secure card payments and health apps to healthcare, connected cranes and lifts and smart industrial robots. New majority shareholder In February 2019, Formica Capital became the new controlling shareholder of Cybercom. In the new ownership structure, Formica Capital owns 51 percent of the shares. JCE Group owns 41 percent, Tequity around 6 percent and CEO Niklas Flyborg around 2 percent. Formica Capital was formed in 2018 and makes impact investments in which social benefits are important in addition to the yield. The company is owned by the Olsson Eriksson family. ­Cybercom has been in private ownership since 2015, when JCE Group and Tequity bought out the company from the Stockholm stock exchange. Vision We are makers of a sustainable future and we are our clients’ most trusted business partner in the connected world. Business concept We help you capture opportunities in the connected world.​ By combining technical edge with strong business insights we ­provide solutions that are innovative and enhance sustainability. We operate in Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Poland and India and have assignments in 20 countries. A selection of clients Alma Media, the Swedish Public Employment Service, ASSA ABLOY, the Finnish Population Register Centre, Ericsson, Husqvarna, IKEA, KONE, MTV Finland, Posti Group, SKF, Sony Mobile, Stockholm County Council, the Swedish Tax Agency, TDC, TomTom, the Finnish National Board of Education and Volvo Cars. 6 This is Cybercom CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1,290 EMPLOYEES 45 NATIONALITIES 20 COUNTRIES WHERE CYBERCOM HAS ASSIGNMENTS Values We are driven by a passion to change things for the better. We build trust through honesty and transparency. With good business insight and innovative solutions, we are contributing to new ways of thinking and ­new business models. PASSION INNOVATION TRUST 1,678.1 142.3 93% SALES (SEKm) PROFIT AFTER AMORTISATION BUSINESS WITH SUSTAINABILITY EFFECTS (SEKm) Five-year review Created and distributed value Operational performance and key figures 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 E mployee benefits, including social Operating income, SEKm 1,678.1 1,463.0 1,353.9 1,259.6 1,262.9 security contributions 54.9% Operating profit after amortisation, 142.3 112.5 67.8 38.3 65.8 Other external expenses 41.6% SEKm1) Investment activities 1.2% Total assets, SEKm 1,102.9 978.4 895 879.4 1,265.9 Net finance income/expense 0.2% Taxes 2.0% Average number of employees 1,223 1,157 1,110 1,150 1,190 Charitable donations 0.04%2) Number of employees at end of year 1,290 1,262 1,203 1,218 1,307 2) As of 2017, the value of pro bono work has been Operating margin, % 8.5 7.7 5.0 3.0 5.2 included in the “Charitable donations” item. Cybercom performed pro bono work in 2018 Equity/assets, % 57 53 48 44 73 worth SEK 530 thousand for Hello World!. 1) Operating profit after depreciation and amortisation pertains to profit before impairment of goodwill and a capital loss on the sale of a subsidiary. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 This is Cybercom 7 Technology and digitalisation in the service of humanity We are aiming for net positive impact and are committed to generating sustainable business and assuring positive social ­development. Our strategy for 2019–2021 has clear focus on innovation and sustainability. 8 CEO’s comment CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 High growth and good margins Digitalisation and sustainability Our skills network is large and growing. We collaboA successful year has come to an end. Demand for work hand-in-glove rate with a large partner network of self-­employed Cybercom’s services is high and we are growing in Digitalisation is the strongest social trend of our time consultants. We provided work for 500 consultants all of our markets. Our positioning in connectivity, IT and a catalyst for human development. Technology in 2018, in addition to our own. We have expanded security and cloud services resulted in organic growth can have positive or negative impact and our role is our internal specialist academies. We are a partner to of 14 percent in 2018. Our clients are found in the to guide clients in a positive direction to promote Hello World!, a successful NGO that offers children manufacturing industry, public sector and service ­sustainable business and future-proof social developand young people opportunities to learn digital industry. We have followed our strategic plan, further ment. Digitalisation and global sustainability should ­creation, aimed at sparking interest in technology and developed our services and achieved a shift of our work hand-in-glove, and we believe they are a joint inspiring more young people to apply to technical deliveries from IT departments to our clients’ business driver of innovation and growth. This is what lies universities. We are also a proud Founding Partner to side. This generated higher profitability and profit behind Cybercom bringing together industry colWomen in Tech, whose mission is to increase interest before amortisation related to acquisitions amounted leagues and leading the work with the digitalisation in technology among women. We are convinced that to SEK 162 million for the year, which we are proud consultancies roadmap for a ­fossil free Sweden. all of us in the Nordics and the entire EU must collabof. The financial targets in Cybercom’s recently orate to encourage digital development and skills, ­completed three-year plan were annual growth of and we are going to do our bit. 5 percent and a margin of 10 percent at the end of Strategy for specialisation and the period. In the new three-year plan, we have set our sights “We are developing business benefit on continued growth and higher profitability, which will be accomplished by means including advisory operations in the light Our strategy for 2015–2018 delivered the intended impact and brought us closer to our key accounts, with ­services and focus on IT security and cloud services. of the 17 global SDGs. the results of client surveys and recruitment processes. Consequently, Cybercom Secure and CABG (Cybercom The time has come for a new plan to guide the AWS Business Group) will become separate business They are our framedevelopment of Cybercom in 2019–2021. We are areas as of 2019. aiming at more distinct specialisation and centres work for generating of excellence in our operations in Sweden, Finland, Our business must support Agenda 2030 ­Denmark, Poland and India. In addition, we will be Makers of Tomorrow is our mission and our identity. business.” sharpening our focus on innovation and sustainability We intend to make a sustainable tomorrow and be in our client offering and employee skills developour clients’ most trusted business partner in the ment. We will strengthen our leadership capacity ­connected world. The endless potential of technology through a corporate leadership training programme. We are living in an amazing time – machine learnWe are convinced that digitalisation can transform Innovation and sustainability must inform our actions ing and AI are gaining serious importance and the 5G traditional industries, which can in turn reduce and and our day-to-day work. Consequently, all employnetworks are poised to future-proof smart social and ultimately eliminate the use of fossil fuels. At this ees will spend more time on innovation work and business critical solutions. The UN Intergovernmental point, no one knows exactly where the outer limits understanding sustainability. In order to ensure a Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is emphasising the of technology lie. It is highly likely that technology is shift, we are implementing targets and key data opportunity to take advantage of digitalisation to going to help us overcome great challenges. But that for these areas. develop technical innovations, organisations, busiis also going to require thoughtfulness and rules of ness models and behaviours, and to reduce global ethics and privacy. One example of this is GDPR, Thank you energy requirements. This is an important message, implemented in 2018, an area where Cybercom’s IT Our work with clients will be characterised by a and one that we take to heart in our business and security experts are helping clients assure compliance. ­continued climb up the value chain; we will ensure ­service development. To give one concrete example, we are working with clients where we can expand right from the quotation stage our sales staff note in Cybercom is taking on the skills challenge our advisory services and contribute measurable the CRM system whether our solution can contribute Access to the right skills is the greatest challenge fac­business benefit. to attaining the global Sustainable Development ing Cybercom and the entire industry. We need more In closing, I would like to thank all employees, Goals and, if so, which ones. graduate engineers, systems developers, architects ­clients, owners and partners – together, we made We are firmly rooted in our values of dynamism and specialists than are currently available. According 2018 worthwhile! I am looking ahead with new and insight into the effects of our products and serto Swedish IT and Telecom Industries, there will be a energy, as business development is now at top speed. vices. We are driven by a passion to change things for shortage of 70,000 IT specialists in Sweden – and the better. We generate trust through honesty and 750,000 in Europe – by 2022. The competition for Niklas Flyborg transparency. With strong business insight and innoskills is increasing and the consequences include a President, CEO and Maker of Tomorrow vative solutions, we are encouraging innovative thinkhigh employee turnover rate. Cybercom is addressing ing and new business models. This also means that the challenge in several ways, and we reduced our we are continuing to support the UN Global Compact employee turnover rate by 3 percent between 2017 and its ten principles for human rights, labour, enviand 2018. We recruit globally and more than 45 ronment and anti-corruption. nationalities are currently represented among our employees. Inclusion and diversity are important to Cybercom: they create a favourable dynamic for our talents and innovation projects. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CEO’s comment 9 A world in digital transformation Cybercom’s clients are operating in an era communication in the 5G networks. Communication are essential to make optimal use of technology, of intensive change. They demand close for self-driving cars that can reduce the number of along with the ability to assess risks and opportunities collaboration and innovativeness. road traffic accidents, mobile medicine and connected and take action in the right direction. patients in rural areas are examples of social benefit The Fourth Industrial Revolution: The scope and potential. 5G will give rise to smart indoor and outDigitalisation and sustainability together: significance of digitalisation is vast – we are in the door lighting and to energy-smart buildings. 5G might The widespread support of the UN Sustainable Develmidst of a Fourth Industrial Revolution that affects be the most important technological advance for opment Goals and Agenda 2030 is a clear sign of the us all. This is not merely a technical shift. It is a total meeting the Paris Agreement goal of maintaining a willingness of business to contribute to sustainable transformation of how we interact with each other, global warming this century well below 2 °C above development. We believe our sector can contribute including how we do business. pre-industrial levels. to all SDGs, but especially Goals 3, 4, 5, 9, 11 and 13. Without doubt, this transformation is the most Many digitalisation technologies already exist. Turn to page 13 to find out what the ICT sector can important driving force behind Cybercom and our AI and machine learning are going to find their do for sustainable development and how Cybercom industry. The impact is great – according to IDC, way into all existing technologies. Physical and is helping make that happen. more than 60 percent of global GDP will be digital environments will be blended to create digi­digitalised by 2022.1) Businesses that fail to move Cybercom’s markets and priorities: All Cybercom tally enhanced – and yet realistic – experiences. AR in that direction are going to see their markets shrink. geographies are affected by the trends mentioned (augmented reality) and VR (virtual reality) are two above. The industrial sector in northern Europe where examples of this. Robotisation and automation are Prerequisites and technologies: The fifth generathe majority of Cybercom’s clients are found is develshaking up manufacturing industries in particular. tion network (5G) is a prerequisite for the digital oping new business and service models, often with world. The fact is that 5G is expected to be as revHigh standards for security: We are being condigital support such as IoT (Internet of Things). Nordic olutionary as the advent of the internet because fronted with new risks as more – and increasingly public sectors are investing in digitalisation of operait not only increases bandwidth, it creates scope important – aspects of society are digitalised. Inadetions and services. Most operations need to further for entirely new activities. 5G is going to change quate security can have serious consequences, develop their technical skills due to digitalisation. societies all over the world, and it uses less energy than from disruptions or total breakdown of vital Cybercom can make a big difference in all of these previous-­generation networks. 4G transmits to all public operations like energy supply to threats situations. Turn to the strategy section on page 15 devices 46 percent of the time, while 5G transmits to personal privacy and identity. Physical assets to learn how we are grasping the opportunities. only 2 percent of the time. There will be more machine can also be affected. Secure and resilient systems Macro trends and their social impact Digitalisation entails huge potential for many parts of society and business. Industry: Digitalisation is not only Consumers: Digitalisation is redrawing Cities: By 2050, about 70 percent of Citizens: The convenience we experiaffecting individual product characterthe consumption map, with new busithe world's population is expected to ence, as e-shoppers for example, is istics, but also business models. This ness models and offerings. People no live in cities, on a land area three times shaping our expectations in other often involves servitisation, where longer buy a product, they buy a the size of what it was in 2000. In other areas, including society. This involves company offerings are transformed solution. Relationships are changing words, many cities of the future have the entire relationship to society, from from products to services. Connecting and it is no longer obvious who is the yet to be born. Urbanisation and digthe democratic process to public serproduction and products has profound owner, producer or user. New netitalisation entail great opportunivices and all interactions with public impact. Data collection and analysis works are taking shape. One example ties to make life more sustainable agencies. Digital solutions are being make it possible to streamline both is the smart home, with security soluin terms of energy, infrastructure, used to vastly improve the effiproduction and use. What used to be tions that might also incorporate conmobility and much more. The city ciency of public management. This separated is connected. Everything nected services from other providers, becomes a device of a sort, one that is a huge transition for public agencies is optimised in systems instead of such as health monitoring or single-use can control how we use energy, ensure – new demands are being placed on individual units. The sustainability door codes for home deliveries. accessibility and manage self-driving methods, organisations, systems and, effects include higher security, tracecars that communicate with each other not least importantly, the approach to ability and lower energy consumption. and their surroundings. citizens and business. 1) IDC FutureScape: Worldwide IT Industry 2019 Predictions. 10 World and market CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 72% CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX 91% PERCENTAGE OF CLIENTS THAT WILL DEFINITELY OR PROBABLY CONTINUE TO ENGAGE CYBERCOM 50% Innovative and sustainable solutions “Our clients expect a proactive PERCENTAGE OF CLIENTS WHO CONSIDER CYBERCOM THE MOST TRUSTED BUSINESS PARTNER ­dialogue and that we will always IN THE CONNECTED WORLD be thinking one step ahead. We are happy to take up the challenge.” WHAT CYBERCOM DOES BO STRÖMQVIST, HEAD OF SALES BUSINESS AND ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT We are investing in expertise to remain on We transform companies and organisations to become digital and sustainable and the forefront of business and technology become more competitive over the long term. Examples: Development of new development. This provides opportunities ­business models and strategies for cloud services or data management. for our employees to flourish in their areas of interest and boosts business value for our clients. AGILE TEAMS AND SERVICES Responsive and solutions-oriented We apply agile and interactive systems development for faster, more reliable market We aim to be the client’s most trusted business partner. delivery. Examples: Development of new technology like 5G, or in major system Understanding our clients, their markets, challenges deliveries to the public sector. and needs is essential to us. In a world of intensive tech development we must provide proactive advice, analyse consequences and lead the way. This is not Business as Usual anymore. It is Business as Unusual. With innovaSECURITY tive power and focus on sustainability, we can partner We help companies and organisations determine the right level with our clients to create significant competitive advanof security for their operations. Examples: Risk analysis, compliance, e-signatures tages or efficiency improvements. and security management. By collaborating closely with clients, we shorten the path from idea to commercialised product or service. Cybercom brings skills, resources and support. We also help our clients reach their customers and consumers in INNOVATION AND SERVICE DESIGN a smarter way. Here, we contribute with qualified busiAccelerate the capacity to take successful concepts to market. ness development and advisory services. Examples: New services based on insights into users and their needs. Everyone at Cybercom has business responsibility in the form of sales and/or delivery. We prioritise long-term collaboration and relationships and have Group KAMs. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Offering 11 Global sustainability as a driver of innovation and growth Technology is helping us turn social challenges into business opportunities – our offering must contribute to sustainable development resulting in higher competitiveness and growth. Innovation and digitalisation are critical The following methods fit within the concept we call make users’ lives easier or better. Delivering sustainto sustainable development digital sustainability: ability and communicating sustainability are not According to the Low Energy Demand scenario ­necessarily the same thing. emphasised in the latest report from the UN Intergov1. Opportunity/risk assessment We help our clients identify users’ needs and ernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), greater Digitalisation can accelerate development in either a behaviours in order to design globally sustainable focus on innovation and digitalisation is a pathway to positive or negative direction. The wrong investments ­services that are perceived as faster, more attractive, keeping global warming below 1.5 °C. This is also the can be costly and contribute to locking in old business more convenient, more human, more efficient and scenario that delivers the most towards achieving the models. The right investments in digitalisation can more fun. other global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). produce substantial returns for a long time to come and pave the way to new opportunities. 3. Business transformation for increased sales Methods for achieving digital This is why we are helping our clients identify risks by contributing to sustainability sustainability and opportunities associated with planned digitalisaIn these collaborative projects, we are working with As consultants, we have a responsibility to ensure tion and giving them recommendations on choosing clients to explore new business models and value that some of the most powerful tools that humanthe strategic direction. We also work with clients all propositions that focus on global sustainability. In so kind has ever created are implemented by our clients the way through deployment to ensure that our condoing, we are turning the profound social challenges in a way that assures long-term sustainable growth, tribution goes beyond support and inspiration to of our time into business opportunities. sharper competitiveness and a future for the generaactual implementation. In concrete terms, we are helping our clients tions of tomorrow. develop products and services that contribute to We have addressed this issue by developing several 2. UX, service design and nudging achieving vital social goals through their core business methods that help our clients understand how digitalMany sustainable solutions are adopted not because and sales. And we are assessing the life-cycle impact isation impacts business models, organisational we are raising awareness of energy consumption or of products and services in order to deliver net positive approaches, behaviours and the technology we use. how the solutions are contributing to sustainable impact: end-to-end they should do more good than development. Clients choose them because they harm to our society or our planet. 12 Offering CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONTRIBUTIONS BY CYBERCOM AND ITS CLIENTS TO THE GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS POTENTIAL POTENTIAL POTENTIAL • Increase access to information and • Improve resource efficiency in consump• Make it possible to manage and optihealthcare tion and production and contribute mise infrastructure, for water and roads • Bring care providers and service users to breaking the connection between for example, but also for communication closer together, making it easier to give economic growth and ­environmental • Increase interaction and innovation and receive care destruction • Improve resource efficiency and • Increase efficiency and security in the • Promote occupational health and safety ­productivity, e.g., by means of chain of care in terms of e.g., logistics • Facilitate employment, training and advanced logistics systems and spreading information work experience placements for groups including young people • Develop secure and user-friendly ­internet banking systems, e-IDs and e-signature systems. CURRENT SITUATION CURRENT SITUATION From the perspective of Cybercom’s sales In 2018, Cybercom won about thirty CURRENT SITUATION per global SDG, Goal 9 ends up in first new contracts that contribute to the A large share of Cybercom’s assignments place by a wide margin A large share of Good Health and Well-Being goal. Sevare within the public sector. These include Cybercom’s client assignments contribute eral assignments focused on improving strengthening public actors whose task is to innovations for and development of healthcare and increasing patient safety. to increase employment. Turn to page 20 industry and infrastructure. Read about Cybercom also delivered services to perto find out how digital solutions can one exciting example – what IoT can do sonal alarm companies. improve occupational health and safety. for industry – on page 20. POTENTIAL POTENTIAL SUMMARY • Increase access to information and thus • Contribute to building efficient and Cybercom strives for assignments that to what the city has to offer, such as transparent institutions bring one or more sustainability effects. housing, transport, sharing services and • Contribute to responsive and inclusive This may include, for example, servitisaeducation decision-making tion, dematerialisation, increased transpar• Improve productivity, governance, • Contribute to public access to information ency, security and energy savings. enterprise and democratic participation • Strengthen IT security and fight cyberBusiness ethics are addressed at each • Develop construction and buildings, executive leadership meeting, and potencrime e.g., with smart networks for energy tial new clients and assignments that use and water digitalisation to accelerate development in • Develop systems that measure and the opposite direction from Agenda 2030 are discussed. For example, we have opted visualise air quality out of assignments for certain gambling • Develop systems for detecting, precompanies and political organisations. dicting and preventing disasters. CURRENT SITUATION From 2018, we also categorise and follow New business for the year includes assignup new client assignments based on the CURRENT SITUATION ments that contribute to Goal 16. Here assignment’s potential contribution to the A large share of Cybercom’s new business as well, this involves projects for public UN’s global Sustainable Development Goals. in 2018 is contributing to Goal 11. This sector organisations with regard to inforWe clearly see that our assignments make involves, for example, essential infrastrucmation security, among else. You will find a positive difference. In total, 307 of our new ture and 5G networks, IT security and two examples from the Finnish public assignments contributed to one or more new services in the public sector. ­sector on pages 19 and 20. global goals. In terms of revenue, Cybercom and its clients contributed mainly to Goal 9, followed by Goals 8, 11, 16 and 3. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Offering 13 Targets and outcomes 2018 The target areas for the 2016–2019 strategy period were sustainable business, client base, assignment type, recruitment, business ethics, growth and profitability. The targets and outcomes for the year for each of these areas are presented here. TARGET AREAS TARGETS OUTCOMES REMARKS 93% 88% Refers to Cybercom’s Cybercom will increase the percentage of business with 1 sustainability effects. The assignments will contribute in ten largest clients Share of sustainable business SUSTAINABLE various ways to achieving the UN Sustainable Developin 2018 93% ment Goals. Share of sustainable business BUSINESS in 2017 88% 2 Key accounts will generate 70 percent of sales, the ten largest clients for 50 percent and no individual client will 48% 45% Key accounts 48% (46) account for more than 15 percent of sales. 19% 10 largest clients 45% (43) CLIENT BASE Largest client 19% (17) 3 Cybercom will have even distribution between consultancy 61% services and turnkey commitments. 39% Consultancy services 61% (65) TYPE OF ASSIGNMENT Turnkey commitments 39% (35) Cybercom’s net recruitment will be at least 5 percent, 4 with focus on more equal gender distribution. At least 80% Net recruitment for the year was 2.3% (4.9) 30 percent of employees should be women, reflecting RECRUITMENT the percentage of women who earn technical degrees. Men 80% (81) 20% Women 20% (19) 100% High ethics will be part of Cybercom’s DNA and be at 90% Anti-corruption training 5 the heart of our entire operations and all of our business. 56% All employees will complete training in Cybercom’s Code Board of Directors 100% (100) BUSINESS ETHICS of Conduct. Group management 90% (80) Other employees 56% (58) 6 GROWTH Cybercom will strive for growth of 5 percent per year over a business cycle. 14% Net sales growth 14% (8) 7 9.7% Cybercom will be one of the more profitable companies Operating margin before among its peer competitors and achieve an operating acquisition amortisation PROFITABILITY ­margin of 10 percent. 9.7% (9.0). CYBERCOM’S BUSINESS MODEL We generate value for clients and revenues for Cybercom in several ways. Our business model is based on either continuous billing or fixed price commitments. We deliver in agile teams, expert assignments, project or service deliveries and licensing. AGILE TEAMS PROJECTS EXPERTISE SERVICES LICENSING Cybercom offers teams of Cybercom takes responsibility Cybercom offers one or more Cybercom takes responsibility The client has access to soft6–8 employees who apply for and delivers a project consultants to meet a particufor a system, application, feaware developed and owned agile methods to develop(such as development of a lar need for the client. The ture or service and its mainteby Cybercom in exchange ment. The client pays a fixed particular solution) or takes ­client pays for the skills and nance and uptime. The client for a licence, royalty and/or price for the entire team. on a greater commitment. time delivered. pays a fixed price per month, maintenance fee. The client pays based on but the service may include a effect and value. As a result, variable component related the project may be delivered to volume or time. at a fixed price or on a continuous billing basis. 14 targets and outcome 2018 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Cybercom’s strategy 2021 MAKERS OF TOMORROW BUSINESS VALUE SPECIALISATION SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATION The mission to create innovations for a insights, are change-driven, work in teams, reinforce Specialisation is our core ­sustainable future, Makers of Tomorrow, is our leadership capabilities and are the best workplace Digitalisation and global sustainability are the main the foundation of Cybercom’s strategy. We for Makers of Tomorrow. drivers of innovation and growth at Cybercom. Spehave set our sights on 2021. By that time, Makers of Tomorrow is our mission and our idencialisation is at the core of our direction and focus is Cybercom will be the most outstanding tity. We put words into action. We are cross-pollinaton creating growth, above and beyond selling hours. consultancy firm in Connectivity, Innovation ing technical expertise with business insight and creWe are specialising ourselves and refining local cenand Sustainability. ating innovative solutions for a sustainable future. tres of excellence. We are servitising our solutions to Innovation: We are continuously exploring new increase growth. We have zeroed in on the areas Business value: We are focusing on clients for whom and better methods. We are finding new paths and where we have solid experience and the expertise to Cybercom’s knowledge and services create the most building new skills through groundbreaking client develop even sharper offerings. Our focus is on con2021 value. We are pushing development and sustainability projects and our Innovation Zones. nectivity, sustainability and innovation, and we add by being proactive and innovative. Sustainability: Global sustainability is our driving client value by selling and delivering teams, services, Makers of Tomorrow: We are focusing on profitforce in our operations and business. We are encourprojects and products. That is how we are climbing able areas and investing in thought leadership and aging good initiatives, leading by example and investthe value chain in the minds of our clients and becomtargeted skills development in order to grow faster ing in positive sustainability effects. We strive for net ing more attractive to our employees. than the market. We inspire colleagues, share positivity. New target areas In order to succeed with our strategy, we will focus on and track the following target areas in 2019–2021 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 INNOVATION BUSINESS WITH CLIENT EMPLOYEE REVENUE PROFITABILITY GROWTH SUSTAINABILITY ­SATISFACTION ­SATISFACTION PER HOUR EFFECTS CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Strategy 15 16 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 M A K I N G 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 T O 0 1 0 0 M O R 0 1 1 0 0 R O W 0 1 1 0 0 0 Working closely with our clients is second nature to us at Cybercom. Ideally, we want to be considered an engine of value creation in their business. We earn that trust only by staying one step ahead and constantly sharpening our specialist skills. This ­ focus equips us to offer solutions that make it ­possible for our clients to make a positive impression on the market. And on the planet. When all is said and done, that is what counts. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 17 INNOVATION ZONE/ASSIGNMENTS | JÖNKÖPING COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD IoT saves spawning fish in the Lillån River When everything is as it should be, the fish in the Lillån River near Bankeryd swim upstream to reproduce. The problem is that they have virtually stopped doing it – probably due to discharges to waterways of pollutants including ammonia. The Jönköping County Administrative Board monitors several water values to protect the river and its ecosystem. At present, measurements are taken manually on site, but not often, because this is extremely time-consuming and labour intensive. To address this issue, the County Administrative Board has begun working with Cybercom. The assignment is to develop automated measuring equipment. The new equipment will make it possible to take the measurements virtually as often as they like. All values will be transmitted to the County Administrative Board’s database using the IoT LoRa (Long Range) technology and then made available to all. IoT that is reinforcing environmental measurements and environmental protection is undoubtedly a step in the right direction! Life Below Water The goal aims at preserving and sustainably using oceans and marine resources for a sustainable development. ABOUT FOSSIL FREE SWEDEN Started: As an initiative of the Swedish Government ahead of the 2015 ­climate summit in Paris, with the goal of making Sweden one of the first ­fossil-free countries in the world. Is: A platform for dialogue and collaboration among companies, local ­authorities cities, organisations, institutions and networks that want to contribute to Sweden becoming one of the world’s fossil-free countries. Engages: Over 400 actors that believe the world must become fossil free and that Sweden should lead the way in this effort. Led by: National Coordinator Svante Axelsson on behalf of the Swedish ­Ministry of the Environment and Energy. PARTNERSHIP | FOSSIL FREE SWEDEN The digitalisation consultancy industry’s roadmap for a fossil free future The Swedish Government was presented with the deploy entirely new system solutions to bring about that the power of digitalisation is utilised in the best digitalisation consultancy industry’s roadmap for a transformation. The digitalisation consultancies play possible way,” says Svante Axelsson, National Coordifossil free future in March 2019. Thirty-three firms a critical role here. To make that happen, we have nator for the Fossil Free Sweden Initiative. participated in the roadmap project, which was brought together our industry colleagues to back the ­managed by Cybercom and prepared within the roadmap and its calls,” says Niklas Flyborg, President framework of the Fossil Free Sweden initiative. and CEO, Cybercom. The roadmap shows how digital solutions can The digitalisation industry’s roadmap shows that accelerate development towards a fossil free future. deliberate and responsible ­digitalisation can lead The linchpin is a joint transition involving the digitalto radical reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. isation industry, users of digital solutions, politicians Along with calls for action to the Swedish Riksdag and other decision-makers. The roadmap has been and Government, the roadmap presents the commitprepared by an industry whose primary contribution ments made by the digitalisation industry. is to enable other industries’ transition to a fossil free “Properly applied, digitalisation can lead to system Climate Action The goal is to take immediate action to fight future rather than to reduce its own emissions. transformations that drastically reduce emissions. climate change and its consequences. “We should drive three climate efforts in parallel: Now the politicians have to create the right condioptimise current systems, accelerate initiatives and tions that enable new business models and ensure 18 Articles and cases CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INNOVATION ZONE/ASSIGNMENT | MYESTEEME AR app helps kids feel better Leslie Alfredsson got the idea for her company MyEsteeme when she noticed that her six-year-old niece was terribly worried about her appearance and wanted to wear makeup. MyEsteeme began to develop various toys and educational tools to strengthen children’s self-esteem. The idea is for the products to also be used in exercises to promote diversity and equal treatment, principles that are included in the Swedish national preschool curriculum, for example. The Cybercom Innovation Zone came into contact with MyEsteeme through collaboration with the MINC incubator in Malmö, Sweden. At that point, MyEsteeme was looking to expand its offering by becoming more digital. With Cybercom’s help, they launched their first AR-based mobile and edutainment app for schools in the autumn of 2018. The Cybercom team was made up largely of university students and several of them later went to work for Cybercom. The goal is for the new app to be the first of many tools that help kids and their parents play, learn and feel good together. Good Health and Well-Being The goal is to ensure that everyone can live a healthy life and to ­promote the well-being of people of all ages. ASSIGNMENT | FYRISBIOGRAFEN The most innovative cinema in Europe Audience numbers at the Fyrisbiografen cinema have stagnated at about two visits per person and year, even though the average Swede watches more than 70 films per year. A method inspired by Silicon Valley start-ups became Fyrisbiografen and Cybercom’s joint weapon against the “death of the cinema”. The project began with an evaluation of the activities that worked – and those that did not. The solutions that were ultimately implemented ranged from improving Fyrisbiografen’s digital purchasing flow to starting to sell nostalgic sweets. “We could see how our audiences actually behave and find out what they like. As a result, we could easily design better solutions that elevated the entire cinema experience, from buying the ticket to taking your seat in the auditorium,” says Olle Agebro, chair of the Fyrisbiografen Association. The mix of traditional and digital was a success – audience numbers have risen by more than 50 percent compared to the year before. Fyrisbiografen won the European Cinema Innovation Prize at the Venice Film ­Festival. Responsible Consumption and Production The goal is aimed at ensuring sustainable production and ­consumption patterns. ASSIGNMENT | FINNISH POPULATION REGISTER CENTRE AR guides citizens to public services The Finnish public sector is becoming more accessible all the time. One example – equally new and innovative – is Service Locations, an app that guides citizens to all manner of public services. Users can access information about government agencies, libraries, swim centres, preschools and much more. The app shows where the various services are located and uses AR (augmented reality) to make it easier to find them. When the user holds up their phone, a street view pops up and nearby services are displayed in a layer on top. Augmented Reality in reality, so to speak. The app was developed by Cybercom for the Finnish Population Register Centre. A beta version is available for Android devices and version for iOS is in development. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions The goal is aimed at promoting peaceful and inclusive societies and fairness for all. It also involves building efficient, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Articles and cases 19 INNOVATION ZONE/ASSIGNMENT | DELETE Leading-edge technology for higher occupational safety Delete, a Nordic environmental services company, is determined to improve safety at its demolition sites in Finland. When Cybercom was engaged, it turned out that there were no turnkey solutions capable of effectively addressing Delete’s challenges. The objective of Cybercom’s assignment was to protect workers from the dangers that heavy equipment can present. Cybercom developed a solution including presence sensors and UWB (ultra wideband) radio technology. The solution involves monitoring of heavy equipment where the operator is warned when someone approaches. Virtual “red zones” show whether workers are in an area where they should not be. Cybercom did it all, from generating ideas to testing the solution and finding suitable manufacturers. Delete and Cybercom are continuing to work to complete the solution. The goal is to markedly improve safety without disrupting work and productivity. Decent Work and Economic Growth The goal is aimed at inclusive and sustainable economic growth and full and productive employment with decent working conditions for everyone. ASSIGNMENT | STRÖMSHOLMEN IoT and gas springs for a more efficient auto industry Extracting metals and minerals from the earth and nance, shorter product lifetime and scrapped parts. using them for manufacturing is one of the human In a nutshell: waste of materials, energy and money. activities that has the greatest impact on the climate. Cybercom and Strömsholmen, the world’s leading Nor is it free: a medium-sized manufacturing compamanufacturer of gas springs, have solutions for these ny’s energy bill can be as much as SEK 1 million per challenges. Real-time information showing the condimonth. tion of a gas spring makes it possible to take the right The exciting news right now is that industry is on action at the right time. This increases the product the brink of an efficiency revolution. Digitalisation and lifetime and results in more efficient production with concepts like Industry 4.0 have huge potential, where a lower energy requirement. it will be possible to improve the efficiency of the Connected products equipped with sensors, data value chain end-to-end, from raw materials extraction communications in harsh environments and, natuto finished products, usage and recycling. rally, management of huge datasets processed to Working smarter with what might seem to be become useful and value-creating decision input, ­trivial elements can have major impact. To take one are all necessary for this to work. concrete example: the machines that mould vehicle The effects have knock-on effects too. Connecting chassis are dependent on “gas springs” to work. Gas gas springs used for almost half of global vehicle springs are also critically important to the quality of chassis production will create huge opportunities to Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure The goal is to build up a resilient infrastructure, the end product. The problem is that gas springs are improve the efficiency of the entire value chain. That promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation. often incorrectly used, which results in more mainteis exactly what Strömsholmen is doing, in partnership with Cybercom. ASSIGNMENT | AURORA AI FINLAND The public sector takes the AI lead In 2018, the Finnish government ordered a feasibility r­ apidly become obsolete), they developed an entire Tested on real-life events study of what might become the world’s most ambinetwork of intelligent services. These are services that The feasibility study was carried out based on three tious AI system used in the public sector. public and private providers, and perhaps even inditypical real-life events: a move to a new town to Aurora, as the AI system is called, is based on viduals, can create together. attend university, skills development to improve ­citizens and their real-life situations and needs. Aurora employability and support to children and parents Advanced machine learning when family relationships change. is meant to facilitate smooth and convenient service Aurora is based on machine learning (specifically, rein“By using information and AI, we can create new consisting of solutions from various providers – exactly forcement learning), where the network combines types of services that cross administrative lines. Focus the right service at the right time. The client, the Finnservices from public and private providers that get the is on the citizen’s needs and perceptions of smooth ish Ministry of Finance, and the project are aiming highest fit rates by users over time. The user groups and convenient service, not the needs of an individual high for a single software or solution (that would are created based on anonymised personal data. government agency,” says Minister of Local Govern“The more anonymous information we have at the ment and Public Reforms Anu Vehviläinen, who is Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions group level, the greater the potential to offer relevant The goal is aimed at promoting peaceful and responsible for the digitalisation of public services. inclusive societies and fairness for all. It also services at the individual level. As a result, we can The feasibility study will be completed and involves building efficient, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. bring the citizen and society closer together,” explains reported in spring 2019. If it proves successful, further Antti Hahto at Cybercom Finland. development will follow. Something to look forward to, without a doubt! 20 Articles and cases CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ASSIGNMENT | S GROUP FINLAND S Group contributes to a more sustainable Finland Finland will become more sustainable by 2050. The Sales are on par with some of the largest companies Responsible Consumption and Production country’s “social commitment to sustainable developof the Helsinki stock exchange. The goal is aimed at ensuring sustainable ­production and consumption patterns. ment” requires exactly what the name indicates – all S Group is investing in cloud solutions and one of society’s involvement. This includes a number of of many advantages is energy efficiency. Cybercom ­climate-related goals, including resource and energy ­provides cloud services through a frame agreement efficiency. covering managed services, 24/7 support, advisory, A really big actor that has accepted the Finnish project deliveries and cloud security. This makes the government’s call is the cooperative group S Group cloud platform more efficient and supports the (S-ryhmä). S Group works in retail and is with nearly S Group’s business development. 40,000 employees Finland’s largest private employer. ASSIGNMENT | SIGNPORT Digital signatures are making Official Sweden more efficient Ink on paper – isn’t that a bit outmoded? The technology that makes digital signatures possible exists, and there is nothing in the law standing in the way. Nevertheless, countless agreements are signed by hand on paper with everything that entails in terms of the time and resources required for signature, distribution, transport and paper archives. Cybercom’s new SignPort service has torn down the remaining barriers. A signed e-document cannot be altered without detection, which means documents can be stored and distributed digitally. Documents can be signed using various authentication methods (such as the Swedish Bank-ID system or single-­use codes sent by text message), and it works for both external and internal processes. Naturally, Cybercom considered the users and what would be most convenient for them when SignPort was developed. Cybercom has resolved all the tricky issues related to security, privacy and compliance. SignPort is based on a solid cryptographic platform and has been reviewed by the Swedish Legal, Financial and Administrative ­Services Agency to ensure that it complies with the technical frameworks recommended by the Swedish Agency for Digital Government. SignPort was built to work for any organisation, and government ­agencies in particular have much to gain by binning paper agreements. ­Cybercom has already delivered SignPort to several of Sweden’s government agencies, which means that millions of paper agreements have been replaced. And more are waiting in the wings. Now that’s what we call ­efficiency improvement! Climate Action The goal is to take immediate action to fight climate change and its consequences. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Articles and cases 21 We are Makers of Tomorrow Makers, because we make digital happen. We believe in innovative, scalable and secure. And they should contribute to profitability and sustainability. ­talking less and doing more. We are the client’s partner in a changing world, where we take on business challenges Our priorities with digital tools. We understand that innovative and susAttracting, developing and retaining creative and skilled employees are essential to Cybercom. Skills tainable solutions are as much about technology as what provision is the industry’s – and thus Cybercom’s – greatest challenge and opportunity. We make our the technology can actually do. ­living by mining, melding and making use of knowledge to create value for Cybercom’s clients. It all Tomorrow, because we want to create a better tomorrow. happens in a changeable – and largely unpredictable Digital development and sustainable development should – environment. No one can precisely predict what technical skills are going to be needed. As a result, ­always be synonymous. We learn from experience, benefit an agile mindset capable of handling change and from our collective capabilities and are creative in how we learning new things is a key skill, in and of itself. This reality requires us to constantly accelerate our apply technology. That is how we are creating solutions for flexibility and development. Colleagues and culture are essential parts of Cybercom’s strategy for 2019– a sustainable digital future. 2021, with focus on skills, innovation and long-term leadership. Diversity and inclusion are also vitally We are passionate about Cybercom’s mission: we are countries and represent a wide range of areas of important to our employees and to Cybercom. Makers of Tomorrow. No one here is afraid of the expertise. Anyone who is looking for expertise, unknown. We are thrilled and energised by the prosregardless of whether that means in-depth industry Skills and innovation pect of constant development. knowledge or digital tools on the leading edge, will Cybercom is an arena of skills. Here at Cybercom, At Cybercom, we are the same and we are differnot have to look far. Cybercom has what it takes. ­people gain experience from different industries, ent. Professionalism, the passion for innovation and ­companies and organisations. And opportunities to our down-to-earth approach are what we have in A better tomorrow work across the entire field of IT and develop in various common. We are also a diverse collection of personalWe do not only put high demands on the solutions roles. We are convinced that we learn the most in our ities and profiles. Of 1,290 people, 20 percent are we create, but also on what our solutions should assignments – after all, our work is immersed in digitalwomen and 80 percent are men. The youngest of us achieve. We do not work with technology for its own isation. That is why Cybercom’s breadth and developis 18 and the oldest is 65. We come from 45 different sake or for just any purpose. Our solutions should be ment potential are some of the best we have to offer. 22 Employees CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Charlene Sequeira between assignments in only a few offices and is company. We need every channel available and our now found in all Cybercom offices. Innovation Zone is search field is wide, both within and outside Europe. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, STOCKHOLM where we explore new areas of technology internally Cybercom has made several changes to make it and in partnership with clients, and has also become easier to hire employees from other countries. For a key component of the onboarding process. In 2019 example, we now manage the process of applying for I grew up in Goa, India and as an engineer, and forward, we will be devoting vigorous effort to work permits for foreign employees on their behalf, I was part of a male-dominated environcontinuing to spread the method and the culture of and we offer language instruction and cultural orienment. My parents taught me to dare to innovation to more organisations, clients, employees, tation classes. There has been a steep increase in the dream and work to achieve. This mindset managers and administrative functions. Because the percentage of foreign employees in recent years. led me to Stockholm, KTH and Cybercom. only thing we know for sure about the future is that Cybercom is also participating in several initiatives I remain a Maker because of my assignments we must all never stop learning so that we can take to help people who are new to Sweden find jobs in and colleagues. Cybercom is my second full advantage of novel ideas and new technology. their skills area. For example, in a collaborative prohome, and my colleagues are my friends! gramme with the Public Employment Service and the Long-term leadership Chamber of Commerce of East Sweden, we are offerCourageous and secure leaders focused on longevity ing work experience placements to recent arrivals to and sustainability will take Cybercom into the future. Sweden. The goal is to offer participants jobs or put Each employee ultimately owns their development. With that in mind, we will be developing a corporate them together with partners or recruitment firms that Cybercom shows the way by creating clear developleadership development and collective intelligence can match people to jobs in their networks. ment paths and offering a carefully chosen range of programme in 2019. skills-enhancing activities in our specialist areas. We believe strongly in a cross-functional approach Equal opportunity on the agenda In addition, neither Cybercom’s employees nor its and are always seeking new ways to collaborate. More equal gender distribution is one of the compaclients settle for baby steps or a little at a time. That is Being a leader at Cybercom involves boosting ny's general objectives: Cybercom will be 30 percent why Cybercom’s new skills plan is also about increasemployees, promoting collaboration and diversity women by the end of 2020. The goal is based on the ing our combined competence and innovative power and facilitating business that creates value. When it 70/30 ratio of new graduates in technical education in – and that of individuals. The main elements of the comes to employee development, the emphasis is on the countries where Cybercom operates. Cybercom plan are: strengthening their self-leadership and commercial has hit the target at the board and management level • Defining the implications of Cybercom’s orientation focus. Cybercom’s leadership structure is based on – the board consists of four women and four men, towards specialisation for the individual employee leaders of small teams in the same skills area, as while there are 35 (32) women and 86 (89) men in and their development opposed to traditional consulting managers and senior management. We have a little way to go overall • Clarifying opportunities for development larger teams. A Team Lead devotes about 20 percent – at the end of the year, the gender distribution ratio • Integrating innovation in skills development of their time to leadership and works as a consultant between men and women was 80/20. the rest of the time. Cybercom is fully aware that equal gender distriHow is innovation integrated into skills bution does not guarantee equal opportunity. Predevelopment? Diversity makes Cybercom stronger cisely for that reason, it is vital to continuously Innovation Zone is Cybercom’s hub for development Cybercom’s focus on diversity and inclusion is based develop Cybercom’s culture and work environment, and innovation. This is where employees, clients and on three factors. First, we do not wish to reject or for where every individual’s perspective and skills come other partners can test ideas, develop prototypes and that matter reward anyone on erroneous grounds – to the fore and are utilised. Starting in 2019, Cyberrun pilot products in a highly creative environment. discrimination is simply not permitted. Read about com will use a diversity and inclusion index to keep We put organisations, teams and skills together the Cybercom Code of Conduct on page 29. Second, track of the company’s progress. Read more about cross-functionally in order to achieve as much as poswe know that a wide range of perspectives strengthCybercom employees on pages 30–31. sible. The method can be best described as empirical ens our creative and problem-solving ­capacity and innovation. makes us better partners to our clients. Third, there is Started in 2016, Innovation Zone has since evolved a skills shortage in our industry and we devote confrom a concept for skills development for employees siderable energy to finding the right people for the Emilio Cuberos FULL-STACK SYSTEM DEVELOPER, ÖSTERSUND I am working on an assignment for a state agency. It is an honour, since I am helping provide services for all citizens. Although there are a lot of rules and restrictions, I try to contribute with new ideas and help the client move forward. They seem to land well, because I am seeing more and more of my ideas being implemented. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Employees 23 Thom Persson SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, LINKÖPING For me, being a Maker is about creating something that produces tremendous value for others, under safe prerequisites. Like when I improved the flow in medical image processing. The service makes it easy for hospitals to access the images without needing a huge installed application – an ordinary tablet works. Malin Browall INTERACTION DESIGNER, MALMÖ Working at Cybercom has taught me a lot. Learning through experience when being allowed to fail, and trying new things without pressure, is very rewarding. Sometimes great things come from failure – or at least new ideas! Lef Filippakis Michał Dwornicki FULL-STACK DATA SCIENTIST, GOTHENBURG EXPERT SOFTWARE ENGINEER, ŁÓDZ I have a strong passion for music. Oftentimes complete The recipe for a Maker is (in theory) simple: add songs form in my head, as if a band was playing there. But ­hunger for knowledge, mix with openness to new crazy when I record them to my computer, they never sound as solutions and finish off with a pinch of luck! I have I imagined them. My dream project would be an AI that is truly been fortunate in finding people like me who able to decipher the music played in a person’s imagination want to support sustainable business development. and transmit it in digital form for everyone to hear. My colleagues make my work meaningful and help me develop every day! 24 Employees CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Rolf “Rolle” Koski CHIEF TECHNICAL OFFICER, TAMPERE A Maker enables others, shares knowledge and helps people grow. It is also about acting as an advisor and helping others, clients for example, invent their own answers. And all the while, being open to the fact that the same advice may not be the best answer for everyone. Antti Hahto HEAD OF DATA SCIENCE, HELSINKI My job has given me a front row seat in Finland’s transformation to the post-information age. It is eye-opening to see that government officials are ­genuinely interested in making society and people’s lives better. I am happy that Cybercom and I can help make that happen. Heleen de Goey SERVICE DESIGNER, GOTHENBURG My passion is creating solutions that help improve human well-being and that respect the natural limits of our planet. In addition to using service design as a tool to develop sustainable solutions, I love to inspire others about the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals through lectures and workshops. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Employees 25 26 Employees CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 M A K I N G 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 P R O 1 0 0 G R E 0 1 1 0 0 S S 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 What gets measured gets done, as the saying goes. And that is how we work at Cybercom. We have goals and targets for both financial performance and sustainability that keep us on the right track. The thing is, our clients, owners and employees do not care only what Cybercom does, but also how we do it. We deliver the right results, the right way. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 27 Cybercom’s material sustainability aspects Materiality analysis The materiality analysis begun in late 2017 was completed Results The materiality analysis strengthens the understanding during the year. The study was performed in two stages: The new materiality analysis essentially confirmed earlier that aspects related to the offering, clients and employ• Identification of aspects that experts and employees who assessments as regards Cybercom’s most important sustainees are Cybercom’s top priorities. As regards employees, the are particularly involved in or affected by Cybercom’s susability aspects. The analysis clearly shows that delivery of study illustrates the importance of culture, leadership and tainability work perceive as having low to high external sustainable products and services is the single-most importbehaviour. The most highly prioritised aspects in this dimenimpact. ant sustainability aspect for Cybercom. It is also one of the sion are equal rights, equal treatment and equal opportu• Identification of aspects that other stakeholders (employsustainability aspects that was given higher priority in this nity, along with skills development. ees and clients) perceive as having low to high impact on materiality analysis than in previous analyses. It is through In addition to aforementioned aspects, Cybercom needs their assessments and decisions related to Cybercom’s delivering sustainable solutions to its clients that Cybercom to address a number of aspects related to responsibility and operations. makes a substantive contribution to more sustainable compliance. A summary of Cybercom’s assessment of mate­development of business and society. The right to equal rial sustainability aspects and how the company is managing treatment is another aspect that stakeholders (employees them follows. A detailed list of Cybercom’s reported matein particular) considered more important in this year’s rial sustainability aspects is provided in the GR index on ­materiality analysis than in the past. pages 38–39. Results of the materiality analysis 5 HIGH Equal treatment Sustainable products and services 4 Skills development Materiality for stakeholders Legal and appropriate conduct 3 Sound corporate culture Smart use of resources Financial stability 2 Human rights Information security Responsible purchasing 1 LOW 1 2 3 4 5 LOW External impact HIGH Stakeholders and engagement Cybercom’s key stakeholders are employees (and the union The table below presents the issues that are usually s­ takeholders, communication and dialogue methods used organisations that represent them), clients, owners and the ­subject of Cybercom’s dialogue with each group of and how the dialogue affects Cybercom’s operations. ­suppliers. Stakeholder group Topics Communication & engagement Outcome Clients • Offering • Business ethics • Ongoing engagement via Cybercom’s • Development of offerings and solutions • Quality • Working conditions key account managers and other sales • Sales training • Delivery performance • Climate performance representatives and consultants • Quality, environment and information ­security • Privacy and security • Procurement procedures • Client surveys ­management systems • Interviews Employees • Skills development • Employee surveys • Training • Work environment • Interviews • Leadership conferences • Corporate culture • Employee events and vision and values meetings • Diversity and equal opportunity Investors/share­ • Profitability and growth • Annual general meeting • Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, sustainability holders • Responsible business • Board work report • Business ethics • Investor meetings • Interviews Suppliers • Suppliers’ environmental work • Suppliers’ Code of Conduct • Suppliers’ Code of Conduct • Procurement • Negotiations 28 Materiality analysis CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Governance Cybercom’s Sustainability Ambassadors: John Wibrand, Darren Williams, Otto Kauhanen, Coleb Mujurizi, Kristina Cato, Christian Brandon, Jessi Salenius, Anders Ohlsson and Tomasz Wester. Corporate governance Cybercom also has a Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. The sible measures and technological advancement. Cybercom The general meeting is the company’s supreme govern­Suppliers’ Code of Conduct covers the same areas as Cyberacts in compliance with laws and internationally recognised ing body. It is at the general meeting that shareholders are com’s internal Code of Conduct, except for financial reportdirectives. able to exert their influence. The board is responsible for the ing and other external communication. Cybercom’s internal Corruption and other prohibited business practices Group’s organisation and governance under the Swedish Code of Conduct and the Suppliers’ Code of Conduct are Cybercom complies with the Swedish Anti-Corruption InstiCompanies Act. Established procedure dictates divisions of available on cybercom.com. tute’s Code of Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits in ­Business, responsibility between the board and CEO. The Code of Conduct covers the following areas, in brief: and works actively to combat corruption and unethical ­practices. Employees must not give or receive gifts, benefits Board of directors Legal and regulatory compliance All Cybercom employor bribes that constitute a breach of this code. Cybercom is The board addressed matters during the year such as stratees are responsible for acting in compliance with laws and opposed to any form of money laundering and has taken egy, the business plan and budget, the company’s financregulations applicable to Cybercom’s operations and deliverthe relevant measures to prevent financial transactions that ing and industry trends. The board of directors monitors the ies. When necessary, legal advice should be sought. Cyberare of criminal intent. Cybercom is politically ­independent work of management through monthly reports on matters com applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. and does not sponsor political organisations. including financial performance, key data and progress in Cybercom reports and presents corporate information in Financial information and other external communiprioritised activities. This also includes following up sustaincompliance with applicable laws and regulations. cation Cybercom shall be transparent and provide relevant ability work. Human rights Cybercom respects human rights as laid information when so required. This means that the company down in the UN Universal General Declaration of Human shall always provide fair and accurate information. CyberSustainability organisation Rights. Everyone must show respect for individuals and their com’s goal is for communication to contribute to a stronThe executive leadership team is responsible for strategic privacy and dignity. Cybercom will not in any way contribute ger brand. and operational control of the company’s sustainability to violations of human rights. The company’s assets and confidential information. All work and for monitoring the results. The work is led and Labour rights and working conditions. Cybercom supbusiness decisions shall be made with the good of the comcoordinated by the company’s Head of Sustainability and ports freedom of association and the right to collective pany in mind. Employees must be professional in their relaCommunications. Cybercom has a flexible sustainability ­bargaining. Cybercom does not permit child labour. tionship with Cybercom and must not pursue competitive organisation in which representatives of operations and the Cybercom does not tolerate any form of discrimination. activities. Client trust is of vital importance to Cybercom. All business are included. From the operational side, the CFO All employees have equal rights and must never be subemployees will treat client information with complete confiand representatives of the Legal, Environmental, Quality and jected to unjust treatment due to gender, sexual orientation, dentiality. Information about Cybercom’s clients may only be HR departments. From the business side, the organisation ethnic origin, religion, beliefs, political affiliation or disabilused in the implementation of the project in question. This includes Cybercom’s executive management and represenity. All employees must show respect for each other and for duty of confidentiality remains in force even after the project tatives of advisory services and sales organisations and the Cybercom’s business partners and take personal responsibilhas been completed. There is a clear policy for handling con­Innovation Zone. Cybercom’s marketing forum and the ity for combating discrimination. fidential information. company’s recruiters also contribute to Cybercom’s sustainCybercom offers pay that complies with national miniClient’s and business partner’s information Accordability initiatives. Finally, Sustainability Ambassadors from mum wage legislation. All employment contracts must be ing to Cybercom’s security policy, all employees must sign various parts of the organisation support the work of the correctly drawn up. Cybercom also ensures that working a non-disclosure agreement. There are clear rules for the Head of Sustainability and Communications. During 2018, hours are compliant with local legislation. handling of, and access to, material belonging to Cybercom. new Sustainability Ambassadors were selected, who continAll employees must have time for rest and relaxation. ued the work with sustainable leadership, sustainable busiProfessionalism. Freedom with accountability and focus Cybercom shall not in any way utilise forced labour and will ness, training and communications. on the individual are important contributory factors in always ensure that the working relationship between CyberCybercom being able to attract highly skilled staff. Cybercom com and the employee is at the employee’s own free will. Code of Conduct seeks to offer all employees the opportunity for personal The company’s Code of Conduct constitutes Cybercom’s Health and safety Cybercom shall provide a healthy and and professional development. A workplace that is open, main sustainability policy. The Code of Conduct is based on safe workplace in compliance with internationally acknowlcreative and flexible sets the course for being able to offer the UN Global Compact and its principles on human rights, edged standards. Cybercom works proactively to prevent clients professional and attractive products and services. To labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. It was accidents and work-related illnesses. All employees are sum up, Cybercom shall always conduct itself ethically in its written in 2004 and was most recently updated in 2016. offered health and safety training as required. dealings with all its stakeholders. Cybercom shall be characThe Code of Conduct applies to all employees and sets stanEnvironment Cybercom shall minimise the company’s terised by professionalism and integrity. dards for employee professionalism and integrity to ensure ­negative environmental impact. Cybercom respects the that each and every one of us acts legally and appropriately precautionary principle and seeks to actively contribute to in relation to the company’s stakeholders. reducing negative environmental impact through responCYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Governance 29 Employees LEADERSHIP INDEX 86% EMPLOYEES ARE SATISFIED/VERY SATISFIED WITH THEIR IMMEDIATE MANAGERS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 90% EMPLOYEES ARE SATISFIED/VERY SATISFIED WITH CYBERCOM’S EFFORTS COMMITMENT 81% EMPLOYEES ARE SATISFIED/VERY Andreas Carlberg, who is on parental leave, with his son. SATISFIED WITH THEIR JOBS Policies and management The plan is also to implement a new whistle-blower chancreate transparency, build commitment and give everyone Management of employee-related matters at Cybercom is nel for anonymous reporting of violations of the Cybercom the right ­conditions to improve the work environment. based on several policies and procedures. The most importCode of Conduct. Reports will be dealt with by an external An initial, widespread measurement was taken in late ant of these include our Code of Conduct, the health and party, and implementation will take place in early 2019. 2018 to obtain reference values to be used in future pulse safety policy and procedures, the diversity policy, the equal measurements. The measurements are intended to replace opportunity plan and a procedure for dealing with inciTerms of employment and benefits People’s Voice, the major employee survey conducted in the dences of discrimination. Aimed at attracting the right employees, Cybercom is past. The purpose and objectives of HR work are the same increasingly focusing on flexible and individualised terms The employees also participated in the survey that was in all material respects throughout Cybercom, although of employment and benefits. Employees of Cybercom are the basis for the 2018 materiality analysis. Read more on approaches may differ. Cybercom is using company-wide offered competitive compensation and generous, relepage 28. system support and other means to plan for increased colvant benefits, which are adjusted according to employee laboration and efficiency within the Group. ­feedback. Health and safety Cybercom’s new strategy and plan for colleagues and The compensation package includes insurance benefits. Cybercom is acting to achieve a good work environment culture includes data-driven HR initiatives as a focus area. All employees are covered by insurance policies, the precise and employee health and well-being by means including In brief, this involves acquiring new tools and working in a arrangements of which vary among the different markets. matching the right person to the right assignment, prodata-driven approach to streamline parts of HR work and Employees in Sweden and Finland are covered by collective viding opportunities for variation and development on the achieve better results. Above all, Cybercom wants to further agreements that include benefits related to pensions and job and allocating tasks to minimise stress. Cybercom also develop the search and recruitment processes and employee parental leave supplement, for example. strives to accommodate preferences for flexible working measurements in order to attract and retain the right skills. Cybercom offers attractive and centrally located offices, hours. In general, it is becoming more important for Cyberwhich encourages the use of public transport. Cybercom’s com to individualise the support offered to employees, espeEmployee rights offices must be inviting meeting places for creativity and cially as we, in today’s society in general, are becoming overCybercom respects human rights. Respect for individuals innovation. Our large cafés at all Cybercom offices, featurloaded with more and more information and impressions. and their privacy and dignity is fundamental to all relationing table tennis or other team activities, is a small but meanThe aim is to make life easier on the job and encourage a ships, both within Cybercom and with clients, partners and ingful example. good life/work balance. other external stakeholders. Naturally, Cybercom has particEmployees work in an office setting of our own or on ular responsibility for its own employees. All of Cybercom’s Employee reviews of Cybercom ­client premises. Cybercom's premises offer various types sustainability-related policies and positions are stated in the Cybercom will be trying out “pulse measurements” as a way of workstations for flexibility and comfort, and we encourcompany's Code of Conduct. of getting ongoing feedback from employees, understandage employees to get moving – by playing table tennis at the Monitoring of employee rights was strengthened during ing how they see their situations at Cybercom and being office, for instance. Cybercom’s greatest health and safety the year by including diversity and inclusion in Cybercom’s able to quickly act on the results. Cybercom’s agile approach risks are repetitive strain injuries and stress-related disorders. new employee surveys and pulse measurements. The new and related tools give employees and managers access to The absenteeism rate at Cybercom was 3.0 (2.8) percent tools make it possible to track a diversity and inclusion index their own team’s performance in real-time. The idea is to during the year. There were no reported workplace accidents. in real-time. 399 NEW HIRES 20% PERCENTAGE WOMEN 50% PERCENTAGE OF IN 2018 WOMEN DIRECTORS 30 Employees CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2018 2017 2016 Age and gender ­distribution Number Female, % Number Female, % Number Female, % Board of directors 8 50 9 33 9 33 <30 0 0 0 0 0 0 30–50 5 40 6 17 7 29 >50 3 67 3 67 2 50 Managers 121 30 121 26 115 26 <30 6 17 3 33 3 33 30–50 96 26 91 19 89 22 >50 19 47 27 52 23 39 Other employees 1,169 19 1,141 19 1,088 17 <30 374 20 338 22 309 18 30–50 657 19 664 19 642 16 >50 138 21 139 21 137 20 2018 2017 2016 Employed by Cybercom Number Female, % Number Female, % Number Female, % Under indefinite contract 1,285 20 1,251 20 1,185 17 Of which full-time 1,249 20 1,231 20 1,154 17 Of which part-time 36 25 20 40 31 29 Number of temporary employees 5 20 11 73 18 33 Total 1,290 20 1,262 19 1,203 18 2018 2017 2016 Employees by country Number Female, % Number Female, % Number Female, % Sweden 785 22 775 22 748 20 Finland 179 15 171 12 164 12 Poland 289 21 277 21 253 18 India 24 17 21 14 23 13 Singapore – – – – 2 50 Denmark 13 15 18 39 13 8 “The challenges of tomorrow demand new soluTotal 1,290 20 1,262 19 1,203 18 tions. That is why willingness and capacity to keep Absenteeism, % 2018 2017 2016 learning anew are key skills for a Maker. Cybercom Sweden 2.9 2.9 3.4 is continuing to develop tools, academies and our Finland 3.0 2.4 3.0 Poland 3.1 2.5 2.0 innovation concept to ensure that our employees India 3.3 – 0 are given optimal opportunities to make the develSingapore – – 0.4 opment journey that both we and they expect Denmark 1.5 3.2 1.9 Average 3.0 2.8 3.0 during their time with us.” Linda Westlund, Head of HR 2018 2017 2016 Training hours per Change in workforce Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total employee 2018 2017 2016 New hires 399 425 280 Women 32 18 13 <30 34 140 174 44 141 185 34 119 153 Men 38 19 14 30–50 51 155 206 45 177 222 24 95 119 All employees 37 19 14 >50 5 14 19 7 11 18 1 7 8 Percentage of new hires Development reviews 2018 2017 2016 among all employees 31% 35% 23% (Employees given ­development reviews, %) Employees who have left Women 95 94 89 Cybercom 364 372 294 <30 25 77 102 25 85 110 12 50 62 Men 94 90 84 30–50 45 187 232 28 204 232 27 166 193 All employees 95 91 85 >50 9 21 30 8 22 30 8 31 39 Collective bargaining Percentage of employees agreements 2018 2017 2016 who have left among all employees 29% 30% 24% (Total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, %) 74 76 77 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Employees 31 Clients Legal and appropriate conduct mentation in the form of process and role descriptions, Risk analysis is a vital aspect of the work and is performed on High ethics must characterise every aspect of Cybercom’s as well as instructions and templates. Training is a key an ongoing basis. Defining the right level of security involves business and operations. Cybercom’s Code of Conduct ­component of quality management. establishing acceptable risk exposure, performing an analy­governs how employees should act, and business ethics We set targets and monitor a number of quality indicasis and describing on that basis the organisational and techare a standing item on the executive team’s agenda. tors – client satisfaction first and foremost among them. nical security measures required. All employees complete web-based training sessions Our overall objective has been to continuously increase the aimed at preventing corruption. The training is based on our CSI (Client Satisfaction Index) and to always outperform the Initiatives during the year Code of Conduct and contains various possible dilemmas industry average. Client satisfaction has been included as a Due to the implementation of GDPR, Cybercom had a on which employees must take a position. strategic target area in the strategy for 2019–2021. A prestrong focus on information security and, above all, data Cybercom also instituted a new whistle-blowing cise target will be formulated in 2019. There is a separate protection. Cybercom took several different measures. One system to ensure high ethical standards in our work with policy, strategy and process run by sales managers for qualof the focus areas was to make all employees aware of the clients. The system is expected to be deployed group-wide ity and client satisfaction. Read more about Cybercom’s new statutes and what they involve, along with integrating in early 2019. ­targets on page 14. security measures directly in the company’s operational No cases of corrupt conduct or discrimination were ­processes. reported in 2018. Information security and data protection A new security organisation was established that focused Work related to information security and data protection on organisational measures such as updating policies and Quality at Cybercom involves ensuring the confidentiality, accuracy instructions, as well as assuring Cybercom’s capacity to act For Cybercom, quality is a matter of client perception. and accessibility of all information assets. Information manswiftly if an incident were to occur. We also took several Accordingly, our task is to consistently meet the client’s agement must always be carried out with respect for and technical measures to raise the level of protection, such as needs and meet or exceed expectations. We succeed at this protection of personal privacy. new and modern firewalls and a new system for user and by working closely with clients, monitoring technological Cybercom works systematically with information security access management. progress and continuously developing employee skills. based on the company’s information security and data proCybercom had no incidents of loss of client data in 2018. Cybercom’s quality management system is certified tection policy. The work is aimed at protecting the company under ISO 9001 and Cybercom’s policy and quality targets against intentional and unintentional threats and complyhelp to steer efforts in the right direction. In order to assure ing with applicable laws, regulations and the requirements quality, the majority of our work is process-oriented. The and expectations of employees and clients. This work is conenterprise management system contains necessary docuducted both internally and on assignment for clients. 32 Clients CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Internal environmental work Policy and management work within the framework of Fossil Free Sweden on the most important key figure that the company can most Environmental aspects are included in Cybercom's Code of page 18. influence. Travel is measured, managed and ­monitored. Conduct. Cybercom’s negative environmental impact must Cybercom has made progress in the environmental area be reduced, the operations should act according to the preActivities over time, particularly as regards travel. Business travel has cautionary principle and contribute through technological As a service company, Cybercom is primarily committed to been reduced and more journeys are made by train, as progress. As a complement to the Code of Conduct, Cyberreducing the environmental impact of business travel and opposed to flying. Cybercom has almost no company cars. com has an environmental policy oriented towards longcommuting to and from work. The various IT solutions that Cybercom encountered problems measuring and folterm sustainable business. employees extensively use for communication with clients lowing up business travel in 2018 when the travel provider Cybercom has an environmental management system. and internally help with these initiatives. This has not only switched reservations systems. As a result, Cybercom had to The Swedish part of the system is certified under ISO 14001. reduced travel, it has helped streamline collaboration. fill in the gap with manual follow-up of expense reports and The company’s environmental policy, environmental tarEmployees and clients are informed about how Cyberis now carrying out a procurement to contract a new travel gets and action plans manage and track the environmencom’s offices can be reached by public transport. All offices provider and gain better opportunities for measurement and tal efforts. have showers and dressing rooms to make it easier to run or monitoring. Each office adjusts the general environmental ­targets cycle to work. Emissions are still lower than when measurements began and action plans to their specific circumstances. and, overall, Cybercom believes the environmental perforInternally, Cybercom has made good progress in the Targets and outcomes mance of the business is at an acceptable level. environmental area. Externally Cybercom helps clients to Cybercom is careful with purchasing, and demands good implement solutions to reduce negative environmental waste management from landlords. Negative impact must impact and increase positive impact. Read about Cybercom’s be reduced, and Cybercom has identified business travel as Electricity consumption 2018 2017 2016 Carbon emissions1) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Electricity consumption (MWh)1) 2,195 2,037 2,356 Carbon emissions (metric tons) 204 277 182 343 640 Electricity consumption in relation to Carbon emissions in relation to sales sales (MWh/SEKm) 1.3 1.4 1.7 (metric tons/SEKm) 0.12 0.19 0.13 0.27 0.51 1) Refers to Cybercom’s offices and own data centres. 1) Refers to Cybercom’s business travel by air. The data were provided by the travel agents Cybercom uses in each country. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL WORK 33 Risks and risk management Cybercom is exposed to a number of risks that could affect the Group’s business, earnings and financial position. Cybercom regularly performs risk assessments that include identification of the risks that affect the Group and takes action to manage these risks. Market and operational risks Description Action Skills provision Cybercom’s business is dependent upon its capacity to attract Cybercom works continuously with environmental and working conand recruit skilled employees and upon its employees maintainditions, leadership and skills development to ensure that the company ing their skills, continuing to develop and staying motivated. is an attractive employer. Innovation Zones are found at all of the comShortages of labour occur from time to time and the company pany’s offices to provide for skills transfer and to explore new technolmay have difficulty recruiting employees. High employee turnogy. Cybercom works with brand-building activities and recruitment over or loss of key people could therefore have negative impact through, for example, participating in conferences, seminars and on the company. courses. The company invites university students to write degree papers within Cybercom’s operations. Skills provision to the Nordic markets is augmented with capacity from the centres of excellence in Cybercom’s Polish and Indian operations. The company recruits globally. Economic conditions The Nordic market for IT and consultant services is affected by Cybercom’s core business is in communications services and digitalisathe general economy. Deterioration of the general business clition, which have affect in both economic upturns and downturns mate could therefore affect demand for the company's services. through efficiency improvements or competitive advantages. The company has developed areas of expertise where market demand is expected to remain strong for decades. In addition, the company further develops skills in new areas on an ongoing basis and monitors national and global market trends. Client concentration Cybercom’s ten largest clients account for 45 percent of the Cybercom often has many different, mutually independent projects in company’s sales and the largest client accounts for 19 percent progress for its larger clients. The company strives to maintain a good of sales. Cybercom aims to establish long-term relationships balance among clients from different industries and geographies to with its clients, several of which have been clients for many mitigate risk exposure. Cybercom’s target is for the ten largest clients years. to account for 50 percent of sales while no individual client accounts for more than 15 percent of the company's revenues. Capacity utilisation risk Cybercom's revenues are highly dependent upon the number Cybercom is developing its business and deepening expertise in areas of consultant hours sold. Reduced demand for consultant hours where demand is growing and is expected to continue growing for affects capacity utilisation and may be caused by any number of many years ahead. The company's services cover the entire project life factors, including economic downturns and/or lacking the right cycle and consultants are equipped to successfully take on various consultant skills. Moreover, there is risk that clients may in some roles. Employees are continuously further developed. The office-based cases discontinue projects at short notice, which in turn could Innovation Zones are helping ensure that the company has knowledge prevent Cybercom from immediately occupying the consultants and expertise in the latest technologies. The company also works with involved in other assignments. a large number of sub-consultants to ensure flexible capacity in response to economic fluctuations and client-specific variations. Price level and client commitments The level of prices charged to clients are a key component of the Cybercom's strategy calls for the company to sell proactively and offer company’s earnings. When prices is negotiated with the client on more advisory services by engaging in dialogue with multiple stakean ongoing basis, earnings are affected immediately if market holders on the client side (operations, purchasing and IT) and moving prices fall. For that portion of sales generated by clients with higher up the value chain. The company continuously further develops which the company has made general agreements, Cybercom its procedures for assessing and controlling risks in client assignments. is not affected by changes in the price level unless the general agreement is renegotiated. Fixed price assignments and other commitments to clients, where Cybercom promises to provide a solution or service at a price agreed in advance constitute another type of price risk. The company thus bears the risk that the cost of delivering the assignment might have been incorrectly estimated. Ethical risks Examples of ethical risks include employee failure to comply with All Cybercom employees are required to sign the company’s Code of national regulations, Cybercom’s Code of Conduct or ethical Conduct and Business Ethics immediately upon employment. This is guidelines, or employee involvement in corruption, bribery or also mandatory for the company’s sub-consultants. Preventive actions other irregularities. Such actions could damage the brand or are taken at all levels of the company by means of communication, lead to legal sanctions and fines. training and dilemma exercises. Health and safety risks Cybercom’s greatest health and safety risks are repetitive strain The company’s premises are designed to encourage physical moveinjuries and stress-related disorders. ment and variation in working posture. Aimed at minimising stress, Cybercom strives to maintain an open, communicative, reassuring and transparent culture. The company’s employees are provided occupational health services according to their individual needs, as well as tools and equipment to prevent repetitive strain injuries, for example. Human rights Cybercom operates in certain countries where there is greater Cybercom’s management works continuously to ensure that all operarisk connected to discrimination based on gender, social or tions comply with the company's Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. ­religious identity, age or sexual orientation. Everyone must show respect for the privacy and dignity of the individual. Bank and client agreements There are clauses in the company’s loan agreements as well as Cybercom’s financial structure is good and the company strives to certain client agreements that give the other party the option maintain a stable financial base that provides favourable conditions to terminate the agreement if major changes to the ownership for dialogue with banks. The company has many different client structure occur. If an agreement is terminated, it could have agreements, assignments and numerous large clients. ­negative impact on the company. Financial risks Cybercom is exposed to several financial risks, such as liquidity These risks are described in Cybercom’s annual report for 2018. risks, interest rate risks, currency risks and credit risks. 34 Economic performance CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Economic performance Consolidated balance sheet SEKk 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Assets Generated economic value Noncurrent assets Goodwill 335,040 332,589 The table shows Cybercom’s generated direct economic value and how this is distributed to Other intangible assets 45,994 69,099 ­various stakeholder groups. Property, plant and equipment 33,557 30,973 SEKk 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Financial assets 856 1,232 Generated direct Deferred tax assets 4,811 4,579 economic value Total noncurrent assets 420,258 438,473 Revenues 1,678,203 1,463,498 1,353,925 1,259,598 1,262,887 Current assets Distributed economic value Trade receivables 481,310 437,287 Employee benefits –851,299 –785,184 –766,570 –782,933 –824,303 Tax assets 221 551 Other external expenses –645,037 –522,884 –480,000 –408,590 –345,921 Other receivables 25,973 26,012 Charitable donations1) –663 –989 –549 –575 –521 Prepaid expenses 18,731 14,720 EBITDA 181,204 154,440 106,806 67,500 92,142 Cash and cash equivalents 156,444 61,319 Total current assets 682,679 539,889 Investment activities –19,197 –24,580 –23,363 –23,873 –26,373 Total assets 1,102,936 978,361 Net finance income/expense –3,291 –2,592 –5,588 –2,621 –2,490 Dividends 0 0 0 0 –9,022 Equity and liabilities Equity Corporation tax paid by country2) Share capital 50 50 Denmark –1,970 –1,062 0 0 0 Other contributed capital 391,558 391,558 Finland –8,965 –7,368 –3,503 –925 –3,567 Provisions 19,256 13,347 India –1,058 –2,138 –754 –573 –1,637 Retained earnings including profit for the year 223,292 116,830 Italy 0 0 0 –1 0 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 634,157 521,786 Korea –1,265 –1,316 –1,163 –809 –123 Total equity 634,157 521,786 Poland –1,322 –1,314 –2,730 –1,755 –472 Noncurrent liabilities Rwanda 0 0 –187 0 –1,350 Deferred tax liability 21,178 18,687 Senegal 0 0 0 0 –4,775 Liabilities to credit institutions 193 80,518 Singapore 0 0 –466 185 24 Other noncurrent liabilities 1,230 1,265 Sweden –15,616 –13,008 –4,215 –1 –319 Total noncurrent liabilities 22,600 100,470 Taiwan –87 –114 –126 –121 –94 Current liabilities Tanzania 0 –404 –431 –802 –582 Advances from clients 27,205 34,336 Chad 0 0 –583 –546 –383 Provisions for restructuring measures 842 1,227 Germany 0 0 –10 0 0 Trade payables 169,446 130,374 Retained economic value 128,435 100,545 63,687 35,658 40,979 Tax liabilities 13,404 15,930 1)  s of 2017, the value of pro bono work has been included in the “Charity” item. Cybercom performed pro bono work in A Liabilities to credit institutions 82,611 21,677 2018 worth SEK 530 thousand for Hello World!. Other current liabilities 34,314 38,374 2) In some cases where the company delivers products or services to another country, withholding tax is deducted from the ­payment to Cybercom. In countries where the company has paid withholding tax during the year, the amounts were included Accrued expenses and prepaid income 118,357 114,187 in total tax paid. Total current liabilities 446,179 356,105 Total equity and liabilities 1,102,936 978,361 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of cash flow SEKk 2018 2017 SEKk 2018 2017 Net sales 1,663,761 1,455,144 Operating activities Other operating income 14,318 7,889 Profit before tax 139,036 109,871 Employee benefits –878,475 –800,365 Adjustment for non-cash items 27,922 34,936 Other external expenses –618,399 –508,227 Cash flow from operations 166,958 144,807 Depreciation and amortisation –38,878 –37,708 Income tax paid –32,681 –13,989 Capital loss upon sale of subsidiary 0 –4,270 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 134,276 130,818 Operating profit 142,326 112,462 Change in trade receivables –39,938 –97,424 Financial income 1,262 2,580 Change in other current receivables –18,905 1,934 Financial expense –4,552 –5,172 Change in trade payables 37,602 18,369 Profit before tax 139,036 109,871 Change in other current liabilities 5,685 –8,495 Taxes –32,574 –28,010 Cash flow from operating activities 118,720 45,202 Profit for the year 106,462 81,860 Investing activities Investments in intangible assets –78 –1,860 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Investments in property, plant and equipment –17,576 –12,792 Sale of financial assets 429 – SEKk 2018 2017 Sale/acquisition of subsidiaries, net effect Profit for the year 106,462 81,860 on cash and cash equivalents 10,157 –2,075 Other comprehensive income Cash flow from investing activities –7,068 –16,727 Items that have or may be transferred Financing activities to profit and loss for the period Financial liability/leasing 353 6 Translation differences arising from translation of foreign operations 5,909 7,732 Repayment of debt –20,000 –32,000 Translation differences transferred to profit for the year –1,039 Cash flow from financing activities –19,647 –31,994 Other comprehensive income for the year 5,909 6,693 Cash flow for the year 92,005 –3,519 Comprehensive income for the year 112,371 88,553 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 61,319 62,023 Attributable to: Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 3,119 2,814 Owners of the parent 112,371 88,553 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 156,443 61,319 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Economic performance 35 Executive leadership team Niklas Flyborg Jan Matulewicz Bo Strömqvist Richard Brolin President and CEO, Cybercom Group Acting Head of Cybercom Poland Head of Sales Cybercom Group General Counsel Cybercom Group Born 1962 Born: 1978 Born 1964 Born 1973 Degree in Economics and Business MBA, University of Łódz B.Sc. in Systems Analysis, Linköping LL.M. Stockholm University Administration, Stockholm School With Cybercom since: 2016 University, Washington State With Cybercom since: 2018 of Economics ­University Previous: Ericpol Previous: Law firm of Sandart & PartWith Cybercom since: 2012 With Cybercom since: 2012 ners, Kamera Interactive, af Petersens Previous: Mandator, Cell Network, Previous: Rational Software, IBM, Law Firm, SunGard Data Systems Inc., Observer/Cision, Capgemini Ebbe Bo Hansen TDC, Cision, Enea Openlink Financial LLC Head of Cybercom Denmark Camilla Öberg Born 1957 Linda Westlund Kristina Cato CFO Cybercom Group M.Sc. Computer Science, Diploma ProHead of HR Cybercom Group Head of Sustainability and grammes Single Courses, Copenhagen Communications Born 1964 Business School Born 1978 Degree in Economics and Business B.Sc. in Sociology/Human Resources Cybercom Group AB With Cybercom since: 2004 Administration, Stockholm School Management, Mid Sweden University Born 1968 of Economics Previous: Regnecentralen, Cap Gemini, International Datasupport, Logica, With Cybercom since: 2014 M.A, Uppsala University With Cybercom since: 2012 Ciber Previous: Uniflex Bemanning, With Cybercom since: 1999 Previous: Logica, WM-data, SEB, Mistat AB Previous: Linköping University ­Lexicon and Swegro group ­Hospital Tony Hendrell Head of Cybercom AWS Business Dennis Lundqvist Annika Nordlander Group CIO Cybercom Group Head of Cybercom Sweden. Born 1978 Born 1976 Born 1959 B.Sc. Software Engineering, ­ M.Sc. Electrical and Electronics Systems Engineering, Mid Sweden Stadia Helsinki ­Engineering, KTH University With Cybercom since: 2010 With Cybercom since: 2016 With Cybercom since: 2014 Previous: Atea, Alma Media, MTV Previous: ÅF AB, Epsilon AB Previous: Ericsson, Fujitsu, ­Merkantildata, DFind IT, Proffice Göran Dahlberg Head of Secure Cybercom Group Tapio Koivisto Born 1973 Head of Cybercom Finland Huthwaite International, ETS AssessBorn 1980 ment and Development, Technical B.Sc. Media Technology, ­Metropolia ­Preparatory Year (KTH) Helsinki With Cybercom since: 2013 With Cybercom since: 2004 Previous: Postnord, Observer/Cision, Previous: Alma Media, Andritz Romeike, Imedia Auditor’s opinion regarding the Directors’ signatures statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of shareholders in Cybercom Holding AB, reg. no. 559025-7001 Engagement and responsibility Stockholm, 27 March 2019 The board of directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2018 and for that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Board of Directors Scope and orientation of the examination Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The ­auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 28 March 2019 KPMG AB Helena Arvidsson Älgne Authorised Public Accountant 36 Management CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Organisation 37 Index for Global Reporting Initiative and the UN Global Compact Page references are given below that show where GRI disclosures and references to the principles of the UN Global Compact, UNGC (www.unglobalcompact.org) can be found in the sustainability report. GRI STANDARDS 2016 Page Remarks UNGC GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Back cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6, 11, 12 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover 102-4 Location of operations 6, omslag bak 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6 102-6 Markets served 6, back cover 102-7 Scale of the organisation 7, 31, 35 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 31 Principle 10 102-9 Supply chain 29, 33 102-10 Significant changes to organisation and its supply chain 6 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 29 102-12 External initiatives 12, 18 102-13 Membership of associations 12, 18 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8–9 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 7, 29 Principle 10 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 29 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 28 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 31 Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 28 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 28 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 28 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 28 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 38 All units unless otherwise stated 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 28 102-47 List of material topics 28 102-48 Restatements of information 38 No corrections have been made 102-49 Changes in reporting 28 102-50 Reporting period 3 102-51 Date of most recent report 3 102-52 Reporting cycle 3 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 39 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 3 102-55 GRI content index 38–39 102-56 External assurance 3 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 28 103-2 The management approach and its components 29 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 38 gri and ungc index CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI STANDARDS 2016 Page Remarks UNGC SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES GRI 200: ECONOMIC 2016 Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 7, 35 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 34 Principle 10 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 14 Principle 10 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 32 Principle 10 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL 2016 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 33 Principles 7, 8 302-3 Energy intensity 33 Principle 8 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 33 Principles 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 33 Principles 7, 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 33 Principle 8 GRI 400: SOCIAL 2016 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 30–31 Principle 6 Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and 31 In view of the nature of the number of work-related fatalities. business, Cybercom has elected to report only absenteeism. Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 31 Principle 6 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 31 Principle 6 Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 31 Principle 6 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 32 Principle 6 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective Cybercom reports the percentbargaining may be at risk. age of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Other employees have been assessed as not working in operations where freedom of association is at risk. Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 32 and losses of customer data For more information about Cybercom’s sustainability work, please contact: Niklas Flyborg Kristina Cato Production: Cybercom in cooperation President and CEO Head of Sustainability and with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Communications niklas.flyborg@cybercom.com Print: Larsson Offsettryck, April 2019 +46 70 594 96 78 kristina.cato@cybercom.com Photography: Mattias Bardå, Ninni +46 70 864 47 02 Andersson / Swedish Governance Offices and others. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 gri and ungc index 39 M A K E R S 0 1 1 0 O F 1 T O 0 1 0 0 M O R 0 1 1 0 R O W 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 Cybercom is using the tools of ICT to make a sustainable tomorrow. In this publication, we tell you how that is being accomplished. Would you like to know more about how we can help your company capture the potential of digitalisation? – Get in touch at newbiz@cybercom.com. Let’s make tomorrow today! Cybercom Holding AB Cybercom has offices in Bydgoszcz I Copenhagen I Gothenburg I Helsinki I Jönköping cybercom.com Karlskrona I Kista I Linköping I Lund I Łódz I Malmö I Mumbai I Stockholm +46 8 578 646 00 Sundsvall I Tampere I Warsaw I Östersund Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden
