ANNUAL REPORT 2018 THE LIGHT WAY PROFILE 14 COMMITMENTS AT A GLANCE COMPLETED IN 2018 13 ABOUT THIS 76 REPORT 73 MESSAGE FROM COMMITMENTS MANAGEMENT FOR 2019 4 77 CONTENTS CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL CONNECTED 20 TO FINANCIAL CAPITAL 66 20 Organizational ethos CONNECTED and conduct TO NATURAL, 22 Strategy MANUFACTURED, 66 Capital Expenditure SOCIAL 67 2018 Rate Adjustment 24 Risk management AND RELATIONSHIP 26 Corporate governance CAPITAL 70 Debt 27 Light’s Governance 42 71 Net income Framework 29 Ethics and compliance 42 High-quality generation 31 Commitment to 44 Quality of service sustainability 47 Our customers 32 Our people 52 Reducing electricity theft 39 Innovation 55 Social and environmental initiatives 64 Our suppliers 65 Compliance 4 MESSAGE FROM MANAGEMENT [GRI 102-14] W e are pleased to present our Annual to 2017. Inflation was kept soundly in check, Report 2018, in which we describe our closing the year below the Central Bank target at business model, strategies and initia3.8%. This supported needed economic stimuli, tives that have reaffirmed our commitment to including historically low basic interest rates. sustainable development, the Global Compact principles and the UN Sustainable Development In 2018 we continued our efforts to maximize effiGoals (SDGs). ciency, improve service to customers and reduce electricity theft and delinquency, while retaining We continue to report “in accordance” with the a continuous focus on developing and valuing our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and human capital. the Integrated Reporting Framework published by the International Integrated Reporting Brazil’s grid capacity in terms of reservoir levels Council (IIRC). and river discharge volumes remained a concern in 2018. Storage levels improved only in the Toward the end of 2018, the global economy Northeast compared with 2017. Hydropower began to exhibit clear signs of a slowdown, generation levels remained low, and spot elecprimarily driven by the trade war between the tricity prices remained high, albeit lower than the world’s two largest economies—the US and China. levels seen in 2017. The unfavorable supply condiExternal uncertainties are felt domestically in tions affected power purchase expenses for Light emerging economies, and Brazil, too, has been SESA and other Group distribution companies, affected by the cooldown. Alongside the effects especially payments within the Power Trading from the global economy, Brazil’s presidential Chamber (CCEE). elections in 2018 were also a factor that led to subdued foreign investment. The economic crisis, combined with significant customer migration to the free contracting Despite these adverse conditions, Brazil’s economy environment, especially in the two-year period experienced mild growth for the second consec2016/2017, undermined Light SESA’s captive utive year, after two years of strong economic market projections, generating contractual retraction. GDP rose slightly by 1.1% compared surpluses that exceeded our estimates, with these LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 5 In 2018 we continued our efforts to maximize efficiency, improve service to customers and reduce electricity theft and delinquency, while retaining a continuous focus on developing and valuing our human capital. effects extending into 2018. These surpluses, power in the event of an outage. This strategy, however, will not result in pass-through losses combined with positive performance on our in our rate-setting review in March 2019, as spot Action Plan and Underground System Upgrade electricity prices in 2018 were generally higher Plan, supported greater-than-expected improvethan the average prices under Light SESA’s ment in operational quality indicators, in complicontracts. In addition, customer movements ance with ANEEL requirements. from the regulated to the free-contracting environment have no effect on DisCo margins, as We ended the year with an EOD (Equivalent electricity will continue to transported by, and Outage Duration) of 7.78 hours, an improvethose customers will continue to pay Distribution ment of 14.9% on December 2017, and 20.6% System Fees (TUSD) to, Light. below the level agreed with the Brazilian power sector regulator (ANEEL) for year-end 2018 (9.80 As part of our efforts to streamline customer hours). EOF (Equivalent Outage Frequency) as of access to our services, we have continued to December 2018 was 4.44 x, down 15.6% from diversify our service channels and have invested December 2017 and 26.1% below the level agreed in improving quality of service by offering a with ANEEL for 2018 (6.01 x). wide range of automated services, products and functionality. Examples of the technology we Our anti-theft efforts in 2018 were primarily are leveraging to improve the customer expecentered on inspection and connection normalrience include integrated multichannel platization operations. Around 420 field crews forms providing a seamless service experience on performed a range of anti-theft operations in any channel, and artificial intelligence-enabled energy-theft hotspots. We undertook a reviself-service functionality. sion of our strategy to strike a better balance of power recovery (REN), collection and Allowance To continually improve management efficiency for Doubtful Accounts (ACD) effort. As a result, and quality of service, we intensified preventive power recovery effort was reduced, although and predictive maintenance activities, expanded it inherently generates relatively low levels the number of switching points, and invested in of collections, especially where customers self-healing systems that automatically restore are disconnected. And while total grid losses 6 MESSAGE FROM MANAGEMENT increased in the year—from 21.92% in 2017 of labor for activities such as plant operation and to 23.95% in 2018—our strategy of balancing maintenance and cleaning and housekeeping, efforts across the three fronts has delivered more supporting the development of southern Rio de consistent and sustainable results for Light. Janeiro State. In collections, positive performance was supported Commercial operation of the Lajes SHP facility by: planned delinquency prevention initiatives; an also provides greater flexibility in the operation ICMS agreement with the state government to of the Lajes Complex, which provides water supply settle overdue payables; negotiations with delinto more than 90% of the Metropolitan Area of quent municipal governments, especially Rio de Rio de Janeiro. Janeiro; actions addressing overdue receivables (blacklisting, protests and disconnection); and In 2018 we continued to pursue our strategy of injunction reviews and monitoring at our legal adjusting our debt profile to improve liquidity. department. Net debt at year-end was R$ 8,017 million. Between 2017 and 2018 our average debt matuHydropower generation conditions were more rity increased from 2.6 years to 3.5 years, debt favorable in 2018 compared with 2017, espeservice costs were reduced from 8.70% to 5.51%, cially in Southeast river basins (+10.9 p.p.). The and our balance of cash and cash equivalents rose higher river discharge volumes, combined with from R$ 342 million to R$ 1.7 billion. a growing share of wind power and sustained levels of thermal power generation operated by Exame, a Brazilian weekly business magazine, the National Grid Operator (ONS), helped recover evaluated the performance of 70 electric utilities reservoir storage levels, which ended the year at in 2018 and ranked Light Com as the second best 31.9% stored energy. company for profitability in Brazil’s power sector. Our trading business generated returns on investIn generation, the Lajes SHP commenced commerment of 85.1%, the second highest as ranked by cial operation in the second half of the year and Exame. Light Com also ranked fifth overall based is currently supplying electricity under longand on total scores. medium-term agreements, generating sustainable revenues for the Company. The Lajes SHP has In October 2018 we completed the disposal of also generated opportunities for local sourcing all shares in Light Esco – Prestação de Serviços LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 7 Exame, a Brazilian weekly business magazine, evaluated the performance of 70 electric utilities and ranked Light Com as the second best company for profitability in Brazil’s power sector. S.A., a wholly owned subsidiary, to Ecogen Brasil Lastly, we report that Light is structuring a new Soluções Energéticas S.A., for R$ 43.4 million. vehicle—Light Conecta—to develop new business The deal came as part of Light’s strategy to focus opportunities related to our distribution compaon our distribution, generation and trading ny’s core business, deepen our understanding of businesses. and relations with customers, and create valueadded solutions for existing services. The Light WAY pillars (Safety, Ethics and Results) have continued to serve as a foundation for our In 2019 we continued to pursue a management organizational culture initiatives. A range of approach focused on efficiency and profitability. prevention initiatives were organized with a focus We remain firm in our commitment to quality of on engagement around behavioral change and a service and the sustainable development of our Zero Harm culture. As a result, we ended the year concession area and broader Rio de Janeiro. with zero fatal injuries, excluding accidents when commuting, our best performance to date. I hope you find our report useful and informative. In ethics and compliance, Light ranked 11th in Transparency International Brazil's Transparency in corporate reporting study, which assessed the Nelson José Hubner Moreira 100 largest companies and ten largest banks in Chairman of the Board of Directors Brazil on their anti-bribery and organizational transparency programs1, including their codes of Luis Fernando Paroli Santos ethics, annual reports and corporate policies. CEO 1 Anti-Bribery Program: addresses the civil and penal liability of companies and officers or employees involved in unlawful acts and corrupt practices, whether within or outside the company. Organization Transparency: the attributes, such as accessibility, information and audits, that must be present in organizational processes and information to make them transparent. 8 2018 HEADLINES EOF = 4.44 X, DOWN EOD = 7.78 HOURS, DOWN 15.6% 14.9% INJURY SEVERITY RATE = 87, DOWN 89% 2018 HEADLINES 1,781 t OF RECYCLABLE WASTE COLLECTED BY THE LIGHT 14% REDUCTION RECYCLING PROGRAM IN ACCIDENTS INVOLVING THE PUBLIC R$ 269,000 IN ELECTRICITY BILL DISCOUNTS FOR PARTICIPANTS LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 9 28,027 GWh DISTRIBUTED 4,197 GWh GENERATED 793 aMW SOLD 1,119 MW IN INSTALLED CAPACITY 80.5%VIRTUAL CHANNEL SHARE 18% IN GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS R$ 4.9 MILLION RETURN ON REVERSE LOGISTICS R$ 799 MILLION INVESTED R$ 1.8 BILLION IN ADJUSTED EBTIDA 10 LIGHT’S CAPITALS [GRI 102-15] We rely on resources, assets and STAKEHOLDERS Government, suppliers, Regulators, academia people – known as capitals – in telecommunications and surrounding conducting our business activities. carriers and cablecommunities. television broadcasters, Those capitals, collectively, enable us the industry regulator. to create value for all stakeholders and achieve superior results. Within the International Integrated IMPACTS • Generation and • Use of renewable distribution resources; Reporting Framework, these capitals infrastructure; • Environmental are categorized as Manufactured, • Energy security investments; and power supply • Access to water; Natural, Human, Intellectual, Social, availability and • Consumption of Relationship and Financial capitals. reliability; non-renewable • Power quality; resources; • Impact on the • GHG emissions; environment and • Waste. urban landscapes; • Power outages. MANUFACTURED NATURAL Infrastructure, Environmental facilities, materials and resources and processes equipment needed for that support us in our operations. providing goods and services, including water, land, forests and LIGHT’S biodiversity. CAPITALS HOW WE CREATE By investing to improve By investing in our infrastructure and environmental licensing, VALUE through the shared use maintenance and of concession assets. environmental safety, environmental projects, educational initiatives, reforestation and our Environmental Management System. INDICATORS • Power plant installed • Environmental capacity; investments; • Distribution systems; • Greenhouse gas • Power outage (GHG) emissions; frequency (EOF); • Certifications. • Average outage duration (EOD). LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 11 Workforce, suppliers Academia, business Government, ANEEL, Shareholders, investors, and peers in our partners and the customers, community, financial institutions, industry. workforce. suppliers, shareholders, market analysts, ANEEL, industry associations Federal Government and and academia. industry associations. • Job creation; • IR&D investment and • Quality of service; • Business • Workforce training; innovation; • Corporate social sustainability; • Occupational and public • Collaborations with and environmental • Taxes; safety; universities and responsibility initiatives; • Energy and • Fines and penalties research centers; • Energy efficiency; financial industry related to services • Knowledge sharing; •C  ustomer dissatisfaction development; provided; • The risk of not with services provided; • Delinquency; • Occupational injuries; achieving progress in • Higher non-technical • Using resources • Accidents involving the innovation. losses. inefficiently. public. HUMAN INTELECTUAL SOCIAL AND FINANCIAL Tacit knowledge, RELATIONSHIP The pool of funds The skills, knowledge and capabilities that organizational Relationships and that is available to together form our standards and networking with the organization for organization’s pool of procedures, corporate stakeholders to share use in the provision of expertise and culture. systems, patents and information and services or investment, Initiatives to align licenses, technologies, enhance individual including return on our workforce with R&D. This also and collective wellinvestment, equity, our organizational includes knowledge being. Partnerships, debt or grants. culture and business strategies, including management processes. common values, training, internal intangibles such as communications, brand and reputation. engagement and crossfunctional integration. By effectively From new technologies, By investing to establish Financial capital affects implementing the more efficient processes, a new approach virtually all other capitals, as standards outlined patent revenues, and to our relationship it provides the funds required in our strategic plan knowledge retention. with communities. for construction, training, in a way that meets Brand and reputation research and improvements. established targets and management. It also relates to how funds stakeholders' needs. are applied. Financial capital is also affected by the results generated by other capitals. • Hours of training; • R&D investment; • Customer satisfaction; • Net revenue; • Injury Frequency • Patents. • Social investments; • EBITDA; Rate; • Energy losses; • EBITDA Margin; • Fines and sanctions • Collections. • Net income (loss); for non-compliance • Net debt; with laws and • Capital expenditure. regulations; 12 LIGHT’S CAPITALS Intangible assets Human, Intellectual, and Social and Relationship R&D expenditure incurred with the intent of capitals are considered intangible assets. These obtaining scientific or technological knowledge capitals have no physical form or market value or expertise is recognized in profit or loss only if separately and are developed through activithe costs can be measured reliably, if the product ties such as training, education, innovation and or process is technically and commercially feasible, processes, communication campaigns, etc. if the future economic rewards are probable and if the Company has the intention and resources Other intangible assets reported in our financial to conclude the development and use of or sell statements include third-party software, software the asset. Capitalized expenditure includes the R&D expenditure, and concession infrastructure. cost of materials, direct labor and overhead costs. We recognize an intangible asset under a concesManaging and assessing our performance on each sion agreement when we have the right to of those capitals, including intangible assets, helps commercially operate or charge for the use of us to create value both for the Company and for concession infrastructure. That asset is an integral our stakeholders. The value we create is measured part of our Manufactured Capital. using the indicators described in the following table, which measure both internal impacts (use of resources, hours of training, financial performance) and external impacts (air emissions, power quality, and customer satisfaction). WE CURRENTLY HAVE FOUR ISSUED PATENTS, INCLUDING ONE INTERNATIONAL PATENT, RESULTING FROM THE FOLLOWING R&D PROJECTS: • Safety seal with chemical-based tamper tell-tale; • Device and method for inspecting aluminum cables with a steel core; • Filling putty, paint and composite for coating wood poles; • Electronic meter with integral secure digital communications certification. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13 Key indicators MANUFACTURED CAPITAL 2016 2017 2018 Power plant installed capacity (MW) 1,024 1,023 1,119 Distribution system installed capacity (MVA) 10,492 10,522 10,522 Sub-transmission and distribution lines (km) 79,096 79,710 79,943 Power outage frequency – EOF (no. of outages) 6.5 5.3 4.4 Average power outage duration – EOD (hours) 11.7 9.1 7.8 NATURAL CAPITAL 2016 2017 2018 Environmental expenditure (R$ million) 33.4 30.2 12.5 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 38,727 40,419 38,605 Scope 1 (metric tons of CO2eq.) Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 2 (metric tons of CO2eq.) 230,669 225,105 173,001 Number of ISO 14000 certifications (Light SESA) 304 304 304 HUMAN CAPITAL 2016 2017 2018 Hours of training per employee/year 27.2 42.7 44.7 Total recordable case frequency (TRCF) 3.16 1.95 1.96 Fines and penalties (R$ million) 48.3 33.1 31.2 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL 2016 2017 2018 R&D investment (R$ million) 8.2 6.7 23.9 SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 2016 2017 2018 ANEEL Consumer Satisfaction Rate (IASC) (%) 63.9 55.1 58.2 Service Provision Satisfaction Rate (ISES) (%) 91.0 90.4 87.5 Perceived Quality Satisfaction Rate (ISQP) (%) 62.0 67.7 67.5 Community investment Energy Efficiency 9.5 5.3 7.3 Program (PEE) (R$ million) Nontechnical losses / Low-Voltage (LV) Market (%) 39.6 39.0 45.2 Collection rate (%) 98.9 96.6 98.5 FINANCIAL CAPITAL 2016 2017 2018 Net revenue (R$ million) 8,756 10,707 11,310 Adjusted EBITDA (R$ million) 1,427 1,976 1,684 EBITDA margin (%) 16.3 18.5 14.9 Net income (loss) (R$ million) (313) 124 166 Net debt (R$ million) 6,220 7,206 8,017 Capital expenditure (including contributions) (R$ million) 953 895 890 14 PROFILE [GRI 102-1, GRI 102-2, GRI 102-4, GRI 102-5, GRI 102-7, GRI 102-10, GRI 102-45] With a presence in Rio de Janeiro for over a century, Light has operations in power generation, distribution and trading in a concession area covering 11,307,000 square kilometers in the state of Rio de Janeiro, and 11 million people, or 64% of the State’s total population. Out of the State’s 92 municipalities, we are present in 31 municipalities, supplying electricity to 7 million consumers and 4.5 million customers over 79,943 km of distribution and sub-transmission lines 37 service offices. Light’s workforce consists of 4,712 direct employees (including 199 people with disabilities), 7,861 contractor employees and 57 interns. Our net revenue in 2018 was a total of R$ 11.3 billion and Adjusted EBITDA2 was R$ 1,684 million. 2 EBITDA, as defined by the Brazilian Securities Commission (CVM), is net income or loss before net financial items, income and social contribution tax, depreciation and amortization, minority interests, and equity in earnings of associates. Adjusted EBITDA is CVM EBITDA less equity income and other operating income/expense. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 15 100+W CEMIG PROFILE OF LIGHT S.A. AND ITS WHOLLYOWNED SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES 26+74+W 11+89W 13+87W 9+91+W 41+59W 100% CEMIG RME LEPSA BNDESPAR Market 26.06% 10.90% 13.03% 9.39% 40.62% Light S.A. (Holding Company) 100+100 W 50 +W 100+ +50W 25+ W 100 75+W 100 +W 50 +W 50 +50W 51 +50W +49W 100% 100% 51% 100% 25.5% 100% 100% 50.1% 100% 51% Light Light Light Light Axxiom Serviços de Light Energia Amazônia Com Soluções em Energia Instituto Soluções Lightger S.A. Conecta Tecnológicas Eletricidade S.A. Energia S.A. Comercializadora Eletricidade Olímpica S.A. Light S.A. Ltda. S.A. de Energia S.A. Ltda. 17+49+ 83+W 49 51+W 10 +51W +90W 17.2% 51% 51% 9.8% Renova Consórcio Usina Norte UHE Itaocara Hidrelétrica Energia S.A. Energia S.A. Itaocara S.A. 51% 51+49+W Guanhães Energia S.A. 100% 100+W Lajes Energia S.A. 100% 100+WCentral Eólica São Judas Tadeu Ltda. 100% DISTRIBUTION 100+W Fontainha Wind Farm GENERATION WHOLESALE AND SERVICES INSTITUTIONAL IT 16 PROFILE HOLDING COMPANY LIGHT ENERGIA S.A. Light Energia’s generation assets comprise five LIGHT S.A. hydropower plants—Pereira Passos, Nilo Peçanha, Light S.A. is listed on the B3 (Brasil Bolsa Balcão) Ilha dos Pombos, Santa Branca and Fontes Nova— Novo Mercado segment under the ticker symbol and two pumped storage plants in Rio de Janeiro LIGT3 and on the US OTC market under the ticker and São Paulo deriving hydropower from the symbol LGSXY. Our B3-listed shares were priced Paraíba do Sul and Ribeirão das Lajes rivers. As of at year-end at R$ 16,50 and our market capitalDecember 31, 2018 these assets had an installed ization was R$ 3.4 billion, a decrease of 0.3% capacity of 855 MW. compared with year-end 2017. In 2018, Light Energia generated 4,197.16 GWh of electricity and purchased 1,169.50 GWh, an DIRECT SUBSIDIARIES increase of respectively 1.87% and 92.34% compared with the previous year. A total of LIGHT SERVIÇOS DE ELETRICIDADE S.A. 174,879 GWh were purchased on the spot market Light SESA is Brazil’s 6th largest distribution in 2017 and 231,019 GWh were sold in 2018. company by number of customers, and the 5th The difference was primarily due to the larger largest by volume of power supply according volumes purchased on the free market in 2018. to data from the ANEEL Decision Support Light Energia’s guaranteed power in 2019 is System Report 2018. In 2018 Light SESA posted 621 average MW, of which 449 average MW are 28,027 GWh in revenues from electricity supplied currently under contract. to captive customers and for use of our distribution systems by free-market customers and other Light Energia owns Lajes Energia S.A., the develutilities. oper and operator of the Lajes Small Hydro Plant (SHP), with a nominal capacity of 17 MW. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 17 LIGHT COM LIGHT CONECTA LTDA. COMERCIALIZADORA DE ENERGIA S.A. Light Conecta designs, builds, installs and operLight Com is a trading business that purchases and ates electric power plants. The company has a sells electricity on the spot and forward markets 51% stake through Light Energia in the Itaocara and free market, as well as providing consulting Hydropower Plant (“Itaocara HPP”) joint venture services to clients in a range of industries. In 2018 and a 51% stake in UHE Itaocara S.A., a joint Light Com traded 793 aMW of electricity, generarrangement with CEMIG GT established for the ating revenues of R$ 1.3 billion. construction of the Itaocara HPP. Due to the lack of financial support from shareholders to develop Exame, a Brazilian weekly business magazine, the project, and after failed attempts to sell the evaluated the performance of 70 electric utilities assets, UHE Itaocara initiated negotiations for and ranked Light Com as the second best company bilateral termination of the CCEAR agreements for profitability in Brazil’s power sector in 2018. concluded within Auction No. 003/2015 pursuant Our trading business generated returns on investto ANEEL Resolution 711/2016, and was successful ment of 85.1%, the second highest as ranked by in canceling 70% of firm capacity. Exame. Light Com also ranked fifth overall based on total scores. Light Conecta also develops new business related to our core business activities, and helps to deepen our understanding of and relations with customers and create value-added solutions for existing services. LIGHT SOLUÇÕES EM ELETRICIDADE LTDA. Light Soluções em Eletricidade provides facilities construction, repair and maintenance services to clients in the low-voltage segment. 18 PROFILE INSTITUTO LIGHT PARA O accepted in November 2017. The new acquisition DESENVOLVIMENTO URBANO E SOCIAL proposal includes the assets of the entire Alto Instituto Light para o Desenvolvimento Urbano Sertão III Complex and approximately 1.1 GW e Social engages in social and cultural programs from wind farms currently being developed. The supporting the economic and social development proposal was accepted by Renova Energia’s Board of communities. of Directors, but due to disagreements between the parties when drafting the share purchase In October 2018 we completed the disposal of agreement, the deal was abandoned. all shares in Light Esco – Prestação de Serviços S.A., a wholly owned subsidiary, to Ecogen Brasil In December 2018, Renova Energia received a Soluções Energéticas S.A., for R$ 43.4 million. binding acquisition proposal from AES Tietê for The deal came as part of Light’s strategy to focus the assets of the entire Alto Sertão III Complex and on our distribution, generation and trading approximately 1.1 GW from wind farms currently businesses. being developed. This proposal was rejected by the Board of Directors of Renova Energia on December 28, 2018. ASSOCIATES3 RENOVA ENERGIA S.A. GUANHÃES ENERGIA S.A. Renova Energia is engaged in power generGuanhães is the developer and operator of the ation from renewable sources, including small Dores de Guanhães (14MW), Senhora do Porto hydropower and wind and solar farms. Renova (12MW), Fortuna II (9MW) and Jacaré (9MW) Energia has an installed capacity of 627.6 MW, SHPs, with a total installed capacity of 44MW. including 190.2 MW in installed capacity currently The SHPs are located on the rivers Guanhães and in operation. Corrente Grande, in the state of Minas Gerais. In February 2018 Renova Energia received a new On August 21, 2015 the project’s SHPs were binding offer from Brookfield Energia Renovável successful in Auction A-3 and concluded a power S.A. in replacement of the initial acquisition offer purchase agreement with a term of 30 years, at a 3 Learn more about our associates in the Notes to the Financial Statements. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 19 price of R$ 205.50/MWh, commencing in January In operation since April 2016, 13 of the dam’s 2018. Construction of the four SHPs recom24 generating units are currently operational. menced in November 2017 after the works were 12 at the Main Powerhouse (Belo Monte) with suspended in December 2015 due to the terminaan installed capacity of 7,333 MW, and six at tion of the contract with the previous constructhe Secondary Powerhouse (Pimental) with tion consortium. The Senhora do Porto and Dores an installed capacity of 233.1 MW, for a total de Guanhães SHPs are currently in commercial capacity of more than 7,500 MW. In February operation, and the Fortuna II and Jacaré SHPs are 2018 unit 8 started commercial operation, with scheduled to begin operation in 1Q19 and 2Q19, the plant reaching 100% of its firm capacity at respectively. 4,571 aMW. Unit 9 in Belo Monte started operation in the second quarter of 2018. In the fourth LIGHTGER S.A. quarter, units 10, 11 and 12 at Belo Monte started Lightger was created to develop and operate operation. the Paracambi SHP, with an installed capacity of 25.7 MW and two generating units that started AXXIOM SOLUÇÕES TECNOLÓGICAS S.A. operation in 2012. Axxiom Soluções Tecnológicas provides technology solutions and systems for operations AMAZÔNIA ENERGIA PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A. management. Amazônia Energia has a 9.8% equity interest in, and a material influence on the management of, ENERGIA OLÍMPICA S.A. but without having joint control of, Norte Energia Energia Olímpica is a special purpose entity estabS.A. (NESA). NESA holds a concession for the operlished to develop the Olympic Village substaation of the Belo Monte Dam. Built on the Xingu, tion and two 138 kV underground transmission in the state of Pará, the Belo Monte HPP is the 4th lines. These works have been completed and the largest hydropower plant in the world and the liquidation of Energia Olímpica has therefore largest fully Brazilian-owned dam. The facility commenced. No material effects from the process has an installed capacity of 11,233 MW and a are expected. firm capacity of 4,571 average MW, enough for approximately 18 million homes. CURRENT GENERATION ASSETS [GRI EU1] Current Installed Capacity Firm Capacity Concession / Hydropower Plants (MW)a (MWm)b Start of Operation Permit Expiration % Interest Fontes Nova 132 99 1942 2026 100% Nilo Peçanha 380 334 1953 2026 100% Pereira Passos 100 49 1962 2026 100% Ilha dos Pombos 187 109 1924 2026 100% Santa Branca 56 30 1999 2026 100% Pumped storage – 101 Lajes SHP 17 15 2018 2026 100% Paracambi SHP 13 10 2012 2031 51% Renova 33 20 2008 2033 17% Belo Monte 189 114 2016 2045 2% Guanhaes 13 7 2018 2047 51% 1,119 MW Total 1,119 686 installed a Light’s proportional share capacity b Firm Capacity from Jan 1 2018 20 CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL W Organizational ethos e recognize the importance of human capital for the sustainability of the business, and are committed to valuing and developing our workforce. Ethics, and conduct health, safety and training are the cornerstones in achieving workforce integrity, quality of service [GRI 102-16] and, ultimately, customer satisfaction, directly affecting our social and relationship capital. By In 2018 we continued to review our processes to adhering to health and safety standards, we also achieve and exceed set goals by sustaining and minimize regulatory violations and related penalimproving efficacy, balance and quality of service. ties, which in turn helps to protect our financial capital. The Light WAY (Jeito de SER Light) (Safety, Ethics and Results) has served as a foundation for We work to develop and retain our intellectual our organizational culture initiatives, for both capital by establishing related organizational employees and contractors. In occupational standards and procedures, engaging in R&D, safety, we reinforce safe behavior and mindsets investing in new IT systems, and implementing by fostering a zero-harm culture. knowledge management programs. All personnel, including directors and officers, are expected to As part of our efforts to foster an ethical culture, demonstrate our organizational ethos and adhere in 2018 we organized awareness-raising initiato our governance and risk management frametives and revised our Code of Business Ethics and works, supporting value creation both for the Conduct to stress the importance of using our Company and for stakeholders. Corporate Hotline to report misconduct, and reassure employees that they will not suffer any retaliation for doing so. We also launched I-nove, a collaboration program that encourages employees to submit ideas to improve results, to further strengthen our results-oriented culture. In 2018 one our primary focuses was on balancing our quality of service outcomes with developing and valuing our human capital. As part of this, we implemented a Management Philosophy Program that will orchestrate a cultural transformation across the organization over the following months. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 21 MISSION VISION VALUES To supply high-quality To be the industry’s Respect for Life electricity and services leading electric Ethics in a sustainable utility, recognized for Sense of Ownership manner, contributing delivering superior to the well-being and returns, efficient Simplicity development of society. management and Meritocracy quality of service. The Light WAY translates our organizational ethos, the foundation of our business model SAFETY always Work to deliver comes first RESULTS Act with INTEGRITY 22 CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Strategy Our strategy, both internally and externally, short-term bank debt with lower-cost, longis grounded in Light’s organizational ethos, term bank debt, and seeking new sources of and reflects the risks affecting the business. funding in the capital market; Recognizing that our operations directly affect • Increase resource allocation efficiency by implesociety and the environment in which we operate, menting tools to manage costs, optimize investwe work to ensure that our strategy creates value ment and renegotiate supplier agreements; not only for our shareholders, but also for our broader stakeholders by positively impacting our • Reduce exposure to non-strategic assets and value chain. focus efforts on creating value for the distribution and generation segments; In 2018 we retained our focus on maximizing effi• Ensure safety and quality of life for our workciency, continually improving quality of service, force and the pubic in our concession area reducing electricity theft and delinquency, through a management approach focused managing financial leverage, and disposing of on organizational climate and sustainable non-core assets. Sustainably reducing manageable development. costs and engaging in prudent investment are also among our strategic objectives. Strategies are translated into action plans and into strategic and operational performance indiLight’s strategic guidelines cators. The targets established for these indicators • Scale up efforts to reduce theft and delinquency; are agreed in management commitments that • Strengthen liquidity, optimize cash flows to are tracked monthly, and are aligned with the reduce indebtedness and implement measures material topics in our Materiality Matrix and the to improve our capital structure by replacing Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). [GRI 103-3] Correlation between our strategy for 2018 and our material topics, the affected SDGs and the indicators we use to assess performance on the relevant topic Strategy Material Topic SDG Indicator Reduce theft and • Losses and Delinquency 11 • Nontechnical Losses / delinquency • Service Area Development Low-Voltage Market • Relations with Customers • Community Investment and Society • Collection Rate • Customer Satisfaction Improve liquidity and • Financial Health and • Net Debt optimize cash flows the Capital Market Improve resource • Quality of Service 7.9 • Investments allocation efficiency • Operating Efficiency • EOD /EOF Reduce exposure to • Financial Health and • Net Revenue non-core assets the Capital Market Enhance internal • People Management 3.8 • Hours of Training management • Supplier Management • Injury Rate • Health & Safety • Misconduct Reports • Climate Survey LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 23 Political, economic and market overview Regulatory overview The business environment and external effects A subject that has elicited extensive debate in are taken into account in developing our business recent years, including 2018, is the adoption of strategy. Light is subject to extensive regulation a Generation Scaling Factor (GSF) for electricity imposed by Brazil’s Federal Government and elecwithin the Free Contracting Environment (ACL). tric utility regulator, ANEEL. This gives the government a high level of discretionary power and we Since publication of the Ministry of Mining and are unable to predict how our businesses will be Energy’s (MME) Public Consultation No. 33/2017, affected by any regulatory changes. the market has been in anticipation of a new law containing provisions on the relevant agreeBrazil’s macroeconomic environment can also ments, addressing matters not affecting our affect our operations generally, and especially the generation business. level of demand for electricity. Inflation affects our costs and margins, while Gross Domestic Product Despite the extensive debate during the year, Bill (GDP) growth rates affect our business results. An of Law 10,332, which addressed matters relating extended economic downturn in Brazil, and its to Eletrobras distribution companies and GSF, was effects on the state of Rio de Janeiro, could affect rejected by Congress. demand for some of our services and ultimately our results of operations. Also in 2018, ANEEL Resolution 824/2018 regulated the sale by distribution companies of surplus Brazil’s hydropower landscape experienced electricity under Act 13360/2016 and Decree significant fluctuation in terms of reservoir and 9143/2017. Distribution companies now have an river-discharge levels in 2018. Storage levels additional mechanism other than bilateral agreeimproved only in the Northeast compared with ments and assignment of surpluses and deficits 2017. Hydropower generation levels remained (“MCSDs”) for disposing of surplus electricity. low, and spot electricity prices remained high. The unfavorable supply conditions affected Other significant legislation published in 2018 power purchase expenses for Light SESA and includes: Decree 9642/2018, under which rate other Group distribution and generation entities, discounts within the Energy Development Account especially payments within the Power Trading (CDE) framework will be gradually reduced from Chamber (CCEE). January 1, 2019 in line with inputs obtained as part of MME Public Consultation 45/2018; and The economic crisis, combined with significant MME Directive 514/2018, which reduced the load customer migration to the free contracting threshold for conventional power supply agreeenvironment, especially in the two-year period ments with free-market consumers to 2.5 MW from 2016/2017, undermined Light SESA’s captive July 1, 2019 and to 2 MW from January 1, 2020. market projections, generating contractual surpluses that exceeded our estimates, with these effects extending into 2018. The reduced load, however, will not result in pass-through losses in our rate-setting review in March 2019, as spot electricity prices in 2018 were generally higher than the average prices under our contracts. In addition, customer movements from the regulated to the free-contracting environment have no effect on DisCo margins, as electricity will continue to transported by, and those customers will continue to pay Distribution System Fees (TUSD) to, Light. 24 CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Risk management [GRI 102-11] Light works to continually improve our processes Following approval, strategic risks are ramified for identifying, monitoring and managing the into detailed corporate risks. For every corporisks to which we are exposed, with risk defined rate risk, a process is established for individually as any factor which could positively or negatively assessing the level of risk. affect our performance and results. Some of the key risks facing the business include: power In measuring the impacts from risks, we consider outages, debt, legal and administrative proceedpotential statutory and regulatory penalties, ings and contingencies, the ability to attract and financial and operational aspects, potential retain qualified talent, occupational injuries and reputational damage and whether the risk could injuries to members of the public, and environgenerate inconsistencies in our financial statemental damage. ments. In measuring the likelihood of a risk materializing, we consider the degree of exposure to The first step in risk management is identifying fraud and the relevant process’s complexity and risk factors based on our Reference Form, which level of automation. The combination of the lists our most significant risks. Interviews are above factors determines the level of risk. then held with Light executives to identify their primary concerns relating to their functions. These A Corporate Risk Matrix4 is then built and inputs inform the development of a preliminary reviewed annually to incorporate emerging risks list of strategic risks, which is then submitted to and reevaluate impacts and existing controls. the Executive Board and Board of Directors. Critical RISK ASSESSMENT AND CLASSIFICATION High Medium IMPACT PROBABILITY RESIDUAL RISK • Reputational damage • Automation • Residual risk is weighted considering the • Misstatements in the • Complexity controls in place in the Low Financial Statements • Exposure to fraud organization • Financial losses • Operational losses Very • Legal/regulatory sanctions low 4 Light’s Integrated Risk Management Framework is based on the methodology and procedures recommended by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) for Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 25 The Matrix currently comprises 15 strategic risks, 10 classified as high and five as medium risk. In our review in 2018, we updated 173 compliance risks, 81 financial risks and 119 operational risks, for a total of 373 risks that have been drilled down from identified strategic risks. In 2018 Light published a new, Board-approved Risk Management Policy. In 2019 our Supplier Management function began sending Integrity Questionnaires to key suppliers to better measure the level of ethics risk inherent to each supplier. This will provide more detailed information to support decision making, while also encouraging suppliers to enhance compliance at their companies. Our Integrated Risk Management Framework is based on the methodology and procedures recommended by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) for Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). RISKS ARE CLASSIFIED AS FOLLOWS: Financial risks Operating risks Compliance Risks Unexpected events Unexpected actions and Legal and regulatory issues which could affect events, such as human error, and changes in the political our liquidity and/ equipment and system failure environment which could affect or undermine our and actions by external agents the electric utility industry. More capital structure. which could cause substantial specifically, regulatory changes financial and reputational could create additional legal damages to the Company, contingencies for the Company. affecting our customers and our long-term performance. 26 CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Corporate governance Light’s corporate governance practices are The composition and duties of the Board of detailed in our Corporate Governance Handbook, Directors, its advisory committees and the which documents the mechanisms in place to Executive Board are described on our Investor ensure our business conduct is at all times aligned Relations Website under Management. Details with our objectives of creating value for Light, our about Board members’ expertise and membershareholders, and other stakeholders. ship of other boards, committees, commissions and working groups can be found in our Reference Form CVM filing, which is available on our Investor Relations website under Reference Form. [GRI 102-26] LIGHT ADHERES TO BEST PRACTICE AS ESTABLISHED IN THE BRAZILIAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE In compliance with CVM 586, in 2018 we reported to the Brazilian Securities Commission (CVM) on our Corporate Governance practices, which include: • Annual performance reviews of the Board of Directors, the CEO, committees, Board members and our Governance Office; • Board Rules of Procedure establishing roles and responsibilities and rules on the operation of the Board; • Board meetings with dedicated sessions for external Board members; • Processes and programs for monitoring and reporting on the performance and impacts of our operations on society and the environment; • Annual performance assessments of the CEO by the Board of Directors; • An incentives framework under which a single person is not permitted to control both decision making and review; • An internal audit function reporting directly to the Board of Directors; • A Risk Management Policy approved by the Board of Directors; • Board of Directors responsibility for ensuring the Executive Board has adequate mechanisms and controls for identifying, assessing a mitigating risk; • Executive Board assessments of the effectiveness of risk management policies and systems, internal controls and our compliance program; • Bylaws containing rules on which related-party transactions require Board of Directors approval; • An insider trading policy to ensure trades are monitored and penalties are applied for violations of the policy; • A policy on voluntary contributions forbidding contributions or donations to political parties or related parties. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 27 Light’s Governance Framework [GRI 102-18, GRI 102-22] CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDERS’ FORUM Shareholders’ Forums CONTROLLING GROUP MINORITY INTERESTS These forums are responsible for consolidating and GENERAL MEETING AUDIT COMMITTEE aligning decisions The general meeting is the The Audit Committee oversees within the controlling Company’s highest governance management activities, reviews our shareholder group. level and also serves as a forum for financial statements and reports decisions among shareholders. its conclusions to shareholders. BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD COMMITTEES Interface The Board of Directors is responsible Board committees assist the Board Forum for approving and supervising the of Directors in performing its execution of our Strategic Plan, and duties efficiently and effectively for approving our annual Audit by providing insight on matters These forums provide an Plan as part of our risk management within its responsibility, enhancing interface among board process, which covers economic, the quality of the decision-making members, executives social and environmental aspects. process, and facilitating interaction and managers for formal The composition of the Board with the Executive Board. These discussions on essential includes independent members committees have neither executive governance matters. and employee representatives. nor deliberative functions. [GRI 102-29, GRI 102-30] • Audit Committee (CAUDIT) • Financial Committee (CFIN) • Human Resources Committee (CRH) • Management Committee (CGEST) • Governance & Sustainability Committee (CGOV) Executive CEO INTERACTIONS AND AUTHORITY LIMITS Board The CEO is appointed by the Board of Directors and is responsible for managing the Company in both an The Executive Board, acting active and passive capacity, and for jointly and in accordance with managing institutional relations applicable legislation, is responsible with regulators, public prosecutors for all matters pertaining the and ombudsman’s offices. normal conduct of business. • CFO • People & Business Management CUSTOMER ADVISORY BOARD EXECUTIVES • Power The Customer Advisory Board Executives’ duties are connected • Business Development provides a forum for discussion, with the Company’s core & Investor Relations exercises scrutiny in the collective business and include ensuring • Commercial interest of consumers, and liaises the Company conducts business • Engineering between Light and representatives and manages its operations from the various rate classes in strictly in compliance with Light’s • Communications & Legal seeking amicable solutions to Bylaws and resolutions passed by issues related to power supply, General Shareholder Meetings rates and the adequacy of services and the Board of Directors. provided to end consumers. 28 CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Addressing social and environmental Our Corporate Governance Office also organizes issues [GRI 102-31] and conducts assessments on the extent to which the Board of Directors and Executive Board have Under our Corporate Governance Handbook, incorporated social and environmental aspects matters related to sustainability are addressed into business and operational decisions. by our Governance & Sustainability Committee. [GRI 102-19] The Chief Executive is assessed on aspects that include vision, strategic planning, leadership, In addition to this Committee, our executives also results of operations, external relations and relashare responsibility on economic, environmental tions with the Board of Directors, development and social matters as detailed in our Bylaws. of key executives, and opportunities created for [GRI 102-20] Light. Significant economic, social and environmental Performance feedback is discussed in the first issues are referred to the relevant committees, Board of Directors meeting in the subsequent and monitored and evaluated by the Board of year, and significant recommendations are impleDirectors. [GRI 102-33]. mented by the Board. A total of 15 critical economic issues, 15 social Compensation policy [GRI 102-35] issues and 2 environmental issues were discussed Light’s compensation policy has been designed at Board of Directors meetings in 2018, and using industry best practice to ensure we attract actions were proposed to mitigate existing risks. and retain competent and qualified professionals. Around 20% of meeting hours were dedicated to Our compensation model provides both fixed social and environmental matters. Where necesand variable compensation, but not share-based sary, stakeholders are consulted through a range compensation. Variable compensation plays of engagement tools5. [GRI 102-21, GRI 102-34] an important role in fostering a results-based culture and ensuring shareholders, executives and Situations posing conflicts of interest or involving employees are aligned around business objectives. related party transactions are addressed in accorLight’s compensation policy is detailed under dance with applicable regulations. Business Model and in our Reference Form on our Investor Relations website. Enhancing and assessing performance [GRI 102-28] Each year, Light’s Corporate Governance Office organizes and conducts an assessment on the performance of our Board of Directors, Board members, supporting committees, and the Chief Executive Officer. For further inforPerformance assessments, which are approved by mation about the Board of Directors, are a self-assessment tool Light’s governance that allows us to evaluate the performance of our frameworks and government bodies on aspects such as: the flow mechanisms, of information between Executive Officers and see the Business the Board, the conduct of and subjects discussed Model section of in meetings, timeliness and quality in deciour investor relasion-making, accountability, harmony between tions website. Board members, and the personal conduct of members. 5 Read more in About this Report. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 29 Ethics and compliance [GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17, GRI 103-2] Supporting our culture of ethics are initiatives to disseminate the Light WAY through our compliance program, ethics & business conduct guidelines, and channels for reporting any misconduct. GUIDING PRINCIPLES CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT ETHICS COMMITTEE • Aligned with our mission, vision, values • The Ethics Committee ensures our Code of and organizational principles. Ethics is kept current and relevant by discussing and recommending changes and revisions • Incorporates aspects of Brazil’s Anti-bribery Act. for approval by the Executive Board. It also • Addresses matters related to conflict of addresses ethics violations and recommends interest and other anti-bribery matters. appropriate disciplinary or corrective action. • Supports our commitment to sustainable development and to our workforce by acting against any form of prejudice or discrimination. REPORTING CHANNELS WORKFORCE CUSTOMERS AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC • Direct contact with immediate superiors. • Our Virtual Office www.light.com.br. • Light Ethics Committee, by email to • Call Center: by phone (0800 282 0120). comitedeeticalight@light.com.br. • Ombudsman’s Office: by phone (0800 284 • Corporate Hotline , by phone (0800 777 0783); via 6 0182); by mail (Av. Marechal Floriano, the internet (www.canalcorporativolight.com.br), 168, 2º andar, Centro, Rio de Janeiro, or by mail (Caixa Postal 521 – CEP: 06320-971. CEP: 20080-002); by fax ((21) 22117584); or via our Mailroom (on the first floor of our headquarters building). ACTION TAKEN IN RESPONSE TO ANY VIOLATIONS OF OUR CODE OF ETHICS FOR DIRECT EMPLOYEES FOR THIRD-PARTY EMPLOYEES • Reports are addressed by the relevant • The matter is referred to the relevant department manager, the Ethics Committee supplier to assess the veracity of the or Compliance depending on the case. report and take any required action. • Employees are subject to disciplinary action under applicable internal standards, including a warning, suspension or termination (including termination for cause). 6 Our Corporate Hotline is a secure, confidential and, optionally, anonymous reporting service. Each report (except when submitted by snail mail) is assigned a number that can be used to track its progress through the report handling process. All reports are addressed by investigations that are managed by the Compliance department from receipt to closure. Depending on the subject matter, reports may be referred to the Ethics Committee. The Corporate Hotline is managed by an independent, world-leading firm. 30 CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL ENGAGEMENT [GRI 205-2, GRI 412-2] HOTLINE REPORT STATISTICS Throughout the year we implemented a range of initiatives to engage our employees around 2017 our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. These included: • Review and approval of our new Code of Business Ethics and Conduct by the Board of Directors; 12+88+Q 88+12+Q • Communications on the concept of ethics; Total: • Sending the code in digital format to all 12% 88% 59 employees and contractors with a letter signed by the CEO; • 10,494 attendances in the following online 7 Committee Email 52 Corporate Hotline courses: Our Ethics, Ethics the Light WAY, 4 4 confirmed 17 confirmed Minutes on Ethics, Anti-Bribery. Of these, 1,510 3 not confirmed 35 not confirmed were completed in 2018; • Ethics “bites”: content about prejudice and discrimination, diversity and social inclusion, 2018 political activity, and receiving and offering gifts or anything of value. REPORTS [GRI 205-3, GRI 406-1] Any suspected misconduct is investigated and the results of the investigation are categorized 13+87+Q 87+13+Q as either confirmed or not confirmed, by origin and by type, to provide an overview of those areas with the greatest exposure to compliance risks. Total: 13% 87% Appropriate action was taken for all confirmed 82 reports. 11 Committee Email 71 Corporate Hotline In 2018 we received 124 customer reports on 3 confirmed 35 confirmed misconduct. Of these, 29 (23%) were confirmed. 8 not confirmed 36 not confirmed TRANSPARENCY: RECOGNITION FOR INTEGRITY • The annual list Guia Exame ranked Light 11 th among Brazil’s 100 largest companies and ten largest banks, based on the Transparency in Corporate Reporting study by Transparency International Brazil. Companies were assessed on their Anti-Bribery Programs and Organizational Transparency7 based on publicly available information such as their Codes of Ethics, Annual Reports and Corporate Policies. Light received a total score of 8.5, performing especially well on Organizational Transparency, in which 100% of applicable requirements were met. Identified areas for improvement are being addressed jointly by multiple functions. 7 Anti-Bribery Program: addresses the civil and penal liability of companies and officers or employees involved in unlawful acts and corrupt practices, whether within or outside the company. Organization Transparency: the attributes, such as accessibility, information and audits, that must be present in organizational processes and information to make them transparent. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 31 Commitment to sustainability [GRI 102-12] Light’s commitment to sustainability is longstanding, as demonstrated by our listing on B3 (Brasil Bolsa Balcão) Novo Mercado—a listing segment requiring enhanced corporate governance standards—in 2005, and subscribing to the UN Global Compact—which encourages businesses to implement corporate social responsibility practices—in 2007. Other initiatives to which we have subscribed include the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP); the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting guidelines; and the Call to Action: Anti-corruption and the Global Development Agenda. As a further attestation of our commitment to sustainability, Light has been selected as a constituent of the B3 Corporate Sustainability Index, or ISE, and is a member of the Working Group of Sustainability Reporting Pioneers, a component of Brazil’s Integrated Reporting Commission. In 2018 we were listed for the 12th consecutive In 2018 we were listed for the12th year as a constituent of the ISE, which lists compaconsecutive year as a constituent of the nies demonstrating superior corporate sustainability practices. We also retained our listing on ISE, which lists companies demonstrating the Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade list of Brazil’s most sustainable companies. superior corporate sustainability practices. LIGHT POLICIES ON SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS [GRI 103-2] • Corporate Social Policy • Environmental Policy • Environment and Climate Commitment • Anti-Corruption Policy • Occupational Health & Safety Policy • Sponsorship Policy • Social Responsibility Agreement* • Code of Business Ethics & Conduct* * An integral part of our agreements with employees and suppliers. 32 CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Our people We support diversity and provide equal opporwas launched to explore the Light WAY principles tunity to men and women, providing a work by connecting our people together. environment that is free of discrimination in promotions to management positions and in The OnLight app, which received its name through compensation paid for equivalent work. Currently a vote, has provided a platform for employee 21% of our management positions are held by integration through two-way communication women. across organizational levels, connecting people who ordinarily are not able to interact because In addition to Collective Bargaining Agreements of distance or the nature of their jobs. Part our and our Profit-Sharing Plan, we have undertaken workforce operates in the field, and was therea commitment to our industry’s unions, under fore being reached less by Company communicaa Social Responsibility Agreement, to protect tions and news. and defend the human rights recognized by the United Nations, the fundamental conventions of With OnLight, content published on our corpothe International Labor Organization (ILO) and rate page makes communication with this audithe principles established in labor legislation. ence more effective by allowing them to view content from a mobile device. Another advanIn 2018 we hired 676 people for technical and tage is that employees can post their own content commercial activities previously performed on the platform, providing a more organic and by outsourced companies and now performed authentic source of Company news. in-house. Further insourcing is taking place through our Young Apprentice Program, a collaboration with the Industry-Led Training Service (SENAI) to provide technical education to employees and community members. In internal communications, we launched a corporate social network, OnLight, and we introduced the Light WAY at partner companies. OnLight WORKFORCE PROFILE 4,712 employees 7,861 third-party workers 78+22+Q 22+78+Q 93+7+Q 7+93+Q 3,655 men 57 interns 1,057 women 7,404 men 457 women 199 people with disabilities LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33 KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT TRAINING AND CAPACITY The specific expertise required in our industry, and BUILDING [GRI EU14] the need to ensure our employees are continually In 2018, Light employees attended a total of developed and kept up-to-date, makes knowl195,743 hours of training, an increase of 14% edge management a continuous effort at Light. compared with the previous year. This included: We encourage our employees to seek self-devel• Crew leader training: to develop crew leaders’ opment through tools such as our Knowledge skills in areas such as safety, customer service Portal, which features up-to-date content and and improving operational performance. Six skill-specific development pathways8. In 2018, our groups received training in 2018. Knowledge Portal registered a total of 36,893 • Further in-house training on Ministry of course attendances and 16,000 hours of training. Employment regulations and operational The “Ethics the Light WAY” pathway and the training such as line-clearance tree trimming, “Translating Skills” and “Safe Behavior” courses live-line tree trimming, emergency response were the most popular in 2018. service on overhead lines and live lines at 138 kV substations. Our Light Academy supports knowledge retention on two fronts: • A total of 676 insourced employees received regulatory and operational training in-house, • In-house training: we have an internal function improving the quality of training and reducing tasked with updating and preparing procecosts by approximately 84% compared with dures, instructions and educational materials training delivered by consultants. that help to build employees’ skills through training courses; • Facilitator Program: engineers update and develop operating procedures and provide operational training. AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING – DIRECT EMPLOYEES [GRI 404-1] 2016 2017 2018 Average training man hours Women Men Women Men Women Men Senior Management 14.7 13.8 19.9 19.8 13.8 13.2 Middle management 18.7 21.1 45.6 49.6 31.4 35.3 Operational 37.0 33.4 29.3 57.7 39.5 62.7 Professional 17.9 27.1 22.7 28.4 18.5 25.1 Technical 31.3 32.4 43.1 50.7 44.9 39.4 Average 23.9 25.5 32.1 41.2 29.6 35.1 8 A pathway is a set of development assets spanning different learning methods, including online courses, , classroom courses, book and movie recommendations, or other activities offering employees an opportunity to interact with others. 34 CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Leadership Development Program PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT A number of initiatives were launched in the year [GRI 404-2, GRI 404-3] as part of our Leadership Development Program. Our Performance Management process uses A total of 198 delegates attended lectures on an integrated approach to develop a culture internal people management processes, and of merit-based opportunity, feedback, and self Company spokespersons attended media training career management. Employees are assessed on to prepare them to deal with different auditheir competencies, performance and potential, ences. Four management meetings were held and on how well they are performing against throughout the year for alignment on business our management commitments and targets. strategy, attended by the Executive Board and Assessment results inform decisions on promoall leaders at Light. Speakers at these meetings tions and merit-based opportunities, as well as included Hermes Chipp, José Roberto Guimarães our corporate leadership development strategy. and Marcio Fernandes, who discussed our Management Philosophy with Light executives In 2018, 95% of our direct employees completed during the first phase of development of a project. competencies assessments, a process consisting of self-assessments followed by assessments by Executives’ first exposure to our Management employees’ managers, after which employees Philosophy was through a specialized NGO. receive feedback and prepare an Individual Delegates were divided into seven groups, with Development Plan (IDP). a total of 193 leaders, for a day of instruction on developing a project to help make dreams come In the feedback step of the competencies assesstrue for children with serious illnesses. The goal ment, we administered non-mandatory training of the initiative was build skills in our leaders that to employees on how to receive feedback in a will help them work more closely and effectively constructive way. The goal of the training was to with each other, as well as empathy and the ability help employees to profit more from their converto engage around common goals. sations with their managers. Individual Development Plans (IDP) [GRI 404-2] Individual Development Plans (IDPs) prepared as a deliverable from competency assessments comprised more than 40 development activities for employees, including online training courses, videos, book recommendations, and other self-development activities to enhance individual performance. A group of 452 employees attended a workshop titled “Building results”, which used Lego Serious Play methodology to reinforce and demonstrate the behaviors and mentalities expected of employees as part of their competencies so they are able to function in an integrated manner and deliver better results. Engineer Development Program In 2018 a pilot workshop program was initiated for engineers at our Distribution department to enhance self-awareness, accountability and career self-management. The program includes activities to develop successors, such as mentoring, job rotation, discussions with subject-matter experts, among other activities. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 35 ORGANIZATIONAL CLIMATE Engagement and recognition initiatives for field teams (Engineering, Commercial and Seniority medals (20, Generation departments) 30, 40 years, or above) KEY INITIATIVES IN 2018 Expanded in-house opportunities, improving employees’ prospects for professional growth and motivation Special discounts at education institutions— trade courses, language courses, higher education, daycare and secondary Launched I-nove, a program education—for employees that encourages employees and their dependents to support the organization in delivering results by submitting innovative ideas 36 CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL HEALTH & SAFETY of the “right to refuse” process, follow-up on Occupational safety is an ongoing challenge, action in response to serious and very serious and employee behavior at all levels of the organon-conformities, and the Light Risk Index, which nization is a determinant of safety performance. monitors risks in operational activities based on That is why we invest continually to improve the rate and seriousness of deviations. Last year our processes and procedures. Programa Vida! the Light Risk Index was incorporated into our has remained a flagship program for workforce overall performance target, and was reduced training and awareness-raising on safety. [GRI EU21] to a value of 07 in the year, a decrease of 59% compared with the previous year. Lower injury rates have come as a result of sustained efforts within Programa Vida!, including safety inspections, supplier screening, digitization PROGRAMA VIDA! LEVERS 1. AWARENESS 2. CAPACITY BUILDING 3. PROCESS REVIEWS • Year-round initiatives and • Crew leader training to develop • Process reviews and activities for direct employees team leadership skills with a focus occupational accident and partners to raise awareness on safety, customer service and investigations, reformulation among the workforce on the improving operational results. of Programa Vida! Committees importance of adhering to and sub-committees, safety standards and protecting • Training on regulatory standards and processes for (NR10, NR35 and NR33) for direct life in all situations. reviewing and updating employees, including refresher technical, operational • Our 365 Injury-Free Days training, provided in-house and safety procedures. campaign awarded prizes to to deliver a better training 31 teams, reaching experience to participants. 2.800 employees; • Operational training done • 4,000 people reached in-house to meet internal training daily by Toolbox Talks; needs – turnover and insourcing of previously outsourced activities • 715 behavioral observations – and ad hoc refresher safety, by operational leaders; process and technical training. • 2,700 Caravanas da Vida workshop attendances; • 3,472 people participated in Internal Accident Prevention Week (SIPAT) activities. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 37 • In-person medical exams where employees take In 2018 we also conducted ans assessment to leave for more than three days or multiple lostdetermine the level of crew and leader engagetime incidents occur for related reasons; ment around the concept of an interdependent safety culture. The assessment drew inputs from • Improved synergies with managers to ensure 900 employees through questionnaires, interable-bodied employees return to work on views and focus groups. modified duty; any deviations are reported to department managers, who work closely with Light also has a Permanent Accident Prevention employees to ensure their tasks support their Committee (CPPA), and has worked more closely recovery; with partners to improve safety performance by • Outpatient care at our medical clinic. implementing commitment letters elicited by our People & Business Management Manager, and Annual Safety Plans for large partners. PUBLIC SAFETY Light has intensified field inspections and moniLight ended the year with zero fatal injuries, toring activities to assess risks, and where unsafe excluding accidents when commuting. This was situations are identified, we work directly with our best performance to date, exceeding our affected departments to alert the public. This has previous record in 2013. Reportable injuries enabled us to reduce incidents involving members increased by 13% and serious injuries declined of the public. A total of 28 incidents involving the by 8%, including in third-party operations. These public occurred in 2017, four more than the 24 in figures reflect prevention initiatives and efforts 2018, meaning a 14% reduction this year. undertaken with support from leadership. Our Injury Frequency Rate in 2018 increased by 0.5% compared with 2017, although most losttime injuries were minor injuries such as bruises, sprains and scrapes. Our injury severity rate decreased substantially by 89% compared with the previous year, to the lowest level since 2013, which means injuries resulting from incidents were less severe. Occupational absenteeism was reduced by 6%: from 1.54 in 2017 to 1.45 in 2018. Some of our occupational safety improvements in the year included [GRI 403-3]: FREQUENCY RATE (FR) SEVERITY RATE (SR) 3.16 818 1.95 1.96 359 89% reduction in our Injury 87 Frequency Rate 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 38 CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL QUALITY OF LIFE PROGRAM Special dates marked as part of In 2018 we continued existing programs and our Quality of Life program: launched new initiatives within our Quality of Life • International Women’s Day Program to improve the work environment and • National Hypertension Prevention Day encourage employees to adopt healthy practices. • Heart Week Our key activities and programs • Pink October and Blue November; in the year included: • Children’s Day; • Viva Melhor: We implemented a pilot • Kindness Day Cardiovascular Risk Prevention program to identify, monitor and treat employees with cardiovascular risk; ILUMINAR This program delivers on our commitment to • The Light Running Team: 50 employees are corporate social responsibility by helping to give coached by a physical education instructor and employment opportunities to youth with intellecparticipate in fun runs organized as part of our tual disabilities under the Internship Act. Quality of Life program; • Fun Runs: Light Running Team members and The program has received recognition in the other employees can participate in fun runs corporate world for its innovative approach, and organized in Rio de Janeiro with supporting in 2018 was used by the Industry-Led Training infrastructure and fitness coaches; Service (SEBRAE) in Rio de Janeiro as a model for • Yellow September: Light marks Yellow a similar program, which hired five former Light September with suicide prevention campaigns interns who participated in the program. featuring lectures to raise employee awareness about risk factors for psychiatric and emotional UNION RELATIONS disorders; • Light fosters dialog based on trust, and in 2018 • Choir: a choir comprised of employees stages completed the collective bargaining process in performances on special occasions. Choir record time—the agreement was approved in singing is not only for personal enjoyment, just 27 days, in May 2018; but also improves integration, teamwork and • We periodically monitor any labor issues as communication. required in our Collective Labor Agreement; • Light has a Permanent Committee for Accident Other significant programs and activities included: Prevention that reviews occupational health Bebê Saúde (infant health) and breast-feeding and safety indicators and recommends lounges; our Active Living Program; fitness centers improvements for accident prevention. and workplace exercise; Bem Querer (prevention and treatment of alcohol and substance abuse); An agreement concluded between Light and and Educational and Psychological Support unions provides employees terminated without allowances. cause with the right to retire if they are less than 24 months away from the minimum retirement age. Light pays the social security contributions remaining to be paid. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 39 Innovation Light is committed to developing new solutions to Our GDIS system has been fully redesigned to improve our services and customer satisfaction. In manage the full scope of field operations, both 2018 we made particularly significant progress in technical and commercial, from crew dispatching Information Technology; this included our ÚN1CO to performance indicators. GDIS features include project, a new commercial management (Billing/ geographic dispatching with geospatial functionCustomer Service) and Customer Relationship ality, real-time switching, load determination, Management (CRM) solution. This solution has integration with billing and CRM systems, and delivered improved efficiencies and excellence other functionality. across our service channels, providing significant operational benefits. Implementation of Atlantis, our new GIS (Geographic Information System), is on track for delivery as agreed between Light and CEMIG, with milestone deliveries scheduled throughout 2018 and final delivery planned for 2019. The new system is based on GE's Smallworld™ Electric Office and is integrated with our Smart Grid management system (Hemera), commercial system (SAP-CCS), financial and accounting system (SAP-ECC), GDIS (Operations and Dispatching Management) and grid engineering solutions (Pertec, Interplan, Cymdist). ÚN1CO Improved efficiency and follow-up on service requests Automated dispatching in response to work orders: connections, New controls and disconnections, reconnection, rules for enhanced power recovery, etc operations safety Increased productivity through process automation: receivables recovery, revenue protection and loss reduction 40 CONNECTED TO HUMAN AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL OTHER IT HIGHLIGHTS IN 2018 R&D PROGRAM [GRI EU8] OSB (On Site Billing): A solution that automates Total ANEEL-regulated R&D investment in 2018 the meter reading and on-site billing process, was R$ 23.9 million, including R$ 20.7 million improving efficiency and reducing operating invested in projects at Light SESA and R$ 3.2 costs. The new process has also provided the follomillion at Light Energia. wing benefits: • New services embedded in the meter-reading Although investments were less than planned, we process, including customer details updates, met our regulatory R&D obligation of maintaining inspections, notices to customers, etc.; a pre-SElIC balance below the regulatory limit. The target was missed as result of the delayed • Meter reading agents as customer relationship launch of new projects and the fact that we revirepresentatives; sited previous process improvements in 2018. • Shorter invoice-to-due-date periods; These improvements, however, have created a • Earlier revenue inflows and improved cash more collaborative approach to selecting projects, flows. ensuing they are fully aligned with our strategic plan. In 2018 we initiated 30 new projects. SCAN: A mobile solution for managing field operations and crews, including dispatching and Our strategy for R&D projects focuses on the Work Order (LIDE, CORE, REN and EMERGENCY) biggest challenges we face as a utility, including fulfillment, offering the following additional electricity theft and improving quality indicators. benefits: Out of the 30 projects initiated in 2018, 23 are • Operational efficiency; related to these challenges, with seven addressing non-technical losses and 13 addressing power • Automated integration with GDIS quality (six in distribution and seven for high-vol(Dispatching); tage systems). • Reduced operating costs; • Elimination of backoffice activities; Our approach is to develop R&D solutions that • Supports multidisciplinary teams to optimize have applications in our day-to-day operations fieldwork. and deliver technology and process improvements that ultimately result in improved quality Máximo: The first milestones were completed in of service to customers. Light must remain alert implementing IBM Maximo Asset Management, a to the changes emerging in our industry in the system designed to optimize maintenance manashort and medium term. These changes range gement across our distribution assets, including from disruptive innovation to expansion of distrisubstations, overhead and underground power buted generation assets. We must also remain lines, power system components and low, medium open to new ideas and solutions in addressing and high-voltage infrastructure. Key benefits these significant challenges. include: • Improved operations planning; • Increased operations efficiency; • Comprehensive management of work orders, contracts and materials; • Enhanced regulatory compliance; • Data integration for analysis in a single system; • End-to-end asset management. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 41 Light’s R&D Program plays a strategic role as an innovation lever that is responsive to changing concepts and consumer behavior, enabling us to craft new strategies to achieve set goals and develop new business models for the utilities industry. It also develops solutions that are more connected to the digital world and continually improve efficiency and quality of service. Key projects under development in 2018: • Meters with tamper tell-tale devices (expenditure to date: R$ 1,200,400.36); • Corrosion detection system for live-line cables – Pilot Run (expenditure to date: R$ 888,353.11); • Smart fraud report handling system (expenditure to date: R$ 861,462.51); • Nanotechnology-based materials for gas capture in underground distribution system We develop R&D solutions that chambers (expenditure to date: R$ 673,962.23); • Hydro generator heat exchanger cleaning have applications in our day-to-day system (expenditure to date: R$ 549,480.08). operations and deliver technology Projects completed in 2018: and process improvements. • Emerging power sector technology survey; • Heat exposure management system for confined-space work in underground power systems; • Stand-alone reverse logistics platform for municipal solid waste. Our challenge in 2019 will be to monitor and control the roughly 60 R&D projects across Light SESA and Light Energia. These projects will receive an aggregate of R$ 45 million in funding, including R$ 39 million at Light SESA and R$ 6 million at Light Energia, under a plan to reduce our SELIC balance by 2020, as a regulatory requirement. 42 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL O ur natural and manufactured capitals and material and adverse effects on results of provide the resources needed to deliver operations. safe and high-quality power supply. Light develops partnerships and maintains continual Water is our primary natural capital as a raw matedialog with stakeholders to identify their needs rial required to generate electricity. Accordingly, and expectations, improve relations with stakeLight has an environmental management holders, provide high-quality service and create program in place for the protection of ecosystems value for all stakeholders. and water quality. [GRI 304-2] Market Overview Water storage levels in the Paraíba do Sul River High-quality Basin were lower in early 2018 than in the same period in 2017. Between January and October, generation storage levels varied as observed in recent years. From November, storage levels rose substantially The water supply systems for the Metropolitan and ended the year at 34.15%, higher than the Area of Rio de Janeiro and our hydroelectric 33.9% at year-end 2017. In the Southeast/Midwest power generation facilities are interconnected. subsystems, Natural Inflow Energy (ENA) was The Metropolitan Area of Rio de Janeiro includes above the expected long-term average, reflecting Rio de Janeiro City and 18 surrounding cities. increased rainfall, and was augmented by Stored Energy (EAR) during these months. Much of the water supplied to the Metropolitan Area of Rio de Janeiro flows through the Lajes In terms of discharge rates, Light’s power plants Complex—which primarily comprises the Nilo were operated in compliance with Joint ANA/ Peçanha, Fontes Nova and Pereira Passos hydroDAEE/IGAM/INEA Resolution 1382 (December 7, power dams, all operated by Light Energia. The 2015) throughout the year. highly complex water intake system requires coordination across the different entities involved in Lajes SHP operation and maintenance, as this affects the The Lajes SHP commenced commercial operation different pumping stations, power plants and in the second half of the year and is currently multiple reservoirs. supplying electricity under longand medium-term agreements, generating sustainable Any changes or disruptions in water discharge revenues for the Company. can affect water supplies to residents in the Metropolitan Area of Rio de Janeiro. This The Lajes SHP has also generated opportunities could result in liability, reputational damage, for local sourcing of labor for activities such as LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 43 plant operation and maintenance and cleaning • Recertified power plant Integrated and housekeeping, supporting the development Management Systems; of southern Rio de Janeiro State. • Commissioned audible dam warning systems, including sirens installed at the Ilha dos Pombos Commercial operation of the Lajes SHP facility hydropower plant and in the district of Porto also provides greater flexibility in the operation Velho do Cunha, in the municipality of Carmo; of the Lajes Complex, which provides water supply • Upgraded the supervisory and control system to more than 90% of the Metropolitan Area of at the Pereira Passos HPP; Rio de Janeiro. • Recertified power plant Integrated Management Systems; Key initiatives in 2018: • Completed our erosion remediation plan at the • Developed a study on design options for a Santa Branca dam. by-pass tunnel at the Nilo Peçanha HPP; • Prepared Power Plant Emergency Response Plans containing guidelines on dam failure response; 44 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Quality of service [GRI 203-1, GRI EU6, GRI EU23] Supported by a strategy to effectively manage quality of 10 KEY INITIATIVES service, in 2018 Light set a record for to improve quality EOD and EOD with less investment of service in 2018 than initially estimated. 1. Intensified preventive 6. Implemented asset and predictive management technologies maintenance 2. Enhanced tree 7. Installed new protection trimming efforts equipment 3. Tree-branch grinders 8. Drones used to inspect used to process tree overhead power systems trimming waste and substations 4.  eployed smart sensors in D 9. Self-healing systems9 our distribution systems used on 131 overhead to reduce the time taken distribution circuits, reducing to troubleshoot faults EOD by 33 minutes and restore power 5. Developed web-based 10. Created a short-circuit assessment integrated management tool to help troubleshoot tools that provide substation faults and reduce the competitive advantage and time taken to recover from, and minimize human error the frequency of, circuit faults 9 Self-healing systems that support automatic system recovery without operator intervention in the event of a system fault. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 45 Overhead and underground High voltage system system improvements improvements • Installed protection equipment at a number In 2018 we increased the number of high-voltage of points in the overhead distribution system, works and consequently our headcount, requiring some of which have been equipped with increased supervisor involvement in disseminating communication equipment supporting remote our occupational safety policy. monitoring of electrical variables; Planned preventive maintenance on substation • Self-healing systems used to sectionalize equipment and transmission lines presented faulted sections and reduce the number of another challenge in the year, and was only customers affected by outages; possible through improved resource efficiency. • Installed and replaced overhead power transIn high-voltage operation and maintenance work, formers to accommodate added loads; we developed operating procedures to allocate • Conducted 3,863 preventive inspections on field crews and vehicles on a previously planned overhead circuits, 20,418 inspections on transbasis that takes weather and logistics conditions former vaults and 51,240 preventive actions into account. These initiatives supported strong on manholes; performance in the high-voltage segment in terms of quality of power supply. • 2,937 distribution transformers replaced; In 2018 significant changes were made to our • Replaced sections of bare (unprotected) overhigh-voltage system topology to accommodate head lines with robust (protected and insuintegration with the new 500/138 kV terminal lated) power lines; in Nova Iguaçu. Other important milestones • Installed new overhead power line sections to completed in the year include power line reconimprove operational flexibility and mitigate figurations and the second-phase upgrade of the impacts from contingency events; Cascadura 138 kV substation, the largest in our concession area. • Continued to implement our Underground Distribution System Upgrade and Supplementing these investments, we impleModernization Plan, including the removal mented a new emergency control and protection and/or replacement of 578 mineral oil-insusystem designed jointly with the National System lated switches and replacement of 582 transOperator (ONS). formers, renewing approximately 10% of our current assets; In addition to items under our regulatory plan, we completed the first phase of construction of • Initiated a diagnostics and testing program for a 138 kV circuit (TL 201) connecting the Cordovil medium-voltage circuits to improve available and Brás de Pina substations, primarily serving the information about underground system condiIlha do Governador ring circuit. tions to better target maintenance operations; • Implemented new technologies in transformer vault renovations to improve water proofing and leak tightness. 46 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Key initiatives in 2018 RESULTS [GRI EU28, GRI EU29] in the high-voltage segment: As a result of these initiatives and other activities • Completed the first phase of the digitizaunder our Action Plan and Underground System tion project for the Pedro Ernesto substaUpgrade Plan, we ended the year with an EOD tion, improving the reliability of the Ilha do (Equivalent Outage Duration) of 7.78 hours, an Governador ring circuit, which supplies power improvement of 14.9% on 2017 and 20.6% below to the International Airport of Rio de Janeiro; the level agreed with ANEEL. EOF (Equivalent Outage Frequency) as of December 2018 was 4.44 • Initiated a retrofit of the Distributed Control x, down 15.6% from December 2017 and 26.1% System at the Porta D’Água substation; below the level agreed with ANEEL. • Upgraded auxiliary switchgear at the Olaria substation, improving the reliability of the Other results and benefits included the positive substation protection and control system; financial impact on Factor X from reduced EOD • Upgraded telecommunications systems at and EOF, a R$ 5.1 million reduction in financial several substations. compensation, and customer-base expansion, driving up revenues. INVESTMENTS In terms of productivity, in 2018 we continued to Investments in distribution and transmission were insource tree trimming crews, with the result that R$ 436.1 million in 2018. Maintenance expense tree trimming productivity improved by 7.3% to was R$ 145.4 million. 255,700 operations in the year; and we started a pilot program to insource emergency response System expansion investments amounted to R$ and live-line maintenance crews (distribution and 78 million across multiple projects, including transmission). underground lines LTS 200/201 as part of the Ilha do Governador ring circuit; reconductoring of Cascadura São José lines 1 and 2; and replacement of 25 138 kV circuit breakers at the Cascadura substation, due to short-circuit levels being exceeded. Under our quality plan, we invested a total of R$ 7.6 million in substation automation and R$ 900,000 in upgrading substation telecommunications systems. 14.9% EOD reduction EOD (hours) – 12 months EOF (times) – 12 months 11.70 6.48 6.01 9.14 9.80 5.26 7.78 4.44 15.6% EOF reduction December December December Target December December December Target ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 under 5th ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 under 5th Amendment Amendment LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 47 Our customers [GRI 102-6] Total electricity consumption10 was 28,027 GWh in 2018, a decrease of 1.3% compared with 2017 reflecting a 6.2% retraction in the captive market11 that was partly offset by 11.8% growth in the free market and 5,0% growth in utility consumption. The impact on the captive market was felt primarily in the commercial (-10.6%) and residential (-6.9%) segments, which together account for 76.9% of the total captive market. The industrial segment and other segments, accounting for 23.1% of the captive market, retracted by 10.5% and expanded by 4.8%, respectively. Growth in other segments is explained primarily by reinvoiced public lighting consumption in May (+44.2 GWh) and December (+47.7 GWh). The industrial and commercial segments in the free market recorded growth, with the commercial segment expanding by +19.0% and Mainstreaming the use our virtual the industrial segment by +9.4%. The transportaservice and self-service channels is tion segment retracted slightly by -0.2%. the best approach to serving today’s The captive market, accounting for 65.8% of the consumers, who increasingly total market in 2018 compared with 69.3% in 2017, consumed 18,455 GWh in the year, 1,218 GWh less demand practical and fast solutions. (-6.2%) than in 2017. The weak consumption performance in the captive market is partly explained In 2018 we implemented a range of by reduced power recovery (REN) effort in the improvements as part of this effort. year, with power recoveries decreasing by 24.9% compared with the previous year (-271.9 GWh). Excluding the effect of power recoveries, the market retracted by 5.1% primarily as a result of 220.32 GWh in migrations to the Free Contracting Environment. Discounting both effects, lower-thanaverage temperatures in the first months of the year reduced consumption by 15% (-561.31 GWh) from 2017. The contraction additionally reflects the economic slowdown in the state of Rio de Janeiro. The free market accounted for 24.6% of our total market and transmitted 6,906 GWh of electricity, 730 GWh more than in 2017, with power transmission increasing by 386 GWh in the industrial segment and 345 GWh in the commercial segment. 10 As from 2018, we are including utilities in total billings figures and have accordingly adjusted the figures for the first nine months of 2017 to include utilities for comparability. 11 The amount of invoiced electricity supplied to captive consumers and other utilities, not including distribution system losses, as specified in ANEEL Resolution 166 (October 10, 2005). 48 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 12-MONTH (GWh) 2018 2017 2018 – 2017 Change (%) Share (%) Captive 18,455 19,673 -1,218 -6.2% 100% Residential 8,600 9,239 – 638.71 -6.9% 46.6% Industrial 697 779 – 81.54 -10.5% 3.8% Commercial 5,598 6,259 – 661.56 -10.6% 30.3% Other 3,560 3,397 163.59 4.8% 19.3% Free 6,906 6,177 730 11.8% 100% Residential 0.0% Industrial 4,487 4,101 385.66 9.4% 65.0% Commercial 2,156 1,811 344.56 19.0% 31.2% Other 264 265 – 0.58 -0.2% 3.8% Free + Captive 25,361 25,850 -489 -1.9% 100% Residential 8,600 9,239 – 638.71 -6.9% 30.7% Industrial 5,184 4,880 304.12 6.2% 18.5% Commercial 7,753 8,070 – 316.99 -3.9% 27.7% Other 3,824 3,661 163.01 4.5% 13.6% Utilities 2,666 2,539 127 5.0% 9.5% Total + Conc. 28,027 28,389 -362 -1.3% 100.0% RETAIL CUSTOMERS Key customer service Our retail customers across the residential, initiatives in 2018: commercial, rural, industrial and other segments • Implemented invoice payment functionality in receive power supply at low voltage. self-service kiosks, reducing service office occupancy, waiting time and queue length; These customers have multiple service channels • On our Virtual Service Desk, customers can sign available for ease of access to our services. Our up to receive alerts about planned grid maininvestments are focused on offering a wide range tenance with text messages (SMS); of automated services, products and functionality to improve quality of service. • Initiated a project to develop a humanized virtual service desk, with the project due to be We believe that mainstreaming the use our completed in 2019; virtual service and self-service channels is the • Implemented enhancements to our digital best approach to serving today’s consumers, who invoice functionality, allowing customers to increasingly demand practical and fast solutions opt out in case of invoice errors; to their requirements. In 2018 we implemented • The share of services accessed through autoa range of enhancements as part of this effort. mated channels increased from 66% to 80.5%; Examples of our virtual service offering include • Unit service costs reduced by 42% from R$1.35 self-service kiosks for paying bills, and automated to R$ 0.78 as a result of the growing use of Virtual Service Desk services. virtual channels. 80.5% virtual channel share LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49 SERVICE CHANNEL SHARE Service channels Cumulative 2016 2017 2018 Commercial offices 6.2% 6.7% 8.3% 4.1% Call Center 15.5% 15.9% 13.7% 7.6% URA 11.8% 16.4% 12.0% 7.9% Virtual channels 66.5% 61.0% 66.0% 80.5% New technologies New technologies have been deployed on inteLight has also undertaken investments in solugrated, multi-channel platforms that provide tions to deliver omnichannel service. As part of customers with seamless service on any channel, these efforts, we are currently developing Light and anticipate self-service users’ needs though Digital, in which all service processes and funcartificial intelligence, improving the customer tionality will be automated and integrated on experience. a multichannel platform, further enhancing the customer experience. 50 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL PUBLIC AND PRIVATE Service channels WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS The Wholesale Customer segment generated In 2018 we further implemented a new collection 487,000 customer service interactions in the year. and service management model for Private and Our online Virtual Service Desk handled approxPublic Wholesale customers, which account for imately 77% of interactions, a total of 376,500. 40% of our revenues. Customer Service responded to approximately The Private segment—with 4,600 customers and 77,000 emails addressed to grandesclientes@light. 17,000 service drops—accounted for 25% of com.br in the year, including requests for services Light’s total revenues in 2018, or approximately and information from wholesale customers. This R$ 4.24 billion in revenue. Through integrated channel handled 15% of interactions, and now customer relationship and collections manageincorporates new controls to track and monitor ment, our collection rate in the Private segment service interactions with wholesale customers. set a record of 101.47% of billings or R$ 4.3 billion, compared with an initial projection of 99.53%. Telephone service interactions are divided into two separate groups: emergency service is The Government Organizations and Services provided via a toll-free number and managed segment—with 323 customers and approximately jointly with emergency service in the Retail 30,000 service drops, accounted for 15% of total segment. Commercial service is provided by revenues at around R$ 2.53 billion. The three-year account executives and support agents via a collection rate for this segment also set a record commercial PABX number, which handled a total at 103.98% of billings or R$ 2.63 billion. of approximately 29,100 calls in the year, or 6% of service interactions. Improved collection rates were supported by: Our Wholesale Customer Area, a dedicated service • Planned delinquency prevention initiatives; office at Av. Marechal Floriano, provides a venue • An ICMS deduction agreement with the State for in-person service and account meetings, Government to settle overdue payables; with a 2% channel share at approximately 4,000 • Negotiations with delinquent municipal interactions. governments, especially Rio de Janeiro; • Actions addressing overdue receivables (blacklisting, protests and disconnection), and injunction reviews and monitoring at our legal department. In 2018 we further implemented a new collection and service management model for Private and Public Wholesale customers, which account for 40% of our revenues. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 51 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION [GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44] In 2018 we reformulated our customer satisfacEnhanced controls and closer relationships tion program with a new system of action items, with wholesale customers helped us to improve tracking and indicators, helping to build closer our performance in the ABRADEE Wholesale relationships with Light SESA customers. Customer Satisfaction Survey by 1 percentage point compared with 2017; we ended the year We created a Commercial Quality Department with a Perceived Quality Satisfaction Rate (ISQP) tasked with implementing continual process of 71.7. The score assigned to customer relaimprovements to reduce the number complaints, tionship agents was especially high at 84.3, the improve satisfaction levels and retain ISO 9001/15 highest in the last three years. certification for regulated scopes. Another highlight in 2018 was our partnership Light also engaged consultants Buhamra e with the Rio de Janeiro State Government to Romero to implement process improvements create Rede SUSTENT, a program implemented and further increase customer satisfaction levels. by the Rio de Janeiro State Revenue and Planning Their engagement began in September 2018 and Office (SEFAZ-RJ) in collaboration with Light will continue over the following two years, with and the German Development Agency (GIZ). engagement activities spanning from interviews Rede SUSTENT provides solutions and training with leaders to follow up on action plans. to government officials on the sustainable and efficient use of energy. Our Government relaLight won the “Modern Consumer Award for tions initiatives in the year also included presenExcellence in Customer Service” in the Electric tations delivered at city halls in our concession Utility category, which recognizes companies area, as well as forums, summits and meetings demonstrating a commitment to quality in with the Rio de Janeiro Construction Industry customer relationship management. Union (SINDUSCON), the Utilities Installation Workers’ Union (SINDINSTAL), the Rio de Janeiro However, satisfaction survey findings have not yet Board of Engineering and Agronomy (CREA-RJ), reflected recent efforts toward improvement. We the Rio de Janeiro Industry Federation (FIRJAN), believe the Company will exhibit better perforthe Association of Rio de Janeiro Municipalities mance in subsequent assessments. (AEMERJ) and the Rio de Janeiro Trade Association (ACRJ) for networking, alignment on procedures and to strengthen customer satisfaction and our reputation. SATISFACTION SURVEY (%) 2016 2017 2018 Retail Customers ISQP – ABRADEE 62.0 67.7 67.5 Customer Approval Rate – ABRADEE 57.4 61.0 62.1 General Satisfaction Rate – ABRADEE 49.6 60.8 65.2 Service Provision Satisfaction Rate (ISES) 91.0 90.4 87.5 ANEEL Consumer Satisfaction Rating (IASC) 63.9 55.1 58.2 ISQP – Private and Public Bulk Customers 73.4 69.3 71.1 Satisfaction Survey – Public and Private Bulk Customers 82.1 83.2 84.3 (Quality Performance Rate (IDAR) – Customer Service) IDAR Private Segment 86.7 83.7 83.4 IDAR Public Segment 97.3 91.7 94.2 52 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Reducing electricity theft [GRI EU12] Our anti-theft efforts in 2018 were primarily Throughout the year, the departments involved centered on inspection and connection normalheld several meetings to discuss an approach to ization operations. Around 420 field crews balancing the two indicators. The primary change performed a range of anti-theft operations in has been in the ratio of REN inspections on energy-theft hotspots. These targeted efforts connected customers (where successful collection is send out a clear message that Light is highly determore likely) to inspections on suspended customers mined in fighting electricity theft. Throughout (where successful collection is less likely). The ratio the year, our anti-theft initiatives garnered extenwas calibrated from 50/50 to 70/30, then to 80/20, sive media coverage, helping to raise awareness and finally to 90/10 in July 2018. that illegal connections are both a hazard and a criminal offense. To improve collections and ADA performance, REN inspection crews have supported collecElectricity theft was also featured in Rede Globo’s tions (monthly) and ADA efforts (collection from Sunday night special Fantástico, in a 14-minute customers more than 90 days delinquent). Successful report describing the modus operandi of criminal collections efforts help prevent customers from organizations specializing in electricity fraud, increasing ADA expense in the future. the challenges Light has faced in combating electrical power theft, and the harm it does to other The change of strategy against electricity theft consumers. aims to balance REN, collections and ADA efforts and improve inspection quality to minimize Change of strategy litigation. On the downside, the new strategy Anti-theft initiatives improve two indicaincreased our total grid losses from 21.92% in 2017 tors affecting revenue and collections: REN to 23.95% in 2018. While the negative grid-loss (Power Recovery), or past consumption that is performance certainly deserves close attention, it charged retroactively over the period in which must be borne in mind that our new strategy of the customer was illegally connected; and IEN balancing effort will deliver more consistent and (Incorporated Power), or the increase in revenues sustainable results for the Company. from normalized customers. However, the electricity charged retroactively has an adverse effect In Light’s new strategy, field inspections prioritize on collections performance. customers that are currently connected and more likely to be able to pay their debt. Light has also Collection rates tend to decrease, and the intensified oversight of field crews and the quality Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (ADA) tends to of inspections, and has compiled better evidence increase. As a result, power recovery effort was to support inspection reports. This will contribute reduced in the year, although it inherently genergreatly to reducing litigation and standardizing ates low levels of collections, especially where our operations in compliance with regulator customers are disconnected. requirements. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 53 TOTAL LOSSES – 12 MONTHS 8,978 9,028 8,766 8,769 8,827 8,392 8,529 8,353 8,189 8,166 8,000 8,004 8,004 23.93% 23.92% 23.95% 23.22% 23.39% 23.15% 22.98% 22.54% 22.72% 21.87% 22.00% 21.92% 21.75% 20.62% 20.62% 20.62% 20.62% 19.89% 19.89% 19.89% 16.48% 16.48% 16.48% 16.48% 16.48% 16.32% Dec ‘15 Mar ‘16 Jun ‘16 Sept ‘16 Dec ‘16 Mar ‘17 Jun ‘17 Sept ‘17 Dec ‘17 Mar ‘18 Jun ‘18 Sept ‘18 Dec ‘18 Grid losses (%) Losses (GWh) Regulatory limit NONTECHNICAL LOSSES/MARKET – 12 MONTHS 6,179 6,214 6,029 6,212 5,889 5,773 5,895 5,965 5,683 5,552 5,566 5,651 5,508 45.18% 43.69% 43.36% 42.62% 42.22% 42.06% 40.65% 41.47% 39.61% 39.01% 38.40% 37.53% 37.67% 36.06% 36.06% 36.06% 36.06% 36.06% 36.06% 36.06% 36.06% 30.53% 30.53% 30.53% 30.53% 30.11% Dec ‘15 Mar ‘16 Jun ‘16 Sept ‘16 Dec ‘16 Mar ‘17 Jun ‘17 Sept ‘17 Dec ‘17 Mar ‘18 Jun ‘18 Sept ‘18 Dec ‘18 Nontechnical Losses/LV Market % Nontechnical Losses (GWh) Regulatory limit 54 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Market discipline Our market discipline initiatives in 2018 generated 86 GWh in incorporated power (higher post-normalization consumption) under Light’s Loss Reduction Plan, supporting better power recovery performance in the year. These include initiatives to address recurring fraud/irregularities; actively contacting customers suspended for delinquency but who fail to contact the Company to normalize their account; and visits to addresses without active power supply accounts. Communication initiatives In 2018 we launched a new institutional campaign to underline Light’s stance against electricity theft. In addition to encouraging discussion about the subject and describing our efforts against illegal connections, the campaign also invited people to report electricity theft, with the result that We launched a web series titled the number of reports on our Rio Sem Gato de Luz “Four taps and a funeral” to website more than doubled after the campaign was launched. support our efforts against electricity theft, in our first foray The campaign was featured on major TV channels, popular radio stations, bus media, and espeinto video content production. cially social media. On social media, we addressed common concerns raised through our customer service channels, and launched a web series titled “Four taps and a funeral”, our first foray into video production. Using casual and informative language, the four-episode YouTube series tells the story of Pedro da Luz, an electrician’s son, who comes across different types of illegal connections and sees the impact they have on society. media content has dwindled as a result, we have On our Rio Sem Gato de Luz website, we published succeeded in securing a majority of positive versus an increasing number of articles on electricity negative media coverage. fraud, and on social media we repurposed published content to address institutional quesWe have continued to pursue a strategy of tions raised by customers. These efforts combined reaching out to digital influencers via WhatsApp helped to increase Light’s social media followers interactions and in-person meetings. In September by 20%. we launched a new video series to raise awareness about the problems caused by electricity theft. In press outreach, we developed strategic relaDigital influencers were invited to an exclusive tionships with journalists through WhatsApp premiere session, and the film was starred by interactions, and as a result Light was featured actors from the Nós do Morro theater troupe, a in several high-audience news programs. While collaboration enabled by our existing relationship news organizations have become leaner, and with these stakeholders. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 55 Social and environmental initiatives Prioritize clean Our sustainability is intertwined with the developand renewable ment of our concession area and broader Rio de energy sources Janeiro State. By supplying electricity and energy efficiency solutions, Light acts as a catalyst for local development. ENVIRONMENT Light is committed to preserving and conserving the environment in our concession area, and to proactively working to increase environmental awareness. The commitments we have undertaken under our Environmental Policy include: minimizing environmental impact and preventing pollution; using natural resources efficiently; supporting environmental education; and fostering dialog with communities and OUR ENVIRONMENTAL stakeholders. AND CLIMATE COMMITMENTS Support the conservation of biodiversity in and around our reservoirs Reduce direct and indirect greenhouse Implement and gas emissions Develop and promote promote waste technologies which recycling benefit the climate and environment and reduce electric power wastage Adopt and disseminate water stewardship and waste reduction practices 56 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL In delivering on our environmental and climate Environmental Management System (EMS) implecommitments, we have implemented a range of mentation and maintenance; reforestation and environmental preservation programs and projslope stabilization; aquatic plant removal; and ects in our concession area that have firmly posiR&D. tioned Light as an environmentally responsible Company, and have expanded our environmental Our investment was less than in the previous year initiatives within the principles of sustainable due to the completion of two major Group projdevelopment. ects in the year. At Light Energia we completed erosion remediation work on the banks of the Key initiatives: Santa Branca dam reservoir; and at Light SESA • Implementation of an Environmental we completed an upgrade of the 138kV SF6 Gas Management System based on ISO 14001. In Insulated Switchgear (GIS) at the Santo Antônio 2018 we migrated to the most recent edition Substation. of the standard (2015) at Light SESA, and mainWaste management tained certification for more than 80% of our business units; All waste is identified, packaged and sent for temporary storage, then transported and • All generation assets certified to ISO 9001 disposed of at licensed facilities. Waste manage(Quality), OHSAS 18001 (Safety), and ISO ment is conducted under a Waste Management 14001 (Environmental Management). In 2018 Plan and related environmental procedures. Light Light was recertified to all three standards and SESA has a licensed facility for temporary storage secured approval from the certification body to of class I hazardous waste. obtain certification to the most recent editions (2015) of the quality and environment stanLight SESA manages hazardous and non-hazdards [GRI 416-1]; ardous waste through reverse logistics. In this • A Degraded Site Remediation Program (PRAD) process, waste materials removed from our power or Reforestation Program, and component transmission and distribution systems are stored programs for the Lajes Complex, Ilha dos in a dedicated aggregation warehouse. Materials Pombos and Santa Branca facilities; are segregated by type in an adequate and environmentally compliant facility. They are then sent • Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventories and for environmentally compliant and/or sustainable action to reduce emissions; disposal in accordance with the Brazilian Solid • Reverse logistics for materials and other Waste Policy (Act 12305, August 2, 2010). measures to prevent and mitigate pollution; Light’s revenue of R$ 4,873,397.05 is net of the • Substation upgrades and newbuild highlogistics costs of collecting waste materials at voltage substations that minimize impact on secondary warehouses and the operating costs the environment; of the reverse logistics warehouse. • Partnerships with universities supporting environmental R&D projects generating benefits Our waste collection operations compliantly not only for natural resource conservation in disposed of approximately 797 metric tons of iron, our concession area, but also for the academic 495 metric tons of aluminum cable, 215 metric and scientific community and for broader tons of insulators, 43 metric tons of plastic, 206 society. metric tons of copper wire, 569 metric tons of R$ 4.9 wood fragments, 203 metric tons of wooden million In 2018 we invested R$ 12.5 million in environpoles, 316 metric tons of concrete poles, 3,100 return on mental initiatives involving environmental mainmetric tons of overhead and underground transreverse tenance and safety; environmental education and formers, 236 metric tons of electronic equipment logistics projects; environmental licensing and compliance; and meters; and 133,000 liters of oil. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 57 Natural resource efficiency [GRI 302-3] Within Scope 1, our primary emission source is At Light we monitor and meter our electricity natural gas combustion (fixed source). These and water consumption at our facilities, organize emissions are produced by Light ESCO’s cogeninitiatives to raise awareness among employees, eration plant, which captures and markets part partners and customers, and work to continually of the carbon dioxide generated by natural gas improve our processes. combustion. Light’s total energy consumption in 2018 was 147 Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from GWh, up 2.5% from the previous year, and our purchased electricity and transmission and distriresulting energy intensity was 0.00743 kWh per R$ bution losses. In accounting for Scope 2 emissions, of gross revenue. The increase is related to higher a National Grid emission factor is applied that fuel consumption as a result of intensified field covers all power plants (hydro, fossil and wind) inspection and customer normalization activities. in operation in Brazil. Water consumption at our facilities decreased by Our goal for 2018 will be to reduce Scope 1 emis7.39% compared with the previous year as a result sions by 6%. of process improvements. Carbon footprint Climate change [GRI 201-2, GRI 305-1, In 2018 Light SESA’s carbon footprint was GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4, GRI 305-5] 25.7554kg of CO2eq/MWh, and Light Energia’s Our business results can be negatively affected carbon footprint was 3.3102 kg of CO2eq/MWh. by unfavorable hydrological conditions, power outage risks, and water rationing in Brazil. The greatest impact on carbon footprint emissions Climate change is an ongoing concern for our is from waste generated by the operations of both Company as it affects both Light Energia—which Light Energia and Light SESA. At Light Energia, is 100% reliant on hydropower—and Light SESA, aquatic plants (macrophytes) remain the primary which is affected by rising temperatures and component of the company’s carbon footprint. weather extremes. The warmer it is, the higher Light has continued to invest in process improvethe consumption of electricity. This can potentially ments to address aquatic waste. result in overloads of our distribution system, higher non-technical losses, and default. Risks and opportunities related to climate change are detailed in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) questionnaire available on our Investor Relations website under Reports. Our annual Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory reported total emissions of 255,791.44 t Co2eq across Light SESA, Light Energia and Light Esco, a decrease of 17.86% compared with the previous year. Greenhouse gas emissions intensity, a measure that is relative to gross revenue, was 0.010 tCO2eq/ LEARN MORE R$ thousand for Light SESA; 0.012 tCO2eq/R$ thousand for Light Energia; and 0.373 tCO2eq/ About our R$ thousand for Light ESCO. Emissions intensity environrefers to Scope 1 + 2. mental programs 58 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL PRACTICES GEARED TO LIGHT SPONSOSHIPS – BY TYPE (R$ THOUSAND) COMMUNITIES [GRI 203-2, GRI 413-1] 2016 2017 2018 Sports 1,500 270 138 Light has developed programs that promote Culture 1,290 240 822 sustainable development, improve quality of Education life for residents in our concession area, and Environment 82 strengthen our relations with impoverished Other 272 233 314 communities that are difficult to approach. The Total 3,062 825 1,274 programs and projects we sponsor are aligned with our strategic plan and strategic guidance, and work towards goals that support Company Key sponsorships in 2018: results. • Vale do Café Festival 2018: with a high-quality program of activities hosted at town squares, Company funds and a wide range of partnerships churches and historical farms, the festival has are used to support these programs, including helped to boost tourism in the Vale do Paraíba funding from the ANEEL Energy Efficiency area by increasing its visibility as a tourist destiProgram, social on-lending from the Brazilian nation, helping to activate the local economy. Development Bank (BNDES) and tax-deducted The festival also generates income and job funds under the Rio de Janeiro State Culture and business opportunities locally, helping to Incentive Act. keep wealth within communities. As part of a commitment to social inclusion, the festival The projects Light sponsors are located in municalso organizes free music courses taught be ipalities within our concession area, and must: renowned, high-caliber musicians; contribute to social and environmental development, and support and disseminate culture, sports, • São João Marcos Park: this project helps to education and knowledge; help to build Light’s maintain the park grounds and offers educareputation as a company committed to sustaintional activities for students, as well as orgaable development; and support the sustainability nizing cultural, social and environmental of Light’s cultural venues, including museums, preservation initiatives. In 2018 the park cultural centers, theaters, etc. attracted an estimated 10,000 visitors; • Som Mais Eu: this program provides musical All applications for sponsorship are submitted to education to children, teenagers and young an internal committee that assesses whether each adults in Rio de Janeiro. The project—located in project is in line with our principles and whether Morro da Providência, in Rio de Janeiro’s port the budget is feasible. Following validation by district, near Light’s headquarters building— the committee, candidate projects are submitted has a mission of improving quality of life for to Executive Management for formal approval. beneficiaries by engaging them in a program of activities supporting their artistic, cultural, In 2018, we provided sponsorship funding of R$ personal and professional development. In 8.3 million, including R$ 1.3 million in Company addition to bettering the lives of participating funds. children and teenagers, our sponsorship also entitles Light to four musical performances per year, and also includes training for a choir of Company employees. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 59 Key programs and projects run by Instituto Light: • Historical heritage: Light has reintroduced a culture of preserving historical heritage for the future by developing an internal standard on collecting historically significant items; Light collected 9,000 new items in the year, and digitized 3,000 existing photos; • Light Culture Center: total investment was reduced by 50% as a result of an increase of approximately 140% in visitors. The venue has earned R$20,000 per year in rent; • Fontes Dam Heritage Center: a new venue for technical and heritage education at the site of what in its time was the largest hydropower dam in Brazil, and one of the largest in the world, in the state of Rio de Janeiro; Light at School: this program • Book Exchange: a new space at the Light Culture Center where users can trade their reaches more than 53,000 municipal books in for other books; school students in Rio de Janeiro. • Quanta Energia: an interactive performance that uses a fun approach to teach children INSTITUTO LIGHT and adults to be conscientious consumers. In 2018 the show was fully funded by our Energy One of Instituto Light’s flagship initiatives is a Efficiency Program, which provided benefits in cultural education program that includes venues terms of brand building and greater flexibility such as the Light Culture Center, the Light Energy in the choice of venues; Museum, and the São João Marcos Archaeological and Environmental Park, and projects such as • Light at School: each year this program Light at School and the educational play Quanta presents the concepts featured at the Light Energia. Through an entertaining, fun and culturElectricity Museum to more than 53,000 munically-oriented educational experience, audiences ipal school students in Rio de Janeiro, as well as learn about their role as electricity consumers, students from other public and private schools; the importance of energy in their day-to-day lives • Light Electricity Museum: the museum was and for broader society, and how to improve their remodeled and now features new experiments consumption habits. and an updated program; • São João Marcos Archaeological and In schools, a natural interest in the environment Environmental Park: visitors are introduced helps students become familiar with the subjects to concepts within our Energy Efficiency taught. Program; the park now features new experiments, information panels, and educational Some of Instituto Light’s projects in 2018 were materials; aligned with existing government programs, especially in the field of education, supporting • Energy Park new and improved panels and those programs and their goals. These include educational experiments; the Light Electricity Museum, Light at School • Lamartine Babo Theater: now featuring LEARN MORE and the São João Marcos Archaeological and improved stage lighting and new equipment. Environmental Park. about Light Institute 60 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM public hospitals, municipal governments, schools, [GRI 302-4, GRI 302-5, GRI EU7] and NGOs. In addition to these projects, Light’s EEP program is also highly focused on low-income Our ANEEL-regulated Energy Efficiency Program communities in Rio de Janeiro. (EEP) provides funding for initiatives addressed to municipal customers, hospitals, daycare centers In public lighting, our projects deliver benefits and other charities, without, however, neglecting that include lower consumption, better lighting initiatives geared to consumers and generating and enhanced security. Adding to these benejob and income opportunities at micro, small fits, our 1st Call for Proposals for public lighting and medium-sized commercial and industrial projects supports innovation and opportunities businesses. to develop smart cities by combining energy efficiency with energy management based on realProjects are screened for adherence to ANEEL time monitoring capabilities. These projects will requirements and alignment with our corporate be implemented, and their results will be measurstrategy, and prioritize customers with a genuine able, from 2019. need for investment, strengthening their relationship with Light. In 2018, energy efficiency projects received total funding of R$ 25.61 million, including R$ 18.57 In 2018 Light organized two calls for project million directly in EEP funding and R$ 7.04 million proposals and introduced changes in the project in third-party funding. PROCEL funding amounts submission and evaluation process as part of our will be realized in 2019. Management System (SG CPP). All project-related submissions and scoring were handled Projects completed in 2018 generated electricity through the system, in an automated process savings of approximately 2,528 MWh per year that improves transparency and expedites Call and peak shaving of 432 MW. It is important to for Proposals procedures. note that expenditure figures are for all projects in progress in 2018, whereas stated electricity Light’s EEP program helps to reduce non-techsavings are only from projects completed in 2018, nical losses and delinquency. In addressing delinas project results can only be clearly measured quency, for example, projects in collaboration following completion. with governments help to improve customers’ payment capacity, minimizing future delinquency. Our focus in 2018 was on our 5th Public Call for Proposals, which covers our two largest market segments—Residential and Commercial—as well as the Government and Public Services segment; and our 1st Call for Proposals for public lighting projects. A similar strategy is planned for 2019, in which we expect to organize two calls for proposals under Regulatory Resolution 830 (October 23, 2018), which amends the Energy Efficiency Program Procedures (PROPEE) previously approved under Regulatory Resolution 556 (July 2, 2013). A number of important projects are currently in progress, largely for wholesale customers. These include lighting, solar farm, air conditioning, drive system and hospital equipment projects. These projects benefit customers such as universities, LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 61 Energy efficiency projects involving lighting retrofits: • Regional Electoral Court; • Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV); • Instituto Brasileiro de Administração Municipal (IBAM); • Hospital São Francisco (HSF); • Fundação Educacional Severino Sombra. Energy efficiency projects involving lighting retrofits and renewable energy sources (solar farms): • Instituto Estadual do Ambiente (INEA). PROJECTS COMPLETED IN Energy efficiency projects involving 2018 lighting retrofits and water heating: • Fluminense F.C. Energy efficiency projects involving lighting retrofits and air conditioning: • Hospital Universitário Sul Fluminense (HUSF). Energy efficiency projects involving lighting retrofits, air conditioning, drive systems and renewable energy sources (solar farms): • Novo Leblon Gated Community. Educational programs: Energy efficiency projects involving lighting retrofits, air • São João Marcos Park conditioning, and drive systems: • Home Economics • Galeão Air Force Command. • Favela Criativa II • Museum III 62 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL COMMUNITY [GRI 203-1, GRI 203-2, GRI 413-1] Raising awareness The lack of public security in low-income commuLight organizes educational workshops about nities in Rio de Janeiro places a constraint on our conscientious consumption, the hazards created crews’ operations. With Peacekeeping Police Units by electricity theft, and Social Rates, helping becoming less effective, areas previously served by eligible customers to apply for the benefit. We Light’s Efficient Community Program have been also organize educational events in town squares rendered inaccessible for lack of security. and public schools to raise awareness among residents. Light’s strategy to gain access to these customers without placing our employees at risk has been In 2018 Light delivered a total of 162 lectures at to enhance communications at schools, health resident associations, schools and Social Services clinics and Social Services Centers (CRAS) to raise Centers—where low-income families can register awareness and provide important information. with the Federal Government Unified Register— and organized 15 educational events that were Community needs are identified through a particattended by 9,767 residents and elementary and ipatory survey conducted by Light employees with high school teachers and students. residents, community leaders, school teachers and principals, and healthcare workers serving Efficient Community Program communities. In 2018 our investment of approximately R$ 5.8 million as part of the ANEEL Energy Efficiency By working more closely with resident associProgram benefited 9,593 customers living in ations, Light has been able to operate in areas Light’s concession area. These investments, previously considered to pose a high risk to our within our 9th Efficient Community Program, operations. were used toward replacing refrigerators for 1,663 customers, replacing 362 inefficient shower In addition to energy efficiency and sustainability heads with models incorporating heat recovery initiatives, communities covered by our Efficient technology, and replacing lamps at 8,409 homes. Community Project received information about responsible consumption and social rates. EFFICIENT COMMUNITY PROGRAM RESULTS 2016 2017 2018 Consumers benefited by the program 11,285 19,929 9,593 Customers attending community lectures and events (*) 1,667 6,860 9,767 Customers who received energy-efficient lamps 1,596 17,101 8,409 Number of incandescent lamps replaced and disposed of in 13,300 2018 within the 9th Efficient Community Program Number of fluorescent lamps replaced and disposed of in 52,625 2018 within the 9th Efficient Community Program Customers who received energy-efficient refrigerators 2,259 638 1,663 Customers who received shower heads with heat recovery technology 559 2,182 362 (*) These lectures are now organized by social managers in the area. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 63 Compared with 2016 and 2017, the results from New partnerships were also created to expand the our Efficient Community Program initiatives reach of the program, including a collaboration in 2018 were highly positive. Program figures with the Vasco da Gama soccer club. Light is the indicate that Light has gradually succeeded first utility to create a recycling partnership of in restoring normal operation in low-income this kind in Brazil, and Vasco has become the first communities—including not only emergency club in Rio de Janeiro to join the Light Recycling response and system maintenance services, but program. especially loss recovery efforts. We also developed partnerships internally during Light Recycling the year. A total of 27 metric tons of materials In 2018 approximately R$ 1.6 million in ANEEL were collected internally, generating a total Energy Efficiency Program funding was invested bonus of R$ 5,000 that was donated as a discount in our Light Recycling program, a sustainable on the electricity invoices of registered chariinitiative through which customers can trade ties. The benefits from the program also include recyclable materials for discounts on their elecadequate disposal of waste materials without tricity bills. Total discounts within the program contaminating the environment, and peak amounted to R$ 269,214.52 in the year. shaving through recycling. In 2018 the program was expanded to the municipality of Miguel Pereira. LIGHT RECYCLING RESULTS 2017 2018 Total collected (metric Total collected (metric Waste tons) MWh savings tons) MWh savings 1,781 Paper 567.82 2,498.74 543.90 2,480.17 metric tons Plastic 521.54 2,764.21 354.75 1,880.16 of waste Glass 107.71 68.94 550.46 352.30 collected as Metal 132.02 714.69 308.85 974.23 part Oil 9.63 36.10 16.77 62.89 of the Light Tetrapak Packaging 6.50 32.03 5.90 30.11 Recycling Total 1,345.22 6,114.71 1,780.63 5,779.86 program 64 CONNECTED TO NATURAL, MANUFACTURED, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Our suppliers [GRI 102-9] A total of 126 companies provided services to These audits are carried out by a specialized indeLight in 2018, including 105 companies providing pendent firm and use an advisory approach to services to Light SESA and 21 serving Light Energia. help improve the quality of our supplier manageThese companies provide services related to our ment activities. operations (disconnections, reconnections, maintenance, improvements, etc.), customer service, Supplier audits are divided into on-site audits and facilities management, security services and IT desktop audits. On-site audits are performed for services. companies with a large number of employees working for Light, such as grid operations and In 2018 Light implemented a policy on screening power recovery crews. suppliers of strategic services and materials, covering a contract portfolio worth approximately Desktop audits are conducted for companies R$ 5.8 billion. Current and potential suppliers are posing less risk, and for subcontractors. now screened against criteria that include sustainability, compliance and financial position. Nonconformities identified during audits are documented in our Third-Party Management Supplier development system for review to inform action plans either Light assesses significant vulnerabilities in our to correct weaknesses or maintain good perforsupply chain, and these assessments then inform mance. Audits on all suppliers are performed at supplier development plans. All identified vulnerLight’s expense. abilities were mitigated in 2018, exceeding the expectations articulated in related management Where audit scores are below an established commitments. threshold, the supplier’s managers are assessed and invited to a meeting on Light’s premises, Supplier assessment where they are asked to present what action they For the most strategic services and materials, will take to improve performance. These meetings our Supplier Management function performs are attended by the contracting department, the quarterly assessments to support the continual purchaser for the relevant supplier category, and improvement of sensitive contracts. The results the supplier management team. of these assessments are then reviewed with the relevant supplier using PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) Occupational safety audits are also performed as methodology, with the involvement of relevant part of our commitment to our workforce. functions, such as operations, occupational safety, and material quality. Occupational safety audits Occupational safety audits are conducted by a In 2018, 89% of suppliers met established team of occupational health and safety specialists requirements. on operations related to our power systems. Audit procedures include interviews with operational Labor, social security and tax audits employees and other procedures when auditing We are deeply committed to our workforce. field operations. Companies providing services to us or whose employees provide services to us undergo labor, Reviews are performed on personal and collecsocial security and tax audits at least once per year. tive protective equipment specifications, on the In 2018, a total of 106 companies were audited in results of contractor facilities inspections, and on a total of 240 audits. previously listed documents. The purpose of these LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 65 audits is to assess the performance of contractors’ management and Specialized Occupational Compliance [GRI 419-1] Health and Safety Engineering Services in managing occupational health and safety. We are party to a total of 81,000 legal proceedings with a total case value of R$ 7.6 billion. A Audit items include noncompliance with proceprovision has been established for proceedings dures, equipment conditions, documentation in which the likelihood of defeat has been rated irregularities and unsafe workplace conditions. by our legal advisors as probable (R$ 467 million). After an audit has been completed, an audit These proceedings include civil, tax and labor report is sent to the contractor describing any proceedings. identified nonconformities. The contractor then submits a list of actions it will implement to In general litigation, the primary matters address identified issues. The audit team evaluconcerned were as follows: charges for illegal ates and follows up on action items to completion. connections; disconnections; complaints about charges; account transfers; unwarranted suspension; blacklisting; payment periods and collections processes, especially collections actions in support of anti-theft operations. Our legal department has worked both preventively, by seeking to reach a settlement where the Company is confirmed to have committed errors or violations, and through litigation, by gathering all required evidence from the functions involved to inform our defense in court and achieve a favorable outcome and/or minimize losses. Labor claims primarily relate to overtime, rest between workdays, joint liability, salary parity, moral damages and double payment (article 467 of the Consolidated Bargaining Regulations). We provide extensive advice to our functions to mitigate the risk of further labor claims being • In 2018 we extended the Light WAY principles brought. to our partners. After two years of internal communications, our employees had already become solidly versed on the Light WAY. However, to ensure our entire workforce was on the same page, we needed to align our messages on Safety, Ethics and Results with outsourced employees. A pilot project called “The Light WAY for Partners” identified communications opportunities at ten contractors and drew inputs to build an action plan, which is currently being implemented. 66 CONNECTED TO FINANCIAL CAPITAL Capital Expenditure S uccessful delivery of our business plans— and the results described in this report— largely depend on how effective we are at Total capital expenditure (CAPEX) in 2018 was managing our financial capital. We derive from R$ 799 million, an increase of 7.4% from the our financial capital—which includes electricity previous year. The bulk of our investments were rates and debt—the funds needed to provide our in the distribution segment: R$ 660 million was services and make investments. invested in new connections, expansions, system maintenance and improvements, our underFinancial capital is directly connected to all other ground system upgrade project, capitals, as it provides the funds to pay wages and taxes, carry out expansion projects and mainteand our loss reduction program. Losses ended nance, provide customer service, carry out social the year in line with 2017. It is important to note and environmental initiatives, and undertake that in 2017 we implemented a new and more other activities and improvements. cost-intensive strategy against electricity theft. The reduced investment in loss reduction was Financial capital, in turn, is affected by our perfortherefore reflected in 2017 with a 11.3% decrease mance on all other capitals. We are therefor in CAPEX compared with 2016. committed to making a consistent and collective effort to ensure our indicators in every dimenIn 2018 Light Energia invested a total of R$ 55 sion increasingly approach the performance million, 62% more than in 2017. The increase levels needed for the sustainable growth of the reflects higher investment in projects to mitigate business. pumping system risks, improve intake system reliability, and replace/upgrade equipment and systems. Investments in jointly owned assets—Belo Monte, Guanhães and Itaocara—were a total of R$ 92 million at year-end 2018, down 39% on 2017. Investments in subsidiaries were a total of R$ 891 million in 2018, a change of only 0.4% compared with the previous year. R$ 799 million invested LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 67 TOTAL INVESTMENT R$ million 2016 2017 2018 Investment 772.6 743.8 798.6 Distribution 659.0 627.1 660.3 Generation 45.2 33.9 55.2 Management 66.5 81.9 83.0 Trading 1.9 0.9 0.1 Contributions to Subsidiaries 180.6 151.0 91.5 Total 953.2 894.8 890.1 Light’s capital expenditure is primarily allocated to: 2018 Rate Adjustment • New connections and system expansion to In a public meeting held on March 13, 2018, the provide service to new customers; Brazilian power sector regulator, ANEEL, approved • Distribution system maintenance and improvea rate adjustment averaging +10.36%. The new ments to increase the quality of power supply; rates became effective on March 15, 2018. • Our underground system upgrade project, which includes the replacement of all oil-filled The average increase for residential consumers equipment to mitigate explosion risks; was 9.03%, as shown in the table below along • Non-technical loss reduction activities; with the effects on other segments and voltage levels. • Generation asset maintenance. Light plans to invest R$ 941 million in 2019. Of our Average Rate Review Impact by total budgeted investment for the period, R$ 705 Segment and Voltage Level million is allocated electrical assets (distribution, transmission and loss reduction), R$ 85 million Free + Captive Average effect to non-electrical assets, R$ 80 million to other A2 (88 to 138kV) 16.60% Group A companies and R$ 71 million to associates. A4 (2.3 to 25 kV) 12.10% AS (underground) 10.74% B1 (residential) 9.03% B2 (rural) 9.18% LV B3 (commercial) 9.18% B4 (street lighting) 9.18% Group A 13.40% LV 9.09% Group A+BT 10.36% 68 CONNECTED TO FINANCIAL CAPITAL The annual rate-setting process passes non-manOur EOD was 7.78 hours in 2018, compared with ageable concession costs – such as purchased eleca target under our Action Plan of 9.80 hours. Our tricity, sector charges and transmission charges EOF was 4.44 x, against an annual target of 6.01 x. (Component A) – through to customers. It also adjusts manageable costs (Portion B distribution) In relation to indicators of commercial service by the IPCA index adjusted for Factor X, which performance—including customer satisfacpasses the utility's annual efficiency gains and tion, responsiveness to Sectoral Ombudsman adjustments to the operating costs established complaints, and commercial quality indicain the previous Rate Setting Review through tors—Light is either enhancing or introducing to customers. It also incorporates incentives new measures to improve commercial perforfor improvement in quality of supply. Since the mance, especially in responsiveness to customer 2017 rate-setting review, impaired revenue has complaints. included a specific rate item that is annually updated to reflect changes in regulatory revenue. The volume of customer complaints increased in 2018 as a result of two major structuring projects The graph below shows the share of each cost item during the year: the migration of our commerin the average increase applicable to consumers. cial system to the ÚN1CO platform, and our new metering, invoicing and invoice delivery stem, Progress on Action Plan called On Site Billing. These initiatives, which Light’s Action Plan comprises four dimensions: are still in an early stage of implementation and quality of service, commercial quality, safety, and refining, have affected a range of operational economic and financial sustainability. processes within the Company. In quality of service, Light has made great strides In response, Light has reorganized functions to in reducing EOD and EOF to levels satisfactory to work with customer service to improve quality ANEEL. of service and customer communications, and to adequately manage complaints, from receipt to closure and communication of the resolution to the customer. SHARE OF EACH COST ITEM IN THE AVERAGE INCREASE APPLICABLE TO CONSUMERS 2.54% 0.47% 2.44% 10.36% 2.36% 2.56% Sector Transmission Purchased Distribution Financial Average effect charges costs electricity and impaired components on consumers revenues LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 69 In occupational safety, our occupational injury EXPECTATIONS FOR 2019 frequency rate rose slightly from 1.95 in 2017 to 1.96 in 2018, although most lost-time injuries Regulatory developments were minor injuries such as bruises, sprains and In 2019 we expect discussions to continue, or to scrapes. come to a conclusion, on the following issues: the Generation Scaling Factor (GSF), reducing volaOur injury severity rate, which measures the tility in power purchases by utilities, improving severity of injuries resulting from accidents, cost allocation among industry players, and the decreased substantially from 818 in 2017 to 87 effects of customer migration to the free market in 2018. given the recent changes in qualification criteria. In customer satisfaction, in 2018 the results from MME Directive 514/2018 the IASC survey on customers’ perceptions of With the promulgation of MME Directive quality of service improved overall at a national 514/2018, which reduces the load threshold for level. Light’s performance in the IASC 2018 survey conventional power supply agreements with freeimproved by 5.78%, outperforming the Brazil market consumers to 2.5 MW from July 1, 2019, average of 4.67% improvement on 2017. it is likely that customers will migrate from our distribution business to the free market. We will continue to implement initiatives within our Satisfaction Program—which helped us rank 2019 Rate Adjustment as the distribution utility with the highest IASC As provided under the 5th Amendment to our improvement in the South East Region in 2016— concession agreement, on March 15, 2019 our to meet the commitments under our Action Plan rates will be adjusted to reflect changes in and create solutions that “wow” our customers manageable costs (Component A) and to adjust and increase their satisfaction. Learn more about manageable costs (Component B) by the IPCA the Program in Our Customers. index less Factor X. Rate-setting changes ANEEL’s upcoming regulatory agenda includes public meetings in 2019 to revise the regulatory methods used to determine operational costs, Factor X, non-technical losses and impaired revenues. Light will be actively engaged in advocacy for a regulatory model that is suited for the challenges in our concession area and ensures that set rates cover actual costs. The results of these discussions will be reflected in our rates as from the following rate-setting review, on March 15, 2022. 14% reduction in accidents involving the public 70 CONNECTED TO FINANCIAL CAPITAL Debt Net debt at year-end was R$ 8,017 million. In • June 2018: raised R$ 1.4 billion through a 2018 we continued to pursue our strategy of Receivables Investment Fund (FIDC) in two adjusting our debt profile to improve liquidity. tranches: R$ 1 billion at the CDI + 1.20% p.a. Between 2017 and 2018 our average debt matuand R$ 400 million at the IPCA + 5.75% p.a.; rity increased from 2.6 years to 3.5 years, debt • October 2018: Completed 15th issuance of service costs were reduced from 8.70% to 5.51%, incentive-backed, nonconvertible debentures and our balance of cash and cash equivalents rose in the amount of R$ 700 million. The debenfrom R$ 342 million to R$ 1.7 billion. Significant tures were divided into two series: the first in transactions in the year included: the amount of R$ 540 million, incurring interest • February 2018: rolled over R$ 727 million in at the IPCA + 6.83% p.a., with a maturity of debt to Citibank, including R$ 632 million at seven years, and the second in the amount of Light SESA and R$ 92 million at Light Energia, R$ 160 million, incurring interest at the CDI + both over a term of three years; 2.2% p.a., with a maturity of four years. • March 2018: rolled over R$ 425 million in Net Debt to EBITDA was 3.63x at year-end 2018, debt owed by Light SESA to Banco do Brasil less than the covenant limit of 3.75x. However, over a term of three years, with R$ 325 million Light’s bonds are subject to debt-incurrence covedisbursed in March 2018 and R$ 100 million in nants and the Company exceeded the Net Debt May 2018; to EBITDA limit of 3.50x in the last quarter of the • May 2018: issued US$ 600 million in bonds in year. The Company is accordingly required to keep the international market, including US$ 400 further debt within prescribed limits until those million at Light SESA and US$ 200 million at covenants have been satisfied. Light Energia, fully paid up and hedged against the Interbank Deposit Rate (CDI)—including The ratio of EBITDA to Interest at year-end was the principal and interest—at a cost of 142,8% 3.17x, above the covenant minimum of 2,0x. of the CDI rate; AMORTIZATION OF LOANS AND FINANCING AND DEBENTURES 2,906 (R$ Million) Average term: 3.5 years 1,884 1,846 1,684 1,228 1,185 514 311 42 Caixa 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 71 Net income • Consolidated net income was R$ 166 million agreed with ANEEL for year-end 2018 (9.80 in 2018, up 33.5% from the previous year. The hours). EOF (12 months) was 4.44x in 2018, improvement is partially explained by higher 15.6% less than in 2017 and 26.1% below the financial revenue and equity in net income of level agreed with ANEEL for 2018 (6.01x). associates. • Net Debt to EBITDA was 3.63x at year-end 2018, • Consolidated adjusted EBITDA was R$ 1,684 less than the covenanted limit of 3.75x. Light’s million in 2018, a decrease of 14.8% compared bonds are subject to debt-incurrence covewith the previous year. The reduction is nants and the covenanted limit of 3.50x was explained by non-recurring effects in 2017, exceeded in 4Q18. The Company is accordingly including: (i) an adjustment to concession required to keep further debt within prescribed indemnifiable assets (VNR) and (ii) an operlimits until those covenants have been satisfied. ational indemnity in our Trading subsidiary. Net debt at year-end 2018 was R$ 8,017 million. To a lesser extent, the contraction of our total EBITDA to Interest at year-end was 3.17x, above invoiced market and higher losses were a factor the covenanted threshold of 2.00x. in the reduced EBITDA. • Capital expenditure by Light S.A., excluding • Light reduced REN volumes to their lowest level contributions to subsidiaries, was approxin two years to enhance results from our Loss imately R$ 799 million in 2018 (>7.4% Reduction Program. Total REN in the year was compared with 2017). Of total investment in 705 GWh versus 1,051 GWh in 2017. 2018, approximately 85% was allocated to electrical assets (eligible for recognition in the • The change of strategy described above, Regulatory Asset Base). combined with an agreement concluded in the last quarter with the State of Rio de Janeiro, resulted in a ratio of ADA to Gross Revenue of 2.7%, on a level with the previous year. The overall collection rate in 2018 was 98.5%, an improvement of 1.9 p.p. on 96.6% in 2017. • Total grid losses (12 months) at December 2018 were 23.95%, an increase from 21.92% in 2017. The gap from the regulatory level (20.62%) stood at 3.33 p.p. • EOD (12 months) was 7.78 hours in the year, an improvement of 14.9% compared with the previous year and 20.6% below the level Consolidated net income was R$ 166 million in 2018, up 33.5% from the previous year. 72 CONNECTED TO FINANCIAL CAPITAL SELECTED FINANCIALS (R$ MM) 2018 2017 Change % Gross Operating Revenue 19,376 18,011 7.6% Deductions (8,066) (7,303) -10.4% Net Operating Revenue 11,310 10,707 5.6% Operating Expense (10,171) (9,250) -9.9% PMSO (979) (999) 1.9% Personnel (403) (387) -4.2% Material (41) (71) 42.4% Outsourced Services (547) (503) -8.8% Other 12 (38) Purchased Electricity (7,972) (7,155) -11.4% Depreciation (545) (519) -5.0% Provisions (674) (577) -16.7% Adjusted EBITDA* 1,684 1,976 -14.8% Financial Revenue/Expense (651) (876) 25.7% Other Operating Income/Expense (91) (83) -9.8% Earnings Before Tax and Equity Income 397 498 -20.3% Income and Social Contribution Tax (82) (137) 40.6% Deferred Income and Social Contribution Tax (64) (37) -72.8% Equity Income (85) (199) 57.2% Net Income 166 124 33.5% NB: Excluding Construction Revenue/Costs. * Adjusted EBITDA is calculated from income before social contribution and income tax, equity income, other operating income/expense, net financial expense, depreciations and amortization. ADJUSTED EBITDA BY SEGMENT Adjusted EBITDA by Segment (R$ MM) 2018 2017 Change 2018/2017 Distribution 1,187 1,485 -20.1% Generation 383 323 18.6% Trading 127 166 -23.5% Services 4 14 -68.4% Other and Eliminations (18) (12) -51.8% Total 1,684 1,976 -14.8% EBITDA margin (%) 14.9% 18.5% -3.57 p.p. LEARN MORE For details on our CONSOLIDATED RESULTS results of operations for financial year 2018, Net Income/Loss by Segment (R$ MM) 2018 2017 Change 2018/2017 see our Annual Report Distribution 77 93 -17.3% (which is published Generation 36 (73) concurrently with our Financial Statements) Trading 93 112 -16.8% and our quarterly Services (11) 25 Earnings Releases Other and Eliminations (29) (33) 11.5% here. Total 166 124 33.5% Net Margin (%) 1.5% 1.2% 0.31 p.p. 73 ABOUT THIS REPORT T his report covers the period January 1 to Our Financial Statements 12 conform to December 31, 2018. Light’s Annual Report is International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) addressed to all of our stakeholders. In it we and are audited by independent auditors Ernst & report on the management approach, initiatives Young. Social and environmental disclosures in undertaken and results achieved at Light S.A. and this report have not been audited. [GRI 102-56] its wholly-owned subsidiaries, which in this report are referred to collectively as “Light”. [GRI 102-50, ENGAGEMENT & MATERIALITY GRI 102-51, GRI 102-52] Since 2009 we have conducted a regular exercise of identifying topics that are material to us Light’s annual reports are produced by a multiboth from our own perspective and from the disciplinary team, evaluated by our Governance perspective of our stakeholders. The results from & Sustainability Committee, and approved by our this exercise are compiled in a Materiality Matrix. Board of Directors. [GRI 102-32] The version of the Matrix presented in this report is unchanged since it was last revisited in 2016, The contents of this report have been prepared as there have been no significant changes to our in accordance with best sustainability reporting strategy or to other aspects covered by the matepractices, including: riality analysis. [GRI 102-46] • the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Comprehensive option, including all energy The disclosures contained in this report cover utilities sector disclosures applicable to the not only identified material topics, but also our Company; [GRI 102-54] management approach and performance across the Capitals. [GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2] • the International Integrated Reporting Framework; The table below correlates Light’s material topics • the ANEEL Social, Environmental and Economic to the relevant GRI material topics and the stakeResponsibility Reporting Requirements. holders and businesses most affected. [GRI 102-44] This report is integrated with two other annual filings: ourReference Form, which is required To learn more about the GRI disclosures related to and regulated by the Securities Commission, and each of these topics and where they are found in the Notes to the Financial Statements, which this report, view the GRI Content Index. [GRI 102-55] are required under Act 6404/1976 (the Brazilian “Corporations Act”). 12 The Financial Statements contain consolidated financial information for Light Group companies [GRI 102-45] 74 ABOUT THIS REPORT MATERIAL TOPICS ADDRESSED IN THIS REPORT [GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47] Material topics Description Relevant GRI Material Topics Affected Affected Capital stakeholders Businesses Losses and Loss reduction strategies, Social and • System efficiency • Customers Light SESA Delinquency including projects in Relationship • Local communities • Community low-income communities. • Regulator Regulations and Influence on and Social and • Indirect economic impacts • Customers All Government Policy relationship with regulators Relationship • Public policy • Community and governments with Financial • Regulator which Light interacts. • Government Relations with Challenges in building Social and • Social and economic • Customers Light SESA Customers closer relationships with Relationship compliance • Community and Society customers and impacts • Supplier social assessment • Suppliers on consumer behavior. • Regulator • Disaster and emergency • Government planning and response • Marketing and labeling • Customer privacy • Access Financial Health Business results, Financial • Economic performance • Investors All and the Capital commitment to • Shareholders Market shareholders and lenders, and access to finance. Quality of Service Quality of power supply Manufactured • Availability and reliability • Customers Light SESA to end consumers. • Access • Community • Regulator • Investor Operating Efficient operation and Manufactured • System efficiency • Customers All Efficiency resource management. Social and • Availability and reliability • Community Relationship • Regulator • Economic performance Financial • Investor • Indirect economic impacts Energy Efficiency Demand-side Social and • Demand-side management • Customers Light SESA management and other Relationship • Energy • Community efficiency programs. • Regulator • Academia Service Area Investments in our Social and • Local communities • Customers All Development concession area and in social Relationship • Indirect economic impacts • Community and cultural development. • Investor Environment and Environmental impacts and Natural • Economic performance • Community All Climate Change adapting to climate change. • Emissions • Regulator • Environmental compliance People People management, labor Human • Employment • Internal All management practices and decent work. Intellectual • Labor relations stakeholders • Training and education • Diversity and equal opportunity LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 75 MATERIAL TOPICS ADDRESSED IN THIS REPORT [GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47] Material topics Description Relevant GRI Material Topics Affected Affected Capital stakeholders Businesses Supplier Supplier management Social and • Supplier environmental Suppliers All Management in relation to social and Relationship assessment environmental practices. • Supplier social assessment • Procurement practices Health & Safety Health and safety of Social and • Occupational health Internal All our workforce and Relationship and safety stakeholders communities. Human • Customer health and safety Customers Ethics and Integrity in management, Social and Anti-bribery All All Compliance commercial and Relationship operational practices. To learn more about the GRI disclosures related to each of these topics and where they are found in this report, view the GRI Content Index. [GRI 102-55] Any restatements of information contained in a previous report are documented and explained in the current report. In 2017, there were no significant restatements of previous information. To learn more about a particular subject or to submit a question about the contents of this report, contact us at: [GRI 102-53] Email: relatorio@light.com.br Address: Av. Marechal Floriano, 168, Centro, Rio de Janeiro/RJ, CEP: 20080-002. TO LEARN MORE ABOUT... • Our stakeholder surveys and materiality matrix; • Integrated Reporting; • GRI (English only); • Our Reference Form; • Light’s Financial Statements; 76 COMMITMENTS Commitments completed in 2018 • Initiated commercial operation • Implemented improvements in the digital of the Lajes SHP; invoicing process, to be completed in 2019. The main enhancement was the incorporation • Completed the installation of a biomass of automatic opt-out in case of errors; grinder that will optimize macrophyte transportation, storage and composting. • Provided barcode-based debit card payment The environmental regulator’s functionality on our self-service kiosks; requirements precedent to issuing the operation license for the composting • Further improved collections from private facility should be fully met in 2019; and public wholesale customers; • System predictability and maintenance • Expanded service channels for improved with the installation of selfwholesale customers; healing systems and protection equipment at a number of points in the distribution • Migrated to the latest edition of ISO 14001; system, some of which have been equipped with communication equipment supporting • Intensified responsible consumption initiatives remote monitoring of electrical variables; in communities. A total of 162 lectures were delivered at residents’ associations, • Initiated: implementation of maintenance schools and social services centers; management software (IBM MAXIMO); the use of drones for our overhead system and • Launched the web series “Four taps and substation inspections; operation of a tree a funeral”, illustrating how electricity branch grinder to process tree trimming theft adversely affects communities and waste; and a pilot project using smart paying customers in a variety of ways; sensors in our distribution systems that will significantly shorten the time taken • Implemented internal standards under to troubleshoot power system faults and which risk assessments are included in help recover from unscheduled outages; supplier screening and onboarding criteria. • Increased the use of virtual and automated channels; • Initiated a project in September 2018 to develop a humanized virtual service desk; LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 77 Commitments for 2019 • Implement a new web and mobile • Monitor and track our pipeline of ~60 solution to increase the share of virtual R&D projects, with a total projected channels in customer interactions, as investment of R$ 45 million; part of a broader digital transformation being undertaken at Light; • Set up new permanent and temporary exhibits at the Light Culture Center • Implement a strategy to integrate and resume the cultural program different communication channels at the Lamartine Babo Theater; and physical and virtual services into a single, seamless customer experience; • Send Integrity Questionnaires to key suppliers to measure the level of ethics • Implement new models to improve risk inherent to each supplier; and derive more meaningful data from predictive analysis methods, and • Meet regulatory requirements for the build new approaches to clustering to diversion to the Guandu River Basin; identify similarities and predict customer behavior across key business processes; • Upgrade the Vigário and Santa Cecília pumped storage facilities; • Meet regulatory requirements for new calls for proposals for energy efficiency • Operate and maintain our assets in projects, and prospect for projects compliance with environmental regulations. to deploy emerging technology; • Ensure calls for proposals are primarily for the benefit of charitable, social organizations; • Enhance communications addressed to communities, schools and social services centers to raise awareness and provide important information about conscientious consumption; • Enhance the benefits from social rates through our partnership with Social Services Centers (CRAS); 78 CORPORATE INFORMATION General coordination HOLDINGS AND INVESTOR RELATIONS Camilla Stohler Gonzaga Fernanda Carvalho de Abreu e Crespo Lilian Kaufman Regiane Monteiro de Abreu Roberta Duarte Benamor Credits WRITING Massi Comunicação REVISION Agnes Rissardo GRAPHIC DESIGN & LAYOUT Multi Design PHOTOS Light and Adobe Stock Light S.A. Rua Marechal Floriano, 168 – Centro – Rio de Janeiro www.light.com.br ANNUAL REPORT 2018 THE LIGHT WAY APPENDICES APPENDIX II ANEEL DISCLOSURES LIGHT SESA APPENDIX I 14 GRI DISCLOSURES LIGHT SA 3 APPENDICES APPENDIX III ANEEL DISCLOSURES LIGHT ENERGIA APPENDIX IV 24 IBASE SOCIAL BALANCE SHEET 29 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 3 APPENDIX I – GRI DISCLOSURES – LIGHT S.A. APPENDIX I GRI Disclosures – Light S.A. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED [GRI 201-1] Consolidated STATEMENT OF ADDED VALUE (R$ thousand) 2018 2017 Revenue 19,661,740 18,260,761 Sales of goods, products and services 19,375,666 18,010,600 Revenue relating to construction of company assets 720,874 647,996 Allowance (reversal of allowance) for doubtful accounts (434,800) (397,835) Inputs purchased from third parties (9,441,977) (8,530,972) Cost of goods sold and services rendered (7,972,390) (7,155,042) Material, energy, outsourced services and other (1,469,587) (1,375,930) Gross value added 10,219,763 9,729,789 Withholding (544,943) (519,319) Depreciation and amortization (544,943) (519,319) Net value added 9,674,820 9,210,470 Transferred value added 557,867 (99,103) Equity in income of associates (85,407) (199,221) Finance revenue 643,274 100,118 Added value to be distributed 10,232,687 9,111,367 Distribution of value added 10,232,687 9,111,367 Personnel 394,623 380,311 Direct compensation 283,341 268,731 Rewards and Benefits 80,678 69,952 FGTS 26,541 37,984 Other 4,063 3,644 Taxes 8,317,934 7,567,611 Federal 3,930,214 3,564,635 State 4,371,907 3,986,460 Municipal 15,813 16,516 Third-party capital remuneration 1,354,348 1,039,224 Interest 1,294,461 992,306 Rent 59,887 46,918 Interest on equity 165,782 124,221 Dividends 39,373 29,503 Retained earnings (accumulated losses) 126,409 94,718 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 4 APPENDIX I – GRI DISCLOSURES – LIGHT S.A. DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM DATA [GRI EU4] 2016 2017 2018 Installed capacity (MVA) 10,492 10,522 10,522 Transmission lines (Km) 2,033 2,026 2,039 Total distribution system length (km) 77,063 77,684 77,904 Substations 222 222 221 Distribution transformers (un.) 90,720 91,741 92,408 AVERAGE PLANT AVAILABILITY FACTOR (%) [GRI EU30] 2016 2017 2018 Fontes Nova (FTN) 90.5 90.3 70.2 Nilo Peçanha (NLP) 92.3 93.0 89.6 Pereira Passos (PPS) 96.8 98.7 90.0 Ilha dos Pombos (ILH) 97.7 93.9 95.2 Santa Branca (SBR) 97.3 96.4 93.4 Source: IMS Performance Report Note: Not including the Paracambi SHP, which is owned by LightGer, in which Light has a 51% interest. NET ENERGY OUTPUT (GWh) [GRI EU2] Plant 2016 2017 2018 Fontes Nova (Piraí RJ) 690 662 500 Nilo Peçanha (Piraí RJ) 2,104 2,403 2,556 Pereira Passos (Piraí RJ) 292 336 349 Ilha dos Pombos (Carmo/Além Paraíba RJ/MG) 581 543 594 Santa Branca (Santa Branca/Jacareí SP) 53 175 196 Gross Output (including losses and internal consumption) 3,721 4,119 4,197 Net Output Electric power delivered to the National Grid 3,102 3,403 3,499 Source: Net Output 2017 Note: Not including the Paracambi SHP, which is owned by LightGer, in which Light has a 51% interest. CAPACITY AGAINST PROJECTED DEMAND BY ENERGY SOURCE [GRI EU10] 2016 2017 2018 Energy Source GWh % GWh % GWh % Hydroelectric (Water Resources) 19,915 62.9 18,475 61.7 17,849 61.1 Thermal (Fossil fuels) 9,979 31.6 9,770 32.6 9,706 33.2 Angra (Eletronuclear) 870 2.8 868 2.9 868 3.0 Thermal (Alternative Source Auction) 125 0.4 120 0.4 33 0.1 Proinfa (Small Hydropower) 337 1.1 305 1.0 283 1.0 Proinfa (Wind) 162 0.5 138 0.5 147 0.5 Proinfa (Biomass) 68 0.2 55 0.2 65 0.2 Wind 158 0.5 200 0.7 256 0.9 Total 31,614 100 29,932 100 29,207 100 Note: Power is purchased to meet our projected demand through auctions without the option to choose the source of electricity. Power cannot be traded directly between Light Group generation and distribution/supply subsidiaries. Adjustment mechanisms are available that enable power supply and demand to be balanced by purchasing additional electricity or returning contracts. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 5 APPENDIX I – GRI DISCLOSURES – LIGHT S.A. TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE FOR POWER GENERATION AND WATER SUPPLY TO THE METROPOLITAN AREA OF RIO DE JANEIRO (m3.109/YEAR) [GRI 303-1] 2016 2017 2018 Paraíba Guandu Diversion (Annual Average) 100 101 111 Piraí – Guandu Diversion (Annual Average) 15 15 15 TOTAL WITHDRAWALS 115 116 126 Note: “Piraí Guandu Diversion refers to the average pumping rates at Santa Cecília; Piraí Guandu Diversion refers to the average annual flow rates measured at the V-3-482 Rosário Tunnel Outlet and v-1-105 Fazenda Nova Esperança hydrological stations. WATER SOURCES SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY WITHDRAWAL OF WATER (ANNUAL AVERAGE – m³/s) [GRI 303-2] 2016 2017 2018 Total water withdrawal to the Guandu River 112.6 111.2 134.1 Riberão das Lajes (Lajes + Diversion) Total water withdrawal to the Guandu River CEDAE Intake 5.4 5.4 5.4 Total withdrawal/supply 117.0 116.6 139.5 Note: Total water withdrawal to the Guandu River Riberão das Lajes is measured as the average annual discharge at Station V-3-489 – downstream of Pereira Passos. Total water withdrawal to the Guandu River – CEDAE Channel is measured as the average annual discharge at Station V-3-486 – CEDAE Channel. WATER CONSUMPTION AT LIGHT FACILITIES [GRI 303-1] 2016 2017 2018 Water consumption at Light facilities (average m /day) 3 392 379 351 SCOPE 1 (OWN FLEET) ENERGY CONSUMPTION, BY PRIMARY SOURCE, IN MWh [GRI 302-1] Fuel 2016 2017 2018 Diesel 5,254 5,200 5,651 Gasoline 5,359 5,513 5,253 Ethanol 44 56 53 Total 10,657 10,769 10,957 ENERGY CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE OF THE ORGANIZATION, BY PRIMARY SOURCE, IN MWh [GRI 302-2] Fuel 2016 2017 2018 Diesel 5,805 3,628 6,761 Gasoline 7,613 3,142 8,729 Ethanol 21 30 183 Total 13,439 6,799 15,673 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 6 APPENDIX I – GRI DISCLOSURES – LIGHT S.A. ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT (R$ THOUSANDS) [GRI 103-2] 2016 2017 2018 Nature of Investment / division SESA ENERGIA Total SESA ENERGIA Total SESA ENERGIA Total Environmental 2,017 1,596 3,613 2,727 587 3,314 2,119 1,096 3,215 maintenance and safety Environmental education 14,489 21 14,510 10,567 116 10,683 1,200 169 1,369 and programs Environmental licensing 529 192 721 884 0 884 725 337 1,062 and compliance Environmental management system implementation 79 986 1,065 98 715 813 117 376 493 and maintenance Reforestation / slope 3,905 6,366 10,271 573 11,845 12,418 99 2,768 2,866 stabilization Aquatic plant retrieval NA 1,563 1,563 NA 1,951 1,951 NA 1,642 1,642 Research and development 377 1,308 1,685 0 172 172 717 1,131 1,847 Total 21,396 12,032 33,428 14,849 15,386 30,235 4,977 7,519 12,496 NB: In this report, tree trimming costs are not classified as environmental investments, but as operation and maintenance expense. TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD [GRI 306-2] Method of Disposal 2016 2017 2018 Paper and corrugated cardboard (metric tons) Recycling /sale 5.2 30.68 27.06 Plastic (metric tons) Recycling /sale 8,885.7 1,170.4 395.50 Glass (metric tons) Recycling /sale 0.16 0.005 0.17 Metal (metric tons) Recycling /sale 241.8 0.913 128.79 Incandescent lamps (metric tons) Cleaning/recycling 0.3 6 4 Washable towels (metric tons) Decontamination/reutilization 3.2 1.63 3.31 Note 1: Waste materials listed in the table are from the company's waste segregation center. Incandescent lamps, specifically, include waste derived from the community energy efficiency program. Note 2: All waste is disposed of via recycling or resale, with the exception of washable towels, which are decontaminated and reutilized. WEIGHT OF WASTE DEEMED HAZARDOUS UNDER THE BASEL CONVENTION – ANNEX I, II, III, AND VIII [GRI 306-4] Method of Disposal 2016 2017 2018 PPE Co-processing 1,500 2,670 5,080 Oily waste Co-processing/incineration 74,706 41,991 253,771 Fluorescent lamps Cleaning/recycling 6,080 4,248 2.94 Stationary batteries Recycling /sale --19,860 151,040 Batteries Cleaning/recycling 1,057 6,930 3,589 Note 1: The waste materials reported in this table are documented in waste manifests that are managed through our Environmental an Integrated Management System. Note 2: Stationary battery waste was generated in 2016, but could not be disposed of due to budgetary restrictions. Note 3: The increase in oily waste in 2018 is from the removal and/or replacement of mineral oil-insulated switches under Light’s Underground Distribution System Upgrade and Modernization Plan. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 7 APPENDIX I – GRI DISCLOSURES – LIGHT S.A. TOTAL DIRECT (SCOPE 1) AND INDIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG EMISSIONS BY WEIGHT, IN METRIC TONS OF CO2eq [GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2] Operating unit 2016 2017 2018 Light Energia (direct) 5,504 4,449 10,769 Light Energia (indirect) 3,528 4,058 3,873 Light SESA & Esco (direct) 33,223 35,970 27,836 Light SESA & Esco (indirect) 227,171 221,047 169,128 Total Light (direct) 38,727 40,419 38,605 Total Light (indirect) 230,669 225,105 173,001 NB: In 2018 some parameters in the calculation method for emissions related to solid waste were modified, resulting in a significant increase in Light Energia’s direct emissions. The year 2018 has been set as the baseline for comparison. TOTAL WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE, EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT, AND REGION [GRI 102-8] 2016 2017 2018 Greater Rest of Greater Rest of Greater Rest of SP Total SP Total SP Total Employment Contract Rio State Rio State Rio State Definite employment 3 7 0 10 34 13 47 47 11 0 58 agreement Indefinite employment 3,531 537 7 4,075 3,466 545 6 4,017 4,008 637 9 4,654 agreement Total 3,534 544 7 4,085 3,500 558 6 4,064 4,055 648 9 4,712 NB: All employees are full time. TOTAL DIRECT WORKFORCE, BY GENDER AND REGION [GRI 102-8] 2016 2017 2018 Region Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Greater Rio 949 2,585 3,534 939 2,561 3,500 1,001 3,054 4,055 Rest of State 58 486 544 60 498 558 56 592 648 São Paulo 1 6 7 1 5 6 0 9 9 Total 1,008 3,077 4,085 1,000 3,064 4,064 1,057 3,655 4,712 WORKFORCE BY GEOGRAPHY AND ACTIVITY – LIGHT SA [GRI 102-8] 2016 2017 2018 Type of Greater Rest of São Greater Rest of São Greater Rest of São Total Total Total Position Rio State Paulo Rio State Paulo Rio State Paulo Senior 657 48 0 705 668 53 721 727 41 0 768 Management Middle 206 10 0 216 192 11 203 202 12 0 214 Management Operational 1,171 286 0 1,457 1,150 286 1,436 1,591 379 0 1,970 Professional 682 27 3 712 650 25 2 677 667 25 3 695 Technician 818 173 4 995 840 183 4 1,027 868 191 6 1,065 Total 3,534 544 7 4,085 3,500 558 6 4,064 4,055 648 9 4,712 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 8 APPENDIX I – GRI DISCLOSURES – LIGHT S.A. NUMBER OF TERMINATIONS BY GENDER, AGE AND REGION [GRI 401-1] 2016 2017 2018 Age Group Age Group Age Group Grand Grand Grand Region Gender <30 > 50 30-50 Total <30 > 50 30-50 Total <30 > 50 30-50 Total W 23 31 75 129 32 38 91 161 29 7 56 92 Greater Rio M 64 172 138 374 56 117 173 346 54 29 107 190 Greater Rio Total 87 203 213 503 88 155 264 507 83 36 163 282 W 5 0 2 7 3 2 1 6 8 0 0 8 Rest of State M 7 31 15 53 3 24 15 42 7 7 10 24 Rest of State Total 12 31 17 60 6 26 16 48 15 7 10 32 W 0 0 2 2 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 São Paulo M 0 2 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 São Paulo Total 0 2 4 6 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 Grand Total 99 236 234 569 95 181 280 556 98 43 173 314 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY GENDER, AGE AND REGION [GRI 401-1] 2016 2017 2018 Age Group Age Group Age Group Grand Grand Grand Region Gender <30 >50 30-50 Total <30 >50 30-50 Total <30 >50 30-50 Total W 10% 31% 12% 14% 13% 49% 15% 17% 10% 8% 9% 9% Greater Rio M 11% 43% 9% 14% 9% 37% 11% 13% 8% 8% 5% 6% Greater Rio Total 10% 41% 10% 14% 10% 39% 12% 14% 8% 8% 6% 7% W 28% 0% 5% 12% 14% 100% 3% 10% 50% 0% 0% 14% Rest of State M 7% 32% 5% 11% 3% 25% 5% 8% 5% 7% 3% 4% Rest of State Total 10% 31% 5% 11% 4% 27% 5% 9% 9% 7% 3% 5% W 0% 0% 0% 200% 100% 0% 0% 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% São Paulo M 0% 0% 40% 67% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% São Paulo Total 0% 0% 80% 86% 100% 0% 0% 17% 0% 0% 0% 0% Grand Total 10% 40% 9% 14% 9% 37% 11% 14% 9% 7% 6% 7% * FORMULA = Number of terminations in the year / Workforce in previous period (use the number of employees in tens, separated by region and gender, to calculate the percentage). RETURN TO WORK AND RETENTION RATES AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE, BY GENDER [GRI 401-3] Employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were Employees that Employees that returned to work still employed Retention rate of were entitled to Employees that after parental 12 months after employees that parental leave took parental leave ended their return to Return to work took parental 2018 (unit) * leave (unit) (unit) work (unit) rate (%) leave (%) Women 1,057 30 30 30 100% 100% Men 3,655 137 137 135 100% 99% Total 4,712 167 167 165 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 9 APPENDIX I – GRI DISCLOSURES – LIGHT S.A. RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN (%) BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY [GRI 405-2] Average Salary Men / Women Category 2016 2017 2018 Senior Management 111 104 108 Middle Management 116 110 120 Operational 117 115 112 Professional 122 123 122 Technician 108 108 107 ENTRY-LEVEL SALARY AT SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION, IN R$ [GRI 202-1] 2018 Location No. of Employees Entry-Level Salary (R$) Av. Mal Floriano, 168 1,594 1,202.93 R. Frei Caneca, 363 826 1,243.23 Estr. do Tindiba 223 1,243.23 Cascadura 422 1,160.18 Barra do Piraí 149 1,202.93 Nova Iguaçu 338 1,243.23 TOTAL THIRD-PARTY WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY, EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT, GENDER AND REGION [GRI 102-8] 2016 2017 2018 Region Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Greater Rio 741 6,356 7,097 489 6833 7322 440 7,076 7,516 Rest of State 28 355 383 18 391 409 17 328 345 São Paulo 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 769 6,711 7,480 507 7224 7731 457 7,404 7,861 Note: Full-time with indefinite employment agreements. NUMBER OF OUTSOURCED WORKERS BY ACTIVITY AND GEOGRAPHY [GRI 102-8] 2016 2017 2018 Greater Rest of Greater Rest of Greater Rest of Region Total Total Total Rio State Rio State Rio State Maintenance, cleaning, 349 23 372 405 15 420 498 21 519 security and upkeep Other administrative 4,631 360 4,991 4,832 393 5,225 4,859 324 5,183 activities (core activities) Other administrative activities 2,117 0 2,117 2,086 0 2,086 2,159 0 2,159 (supporting activities) Sales and marketing 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 7,097 383 7,480 7,323 408 7,731 7,516 345 7,861 Note 1: Contractor and subcontractor employees involved in construction, operation and maintenance activities are dedicated to these activities during the entire year and work during the working hours established in their employment contracts. [GRI EU17] Note 2: Security-related activities are entirely outsourced. Light requires a complete training program, including training on the principles of human rights as set out in our Code of Ethics. [GRI 410-1] LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 10 APPENDIX I – GRI DISCLOSURES – LIGHT S.A. TYPICAL LOST-DAY INJURIES OVER THE PAST THREE YEARS THIRD-PARTY EMPLOYEES [GRI 403-2] 2016 2017 2018 Fatal Non-fatal Fatal Non-fatal Fatal Non-fatal Third-Party Women Men Women Men Total Women Men Women Men Total Women Men Women Men Total Employees Incidents 0 1 3 39 43 0 2 0 33 35 0 0 0 28 28 OVERALL ABSENTEEISM RATE (DIRECT EMPLOYEES) BY REGION [GRI 403-2] 2016 2017 2018 Region Women Men Women Men Women Men Greater Rio 2.08 2.12 2.25 1.75 2.00 1.60 Rest of State 0.69 0.91 2.74 1.12 2.23 0.66 TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE CONCERNING HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS AND RESULTING LEGAL PROCEEDINGS [GRI 416-2, GRI EU25] 2016 2017 2018 Total number of nonfatal injuries involving consumers 26 20 17 Total number of fatal injuries involving consumers 13 8 7 Lawsuits resulting from injuries involving 438 397 379 consumers – General Litigation Database INCIDENTS REPORTED OVER THE PAST THREE YEARS, BY REGION LIGHT GROUP EMPLOYEES [GRI 403-2] 2016 2017 2018 Greater Rio Rest of State Greater Rio Rest of State Greater Rio Rest of State Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Total workforce 945 2,595 59 486 932 2,584 59 489 1,001 3,064 56 591 Number of Injuries 6 24 0 4 1 12 0 0 2 21 0 3 – Typical Lost days 47 410 0 364 4 490 0 0 19 357 0 71 Days deducted 0 0 0 0 0 6,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities – Typical 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of injuries 19 22 0 0 15 21 0 0 18 31 0 4 – Commuting Fatalities Commuting 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES ELIGIBLE TO RETIRE, BY JOB CATEGORY, TIME REMAINING AND REGION. 2018 [GRI EU15] Senior Management Middle Management Operational Professional Technician Time remaining (years) 5 to 10 Retired Grand Total 5 to 10 Retired Grand Total 5 to 10 Retired Grand Total 5 to 10 Retired Grand Total 5 to 10 Retired Grand Total Region <5 > 10 <5 > 10 <5 > 10 <5 > 10 <5 > 10 Greater Rio (%) 1 1 2 1 4 1 1 2 0 3 1 1 2 0 4 2 1 4 1 7 2 2 7 1 12 Rest of 1 0 3 0 4 1 0 1 0 2 2 3 4 1 11 1 0 2 0 3 3 3 9 2 17 State (%) São Paulo (%) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 11 0 11 0 0 11 0 11 *Formula = Number of retirable employees by region and time remaining / Total by region LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 11 APPENDIX I – GRI DISCLOSURES – LIGHT S.A. COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY, GENDER, AGE GROUP, MINORITY GROUP MEMBERSHIP AND OTHER INDICATORS OF DIVERSITY – 2018 [GRI 405-1] Senior Management Middle Management Women Men Women Men <30 30 50 > 50 <30 30 50 > 50 <30 30 50 > 50 <30 30 50 > 50 Race Asian 5 5 0 3 1 3 White 64 130 26 53 65 23 1 31 3 1 89 26 Indigenous 0 1 0 1 1 1 Mixed race 67 82 11 35 33 20 3 2 24 7 Black 25 40 5 14 20 3 2 4 2 Not identified 1 5 5 2 24 3 1 5 4 Total 162 263 47 102 123 71 1 41 3 4 126 39 Operational Professional Technician Women Men Women Men Women Men <30 30 50 > 50 <30 30 50 > 50 <30 30 50 > 50 <30 30 50 > 50 <30 30 50 > 50 <30 30 50 > 50 Race Asian 1 15 15 5 2 1 4 9 White 12 35 2 141 314 49 29 150 20 39 174 52 15 24 1 83 285 66 Indigenous 2 6 1 3 1 3 1 Mixed race 28 29 1 205 578 57 16 56 8 8 57 8 7 20 74 271 31 Black 12 17 2 118 215 17 2 18 2 3 13 3 6 8 24 82 11 Not identified 1 16 20 60 2 4 3 3 6 9 1 1 3 21 12 Total 52 82 6 497 1,148 185 49 233 33 53 255 72 30 54 1 188 671 121 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE BOARD AND AUDIT COMMITTEE (%) [GRI 102-35] Board of 2018 Directors Statutory Board Audit Board Total ANNUAL FIXED COMPENSATION 100.0 47.8 100.0 67.4 Salaries or management fees 83.3 31.5 83.3 51.0 Direct and indirect benefits 0.0 2.8 0.0 1.8 Participation in committees 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other charges 16.7 13.5 16.7 14.6 VARIABLE COMPENSATION IN THE YEAR 0.0 33.3 0.0 20.8 Bonuses 0.0 26.0 0.0 16.2 Profit sharing 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Participation in meetings 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Commission 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other charges 0.0 7.3 0.0 4.6 POST-EMPLOYMENT 0.0 2.4 0.0 1.5 TERMINATION OF POSITION 0.0 16.5 0.0 10.3 SHARE-BASED (INCLUDING OPTIONS) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL COMPENSATION 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 12 APPENDIX I – GRI DISCLOSURES – LIGHT S.A. REMUNERATION PAID BY THE COMPANY TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, AUDIT COMMITTEE AND EXECUTIVE BOARD [GRI 102-35] Board of 2018 Directors Statutory Board Audit Board Total NUMBER OF MEMBERS 20.89 9.00 6.89 35.78 NUMBER OF MEMBERS RECEIVING 16.78 9.00 6.89 31.67 COMPENSATION ANNUAL FIXED COMPENSATION (IN R$) 2,747,040.11 13,222,850.31 1,189,364.71 17,159,255.13 Salaries or management fees 2,289,346.63 8,629,496.10 991,313.12 11,910,155.85 Direct and indirect benefits 0.00 951,074.36 0.00 951,074.36 Participation in committees 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Other charges 457,693.48 3,642,279.85 198,051.59 4,298,024.92 VARIABLE COMPENSATION IN 0.00 9,049,951.80 0.00 9,049,951.80 THE YEAR (R$ THOUSAND) Bonuses 0.00 7,070,274.28 0.00 7,070,274.28 Profit sharing 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Participation in meetings 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Commission 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Other charges 0.00 1,979,677.52 0.00 1,979,677.52 POST-EMPLOYMENT 0.00 628,749.72 0.00 628,749.72 TERMINATION OF POSITION 0.00 4,378,645.56 0.00 4,378,645.56 SHARE-BASED 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 TOTAL COMPENSATION BY 2,747,040.11 27,280,197.39 1,189,364.71 31,216,602.21 BOARD (R$ THOUSAND) Note: The number of members on the board is equivalent to the average number of members on the board in each month as recommended by CVM. PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS BY STATE AND BY TYPE [GRI 204-1] 2016 2017 2018 State Qty. % of spending Qty. % of spending Qty. % of spending Rio de Janeiro 968 52 830 44 694 50 São Paulo 475 22 440 33 381 27 Paraná 39 7 35 9 29 8 Minas Gerais 84 5 81 6 79 7 Santa Catarina 25 2 26 2 30 2 Other 99 12 90 6 93 6 Total Material 645 21 589 34 565 29 Total Services 1,045 79 913 66 741 71 Grand Total 1,690 100 1,502 100 1,306 100 NUMBER OF RESIDENTIAL DISCONNECTIONS FOR NON-PAYMENT [GRI EU27] 2016 2017 2018 Disconnections for Nonpayment in the Residential Segment 745,840 765,791 877,985 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13 APPENDIX I – GRI DISCLOSURES – LIGHT S.A. FINES AND PENALTIES RELATED TO SERVICES PROVIDED, IN R$ THOUSAND [GRI 419-1] 2016 2017 2018 Financial Compensation (DIC/FIC/DMIC/DICRI) 42,975 26,980 29,374 Regulatory fines 4,837 5,777 0 Credit for failure to meet commercial service terms 494 504 1,804 Total 48,306 33,188 31,178 CONTINGENCIES & PROVISIONS [GRI 419-1] Portfolio Contingency Provision Subject matter (Qty) (R$ million) (R$ million) Small Claims Court 21,589 29 29 Civil 55,711 1,135 211 Labor claims 2,520 555 144 Tax 1,069 6,132 83 Other 0 0 0 Total 80,889 7,851 467 Note: Six (06) Public Civil Actions were brought in 2018, as detailed in section 4.3 of our Reference Form. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 14 APPENDIX II – ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT SESA APPENDIX II ANEEL Disclosures Light SESA DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED [GRI 201-1] CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF ADDED VALUE (R$ thousand) 2018 2017 Revenue 17,753,754 16,410,526 Sales of goods and services 17,527,442 16,212,030 Revenue relating to construction of company assets 661,036 607,191 Allowance (reversal of allowance) for doubtful accounts (434,724) (408,695) Inputs purchased from third parties (8,236,266) (7,500,343) Cost of goods sold and services rendered (6,924,108) (6,230,782) Material, energy, outsourced services and other (1,312,158) (1,269,561) Gross value added 9,517,488 8,910,183 Withholding (486,769) (458,775) Depreciation and amortization (486,769) (458,775) Net value added 9,030,719 8,451,408 Transferred value added 488,194 79,530 Finance revenue 488,194 79,530 Added value to be distributed 9,518,913 8,530,938 Distribution of value added 9,518,913 8,530,938 Personnel 356,716 344,267 Direct compensation 252,634 239,787 Rewards and Benefits 76,410 66,728 FGTS 24,610 34,469 Other 3,062 3,283 Taxes 7,993,146 7,156,213 Federal 3,626,492 3,255,674 State 4,352,302 3,883,923 Municipal 14,352 16,616 Third-party capital remuneration 1,092,342 937,403 Interest 1,035,117 879,417 Rent 57,225 57,986 Interest on equity 76,709 93,055 Dividend and interest on equity 18,219 22,101 Retained earnings (accumulated losses) 58,490 70,954 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 15 APPENDIX II – ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT SESA Purchased Electricity Purchased Electricity 2016 2017 2018 Purchased electricity (GWh) Total 31,614 29,932 29,207 1) Itaipu 5,115 5,090 4,648 2) Initial contracts 0 0 0 3) Bilateral contracts 6,368 6,351 6,351 3.1) Third parties 6,368 6,351 6,351 3.2) Related parties 0 0 0 4) Auction 0 0 0 5) PROINFA 534 498 495 6) CCEAR agreements (Hydro + thermal) 8,336 7,917 8,354 7) Surplus and Shortfall Settlement Chamber (MCSD) 1,683 1,486 1,846 8) Angra (Eletronuclear) 870 868 868 9) Quotas 8,550 7,523 6,645 10) Wind 158 200 256 Note: Light sold 2,070 GWh on the spot market, for a total energy requirement of 29,544 GWh. Market Total electricity distributed (GWh) 2016 2017 2018 Classes / Total 28,624 28,389 28,027 Residential 8,850 9,239 8,600 Industrial 4,901 4,880 5,184 Commercial 8,271 8,070 7,753 Rural 67 63 63 Government 1,488 1,336 1,393 Public Lighting 746 689 802 Public Utility 1,411 1,455 1,446 Internal Use 116 117 120 Concession operators 2,773 2,539 2,666 Captive electricity sold (GWh) 2016 2017 2018 Classes / Total 20,660 19,673 18,455 Residential 8,850 9,239 8,600 Industrial 1,060 779 697 Commercial 7,149 6,259 5,598 Rural 67 63 63 Government 1,488 1,336 1,393 Public Lighting 746 689 802 Public Utility 1,185 1,191 1,183 Internal Use 116 117 120 Free electricity sold (GWh) 2016 2017 2018 Classes / Total 5,191 6,177 6,906 Industrial 3,841 4,101 4,487 Commercial 1,122 1,811 2,156 Public Utility 226 261 264 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 16 APPENDIX II – ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT SESA Market Electricity sold to utilities (GWh) 2016 2017 2018 Concession operators 2,773 2,539 2,666 % share of segments in total electricity distributed 2016 2017 2018 Residential 29.4% 30.7% 29.0% Low-Income Residential 1.5% 1.9% 1.7% Industrial 17.1% 17.2% 18.5% Commercial 28.9% 28.4% 27.7% Rural 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% Government 5.2% 4.7% 5.0% Public Lighting 2.6% 2.4% 2.9% Public Utility 4.9% 5.1% 5.2% Internal Use 0.4% 0.4% 0.4% Utilities 9.7% 8.9% 9.5% Number of accounts billed (*) at December each year – captive 2016 2017 2018 customers [GRI EU3] Classes / Total 4,419,720 4,559,721 4,457,615 Residential 4,058,527 4,196,110 4,092,836 Industrial 6,999 10,365 10,109 Commercial 326,567 325,589 327,095 Rural 12,160 12,296 12,387 Government 12,361 12,367 12,222 Public Lighting 659 721 765 Public Utility 1,987 1,813 1,746 Internal Use 460 460 455 (*) Including accounts with and without consumption Number of free consumers (*) [GRI EU3] 2016 2017 2018 Classes / Total 337 613 752 Industrial 61 104 130 Commercial 272 491 616 Public Utility 4 6 6 (*) number of installations per customer Number of utilities 2016 2017 2018 Concession operators 3 3 3 General Data 2016 2017 2018 Electricity sales per installed capacity (GWh/MVA*No. hours/year) 2.73 2.70 2.66 Electricity sold per employee (MWh) 7,431 7,380 6,285 Number of consumers per employee 1,147 1,185 1,000 Added value / GWh sold 287,571 300,502 339,634 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 17 APPENDIX II – ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT SESA Consumers Excellence in service 2016 2017 2018 Call Center Calls Received (unit) 3,715,774 3,596,971 3,944,543 Average number of agents (unit) 58 63 77 INS Level of Service Rate (%) 88.94 90.54 87.30 IAb Abandonment Rate (%) 1.19 0.49 0.57 ICO Busy Call Rate (%) 0.41 0.21 0.16 TMA Average Interaction Time (s) 277 292 286 Compensation for Electrical Damages Volume of Applications (unit) 8,016 7,360 8,030 Confirmed (unit) 2,377 1,832 304 Complaints Indicators (*) Confirmed Complaints (unit) 82,171 82,512 147,741 Equivalent Complaints Duration (ECD) (hours) (**) 174.98 134.70 212.45 Equivalent Complaint Frequency per One Thousand Consumer Units (ECF) (unit) (**) 21.05 21.05 38.22 Violation of commercial service time limits (Pursuant to the relevant regulation – REN 414/2010) Service interactions (unit) 967,894 940,492 1,159,835 Service interactions timely completed (unit) 14,083 32,817 43,153 Service Efficiency (%) 98.5 96.5 96.5 Number of customer complaints escalated to ANEEL – state / regional agencies 7,032 35,797 22,943 to the Company (excluding complaints relating to Outages, 245,885 263,367 440,840 Electrical Damage and Supply Voltage) to the courts 42,256 83,391 103,838 to PROCON 3,941 1,095 1,081 (*) Excluding complaints relating to Power Outages, Voltage Fluctuation and Electrical Damage, which under REN 414/2010 are not to be computed in ECD and ECF indicators as they are subject to rules and time frames under specific regulations (**) Established in Regulatory Resolution 414/2010 Internal Stakeholders General Information 2016 2017 2018 Total number of employees 3,852 3,847 4,459 Turnover rate (%) 10.7 13.5 14.3 Average overtime per employee/year (hours) 107.7 164.8 164.9 Employees aged 30 or under (%) 27.7 28.8 28.2 Employees aged 31 to 40 (%) 38.0 39.5 39.3 Employees aged 41 to 50 (%) 20.5 20.2 20.8 Employees over 50 (%) 13.7 11.4 11.7 Percentage of female employees (%) 25.1 25.0 22.9 Women in managerial positions out of total managerial positions (%) 24.5 23.1 21.5 Black female employees (black and mixed race) out of total employees (%) 9.8 10.6 10.3 Black male employees (black and mixed race) out of total employees (%) 38.2 39.0 41.9 Black employees (black and mixed race) in managerial positions out of total managerial 21.9 20.3 20.4 positions (%) Percentage of interns out of total employees (%) 1.1 1.7 1.1 Apprentice program employees (%) 2.4 2.9 1.2 Employees with special needs 178 190 193 Compensation (R$ thousand) Gross payroll 338,355 350,139 364,930 Compulsory social charges 66,939 68,590 88,343 Total Benefits (R$ thousand) Education 812 899 870 Food and Restaurants 29,604 32,782 35,043 Transportation 3,830 4,774 5,721 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 18 APPENDIX II – ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT SESA Internal Stakeholders General Information 2016 2017 2018 Health 17,438 18,846 25,033 Foundation 8,211 7,210 7,367 Occupational Health and Safety 646 646 551 Culture 0 0 0 Training and professional development 2,750 2,351 764 Day care and day care allowance 1,284 1,206 1,371 Other 2,135 2,442 2,029 Profit sharing Total investment in profit-sharing program (R$ thousand) 23,739 37,446 31,636 Amounts distributed in relation to gross payroll (%) 7.0 10.7 8.7 Highest compensation divided by the lowest compensation in cash 44.9 66.5 48 paid by the Company (including profit shares and bonuses) Highest compensation divided by the minimum salary 1.4 1.4 1.31 in force (including profit shares and bonuses) Compensation profile by category average salary (R$) Managerial positions (managing directors, managers and coordinators) 13,301 14,350 14,651 Administrative positions 3,556 3,236 3,214 Production positions 2,772 2,843 2,690 Retirement provision Number of beneficiaries of supplementary pension plans 3,725 3,633 4,217 Number of beneficiaries of pre-retirement plans 0 0 0 Professional Development Education Levels (percentage of total employees) Illiterate employees (%) 0 0 0.0% Primary education (%) 4.39 3.64 4.2% Secondary education (%) 67.76 69.38 71.5% Undergraduate (%) 23.05 22.28 20.0% Graduate (specialization, master’s, doctorate) (%) 4.31 4.21 3.9% Amount invested in professional development and education (% of NOR) 0.04 0.02 0.01 Number of hours of professional development per employee/year (MH), by employee category Senior Management 14.3 19.8 13.6 Middle management 19.9 48.7 35.0 Operational 34.0 55.6 60.6 Professional 23.0 25.7 21.9 Technical 32.6 51.4 40.8 General 24.8 40.2 34.4 Labor Claims (direct employees) Provision for liabilities in the period (R$ thousand) 68,904 53,915 56,807 Number of labor claims brought against the company in the period (*) 99 183 64 Number of labor claims accepted in the period (**) 113 133 130 Number of labor claims rejected in the period (**) 27 24 38 Value of damages and fines paid under court 5,659 9,105 7,527 awards in the period (R$ thousand) (*) New labor claims brought in the period by direct employees. (**) Active claims at period-end from direct employees. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 19 APPENDIX II – ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT SESA Health & Safety 2016 2017 2018 Total frequency rate for the period employees 4.69 1.52 2.58 Total severity rate for the period employees 113 757 41 Total frequency rate for the period contractors 2.44 2.00 1.59 Total severity rate for the period contractors 503 525 118 Total frequency rate for the period workforce 3.15 1.82 1.96 (employees + contractors) Total severity rate for the period workforce (employees + contractors) 379 611 90 Fatalities – employees 0 1 0 Fatalities – contractors 1 1 0 Suppliers 2016 2017 2018 Number of outsourced employees 6,832 7,204 7,418 Community 2016 2017 2018 Low-income rate [GRI 201-4] Number of low-income households served 229,005 213,514 233,059 Total low-income households out of total households 7 6 7 served (residential customers/consumers) (%) Revenue from sales to low-income residential subsector (R$ thousand) 258,022 338,123 386,849 Total revenue from sales to low-income residential 3.8 4.9 4.9 subsector out of total residential revenue (%) Subsidy received (Eletrobrás) for low-income consumers (R$ thousand) 69,113 84,382 74,236 Company involvement in cultural, sports and other projects (Rouanet Act) 2016 2017 2018 Funds allocated to cultural or sports projects etc. (Rouanet 0 0 0 Act) (R$ thousand) across all divisions Funds allocated to the largest cultural or sports project 0 0 0 (Rouanet Act) (R$ thousand) across all divisions Company involvement in social initiatives (Sponsorship – all divisions) 2016 2017 2018 Funds allocated to education (R$ thousand) 0 82 0 Funds allocated to health care and sanitation (R$ thousand) 0 0 0 Funds allocated to culture (R$ thousand) 1,290 240 822 Funds allocated to sports (R$ thousand) 1,500 270 138 Other funds allocated to social initiatives (R$ thousand) 272 233 314 Employees carrying out voluntary work in the community ND ND ND outside the Company/total employees (%) Number of hours donated per month (employees released from normal 0 0 0 working hours) by the Company for employee volunteer work LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 20 APPENDIX II – ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT SESA Environment 2016 2017 2018 Shielded and insulated lines (ecological grid 51,903 52,171 53,614 or green lines) in urban areas (km) Percentage of shielded and insulted lines out of 83 82 85 total distribution lines in urban areas (%) Annual volume of greenhouse gas (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6) 234,494 228,774 176,197 emissions (in metric tons of CO2 equivalent) – Scopes 1 and 2 Annual volume of ozone-depleting emissions Negligible Annual quantity (in tons) of solid waste generated 806 5,296 581,354 (refuse, waste, rubble etc.) (*) Total electricity consumption by source (in MWh) Fossil fuels ND ND ND Alternative sources (gas, wind, solar, etc) ND ND ND Hydroelectric ND ND ND Total electricity consumption (in MWh) 115,657 117,339 119,664 Electricity consumption per kWh distributed (sold) 0.001 0.001 0.001 Total direct energy consumption by primary source (MWh) Ethanol 43 56 52 Diesel 5,089 5,059 5,059 Natural Gas 0 0 0 Gasoline 5,191 5,355 5,497 Total water withdrawal by source (m ) 3 Municipal 133,071 129,155 119,578 Surface extraction (waterways) NA NA NA Groundwater (wells) NA NA NA Total water withdrawal (m3) 133,071 129,155 119,578 Water withdrawal per employee (m3) 34.55 33.57 26.81 Number of employees trained in environmental education programs 143 323 328 Employees trained in environmental education 3.7 8.4 7.35 programs out of total employees (%) Number of hours of environmental training for 0.29 0.20 1.09 employees out of total hours of training (%) (*) Includes only waste materials documented on Waste Manifests. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 21 APPENDIX II – ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT SESA Research and Development [GRI EU8] 2016 2017 2018 Amount Amount Amount By field of research (Research & Development Handbook (R$ (%) (R$ (%) (R$ (%) – ANEEL) thousand) thousand) thousand) Alternative sources 4 0.1 Thermal River Basin and Reservoir Management Environment Safety 310 5.8 288 8.2 Energy Efficiency Power System Planning 763 14.3 300 8.6 Power System Operation 413 7.7 1,342 6.7 Power System Supervision, Control and Protection 6,268 31.2 Power Supply Quality and Reliability 1,435 26.9 418 12.0 1,949 9.7 Metering, Billing and Loss Reduction 1,982 36.9 2,047 58.6 8,357 41.7 Other 446 8.4 441 12.6 2,143 10.7 Total 5,352 100.0 3,493 100.0 20,060 100.0 Note: in 2016, 2017 and 2018, in addition to project expenditure, respectively R$ 668,000, R$ 693,000 and R$ 693,000 were invested in our Management Project. R&D Investments – Project classification by research stage 2016 2017 2018 No. of Investments (in No. of Investments (in No. of Investments (in Innovation stage projects R$ thousand) projects R$ thousand) projects R$ thousand) Basic Targeted Research Applied Research 7 1,978 5 1,672 11 5,132 Experimental Development 1 43 2 464 15 8,217 Prototyping 4 2,089 4 1,357 5 3,810 Pilot run 3 1,242 3 2,901 Placement on market 1 Total 15 5,352 11 3,493 35 20,060 IR&D Investment – Project classification by type of deliverable 2016 2017 2018 No. of Investments (in No. of Investments (in No. of Investments (in Type of deliverable projects R$ thousand) projects R$ thousand) projects R$ thousand) Concept or Method 3 618 2 885 7 3,067 Software 3 805 3 478 12 6,021 System or Process 2 777 2 479 1 315 Material or Substance 3 413 3 2,037 Component or Device 3 2,430 2 674 7 4,920 Machinery or Equipment 1 310 2 978 5 3,700 Total 15 5,352 11 3,493 35 20,060 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 22 APPENDIX II – ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT SESA Energy Efficiency Program [GRI EU7] Investment made (expenditure) 2016 2017 2018 Capital Source of funding Investment Source of funding Investment Source of funding Expenditure (R$ thousand) (R$ thousand) (R$ thousand) Third party Third party Third party Total (R$ Total (R$ Total (R$ thousand) Company Customer thousand) Company Customer thousand) Company Customer Project type (%) (%) (%) Industrial Trade and 109 0.59 109 1,679 7.79 1,634 17 27 949 3.70 860 89 services Government 3,375 18.28 3,330 45 2,132 9.89 1,756 376 5,840 22.80 5,777 63 Public Utility Rural Residential 390 2.11 390 1,756 8.15 1,756 505 1.97 388 117 Low-Income 9,547 51.71 9,547 3,585 16.63 3,457 129 7,341 28.66 7,341 Residential Public Lighting Municipal Energy Management Education 4,117 22.30 2,515 1,602 2,571 11.93 2,571 10,348 40.40 3,574 6,773 EE 923 5.00 923 672 3.12 672 633 2.47 633 management ABRADEE 1,185 5.50 1,185 Campaign PROCEL 7,973 36.99 7,973 (0.1 NOR) Total 18,461 100 16,813 1,602 45 21,553 100 21,003 17 532 25,615 100.00 18,573 7,042 (*) In 2018 an accounting restatement of R$ 1,308.22 was made in relation to the CE VIII project. This restatement reduced the actual investment recognized in 2017. (**) PROCEL payments in 2018 are not listed in the table as R$ 9,119,881.93 in funding will be provided to the PROCEL program in 2019. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 23 APPENDIX II – ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT SESA Energy Efficiency Program Outcomes (from projects completed in the year) 2015 2017 2018 Energy savings (MWh)/year Peak Shaving (kW) Peak Shaving (kW) Peak Shaving (kW) Energy Savings Energy Savings Units served Units Served (MWh/year) Units Served (MWh/year) Project type Industrial 0 0 0 Trade and services 2 71 24 6 1,415 246 5 983 233 Government 3 4,462 1,830 43 1,336 127 53 1,407 173 Public Utility 0 0 0 Rural 0 0 0 Residential 478,721* 69,020 18,682 6,666 6,444 1,210 1 138 27 Low-Income Residential 19,929 6,797 1,443 Public Lighting 0 0 0 Municipal Energy 0 0 0 Management Education 0 0 0 4 Total 73,553 20,536 26,644 15,991 3,027 63 2,528 432 (*) Residential I: 64,816 un and Residential II: 413,905 un. LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 24 ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT ENERGIA APPENDIX III ANEEL Indicators for Light Energia DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED [GRI 201-1] Consolidated STATEMENT OF ADDED VALUE (R$ thousand) 2018 2017 Revenue 1,315,287 1,094,749 Sales of goods, products and services 1,255,449 1,053,944 Revenue relating to construction of company assets 59,838 40,805 Inputs purchased from third parties (760,211) (612,472) Cost of goods and services sold (686,573) (559,160) Material, Energy, Outsourced Services and Other (73,638) (53,312) Gross value added 555,076 482,277 Withholding (54,084) (54,566) Depreciation and amortization (54,084) (54,566) Net value added 500,992 427,711 Transferred value added 23,861 (161,807) Finance revenue 135,964 24,791 Equity in income of associates (112,103) (186,598) Added value to be distributed 524,853 265,904 Distribution of value added 524,853 265,904 Personnel 19,596 24,545 Direct compensation 14,810 18,861 Rewards and Benefits 3,359 2,466 FGTS 1,402 2,790 Other 25 428 Taxes 206,611 191,292 Federal 203,600 185,327 State 394 5,010 Municipal 2,617 955 Third-party capital remuneration 262,645 123,387 Interest 258,559 122,138 Rent 4,086 1,249 Interest on equity 36,001 (73,320) Accumulated losses 36,001 (73,320) LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 25 ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT ENERGIA Generation Output 2016 2017 2018 Total gross electricity generated (GWh) 3,721 4,119 4,197 Total net electricity generated (GWh) 3,102 3,403 3,499 Note: Not including the Paracambi SHP, which is owned by LightGer, in which Light has a 51% interest. Internal Stakeholders General Information 2016 2017 2018 Number of employees 191 182 220 Turnover rate (%) 9.3 10.8 12.3% Average overtime per employee/year (hours) 61.8 103.7 164.4 Employees aged 30 or under (%) 27.2 30.8 31.4% Employees aged 31 to 40 (%) 22.0 25.8 29.5% Employees aged 41 to 50 (%) 16.2 14.8 14.1% Employees over 50 (%) 34.6 28.6 25.0% Percentage of female employees (%) 13.6 12.6 10.0% Women in managerial positions out of total managerial positions (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0% Black female employees (black and mixed 4.2 2.8 1.8% race) out of total employees (%) Black male employees (black and mixed 24.1 25.8 30.5% race) out of total employees (%) Black employees (black and mixed race) in managerial 0.0 0 0.0% positions out of total managerial positions (%) Percentage of interns out of total employees (%) 2.6 3.9 3.2% Apprentice program employees (%) 0.5 1.1 1.4% Employees with special needs (%) 5 3 6 Compensation (R$ thousand) Gross payroll 20,466 23,930 23,930 Compulsory social charges 4,035 4,316 6,083 Total Benefits (R$ thousand) Education 283 80 25 Food and Restaurants 1,339 1,454 1,718 Transportation 48 18 41 Health 646 534 1,072 Foundation 531 415 477 Occupational health and safety 0 0 0 Culture 0 0 0 Training and professional development 0 0 0 Day care and day care allowance 18 11 9 Other 25 26 37 Profit sharing Total investment in profit-sharing program (R$ thousand) 1,977 1,472 2,549 Amounts distributed in relation to gross payroll (%) 9.7 6.2 10.7 Highest compensation divided by the lowest compensation in cash 32.3 26.5 23.63 paid by the Company (including profit shares and bonuses) Highest compensation divided by the minimum salary 1.4 1.6 1.81 in force (including profit shares and bonuses) LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 26 ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT ENERGIA Internal Stakeholders 2016 2017 2018 Compensation profile by category average salary (R$) Middle management positions (managers and coordinators) R$ 15,911 16,510 17,520 Administrative positions R$ 3,978 3,916 4,165 Production positions R$ 4,757 4,717 4,308 Retirement provision Number of beneficiaries of supplementary pension plans 180 166 204 Number of beneficiaries of pre-retirement plan 0 0 0 Professional Development Education Levels (percentage of total employees) Illiterate employees (%) 0 0 0.0% Primary education (%) 7.9 5.5 4.5% Secondary education (%) 53.4 57.7 61.8% Undergraduate (%) 29.8 30.2 27.7% Graduate (specialization, master’s, doctorate) (%) 8.4 6.0 5.5% Amount invested in professional development 0.04 0.01 0.002 and education (% of NOR) Number of hours of professional development per employee/year (MH), by employee category Senior Management 16.6 7.6 9.7 Middle management 20.7 42.1 22.2 Operational 15.7 16.1 80.3 Professional 26.7 31.4 26.8 Technical 29.6 38.8 30.3 General 21.9 27.2 33.8 Labor Claims Provision for liabilities (R$ thousand) 1,590 1,925 4,309 Number of labor claims brought against the company in the period 2 6 3 Number of labor claims accepted in the period 0 2 3 Number of labor claims rejected in the period 2 0 1 Value of damages and fines paid under court 5 233 175 awards in the period (R$ thousand) Health & Safety 2016 2017 2018 Total frequency rate for the period employees 0 0 1.86 Total severity rate for the period employees 0 0 91 Total frequency rate for the period contractors 4.13 5.25 1.99 Total severity rate for the period contractors 78 5,292 6 Total frequency rate for the period workforce 3.27 3.86 1.95 (employees + contractors) Total severity rate for the period workforce (employees + contractors) 61.39 3,894 35.67 Fatalities – employees 0 0 0 Fatalities – contractors 0 1 0 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 27 ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT ENERGIA Suppliers 2016 2017 2018 Number of outsourced employees 647 527 443 Environment 2016 2017 2018 Annual volume of greenhouse gas (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6) 9,031 8,507 14,642 emissions (in metric tons of CO2 equivalent) – Scopes 1 and 2 Annual volume of ozone-depleting emissions Negligible Annual quantity (in tons) of solid waste 498 4,211 4,784 generated (refuse, waste, rubble etc.) Quantity of contaminated PCB waste 0 0 0 Total electricity consumption by source (in kWh) Fossil fuels ND ND ND Alternative sources (gas, wind, solar, etc) ND ND ND Hydroelectric ND ND ND Total electricity consumption (in MWh) 192 187 192 Total direct energy consumption by primary source (MWh) Ethanol 0.98 0.25 0.68 Diesel 165 141 154 Natural gas 0 0 0 Gasoline 168 158 195 Total water withdrawal by source (m ) 3 Municipal 6,598 6,110 5,897 Surface extraction (waterways) NA NA NA Groundwater (wells) NA NA NA Total water withdrawal 6,598 6,110 5,897 Water withdrawal per employee 34.55 33.57 26.81 Electricity consumption of generating and auxiliary units 568,820 757,882 678,471 (maximum consumption in MWh by hydroelectric plant) Water consumption per kWh generated (maximum 7.81 7.81 7.81 flow rate m3/s per kWh delivered) Restoration of riparian vegetation (ha) 64.58 50.64 35.87 Fish salvaged in turbines (kg of fish per shutdown) ND ND ND Fish restocking (number of fry released into reservoirs per year) ND ND ND Release of untreated sanitary effluent and leakage of lubricating ND ND ND and hydraulic oil from turbines (metric tons per year) Number of employees trained in environmental education programs 6 10 96 Percentage of employees trained in environmental 3.14 5.49 43.64 education programs out of total employees (%) Number of hours of environmental training for 0.38 0.16 12.31 employees out of total hours of training LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 28 ANEEL DISCLOSURES – LIGHT ENERGIA Research and Development [GRI EU8] 2016 2017 2018 Amount Amount Amount (R$ (R$ (R$ By field of research (Research & Development Handbook – ANEEL) thousand) (%) thousand) (%) thousand) (%) Alternative sources 415 19.7 94 3.8 Thermal River Basin and Reservoir Management 1,121 45.4 946 30.0 Environment 1308 62.2 172 7.0 287 9.1 Safety Energy Efficiency Power System Planning Power System Operation 380 18.1 889 36.0 549 17.4 Power System Supervision, Control and Protection 194 7.8 618 19.6 Power Supply Quality and Reliability Metering, Billing and Loss Reduction Other 751 23.8 Total 2,103 100.0 2,471 100.0 3,152 100.0 Note: in 2016, 2017 and 2018, in addition to project expenditure, R$ 38,000, R$ 56,000 and R$ 10,000 were invested in our Management Project. Respectively. R&D Investments – Project classification by research stage 2016 2017 2018 No. of Investments (in No. of Investments (in No. of Investments (in Innovation stage projects R$ thousand) projects R$ thousand) projects R$ thousand) Basic Targeted Research Applied Research 4 1,725 3 267 3 1,140 Experimental Development 2 1,315 2 1,462 Prototyping 1 378 1 889 1 549 Pilot run Placement on market Total 5 2,103 6 2,471 6 3,152 R&D Investment – Project classification by type of deliverable 2016 2017 2018 No. of Investments (in No. of Investments (in No. of Investments (in Type of deliverable projects R$ thousand) projects R$ thousand) projects R$ thousand) Concept or Method 3 1,723 3 267 2 389 Software 1 2 System or Process 1 378 3 2,203 4 2,763 Material or Substance Component or Device Machinery or Equipment Total 5 2,103 6 2,471 6 3,152 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 29 IBASE SOCIAL BALANCE SHEET APPENDIX IV iBase Social Balance Sheet Company: CONSOLIDATED 2018 Amount 2017 Amount 1 Calculation Base (thousand reais) (thousand reais) Net revenue (NR) 11,970,547 11,314,559 Operating income (OI) 1,047,569 1,373,953 Gross payroll (GP) 403,239 386,958 Amount Amount (R$ (R$ 2 Internal Social Indicators thousand) % of GP % of NR thousand) % of GP % of NR Food and Restaurants 37,075 9% 0% 34,542 9% 0% Compulsory social charges 86,065 21% 1% 74,177 19% 1% Private pension 8,097 2% 0% 7,842 2% 0% Health insurance 26,372 7% 0% 19,628 5% 0% Occupational health and safety 552 0% 0% 631 0% 0% Education 844 0% 0% 899 0% 0% Culture 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Training and professional development 1,853 0% 0% 2,431 1% 0% Day care and day care allowance 1,417 0% 0% 1,253 0% 0% Profit sharing 35,468 9% 0% 39,496 10% 0% Other 7,867 2% 0% 7,293 2% 0% Total Internal social indicators 205,610 51% 2% 188,192 49% 2% Amount Amount (R$ % of (R$ 3 External Social Indicators thousand) OI % of NR thousand) % of OI % of NR Education 4,307 0% 0% 5,857 0% 0% Culture 6,664 1% 0% 4,121 0% 0% Health care and sanitation 8 0% 0% 862 0% 0% Sports 950 0% 0% 1,502 0% 0% Hunger relief and food security 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Other 37,704 4% 0% 17,357 1% 0% Total contributions to society 49,632 5% 0% 29,699 2% 0% Taxes (not including social charges) 6,144,871 587% 51% 5,788,018 421% 51% Total External social indicators 6,194,503 591% 52% 5,817,717 423% 51% Amount Amount (R$ % of (R$ 4 Environmental Indicators thousand) RO % of NR thousand) % of OI % of NR Investments related to company 40,224 4% 0% 60,459 4% 1% production / operation Investments in external programs and/or projects 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Total environmental investment 40,224 4% 0% 60,459 4% 1% LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 30 IBASE SOCIAL BALANCE SHEET Company: CONSOLIDATED Regarding the establishment of annual targets ( ) has no targets ( ) has no targets to minimize waste and overall consumption ( ) meets 51 to 75% of targets ( ) meets 51 to 75% of targets in production/operations and improve ( ) meets 0 to 50% of targets ( ) meets 0 to 50% of targets resource usage efficiency, the company ( x ) meets 76 to 100% of targets ( x ) meets 76 to 100% of targets 5 Workforce Indicators 2018 2017 Number of employees at period-end 4,712 4,064 Number of hires during the period 965 531 Number of outsourced employees 7,861 7,731 Number of trainees 57 71 Number of employees over 45 970 844 Number of women working at the company 1,057 1,000 % management positions held by women 21.03% 22.17% Number of black employees working at the company 2,406 1,966 % management positions held by black employees 20.56% 21.67% No of people with handicaps or special needs 199 196 6 Material information regarding corporate citizenship 2018 2019 Targets Ratio of the lowest to the highest 84 ND earners at the company Total number of occupational injuries 26 0 ( ) top management ( ) top management The social and environmental projects ( X ) directors and managers ( X ) directors and managers implemented by the company were selected by: ( ) all employees ( ) all employees ( ) top and middle management ( ) top and middle management Occupational health and safety ( ) all employees ( ) all employees standards were established by: ( x ) all + CIPA ( x ) all + CIPA Regarding freedom of association, the right to ( ) does not get involved ( ) will not interfere collective ( x ) follows ILO standards ( x ) will follow ILO standards ( ) promotes and follows ( ) will promote and bargaining and internal representation ILO standards follow ILO standards of workers, the company: ( ) top management ( ) top management Private pension plans are extended to: ( ) top and middle management ( ) top and middle management ( x ) all employees ( x ) all employees ( ) top management ( ) top management Profit sharing is extended to: ( ) top and middle management ( ) top and middle management ( x ) all employees ( x ) all employees When selecting suppliers the ethical, ( ) are not addressed ( ) will not be addressed social responsibility and environmental ( ) are suggested ( ) will be suggested standards adopted by the company: ( x ) are required ( x ) will be required ( ) does not get involved ( ) will not interfere In relation to volunteer work by ( ) supports it ( ) will support it employees, the company: ( x ) organizes and encourages it ( x ) will organize and encourage it at the company 371,235 at the Company Reduce by 10% Total number of consumer complaints at the Consumer at the Consumer and criticism submitted: Protection Agency 1,081 Protection Agency Reduce by 10% in Court 103,838 In Court Reduce by 10% at the Company 94.52% at the Company 100% at the Consumer at the Consumer % complaints and criticism handled or resolved: Protection Agency 100% Protection Agency 100% in Court 56% in Court 100% Added value to be distributed (in R$ thousand): In 2018: 10,232,687 In 2017: 9,111,367 81.29% government 83.06% government 3.86% employees 4.17% employees Distribution of Added Value (DVA): 0.00% shareholders 0.00% shareholders 13.24% third parties 11.41% third parties 1.62% retained 1.36% retained 7 Further Information 0 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 31 IBASE SOCIAL BALANCE SHEET APPENDIX IV iBase Social Balance Sheet Company: LIGHT SESA 2018 Amount 2017 Amount 1 Calculation Base (thousand reais) (thousand reais) Net revenue (NR) 10,334,019 9,801,523 Operating income (OI) 659,246 931,546 Gross payroll (GP) 364,930 350,139 Amount Amount (R$ (R$ 2 Internal Social Indicators thousand) % of GP % of NR thousand) % of GP % of NR Food and Restaurants 35,043 10% 0% 32,782 9% 0% Compulsory social charges 78,411 21% 1% 68,590 20% 1% Private pension 7,367 2% 0% 7,210 2% 0% Health insurance 25,033 7% 0% 18,846 5% 0% Occupational health and safety 551 0% 0% 646 0% 0% Education 870 0% 0% 899 0% 0% Culture 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Training and professional development 764 0% 0% 2,351 1% 0% Day care and day care allowance 1,371 0% 0% 1,206 0% 0% Profit sharing 31,636 9% 0% 37,446 11% 0% Other 7,751 2% 0% 7,286 2% 0% Total Internal social indicators 188,796 52% 2% 177,261 51% 2% Amount Amount (R$ % of (R$ 3 External Social Indicators thousand) OI % of NR thousand) % of OI % of NR Education 4,289 1% 0% 5,763 1% 0% Culture 5,430 1% 0% 3,821 0% 0% Health care and sanitation 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Sports 830 0% 0% 1,502 0% 0% Hunger relief and food security 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Other 35,681 5% 0% 15,868 2% 0% Total contributions to society 46,229 7% 0% 26,954 3% 0% Taxes (not including social charges) 5,975,423 906% 58% 5,420,714 582% 55% Total External social indicators 6,021,652 913% 58% 5,447,668 585% 56% Amount Amount (R$ % of (R$ 4 Environmental Indicators thousand) OI % of NR thousand) % of OI % of NR Investments related to company production / operation 32,705 5% 0% 45,073 5% 0% Investments in external programs and/or projects 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Total environmental investment 32,705 5% 0% 45,073 5% 0% Regarding the establishment of annual targets ( ) has no targets ( ) has no targets to minimize waste and overall consumption ( ) meets 51 to 75% of targets ( ) meets 51 to 75% of targets in production/operations and improve ( ) meets 0 to 50% of targets ( ) meets 0 to 50% of targets resource usage efficiency, the company ( x ) meets 76 to 100% of targets ( x ) meets 76 to 100% of targets LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 32 IBASE SOCIAL BALANCE SHEET Company: LIGHT SESA 5 Workforce Indicators 2018 2017 Number of employees at period-end 4,459 3,847 Number of hires during the period 914 510 Number of outsourced employees 7,418 7,204 Number of trainees 49 62 Number of employees over 45 886 769 Number of women working at the company 1,019 960 % management positions held by women 21.5% 23.1% Number of black employees working at the company 2,329 1,907 % management positions held by black employees 23.0% 24.2% No of people with handicaps or special needs 193 191 6 Material information regarding corporate citizenship 2018 2019 Targets Ratio of the lowest to the highest 35.4 ND earners at the company Total number of occupational injuries 25 0 ( ) top management ( ) top management The social and environmental projects ( X ) directors and managers ( X ) directors and managers implemented by the company were selected by: ( ) all employees ( ) all employees ( ) top and middle management ( ) top and middle management Occupational health and safety ( ) all employees ( ) all employees standards were established by: ( x ) all + CIPA ( x ) all + CIPA Regarding freedom of association, the right to ( ) does not get involved ( ) will not interfere collective ( x ) follows ILO standards ( x ) will follow ILO standards ( ) promotes and follows ( ) will promote and bargaining and internal representation ILO standards follow ILO standards of workers, the company: ( ) top management ( ) top management Private pension plans are extended to: ( ) top and middle management ( ) top and middle management ( x ) all employees ( x ) all employees ( ) top management ( ) top management Profit sharing is extended to: ( ) top and middle management ( ) top and middle management ( x ) all employees ( x ) all employees When selecting suppliers the ethical, ( ) are not addressed ( ) will not be addressed social responsibility and environmental ( ) are suggested ( ) will be suggested standards adopted by the company: ( x ) are required ( x ) will be required ( ) does not get involved ( ) will not interfere In relation to volunteer work by ( ) supports it ( ) will support it employees, the company: ( x ) organizes and encourages it ( x ) will organize and encourage it at the company 371,235 at the Company Reduce by 10% Total number of consumer complaints at the Consumer at the Consumer and criticism submitted: Protection Agency 1,081 Protection Agency Reduce by 10% in Court 103,838 In Court Reduce by 10% at the Company 94.52% at the Company 100% at the Consumer at the Consumer % complaints and criticism handled or resolved: Protection Agency 100% Protection Agency 100% in Court 56% in Court 100% Added value to be distributed (in R$ thousand): In 2018: 9,518,911 In 2017: 8,530,938 83.97% government 83.89% government 3.75% employees 4.04% employees Distribution of Added Value (DVA): 0.00% shareholders 0.00% shareholders 11.48% third parties 10.98% third parties 0.81% retained 1.09% retained 7 Further Information 0 LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33 IBASE SOCIAL BALANCE SHEET APPENDIX IV iBase Social Balance Sheet Company: LIGHT ENERGIA 2018 Amount 2017 Amount 1 Calculation Base (thousand reais) (thousand reais) Net revenue (NR) 1,118,461 927,823 Operating income (OI) 332,008 269,687 Gross payroll (GP) 23,930 23,764 Amount Amount (R$ (R$ 2 Internal Social Indicators thousand) % of GP % of NR thousand) % of GP % of NR Food and Restaurants 1,718 7% 0% 1,454 6% 0% Compulsory social charges 6,083 25% 1% 4,316 18% 0% Private pension 477 2% 0% 415 2% 0% Health insurance 1,072 4% 0% 534 2% 0% Occupational health and safety 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Education 25 0% 0% 80 0% 0% Culture 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Training and professional development 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Day care and day care allowance 9 0% 0% 11 0% 0% Profit sharing 2,549 11% 0% 1,472 6% 0% Other 195 1% 0% 43 0% 0% Total Internal social indicators 12,129 51% 1% 8,325 35% 1% Amount Amount (R$ % of (R$ 3 External Social Indicators thousand) OI % of NR thousand) % of OI % of NR Education 0 0% 0% 78 0% 0% Culture 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Health care and sanitation 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Sports 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Hunger relief and food security 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Other 3,074 1% 0% 2,352 1% 0% Total contributions to society 3,074 1% 0% 2,430 1% 0% Taxes (not including social charges) 153,988 46% 14% 147,702 55% 16% Total External social indicators 157,062 47% 14% 150,132 56% 16% Amount Amount (R$ % of (R$ 4 Environmental Indicators thousand) OI % of NR thousand) % of OI % of NR Investments related to company production / operation 7,519 2% 1% 15,836 6% 2% Investments in external programs and/or projects 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Total environmental investment 7,519 2% 1% 15,836 6% 2% Regarding the establishment of annual targets ( ) has no targets ( ) has no targets to minimize waste and overall consumption ( ) meets 51 to 75% of targets ( ) meets 51 to 75% of targets in production/operations and improve ( ) meets 0 to 50% of targets ( ) meets 0 to 50% of targets resource usage efficiency, the company ( x ) meets 76 to 100% of targets ( x ) meets 76 to 100% of targets LIGHT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 34 IBASE SOCIAL BALANCE SHEET Company: LIGHT ENERGIA 5 Workforce Indicators 2018 2017 Number of employees at period-end 220 182 Number of hires during the period 44 17 Number of outsourced employees 443 527 Number of trainees 7 7 Number of employees over 45 78 71 Number of women working at the company 22 23 % management positions held by women 0.00% 0.00% Number of black employees working at the company 71 52 % management positions held by black employees 0.00% 0.00% No. of people with handicaps or special needs 6 5 6 Material information regarding corporate citizenship 2018 2019 Targets Ratio of the lowest to the highest 18.03 ND earners at the company Total number of occupational injuries 1 0 ( ) top management ( ) top management The social and environmental projects ( X ) directors and managers ( X ) directors and managers implemented by the company were selected by: ( ) all employees ( ) all employees ( ) top and middle management ( ) top and middle management Occupational health and safety ( ) all employees ( ) all employees standards were established by: ( x ) all + CIPA ( x ) all + CIPA Regarding freedom of association, the right to ( ) does not get involved ( ) will not interfere collective ( x ) follows ILO standards ( x ) will follow ILO standards ( ) promotes and follows ( ) will promote and bargaining and internal representation ILO standards follow ILO standards of workers, the company: ( ) top management ( ) top management Private pension plans are extended to: ( ) top and middle management ( ) top and middle management ( x ) all employees ( x ) all employees ( ) top management ( ) top management Profit sharing is extended to: ( ) top and middle management ( ) top and middle management ( x ) all employees ( x ) all employees When selecting suppliers the ethical, ( ) are not addressed ( ) will not be addressed social responsibility and environmental ( ) are suggested ( ) will be suggested standards adopted by the company: ( x ) are required ( x ) will be required ( ) does not get involved ( ) will not interfere In relation to volunteer work by ( ) supports it ( ) will support it employees, the company: ( x ) organizes and encourages it ( x ) will organize and encourage it at the company at the company Total number of consumer complaints by the Consumer by the Consumer and criticism submitted: Protection Agency Protection Agency in Court in Court at the company at the company by the Consumer by the Consumer % complaints and criticism handled or resolved: Protection Agency Protection Agency in Court in Court Added value to be distributed (in R$ thousand): In 2018: 520,993 In 2017: 265,904 39.35% government 71.94% government 3.76% employees 9.23% employees Distribution of Added Value (DVA): 0.00% shareholders 0.00% shareholders 49.98% third parties 46.40% third parties 6.91% retained -27.57% retained 7 Further Information 0 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 THE LIGHT WAY GRI CONTENT INDEX L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 2 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Content Index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option [GRI 102-54]. The Light Annual Report 2018 also includes all the specific indicators of the electric sector applicable to the company. The GRI Content Index in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option presented below sets forth the relationship between GRI indicators and the Principles of the Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals. Principles of the Global Compact Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Sustainable Development Goals L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 3 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Content Index [GRI 102-55] “In Accordance” with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option PRINCIPLE OF GRI DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK THE GLOBAL SDG STANDARD COMPACT GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 General Disclosures GRI 102: Organizational Profile General 102-1 Name of the organization Annual Report, page 14 Disclosures 102-2 Activities, brands, Annual Report, page 14 2016 products, and services Light does not sell products that are banned in certain markets or subject to stakeholder questions or public debate. 102-3 Location of headquarters Av. Marechal Floriano, 168 Centro Rio de Janeiro 102-4 Location of operations Annual Report, page 14 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report, page 14 102-6 Markets served Annual Report, page 47 102-7 Scale of the organization Annual Report, page 14 102-8 Information on employees Appendices, page 7, 9 and other workers 102-9 Supply chain Annual Report, Pages 64 102-10 Significant changes to the Annual Report, page 14 organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Annual Report, page 24 Principle or approach 102-12 External initiatives Annual Report, page 31 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 102-13 Membership of associations We are members of some entities of the electricity sector, including the Brazilian Association of Electricity Distributors (Associação Brasileira de Distribuidores de Energia Elétrica – Abradee), the Brazilian Association of Energy Trading Agents (Associação Brasileira dos Agentes Comercializadores de Energia – Abraceel), and the Brazilian Association of Large Energy Generation Companies (Associação Brasileira de Grandes Companhias Geradoras de Energia – Abrage). EU1 Installed capacity Annual Report, page 19 EU2 Net energy output broken down Appendices, page 4 EU3 Number of residential, industrial, Appendices, page 16 institutional and commercial customer EU4 Length of above and underground Appendices, page 4 transmission and distribution lines EU5 Allocation of CO2e emissions The Company does not participate in the carbon 7, 8, 9 allowances or equivalent market. Strategy 102-14 Statement from Annual Report, page 4 8, 9 senior decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, Annual Report, page 10 and opportunities http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 4 GRI CONTENT INDEX PRINCIPLE OF GRI DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK THE GLOBAL SDG STANDARD COMPACT GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 General Disclosures GRI 102: Ethics and Integrity 16 General 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Annual Report, Pages 20, 29 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, Disclosures and norms of behavior 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 2016 102-17 Mechanisms for advice Annual Report, page 29 10 and concerns about ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report, page 27 102-19 Delegating authority Annual Report, page 28 http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model 102-20 Executive-level Annual Report, page 28 responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Annual Report, page 28 economic, environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest Annual Report, page 27 governance body and its committees http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model 102-23 Chair of the highest http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model governance body 102-24 Nominating and selecting http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model the highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model 10 102-26 Role of highest governance body Annual Report, page 26 in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of In 2018, Light did not offer to its Board of highest governance body Directors any type of additional specialization on social and environmental subjects. 102-28 Evaluating the highest Annual Report, page 28 governance body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing Annual Report, page 27 economic, environmental, http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Annual Report, page 27 management processes http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model 102-31 Review of economic, Annual Report, page 28 environmental, and social topics http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model 102-32 Highest governance body’s Annual Report, page 73 role in Annual Reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Annual Report, page 28 102-34 Nature and total Annual Report, page 28 number of critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report, page 28 Appendices, page 11, 12 http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model 102-36 Process for determining http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model remuneration 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/business-model in remuneration L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 5 GRI CONTENT INDEX PRINCIPLE OF GRI DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK THE GLOBAL SDG STANDARD COMPACT GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 General Disclosures GRI 102: Governance General 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio The relationship between the individual’s Disclosures remuneration paid and the remuneration of all 2016 the employees were 1,308%. The calculation basis took into account total remuneration (salary, hazard pay, premium for unhealthy work, oncall pay, night-shift premium, shift premium, overtime premium) + variable remuneration; and only employees who worked for the 12-month period at the company and received variable remuneration. 102-39 Percentage increase in The ratio between the increase in the annual total compensation ratio remuneration of the highest paid individual and the remuneration of all employees was 2%. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/reports 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements http://www.light.com.br/grupo-light/ Sustentabilidade/ relacoes-sustentaveis_ compromisso-com-a-forca-de-trabalho.aspx 102-42 Identifying and http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/reports selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to Annual Report, page 51 stakeholder engagement http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/reports 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Annual Report, Pages 51, 73, 74 Reporting Principles 102-45 Entities included in the Annual Report, Pages 14, 73 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content Annual Report, Pages 73, 74 and topic Boundaries http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/reports 102-47 List of material topics Annual Report, page 74 http://ri.light.com.br/sustainability/reports 102-48 Restatements of information None. 102-49 Changes in reporting None. 102-50 Reporting period Annual Report, page 73 102-51 Date of most recent report The previous Report was published in May 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Report, page 73 102-53 Contact point for questions Annual Report, page 75 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in GRI Summary accordance with the GRI Standards Annual Report, page 73 102-55 GRI content index GRI Summary Annual Report, Pages 73, 75 102-56 External assurance GRI Summary Annual Report, page 73 L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 6 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 200 STANDARDS ECONOMIC TOPICS Economic Performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages 29, 1, 7, 8, 9 approach and its components 31, 73, 66 a 72 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value Appendices, page 3, 14, 24 Economic generated and distributed Performance 201-2 Financial implications and Annual Report, page 57 7, 8, 9 2016 other risks and opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations http://ri.light.com. 1 and other retirement plans br/sustainability/ business-model 201-4 Financial assistance Appendices, page 19 received from government Market Presence GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 202: Market 202-1 Ratios of standard entry Appendices, page 9 1 Presence 2016 level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior http://ri.light.com. management hired from br/sustainability/ the local community business-model Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, Page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages 29, approach and its components 31, 73, 44 a 46, 58 a 63 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments Annual Report, Economic and services supported Pages 44, 62 Impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect Annual Report, economic impacts Pages 58, 62 Procurement Practices GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending Appendices, page 12 Procurement on local suppliers Practices L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 7 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 200 STANDARDS ECONOMIC TOPICS Anti-Corruption 16 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 29 a 30 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 205: Anti205-1 Operations assessed for As a result of all initiatives 10 corruption 2016 risks related to corruption described in its report, Light considers that 100% of operations are submitted to risk analysis relating to corruption. 205-2 Communication and Annual Report, page 30 10 training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of None. corruption and actions taken Anti-Competitive Behavior GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 206: Anti206-1 Legal actions for antiNone. competitive competitive behavior, anti-trust, Behavior 2016 and monopoly practices Availability and Reliability GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 44 a 46 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach Availability and EU6 Management approach to Annual Report, page 44 reliability 2016 ensure short and long-term electricity availability and reliability EU10 Planned capacity against Appendices, page 4 projected electricity demand Demand-Side Management 12 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 60 a 63 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach Management EU7 Demand-side Annual Report, page 60 management programs Appendices, page 22 L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 8 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 200 STANDARDS ECONOMIC TOPICS Research And Development 9 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Annual Report, page 73 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 39 a 41 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach Development EU8 Research and development Annual Report, page 40 activity and expenditure Appendices, page 21 Plant Descomissioning GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Non-material aspect Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach Plant EU9 Provisions for The company does Descomissioning decommissioning of not have nuclear or 2016 nuclear power sites thermal power plants. System Efficiency GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Annual Report, page 73. Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 52 a 54 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach System EU11 Average generation The company does Efficiency 2016 efficiency of thermal plants not have nuclear or thermal power plants. EU12 Transmission and Annual Report, page 52 distribution losses as a percentage of total energy GRI 300 STANDARDS ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS Environmental compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Non-material aspect Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by Non-material aspect Materials 2016 weight or volume 301-2 Recycled input Non-material aspect 8, 9 materials used 301-3 Reclaimed products and %, energy generation, their packaging materials distribution and commercialization activities do not use packaging materials L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 9 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 300 STANDARDS ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS Energy 12 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 60 a 61 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption Appendices, page 5 Energy 2016 within the organization 302-2 Energy consumption Appendices, page 5 outside of the organization 302-3 Energy intensity Annual Report, page 57 302-4 Reduction of Annual Report, page 60 7, 8, 9 energy consumption 302-5 Reductions in energy Annual Report, page 60 8, 9 requirements of products and services Water 6 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 42 a 43 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Appendices, page 5 8 Water 2016 303-2 Water sources significantly Appendices, page 5 8 affected by withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused Non-significant volume. 8 Biodiversity 15 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 304: 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, Light does not have 8 Biodiversity managed in, or adjacent to, protected studies or surveys on 2016 2016 areas and areas of high biodiversity this specific group of value outside protected areas species. No specific study is expected to be made in the next years. 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, Annual Report, page 42 8 products, and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored http://www.light. com.br/grupo-light/ Sustentabilidade/ compromisso-com-omeio-ambiente.aspx. L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 300 STANDARDS ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS Biodiversity 15 GRI 304: 304-4 IUCN Red List species and Light does not have Biodiversity national conservation list species with studies or surveys on 2016 habitats in areas affected by operations this specific group of species. No specific study is expected to be made in the next years. EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats Light carries out 7, 8, 9 compared to the biodiversity monitoring from the of the affected areas studies cited in GRI 304-1. Emissions 13 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 57 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Annual Report, page 57 8, 9 Emissions 2016 Appendices, page 7 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope Annual Report, page 57 8, 9 2) GHG emissions Appendices, page 7 305-3 Other indirect (Scope Annual Report, page 57 8, 9 3) GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Annual Report, page 57 8, 9 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Annual Report, page 57 7, 8, 9 305-6 Emissions of ozoneNon-significant emissions. 8 depleting substances (SDG) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), Non-significant emissions. 8 sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Effluents and Waste 12 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by Non-significant volume, 8 Effluents and quality and destination relating only to Waste 2016 administrative activities. 306-2 Waste by type and Appendices, page 6 8 disposal method L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 11 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 300 STANDARDS ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS Effluents and Waste GRI 306: 306-3 Significant spills No significant spills were 8 Effluents and recorded in recent years. Waste 2016 306-4 Transport of Appendices, page 6 8 hazardous waste 306-5 Water bodies affected by None. 8 water discharges and/or runoff Environmental Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Annual Report, page 73 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 55, 57 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance For the company, 8 Environmental with environmental laws significant fines are those Compliance 2016 and regulations that, individually or together, total at least R$1 million. Accordingly, in 2018, the sum of sanctions related to non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations did not reach this amount. Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Annual Report, page 73 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 64 a 65 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers http://www.light. Environmental that were screened using com.br/grupo-light/ Assessment 2016 environmental criteria Sustentabilidade/relacoessustentaveis_compromissocom-os-fornecedores.aspx 308-2 Negative environmental There is no specific impacts in the supply chain study on significant and actions taken environmental impacts on the entire supply chain. L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 12 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 400 STANDARDS SOCIAL TOPICS Employment 8 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 32 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires Appendices, page 8 6 Employment and employee turnover 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time http://www.light. employees that are not provided to com.br/grupo-light/ temporary or part-time employees Sustentabilidade/ relacoes-sustentaveis_ compromisso-com-aforca-de-trabalho.aspx 401-3 Parental leave Appendices, page 8 EU14 Programs and processes to ensure Annual Report, page 33 the availability of a skilled workforce EU15 Percentage of employees eligible Appendices, page 10 to retire in the next 5 and 10 years EU16 Policies and requirements http://www.light. regarding health and safety com.br/grupo-light/ Sustentabilidade/ relacoes-sustentaveis_ compromisso-com-aforca-de-trabalho.aspx EU17 Days worked by contractor Appendices, page 9 and subcontractor employees involved in construction, operation & maintenance activities EU18 Percentage of contractor http://www.light. 1, 2 and subcontractor employees com.br/grupo-light/ that have undergone relevant Sustentabilidade/ health and safety training relacoes-sustentaveis_ compromisso-com-aforca-de-trabalho.aspx Labor/Management Relations 8 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 32 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 402: Labor/ 402-1 Minimum notice periSDG http://www.light. 3 Management regarding operational changes com.br/grupo-light/ Relations 2016 Sustentabilidade/ relacoes-sustentaveis_ compromisso-com-aforca-de-trabalho.aspx L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 13 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 400 STANDARDS SOCIAL TOPICS Occupational Health and Safety 3 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 36 a 38 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in http://www.light. 3 Occupational formal joint management–worker com.br/grupo-light/ Health and health and safety committees Sustentabilidade/ Safety 2016 relacoes-sustentaveis_ compromisso-com-aforca-de-trabalho.aspx 403-2 Types of injury and rates Appendices, page 10 1 of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high Annual Report, page 37 1 incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered http://www.light. in formal agreements with trade unions com.br/grupo-light/ Sustentabilidade/ relacoes-sustentaveis_ compromisso-com-aforca-de-trabalho.aspx Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 33, 34 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training Annual Report, page 33 Training and per year per employee Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading Annual Report, page 34 employee skills and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees Annual Report, page 34 receiving regular performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 14 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 400 STANDARDS SOCIAL TOPICS Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance Appendices, page 11 6 and Equal bodies and employees Opportunity 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Appendices, page 9 6 remuneration of women to men Non-Discrimination GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination Annual Report, page 30 1, 2, 3 Discrimination 2016 and corrective actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 407: Freedom 407-1 Operations and suppliers None. 3 of Association in which the right to freedom and Collective of association and collective Bargaining 2016 bargaining may be at risk Child Labor GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and http://www.light. 1, 2, 5 Labor 2016 suppliers at significant risk com.br/grupo-light/ for incidents of child labor Sustentabilidade/relacoessustentaveis_compromissocom-os-fornecedores.aspx Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 409: Forced 409-1 Operations and suppliers http://www.light. 1, 2, 4 or Compulsory at significant risk for incidents com.br/grupo-light/ Labor 2016 of forced or compulsory labor Sustentabilidade/relacoessustentaveis_compromissocom-os-fornecedores.aspx L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 15 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 400 STANDARDS SOCIAL TOPICS Security Practices GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 32 a 38 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 410: Security 410-1 Security personnel trained in Appendices, page 9 1, 2 Practices 2016 human rights policies or procedures Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 411: Rights 411-1 Incidents of violations involving In 2018, we received and of Indigenous rights of indigenous peoples processed a complaint Peoples 2016 related to impacts on society and / or local communities, which was resolved in the year. Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Non-material aspect Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Non-material aspect approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Non-material aspect management approach GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that have http://www.light. Human Rights been subject to human rights com.br/grupo-light/ Assessment 2016 reviews or impact assessments Sustentabilidade/relacoessustentaveis_compromissocom-os-fornecedores.aspx 412-2 Employee training on human Annual Report, page 30 rights policies or procedures 412-3 Significant investment All contracts signed by agreements and contracts that the Company refer to include human rights clauses or that respect for human rights. underwent human rights screening L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 16 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 400 STANDARDS SOCIAL TOPICS Local Communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 58 a 63 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community Annual Report, 8 Communities engagement, impact assessments, Pages 58, 62 2016 and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant None. actual and potential negative impacts on local communities EU19 Stakeholder participation The participation of in decision making processes stakeholders, including related to energy planning and shareholders, the infrastructure development government, and regulatory agencies in the execution of the company’s strategy is presented EU20 Approach to managing No communities 1, 2 the impacts of displacement were displaced. EU22 Number of people None. 1, 2 physically or economically displaced and compensation Supplier Social Assessment 8 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 64 a 65 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that were http://www.light. 1, 2, 3, Supplier Social screened using social criteria com.br/grupo-light/ 4, 5 Assessment 2016 Sustentabilidade/relacoessustentaveis_compromissocom-os-fornecedores.aspx 414-2 Negative social impacts in the http://www.light. supply chain and actions taken com.br/grupo-light/ Sustentabilidade/relacoessustentaveis_compromissocom-os-fornecedores.aspx L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 17 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 400 STANDARDS SOCIAL TOPICS Public Policy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 77 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 58, 59. 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 415: Public 415-1 Political contributions Law No. 9,096, dated Policy 2016 September 19, 1995, prohibits the financing of political campaigns. Customer Health and Safety 3 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 37, 73 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health Annual Report, page 56 Customer Health and safety impacts of product and Safety 2016 and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Appendices, page 10 1 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities Appendices, page 10 to the public involving company assets Marketing and Labeling GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 48 a 51 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product and http://www.light. Marketing and service information and labeling com.br/grupo-light/ Labeling 2016 Sustentabilidade/relacoessustentaveis_compromissocom-os-clientes.aspx 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance None. concerning product and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance None. concerning marketing communications L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 18 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 400 STANDARDS SOCIAL TOPICS Customer Privacy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Light complies with the Management topic and its Boundary rules set forth by ANEEL Approach 2016 and in the Consumer 103-2 The management Protection Code. approach and its components Confidentiality is set forth in the Code of Ethics of 103-3 Evaluation of the the company and is part management approach of the commitments assumed by the workforce. GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints None. Customer concerning breaches of customer Privacy 2016 privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 65, 73 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with Annual Report, page 65 Socioeconomic laws and regulations in the Appendices, page 13 Compliance 2016 social and economic area Disaster/Emergency Planning and Response GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 32 a 38 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22. management approach Disaster/ EU21 Contingency planning measures, Annual Report, page 36 emergency disaster/emergency management planning and plan and training programs, and response 2016 recovery/restoration plans Access GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 44 a 46 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach Access 2016 EU23 Programs, including those in Annual Report, page 44 8 partnership with government, to improve or maintain access to electricity and customer support services L I G H T A N N UA L R EP O R T 2018 19 GRI CONTENT INDEX OMISSIONS PRINCIPLE OF THE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/LINK PART EXPLASDG REASON GLOBAL OMITTED NATION COMPACT Material Topics GRI 400 STANDARDS SOCIAL TOPICS Access Access 2016 EU26 Percentage of population 0% unserved in licensed distribution or service areas EU27 Number of residential Appendices, page 12 disconnections for non-payment, broken down by duration of disconnection and by regulatory regime EU28 Power outage frequency Annual Report, page 46 EU29 Average power outage duration Annual Report, page 46 EU30 Average plant availability Appendices, page 4 factor by energy source and by regulatory regime Provision of Information GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report, page 73 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Annual Report, Pages approach and its components 29, 31, 73, 47 a 51 103-3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 22 management approach Provision of EU24 Practices to address language, http://www.light. 6 information cultural, low literacy and disability com.br/grupo-light/ 2016 Sustentabilidade/relacoessustentaveis_compromissocom-os-clientes.aspx
