2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Lundin Mining Corporation is a Message From the President and CEO About This Report 2 4 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE diversified Canadian base metals About Lundin Mining Our Operations 7 8 Our Approach 51 Stakeholder Engagement 52 mining company with operations Our Approach to Responsible Mining 12 Indigenous Relations 58 Lundin Mining and the in Chile, Portugal, Sweden, and UNGC Sustainable Development Goals 14 Managing Impacts Community Investment 60 63 2018 Performance Highlights 16 the USA, primarily producing Our Performance Against 2018 Targets 18 MATERIALS AND copper, zinc, nickel, and lead. 2019 Sustainability Goals 22 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Our Approach 71 GOVERNANCE Our Activities 72 Our Approach 25 Human Rights 28 ENVIRONMENTAL External Commitments 29 MANAGEMENT Our Approach 75 HEALTH AND SAFETY Water Management 78 Our Approach 31 Tailings, Waste Rock and 86 2018 Safety Performance 32 Non-Mineral Waste Management Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health 36 Climate Change, Energy and Emissions 95 Crisis Management Planning 38 Biodiversity and Land Management 111 and Emergency Preparedness Mine Closure 116 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Appendix A 118 Our Approach 41 Key Performance Data 118 Economic Contributions 42 Appendix B 122 Local Procurement 42 Basis for Energy and 122 Greenhouse Gas Reporting Independent Assurance Statement 123 HUMAN RESOURCES GRI Content Index 127 Our Approach 45 UN Global Compact: 136 Our Employees 45 Communication on Progress Local Hiring 48 Cautionary Statement on 140 CONTENTS Labour Relations 49 Forward-Looking Information Training and Professional Development 49 OUR COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Lundin Mining Corporation joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2016, supports the Ten Principles on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption, and promotes the UNGC’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals. The results of our 2018 activities are presented in our annual Communication on Progress, located in the Index section of this report. MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO 3 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO continues to drive our progress. In 2018, we initiated the We are fully committed to sustainable water management, development of a Five-Year Sustainability Strategy to implementing a comprehensive water management further advance the integration of the United Nations Global planning process to ensure responsible use of this Compact (UNGC) Principles and Sustainable Development resource. In 2018, all of our operations took an important Goals (SDGs) into our business and will report on the step towards gaining a better understanding of the extent completion of this strategy in future reporting. to which our activities could impact on water resources that benefit the ecosystem and other users, including Our overall safety performance was better than target beginning to assess water stress levels in the catchments for a sixth consecutive year, again placing our Company in which we operate. The findings will inform how we in the top third of western-world miners. We achieved prioritize our water management actions in the future. a strong overall Total Recordable Injury Frequency rate with notable safety performance from our two largest Commitment to our core values guides all aspects of operations. Candelaria surpassed a record in total days our business, including community relations. In 2018, we without a recordable injury (525 days) and Neves-Corvo implemented a new Community Investment Policy that achieved its best-ever summer safety results. Health focuses on being a catalyst and partner in sustainable and safety challenges encountered in the year were development for the regions where we operate. The policy addressed with immediate implementation of Health favours community investment and stakeholder engagement and Safety Action Plans. initiatives rather than direct monetary donations, reducing the risk of communities reaching financial dependency Our environmental performance is another achievement of on our operations. During the year, we further refined our which we are proud. Effective environmental management Stakeholder Engagement Standard. Our social performance is integral to the success of our operations, from day-to-day teams continued to refine and implement site-level, five-year activities on-site to corporate strategic planning. We social performance strategic plans that anchor decisions classify incidents on a signficance scale, with Level 3 or and ensure the best allocation of resources in a systematic above reported to the Board of Directors and disclosed and consistent approach when engaging with communities, in our annual sustainability reports. We are pleased to employees and other stakeholders. report there were no significant (Level 3 or above) incidents at any of our operations in 2018. On the workforce front, we continue to advance and actively promote greater gender diversity. Our Diversity Lundin Mining recognizes the need for effective approaches and Inclusion Policy was updated in 2018 and includes our to managing climate-related responsibilities, especially efforts to recruit a diverse workforce, create a respectful in consideration of the remote locations in which we and inclusive environment, invest in initiatives in our MARIE INKSTER, PRESIDENT AND CEO operate, the energy-intensive nature of the sector, and communities that are reflective of our commitment and As we introduce our 2018 Sustainability Report, we do so in recognition the sometimes-limited availability of renewable energy in provide education to our employees on these and other of our responsibilities as stewards of the natural resources in the regions national energy mixes. We also note that the commodities topics focused on diversity and inclusion. We continued in which we work and with respect for our communities and stakeholders. we mine, including copper, zinc, nickel and lead, are with multiple women-in mining initiatives, internships and critically important in the technologies and innovations new graduate-hire programs. Further, a formal Board Lundin Mining continued to demonstrate strong business and sustainability required for a low-carbon future. In 2018, climate change Diversity Policy was completed during the year and performance across our operations in 2018. was included as a key component of Lundin Mining’s published in early 2019. We refreshed our Mission and Values statements, of our exploration programs and significant investment Five-Year Sustainability Strategy, which continues in corporately and at each mine site early in the year, in our operations, including major expansion projects, development. With increasing global focus on climate Lundin Mining has been reporting on our sustainability renewing our commitment to responsibly mining base we increased our mineral resources and reserves, change adaptation, we monitor related regulatory and event performance in a comprehensive, standalone document metals vital to society, creating meaningful value for extended mine lives and are well positioned to trends in the context of emerging risk tracking to anticipate since 2011. I am proud to introduce this report as our stakeholders. We recognize the important role increase production and economic benefits. Global potential sustainability opportunities as well as risks. President, CEO and Director. I believe you will find our MESSAGE of the metals we produce and are committed to political events clouded the outlook for base metal 2018 Sustainability Report a comprehensive, fulsome Related to air emissions, we had multiple dust control, disclosure of our past performance, commitments and mining these metals responsibly. We demonstrate demand, leading to declining prices for much of the greenhouse gas (GHG), energy conservation and green aspirations for the future. We look forward to further this commitment through living our core values year. Despite this, we were able to produce according energy initiatives that are showing positive results. All of building upon our reputation as a responsible miner. of Safety, Respect, Integrity and Excellence in all to plan and continue with significant investments in our operations participated in a global GHG Emissions and aspects of our decision-making. Our Responsible our assets and host communities. Energy Efficiency benchmarking program that concluded Mining Policy, updated in 2018, outlines our policy We have demonstrated sustainable improvements in 2018. Our operations continue to focus on identifying commitments and principles for responsible mining. in our safety, environmental, social and operating opportunities to improve energy efficiency and reduce Sustainability in our business includes securing the performance over the past several years. This GHG emissions. We take a structured and transparent Marie Inkster assets needed to continue mining, extending the lives year’s Sustainability Report once again advances approach to our GHG data reporting. In 2018, all of our President and CEO of our profitable operations and the employment and the level of reporting of key aspects related to the operating mines were in full compliance, with particulate economic benefits they bring to the communities sustainability of our business. Lundin Mining’s goal emissions measured below permitted limits. where we operate. During 2018, through the success of strengthening our approach to sustainability Photo credit: Christopher Katsarov 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT This year’s assurance process included a representative site visit and data audit at our SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Candelaria Mine in Chile, as well as a detailed REPORTING PERIOD audit of selected Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) FRAMEWORK Lundin Mining Corporation has produced an annual AND CYCLE January 1, 2018 – data collected from all mine operations used in the development of this report. At all Lundin Mining sustainability report since 2011, providing updates December 31, 2018 operations, the independent assurance process on the economic, safety, environmental and social was conducted for the following performance indicators, according to GRI Standards: issues that are of greatest interest to communities DATE OF REPORTING • Safety – Total Recordable Injury near our operations, our employees, our investors LAST REPORT CYCLE Frequency Rate (TRIFR) and Lost Time and other stakeholders. December 31, 2017 Annual Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR); • Water – total amount of water withdrawn from all *M  ore detailed information regarding our financial and operational results and information for the reporting sources and total amount of water discharged; period can be found in the Annual Information Form, 2018 Annual MD&A and Financial Statements, and the Information Circular. Unless otherwise stated, all references to “$” means United States dollars. “Lundin Mining” or REPORTING IN ACCORDANCE • Energy – total energy consumption within “Company” refer to Lundin Mining Corporation and / or its subsidiaries. This report contains non-GAAP (“generally accepted accounting principles”) measures. These performance measures have no meaning within GAAP under FRAMEWORK OPTION Lundin Mining operations, including electricity International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and, and liquid and gaseous fuel consumption; therefore amounts presented may not be comparable to similar data presented by other mining companies. 2018 will be our second This report has been report using the new Global prepared in accordance • Greenhouse gas (GHG) Emissions – Reporting Initiative (GRI) with the GRI Standards: Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based Standards (plus the Mining & Core option. and market-based) emissions; Metals Sector Supplement). ABOUT THIS REPORT • Stakeholder Engagement – as it relates to the AA1000AS 2008 principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness; and, REVIEW INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE • Grievance Mechanism – grievances filed during the year, including number, description, This report has been 2018 is the third year action taken and outcome. reviewed by Lundin Mining’s Bureau Veritas provided Health, Safety, Environment independent assurance of Report Scope and Data and Community (HSEC) the audit of Lundin Mining’s Our 2018 Sustainability Report covers operating Committee of the Board; 2018 Sustainability Report mines that are majority-owned and managed and Lundin Mining senior for the selected indicators by Lundin Mining through its subsidiaries and management, including in accordance with includes the following sites: the CEO; COO; CFO; SVP AccountAbility’s AA1000AS. Legal and General Counsel; The moderate assurance • Candelaria Complex (Chile) 80% interest VP of Environment; VP of level under AA100AS Health, Safety and Risk; 2008 is approximately • Eagle Mine (USA) VP of Technical Services; equivalent to the limited • Neves-Corvo Mine (Portugal) Director of Sustainability assurance level under other and Regulatory Affairs; and standards, such as ISAE • Zinkgruvan Mine (Sweden) Director of Sustainability 3000 (Revised) Assurance and Social Performance. Engagements. 2008, Type 2 This report also includes summary-level to a moderate level of information with respect to mine closure-related assurance. Bureau Veritas’ activities for Storliden (Sweden), a closed Letter of Assurance can site. The Company is also working with local be found in the Index authorities and local communities to assess of this report. environmental conditions and future reclamation options for a historical third-party-ownedand-operated processing and tailings site at Åmmeberg, Sweden. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 6 ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT LUNDIN MINING The scope of this report focuses on the term “tailings facility” throughout. to stakeholders, and the potential Lundin Mining Corporation is a diversified Canadian base-metals mining operations within Lundin Mining’s While the report period is defined economic, environmental and societal company with operations in Chile, the United States of America, Portugal, control in 2018 and does not, therefore, officially by the December 31, 2018 impacts of Lundin Mining’s activities. and Sweden, primarily producing copper, zinc, nickel, and lead. In addition, include data from the Freeport Cobalt end date, early 2019 key developments Lundin Mining holds an indirect 24% equity stake in the Freeport Cobalt Oy Oy business, including the cobalt have been provided, where relevant, This matrix shows the results of our business, which includes a cobalt refinery located in Kokkola, Finland. The refinery in Kokkola, Finland, operated for additional context. most recent materiality assessment, Company’s headquarters are in Toronto, Canada, with exploration activities by Freeport-McMoRan Inc. in which the mapping the topics that were at all sites. Additional greenfield exploration activities are also being Company holds a 24% (non-operating) Defining Our Report Content identified through the consultative conducted in South America. equity interest. As well, certain labour Our 2018 Sustainability Report process described in detail in practice indicators and performance focuses on topics that are most previous Sustainability Reports. The In early 2018, Lundin Mining undertook a collaborative consultation process data regarding employees, health material (of greatest interest) to topics that rank above the diagonal to refresh and renew our Mission and Values statements and engaged and safety, and training are also our business and stakeholders. In line reflect priority topics identified for with our operational, exploration and corporate teams in a series of site included in this report for our corporate our most recent assessment, we Lundin Mining specifically, as well as visits and corporate presentations, led by our senior management team. headquarters in Toronto, Canada, as undertook a comprehensive update for the mining industry in general, by The Company’s updated Mission and Values are summarized as follows: well as for our exploration projects of our materiality approach through the internal and external stakeholders and sites. While our local operations an extensive internal and external surveyed. In addition to these priority may use slightly varying terms consultation process, in alignment with topics, four areas of additional focus (e.g., Los Diques TSF), the report the new GRI Standards. This process for the Company are included in this OUR MISSION wording has been standardized to use identified material sustainability report: Governance, Human Rights, We responsibly mine base metals vital to society, creating topics, based on their importance Biodiversity and Product Stewardship. meaningful value for our stakeholders. Materiality Matrix OUR VALUES GOVERNANCE a) Governance b) Ethics and Anti-Corruption ECONOMIC c) Economic Performance d) Transparency of Payments e) Local Economic Impact SAFETY RESPECT OUR PEOPLE f) Diversity We hold health and safety We embrace diversity, g) Health and Safety as our top priority in inclusion, open dialogue h) Labour Relations everything we do. and collaboration. g i) Training and Professional Development Stakeholder Interest j e k ENVIRONMENT j) Water s v k) Reclamation and Closure q l) Energy t m) Waste d n) Tailings and n Waste Rock Management INTEGRITY EXCELLENCE p o) Air Emissions and Other r p) Biodiversity and h We do what is right and We set high standards and u Land Management c q) Climate Change honor our commitments. challenge ourselves to deliver w superior performance. o MATERIALS AND l PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP i r) Product Responsibility b and Stewardship f m a SOCIAL s) Stakeholder Engagement t) Indigenous Relations u) Human Rights v) Community Development Economic, Environmental, and Social Impacts on and from Lundin Mining w) Cultural Heritage LUNDIN MINING OUR OPERATIONS Interest 100% Lundin Mining Head Office Number of employees 401 (Toronto, Canada) Number of 65 72 Number of contractors employees Mine type: underground Number of contractors 4 Zinkgruvan, Sweden ZINC / LEAD / COPPER Current mine life: 12 years to 2030 Interest 100% Number of employees 196 Interest 100% Number of contractors 269 Number of employees 1,209 Mine type: underground Number of contractors 1,296 Eagle, USA NICKEL / COPPER Current mine life: Mine type: underground 6 years to 2024 Neves-Corvo, Portugal Current mine life: COPPER / ZINC / LEAD 12 years to 2030 Interest 80% Number of employees 1,451 Number of employees 17 Number of contractors 3,919 Exploration Office Number of contractors 11 Mine type: (Lima, Peru) • Candelaria, Chile open pit / underground Candelaria, Chile (Copper, Gold) COPPER / GOLD / SILVER • Eagle, USA Current mine life: (Nickel, Copper) 22 years to 2040 Exploration • Neves-Corvo, Portugal Activities (Copper, Zinc) • Zinkgruvan, Sweden Operations Copper Lead (Zinc, Copper) Head Office Zinc Gold • Peru (Copper) Exploration Activities Nickel Silver Exploration Office Lundin Mining Photo Credit: Ezio Molinari 10 ABOUT LUNDIN MINING 11 ABOUT LUNDIN MINING which is located 3.3 km southwest of the Candelaria Zinkgruvan primary crusher. Major capital initiatives continued during The Zinkgruvan Mine, located 200 km to the southwest 2018, including upgrades to the open pit mine equipment of Stockholm, has been producing zinc, lead and silver fleet; a mill optimization program aimed at increasing on a continuous basis, under different owners, for over reliability, throughput and copper recovery; and the 160 years. The operation consists of an underground mine, development of a new southern section of the Candelaria processing facilities and associated infrastructure, with underground mine. The current estimated mine life of a nominal ore production capacity of 1.4 mtpa. the Candelaria Mining Complex extends to at least 2040. During 2018, increased exploration drilling was successful Eagle Mine in delineating additional inferred mineral resources in the Eagle Mine is an underground, high-grade nickel and new Dalby area of the mine. Infill and exploration drilling copper mine located in western Marquette County of are ongoing and conceptual feasibility-study work has Michigan’s Upper Peninsula in the USA. Ore from the commenced. The current mineral reserve estimates at mine is transported by truck approximately 100 km Zinkgruvan support a forecast mine life to 2030. to a processing plant with a capacity of 2,000 tpd (730,000 tpa) located in Humboldt township. Exploration and New Business Development Group In 2015, exploration activities led to the discovery of Eagle The strategy of the Exploration and New Business East, a high-grade nickel and copper deposit, located Development Group is to support production growth, Eagle Mine – Aerial View approximately 2 km east of the current Eagle Mine deposit. economic viability and sustainability of Lundin Mining by: Eagle Mine – Drillcore Samples Mine development to extend the underground to the Eagle East deposit received regulatory approval in mid-2017 • Further developing and expanding mineral resource OUR OPERATIONS and, by late 2018, the access decline construction was and mineral reserve potential at existing operations, Our Customers and Markets Candelaria substantially complete and infill drilling of the orebody with the goal of extending mine life; and, Lundin Mining’s principal products and sources of sales The Candelaria Mining Complex, comprising two adjacent had commenced ahead of schedule. First ore production • Greenfield exploration seeking new business / are mineral concentrates of copper, zinc, nickel and lead, copper mining operations, Minera Candelaria and Minera from Eagle East is forecast in late 2019, and the overall discovery potential. transported in bulk by covered truck or rail to outbound Ojos del Salado, produces copper concentrates from mine life of Eagle is estimated to 2024. ports for shipping, or transported directly to smelter open pit and underground mines located near Copiapó in The total exploration expense for 2018 was $75 million, facilities for further processing. Concentrates are mainly the Atacama Region of Chile, as well as the operation of the Neves-Corvo an increase of approximately $3 million from 2017 levels. sold under multi-year sales contracts to a variety of smelter Punta Padrones port facility near the community of Caldera. Neves-Corvo is a copper, zinc and lead underground mine The majority of exploration activity for 2018 was directed customers in Europe, Asia and the Americas. The end Candelaria provides copper ore to an on-site concentrator located approximately 100 km north of Faro, Portugal, in towards near-mine targets at Candelaria and Eagle East. users of our products are global. For additional detail, with a nominal processing capacity of 75,000 tonnes per the western part of the Iberian Pyrite Belt. The mine has For more information, we invite you to visit the Exploration please refer to the Materials and Product Stewardship day (“tpd”) or 27.4 million tonnes per annum (“mtpa”). been a significant producer of copper since 1989 and, section of our website: http://www.lundinmining.com. section of this report. Minera Ojos del Salado comprises two underground mines, in 2006, commenced the treatment of zinc ores. Existing Santos and Alcaparrosa, and an on-site concentrator facilities include a shaft with a total hoisting capacity Our Supply Chain with a nominal throughput capacity of 3,800 tpd. of 4.7 mtpa, a copper plant with 2.5 mtpa processing Lundin Mining relies on an international network of capacity, and a zinc plant with 1.2 mtpa capacity. The zinc suppliers for the provision of products and services Construction of the new Los Diques tailings facility was plant has the flexibility to process zinc or copper ores. required to support business activities at our mines. completed and tailings deposition from the Candelaria The largest categories of suppliers across our operations processing plant commenced in early 2018. Future phases In May 2017, the Zinc Expansion Project (ZEP) was Cu in 2018 included, in alphabetical order: cement, chemicals, of Los Diques, planned to start in 2019, have been initiated approved that, at completion, will see zinc ore mining and construction, electrical, energy, engineering, equipment ahead of schedule, taking advantage of synergies with processing capacity increase to 2.5 mtpa. Development and parts, exploration drilling, explosives, fuel, maintenance, the current project and the availability of mined rock of the ZEP project, includes a new underground DID YOU KNOW? mechanical, mining contractors and transportation. In from the open pit. material-handling system, hoisting shaft upgrades and Copper and zinc recognition of the increasing importance of supply chain a semi-autonomous grinding (SAG) mill and associated minerals are essential practices, Lundin Mining completed a Company-wide Exploration in the underground mines and neighbouring processing facilities. The project is expected to double to our well-being benchmarking review of supply chain management surface areas continued to be highly successful during zinc production from early 2020 through the investment systems and initiated the development of a Responsible 2018. This success has led to increases in all the of approximately €320 million ($385 million). The current Sourcing – Supply Chain Standard as part of the underground mine lives and the introduction to the mine copper and zinc mineral reserve estimates at Neves-Corvo Responsible Mining Management Standard life of a new open mineable deposit called Española, will support a forecast life of mine to 2030. implementation program. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 12 ABOUT LUNDIN MINING 13 ABOUT LUNDIN MINING Memberships and Associations • Portuguese Shippers Council, member of the European RMMS (HSEC) Audits Involvement with memberships and industry associations Shipper’s Council Third-party health, safety and environmental audit Sustainability enables Lundin Mining to keep current regarding matters • BCSD (Portugal is a member of the WBSCD – programs have been routinely carried out at our and Transparency of public policy, emerging-sector and sustainability trends, World Business Council for Sustainable Development) operations since 2015, being temporarily placed regulatory updates, stakeholder interests, and the sharing on hold in 2017 to allow for the introduction and of industry best practices. In 2018, Lundin Mining was a • Energy Association for Industrial Consumers (APIGCEE) implementation of Lundin Mining’s integrated RMMS member or participant in the following industry associations: at all sites. The RMMS improved upon our existing Our commitments to sustainability and Zinkgruvan Corporate • Swedish Association of Mines, Mineral and Metal management system, and updated and bolstered transparency received special recognition in • Mining Association of Canada Producers (SveMin) our social management components. Since its 2018, when Lundin Mining’s 2017 Sustainability inception, our audit program has been effective in Report was selected as the first place winner • European Association of Mining Industries, • Swedish Association of Industrial Employers (GAF) of the UNGC Canada Peer Review Program. providing an assessment of compliance performance, Metal Ores & Industrial Metals (Euromines) • AFA Insurance is owned by Sweden’s labour market challenges and successes, and is a vital part of a Lundin Mining joined the UNGC in 2016, and we • European Copper Institute parties: the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, continual improvement program across our operations. were honoured to be publicly recognized for our the Swedish Trade Union Confederation (LO) and Starting in 2019, the new RMMS audit program will commitment to transparency and for our integration • International Zinc Association The Council for Negotiation and Co-operation (PTK) be conducted at regular intervals to assess HSEC of the UNGC’s Ten Principles and 17 SDGs into • International Lead Association performance and compliance. our business. Additional recognition included the • Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada OUR APPROACH TO RESPONSIBLE MINING selection of Lundin Mining’s 2017 Sustainability At Lundin Mining, we have a firm commitment to Results of the prior audit program, including Report as one of the top-three sustainability reports • United Nations Global Compact responsible mining, which is underscored by our daily corrective actions, have been provided to our for the category of Non-Renewable Resources by • Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy actions and supported by governance, defined processes operations for review and resolution and are reported the Finance and Sustainability Initiative (FSI / IFD) and Petroleum (CIM) and guidance. Examples of documents supporting our to Lundin Mining management and the HSEC for the third year in a row. responsible mining activities include: Committee of the Board. This process will continue • International Network for Acid Prevention (INAP) under the new RMMS program. • Our Responsible Mining Policy (RMP), updated • Standards Council of Canada in 2018, outlines the Company’s policy commitments In addition, the environmental management systems Eagle and principles for responsible mining; of our Candelaria Complex, including Candelaria • Michigan Manufacturers Association and Ojos de Salado, have been certified for several • The Company’s Responsible Mining Framework (RMF) • Michigan Chamber of Commerce years under the international ISO 14001 Standard, outlines our commitment to develop and implement an international standard for effective environmental • American Exploration and Mining Association management systems and operating practices that take management system performance, with the most recent into consideration applicable international guidelines, • Lake Superior Community Partnership recertification in January 2019 for a period of three years. and defines the way we manage material economic, • Invest UP social, health and safety and environmental issues; HSEC Committee • Our Responsible Mining Management System The HSEC Committee of the Board provides oversight Candelaria (RMMS) standard specifies the requirements applicable of health, safety, environmental and social issues. • Chilean Mining Council (Consejo Minero) throughout the Company for the management of health, Consisting of three standing members, the HSEC • National Mining Society (SONAMI) safety, environment and community (HSEC) aspects of Committee meets quarterly. Informed by quarterly • Atacama Regional Development Corporation (CORPROA) our business; and, reports from key departments, the committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of Company • Red Ambiental Atacama • HSEC Technical standards and guidance documents governance in these areas, including implementation • Comité Regional de Seguridad Minera Atacama provide both support to the RMMS as well as establishing of the RMMS; ensuring compliance with applicable (CORESEMIN) the foundation for the continued development of the legal and regulatory requirements; and reviewing Company’s Five-Year Sustainability Strategy. performance, leadership and external reporting • LICEO Jorge Alessandri Rodriguez High School on these matters. (Members of advice committee) As previously indicated, our integrated HSEC management system, the RMMS, is supported by effective technical • Chile-Canada Chamber of Commerce standards, procedures, guidance, training, auditing Neves-Corvo and corrective-action programs to encourage continual • National Association of Extractive and Transforming improvement and enhanced environmental performance Industry (ANIET) and compliance. For more details on our Responsible Mining Policy and Responsible Mining Framework, please • Setúbal Port Community visit the Corporate Responsibility section of our website: http://www.lundinmining.com. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT LUNDIN MINING AND THE UNGC As you progress through this report, you will note various SDG icons within the report text. In addition, we have also included a wide selection SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS of feature stories to further demonstrate our Company-wide commitment to the SDGs. These feature stories are accompanied by the following SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS graphic to highlight the most relevant SDGs achieved in each case: In January 2016, the 17 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) SDGs of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development officially came into force. World leaders had previously committed to adopting these goals in September 2015 at a historic UN Summit, supported by the global business community. On the path to 2030, countries confirmed their commitment to mobilizing efforts to advance positive change in these 17 priority areas. Since Lundin Mining joined the UNGC in 2016, we have undertaken programs at both site and corporate levels to advance the SDGs and these results have been annually reported in our UNGC Communications on Progress (COP). Lundin Mining’s most recent annual Communication on Progress can be found in the Index of this report. Our Mission, Values and Responsible Mining Policy continue to align with the Global Compact’s Ten Principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption, as well as the 17 SDGs. We continue to advance our efforts to further integrate the SDGs into our business strategy, day-to-day operations and our organizational culture by creating shared value, fostering partnerships and demonstrating environmental and economic performance. In 2018, we initiated the development of a Five-Year Sustainability Strategy to further advance the integration of the UNGC Principles and SDGs into our business and will report on the completion of this strategy in future reporting. 2018 PERFORMANCE Renegotiated our Candelaria electrical power OVERALL purchase agreement, achieving: REDUCTIONS Increase of Future option for the in both energy intensity HIGHLIGHTS renewables to 80% of the energy mix, starting in 2023 self-generation of up to 20 MW of electrical energy requirements and GHG emissions intensity, per tonne rock mined, from 2016 to 2018 2018 Metal Production 2018 Statistics Revenue Breakdown by Metal 2018 Statitics Revenue Breakdown by Mine Statistics (contained metal) Sixth consecutive 2% 1% 199,630 DIVERSITY year outperforming 4% 3% Copper 13% IMPROVEMENTS, our TRIF reduction 9% Zinc 49% Candelaria 152,041 including Increase of women target (achieved Nickel 23% Eagle on our Board to 25% 0.67 TRIF) Gold Neves-Corvo 17% Lead Zinkgruvan Silver 64% $12M Other Reduction of Lost 31,184 17,573 Work Days by 12% 15% (1,094) from 2017 Total community-investment Copper Zinc Nickel Lead (1,223) and by 26% (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) expenditures of approximately from 2016 (1,473) * Candelaria’s copper production has been reported on a 100% basis. $12 million 2.5x $1.58B Co-hosting of “Lakeside Pride $1.58 BILLION (OR 95%) OF Askersund” by Re-use of Lundin Mining’s OUR GOODS AND SERVICES our Zinkgruvan REDUCTION OF LOST DAY SEVERITY RATE (SR) BY 14%, FROM 2017 TO 2018 total water withdrawn by WERE PROCURED LOCALLY mine, to celebrate diversity, (14 TO 12); AND BY 40% WHEN COMPARED TO 2016 LEVELS (20) approximately 2.5 times (12%) OR NATIONALLY (83%) inclusion and equality OUR PERFORMANCE 2018 Target Result Highlights AGAINST 2018 TARGETS HEALTH AND SAFETY Ensure zero fatalities. There were no fatal injuries. Our annual sustainability targets are aligned with our Responsible Mining Policy and help us achieve continuous performance improvement in key sustainability areas. In establishing our targets, we consider the results of Achieve a Total Recordable Lundin Mining achieved a TRIF of 0.67. internal risk assessments, stakeholder feedback and monitoring and continuous improvement of existing Injury rate of 0.70 or better. processes and procedures. Level of completion of activities is shown by the following symbols: Develop Occupational Occupational Health Exposure Profiles were developed for all sites. Health Exposure Profiles Achieved Partially Achieved Not Achieved for each operation. ECONOMIC 2018 Target Result Highlights Continue to promote local Further development of operational five-year social performance strategic procurement at all sites. plans, including continued focus on local procurement. In 2018, a minimum GOVERNANCE of 80% of goods and services were locally procured at each site. Executive Risk Committee Management responsibility for Risk Management was reassigned to Our work with the Lundin Foundation included several site-specific local to approve updated risk the new position of Vice President of Health, Safety and Risk. This work procurement and supplier development projects focused on advancing likelihood and impact definitions was deferred to 2019 and will be undertaken as part of a broader review local procurement throughout 2018. aligned with finalized risk and update of Lundin Mining’s Risk Statement and Framework. tolerance definitions. Enable the growth of economic Development of community investment plans to increase strategic diversification at all sites. investments and partnerships that reduce community financial dependency. Enhance quarterly risk Risk review discussions were added to the quarterly Operations monitoring and reporting Team meetings. Undertaking of studies to understand the scope and nature of economic by operations. diversification opportunities, including Neves-Corvo’s first regional socioeconomic impact study, a regional economic assessment at Zinkgruvan, Ensure key projects / initiatives This work is ongoing and will be further progressed during 2019. support for artisanal fisheries at Candelaria and identifying new economic benefit from a broad-based development opportunities to support social closure planning at Eagle. risk assessment. Advance growth opportunities Eagle and Neves-Corvo continued to pursue significant expansion Broaden the current In March 2016, the Corporation adopted a written Diversity Policy, which at existing operations and / or projects, Eagle East and ZEP, respectively, with a total expected Diversity Policy to encompass was amended in 2019, to the Diversity and Inclusion Policy. This new new sites. investment of approximately $490 million. diversity and inclusion. policy includes efforts to recruit a diverse workforce, create a respectful and inclusive environment, invest in initiatives in our communities that Our 2018 exploration program contributed to the expansion of our are reflective of our commitment and provide education to our employees mineral resources and reserves with significant increases achieved on these and other topics focused on diversity and inclusion. at Candelaria during the year. Anti-corruption compliance Anti-corruption guidelines were inserted into the Code of Conduct. Create a new economic In 2018, nature tourism was identified as an industry that could drive training for senior corporate The program was rolled out to senior corporate management, site diversification and local regional economic diversification at two operations, specifically including and site management. management and the Board. procurement program the development of programs at Neves-Corvo (Portugal Wildscapes, in partnership with the an integrated nature tourism route) and Eagle (support for local tourism Lundin Foundation for and recreation infrastructure). at least one operation. Provide a training program In 2018, we provided training to build local entrepreneur capacity at two sites: to build capacity of local 1) Neves-Corvo: business training through the local supplier development entrepreneurs for at least programs; and, one operation. 2) Zinkgruvan: provision of free business classes and support to our young entrepreneurship program for high-school students. OUR PERFORMANCE 2018 Target Result Highlights AGAINST 2018 TARGETS ENVIRONMENT Progress efforts to reduce Company-wide efforts to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Scope 1 and Scope 2 progressed in 2018. Various successful initiatives were implemented, such Achieved Partially Achieved Not Achieved (market-based) emissions as renegotiation of Candelaria Complex’s Power Purchase Agreement per tonne of concentrate (PPA) to significantly increase the percentage of renewable energy starting produced by 1% between from 2023 at our largest mine; and Eagle Mine’s Lean Six Sigma (LGBC)™ 2015 and 2018. programs, which included the optimization of haul-truck loading, resulting 2018 Target Result Highlights in fuel reductions. Compared to emission intensity values recorded in 2016, on a per-tonne-rock-mined basis, Lundin Mining demonstrated reductions HUMAN RESOURCES in both GHG emissions intensity and energy intensity. To further these and other sustainability initiatives, Lundin Mining initiated development of a Continue to build a culture Human Resources actively facilitated an open-door approach with our five-year, Company-wide Sustainability Strategy in 2018 that will include a of trust and mutual respect. employees and hosted regular forums where direct communication review and refinement of emission metrics and targets to ensure the most between employees and management was enabled and concerns were accurate representation of operational conditions and improvement. effectively addressed. SOCIAL Solidified positive working relationships with all unions, as evidenced by no labour disruptions in excess of one week at any operation during Monitor and communicate In 2018, sites were provided guidance on how to monitor, communicate the reporting period. outcomes from implementation and update their five-year social performance strategic plan. Outcomes, of five-year social performance such as engagement with priority stakeholders, meaningful community Ensure our working Accentuated the importance placed on employee development and strategic plans. investments and grievance management, are reported monthly to the environments position demonstrated an understanding of the inspirational value of training Corporate Senior Management, inform quarterly HSEC reports and are Lundin Mining as an initiatives. Despite a 5% reduction in the number of employees publicly disclosed in this sustainability report. “Employer of Choice” with Company-wide in 2018, training hours increased by 4%. motivated employees at all Finalize and provide training In 2018, we further refined our corporate standards and guidance levels of the organization. on standards for stakeholder documents for stakeholder engagement, community investment and engagement, community social performance. Rather than being a standalone standard, it was Further improvements Prioritization and launching of diversity initiatives at all operations. investment and social determined that social impact management should be incorporated to progress with diversity, Most operations reporting the setting of workforce gender representation impact management. throughout the social standards. These standards will be finalized as well as to the number targets for the next five years. To support diversity initiatives, training and implemented in 2019. of women retained for programs have been launched in surrounding communities, with extra new positions, inclusive of focus placed on encouraging more female job applicants. In 2018, the Develop standards and Indigenous Peoples’ engagement and grievance management have been senior management roles. percentage of female employees increased marginally at all operations. guidance notes for Indigenous incorporated into our newly drafted Stakeholder Engagement Standard Peoples’ engagement, local and Guidance. Similarly, local content has been incorporated into our ENVIRONMENT content, social-closure and Community Investment Standard and Guidance. Social closure will be grievance management. included in a broader Closure Standard and Guidance, for development Achieve RMMS conformance The RMMS roll-out process continued successfully in 2018, with corporate and implementation in 2019. in stages by Q1 2019. checkpoint visits to all mine sites to progress RMMS implementation prior to the upcoming 2019 audits. Corporate updates to supporting HSEC Develop a gender diversity In 2018, Neves-Corvo initiated the development of a gender diversity technical standards also progressed successfully in 2018. strategy and plan for at least strategy to increase the representation of women in the workforce, one operation, including establish community investments targeting science education for girls Continue to demonstrate Mine site visits were conducted by corporate employees in 2018 at community investments and create opportunities for women entrepreneurs. A Diversity and measurable progress all sites to advance and support site-level initiatives in closure planning; to promote science and Inclusion Policy was drafted in 2018; this policy strengthens the scope on key waterand strategic permitting; and environmental management, including technology education of women and depth of Company commitments in the current Diversity Policy closure-related initiatives. surface and groundwater. and advancement of economic (2016) and was approved in 2019. empowerment of women. Ensure operating environmental No Level 3 or above environmental incidents were reported in 2018. performance improvement Each site tracked and reported on its top 5 environmental risks in 2018, Establish a community We established two new agreements at Candelaria during 2018: The through the enhancement of and created plans to address them, with monthly reporting to corporate agreement for sustainable Caldera and Copiapó Collaboration Agreements were signed by Candelaria communications, site visits, senior management. All operations’ environmental team webinars were investments for at least Mine and the municipalities to promote sustainable development. Funding audits and facility inspections. complemented by an annual environmental team workshop to advance one operation. priorities will be economic development, social innovation, education communications and performance. As the RMMS was still in the and training, cultural activities, and health and well-being. implementation phase there were no formal audits; however, site visits were conducted at each of the sites to support site-level RMMS integration. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS GOVERNANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY ECONOMIC HUMAN RESOURCES ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL Roll out the Diversity and Ensure Zero Fatalities. Manage efficient, effective operating Measure and monitor employee Complete first environmental Finalize development and Inclusion Policy to all employees and capital expenditure, ensuring engagement and develop conformance audits against the implementation of our Human Rights and Board members. more productive operations and action plans to address areas new RMMS across all sites. Policy. Conduct a Company-wide Achieve a Total Recordable achievement of financial returns. of opportunity. Human Rights Risk and Impact Injury Frequency (TRIF) rate Assessment (HRRIA). Support the social team to conduct of 0.60 or better. Continue to demonstrate measurable a Company-wide Human Rights Risk Advance growth through internal Launch a competency-based progress on key water, closure, and and Impact Assessment (HRRIA). expansion and exploration initiatives, performance appraisal framework permitting-related initiatives. Develop local procurement objectives Increase Zero Harm weeks over maximizing the value of our assets. to develop our future leaders. and targets as part our Company2018 performance. wide approach to economic Executive Risk Committee to No Level 3 or above development and diversification. approve updated risk likelihood Maintain balance sheet strength Launch and implement our Diversity environmental incidents. Meet 2019 Industrial Hygiene and impact definitions as part of and flexibility to act on compelling and Inclusion Policy that will sampling plan targets. a broader review and update of growth opportunities. formalize our commitment to diverse Focus community investments Advance development and Lundin Mining’s Risk Management and inclusive workplaces. to support: implementation of the five-year Statement and Framework. sustainability strategy, with a • economic empowerment of women, Launch and implement formal focus on our sustainability pillars • increase representation of women Improve risk management Global Mobility Guidelines to of Prosperity, Resilience and in our workforce and; understanding and operational risk ensure transparency and Stewardship, to provide direction management practices through consistency to the management and support to site-level initiatives. • education programs for girls redeployment of the refreshed Risk of our global workforce. in our host communities. Management Framework. Advance Company-wide climate change adaptation planning. Develop action plans in response Support development to community perception survey and implementation of results for at least two of our sites. Human Rights Policy. Develop a Gender Diversity Strategy and Plan for at least one site. GOVERNANCE 25 OUR APPROACH Lundin Mining is committed to maintaining high standards of ethics, corporate governance, honesty and accountability in all aspects of our business by enacting robust corporate governance processes and ensuring our employees understand, and consistently meet, the Company’s Responsible Mining Management System, Responsible Mining Policy and Responsible Mining Framework. Board of Directors • Corporate Governance The Board of Directors (the Board) is and Nominating Committee primarily responsible for the oversight of • Health, Safety, Environment management, as well as Lundin Mining’s GOVERNANCE and Communities Committee strategy and business affairs. The Board ensures that appropriate governance Business Ethics mechanisms are in place to monitor The Company and its subsidiaries the Company’s development, and and their respective directors, officers, that relevant information and reporting employees, consultants and contractors are provided, including progress and (each a Company Representative), are continuous improvement efforts with expected to conduct business activities respect to its economic, environmental ethically and transparently, in accordance and social performance. with our Code of Conduct, Ethical Values and Anti-Corruption Policy (the Code). The Board has eight members (75% male The Code articulates definitions and and 25% female), five of whom are expectations related to the avoidance independent, non-executive directors. of situations that may constitute a Standing Board committees include conflict of interest. IN THIS SECTION the following: Our Approach 25 • Audit Committee Human Rights 28 • Human Resources / External Commitments 29 Compensation Committee 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 26 GOVERNANCE 27 GOVERNANCE Whistleblower Policy Risk Assessment and Management The Lundin Mining Board, through the Lundin Mining has a systematic approach to identify, Implementation Audit Committee and the Corporate analyze, evaluate and manage material business of Lean Six Governance and Nominating risks. Our approach is based on the ISO 31000 Risk Sigma program Committee, has enacted the Management standard and follows a “plan-do-check-act” Whistleblower Policy to establish model that considers a broad spectrum of stakeholders procedures for the receipt, retention and risk exposures, both internal and external. The and treatment by the Company and approach is also intended to identify and leverage As part of Eagle’s implementation of its impressive its subsidiaries of concerns reported potential opportunities that may be identified through Lean Six Sigma program, which supports the from its directors, officers, employees, the risk assessment process. identification and assessment of opportunities for consultants and contractors regarding increased efficiency and continuous improvement, any known or suspected accounting, We conduct risk assessments to evaluate operational, the mine identified that haulage trucks were not financial or auditing irregularities or any health and safety, environmental, social, business, being consistently loaded according to manufacturer other known or suspected violations financial and reputational risks and opportunities, ratings. A Lean Six Sigma Green Belt (LGBC)™ of the Company’s Code of Conduct. among others, at both a site and corporate level. We project was completed by the mine in 2018 resulting rank identified risks based on the likelihood of event in solutions to this issue, such as installation of a The Whistleblower Policy establishes occurrence and the nature and degree of event impact real-time measuring system to ensure optimal a Company-wide protocol and line on business strategies and objectives. Significant or payloads of each truck and development of clear Corporate – Social Performance Global Meeting 2018 of communication for the confidential “key” risk exposures are those that are assessed as operating procedures. These produced significant and, if desired, anonymous reporting having the potential to result in a major or catastrophic reductions of employee labour, fuel use, tire wear, The Code was translated into the Anti-Corruption (without fear of reprisal or retaliation) net impact on the organization and its stakeholders. maintenance and major rebuilds, equaling estimated working languages at our operational and Anti-Bribery and investigation of any fraudulent, cost savings of US$1,140,000 per year. For example, sites and made readily accessible In 2018, there were no known unethical, or illegal financial activity, Our risk assessment process is iterative, based savings of 30,000 gallons of diesel fuel were in key locations at each operational incidents of corruption. With or any behaviour that violates the on both quantitative and qualitative data, and is recorded, otherwise costing US$74,000. site and on our internal website. respect to UNGC Principle Ten: Code. Individuals governed by the incorporated into our business activities. Our risk Measures are in place to support Anti-Corruption, Lundin Mining has Whistleblower Policy are required to performance results are reported to corporate senior employee reviews of the Code during a zero tolerance policy for bribery report any such improper conduct leadership and shared across our operations monthly. the on-hire induction process and and corruption by employees, on a confidential and, if preferred, We summarize enterprise and operational risk exposures again on an annual basis. We also officers, directors, consultants and anonymous basis by submitting in risk registers that are reviewed on a quarterly basis, distribute our Code to contractors, contractors of the Company, with a report using the Corporation’s and we track implementation and effectiveness of suppliers, customers and service even the appearance of impropriety independently hosted online and related risk mitigation strategies. Identified key risks providers to ensure they understand deemed unacceptable. We conduct telephone reporting service, or by are monitored and reported on a quarterly basis to the Lundin Mining’s expectations and internal audits of all of our business sending a letter to the applicable Executive Risk Committee (ERC), the Board HSEC conduct their activities in accordance units and have robust internal financial Committee Chair. The applicable Committee and the Board Audit Committee. Reports with these standards. controls and processes in place for Committee Chair is responsible presenting a consolidated portfolio view of enterprise monitoring and oversight with respect for assessing and evaluating any and operational risks, as well as related risk treatment to the financial aspects of operations. such reports or letters, conducting actions, are submitted to the ERC for review and investigations, and may engage discussion on a quarterly basis. management and / or independent advisors to assist in investigations Ni and recommend appropriate action. For more information on our DID YOU KNOW? Whistleblower Policy, please visit the Nickel is the 2nd most Corporate Governance section of abundant element our website: www.lundinmining.com. in Earth’s core LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 28 GOVERNANCE 29 GOVERNANCE At an enterprise level, we focus on proactively managing Assessment (HRRIA), as well as the integration of human Lundin Mining fosters an inclusive and diverse workplace our most significant risks. These risks include, but are rights principles throughout the Stakeholder Engagement and does not tolerate harassment or discrimination not limited to securing environmental and other permits Guidance update in 2018. In 2018, Lundin Mining drafted against gender, age, race, national origin, marital status, critical to our operations; climate change and related our Human Rights Policy; the policy is expected to be sexual orientation, religious beliefs, disability, or any risks; maintaining our social license and community approved by the Board of Directors in 2019. other personal characteristics protected by applicable support; addressing the evolving regulatory landscape; law. In March 2016, the Corporation adopted a written monitoring commodity price and currency exchange As a signatory to the UNGC, Lundin Mining has committed Diversity Policy, which was amended to the Diversity volatility; eliminating or controlling the environmental risks to advancing all Ten Principles of the UNGC, including and Inclusion Policy in 2019. associated with mining activities, such as dust generation, Principles One and Two: Human rights and respect for water availability and groundwater contamination; ensuring human rights as set forth in the United Nations Universal No credible human rights-related grievances were filed tailing storage facility integrity; and eliminating, minimizing Declaration of Human Rights. We treat our employees, in 2018. There were no recorded incidents of discrimination and controlling key operational and health and safety risks. contractors, neighbours, local communities and host at our operations during the reporting period. governments with dignity and respect. With respect to UNGC Principles Three, Four, Five and Six: HUMAN RIGHTS To proactively manage our performance and reputation, Labour, the Company supports freedom of association Lundin Mining conducts its business in alignment with the Lundin Mining initiated the independent Company-wide and collective bargaining, as described in the Code, United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human HRRIA in 2018, which will be completed in 2019, using the and there are no operations where the right to exercise Rights (UNGPs). Respect for human rights is a fundamental frameworks of the UNGPs, Voluntary Principles on Security these labour rights may be violated or at risk. No commitment, consistent with our Mission and Values, and and Human Rights, UNGC and other codes and standards operations are at risk for incidents of child labour or Zinkgruvan – Environmental All Operations Meeting, is stated within our Code of Conduct, Ethical Values and reflecting international best practices. In preparation for young workers exposed to hazardous or industrial September 2018 Anti-Corruption Policy and the Responsible Mining Policy. the HRRIA, internal workshops were conducted to build conditions. Lundin Mining has strict proof-of-age In accordance with our Mission and Values, Lundin Mining Company-wide understanding of human rights issues requirements for its workforce upon hiring, at all sites, initiated a review of Company-wide human rights practices, EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS linked to the mining industry. preventing anyone under the legal industrial working including the initiation of a Human Rights Risks and Impacts Lundin Mining’s Responsible age from obtaining employment at any of our sites or operations. Similarly, our operations are not at risk for Mining Policy, Responsible Mining incidents of forced or compulsory labour. There were Framework, and our RMMS are no reported or known incidents of forced or child labour aligned with the Government of Canada’s Enhanced practices at our operations in 2018. Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy and other national and international initiatives. Under Lundin Mining’s Responsible Mining Framework, the Company commits Museum of Natures’ #CourageandPassion Exhibit to develop and implement management systems and Sponsorship – Commitment to Diversity and STEM operating practices that take into consideration applicable national and international guidance and best practices, including the following: In 2018, Lundin Mining Board member Catherine Stefan spoke at the official opening of Ottawa’s Museum of Nature exhibit, • Organization for Economic Cooperation and #CourageandPassion, which was co sponsored by the Company. Pb Development Guidelines for Multi-National Enterprises* The exhibit presents the challenges and accomplishments of • United Nations Guiding Principles on Business pioneering Canadian female natural scientists, who forged a new DID YOU KNOW? and Human Rights* path for the advancement of women in the STEM fields (science, Over 50% of lead used • United Nations Global Compact* technology, engineering and mathematics). Catherine spoke on or produced each year the topic of female leadership in mining, advancing recognition • Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights* of the scientists’ contributions to mining and natural science, has been used before and of the need to promote inclusive environments where all • International Finance Corporation Performance workers feel empowered and supported to achieve their best. Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability* • Global Reporting Initiative* • Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada e3 Plus* * Voluntary initiatives LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT HEALTH AND SAFETY 31 OUR APPROACH We are committed to Zero Harm and to providing our workforce with a safe, healthy and productive work environment wherever we operate. HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety are first and foremost Making It Happen in all that we do. Our fundamental The success of our health and safety effort objective is to make sure that everyone depends on collaboration, teamwork, who works at or visits a Lundin Mining engagement, commitment, active site goes home safe and healthy at the involvement and personal accountability. end of every shift – every day. Our employees and contractors are involved in health and safety activities through working groups, project teams, business improvement initiatives or by way of designated health and safety representatives. Regular safety meetings are conducted at each of our operations, We recognize that our performance, and all operations have active safety and our efforts to continually improve committees with both worker and on our health and safety practices, management representation. In addition, IN THIS SECTION directly affects both internal and external portions of our workforce at Zinkgruvan, Our Approach 31 stakeholders, including our contractors Neves-Corvo and Candelaria are 2018 Safety Performance 32 and suppliers, and those who live and represented by collective employee labour work in the communities in which we agreements that contain specific health Industrial Hygiene operate. We strive to set the example and safety provisions. and Occupational Health 36 when it comes to health and safety, and Crisis Management Planning 38 we endeavour to share our safe work and Emergency Preparedness practices, as well as any lessons learned, with all who are interested. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 32 HEALTH AND SAFETY 33 HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 SAFETY PERFORMANCE Health and Safety Management Systems There were 64 total recordable injuries during 2018. This resulted in a Total The Responsible Mining Framework, Responsible Responders Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF) rate of 0.67 against a target of 0.70. While Mining Policy, and Responsible Mining Management at the Ready the count of total recordable injuries increased from 2017, it should be noted that System standard set the context for our health and 2018 marks the sixth consecutive year that Lundin Mining has met or outperformed safety management system. Workplace hazard against ever-increasing TRIF reduction targets. identification and control, qualitative and quantitative risk assessments, Life-Saving Rules, High Consequence Lundin Mining’s emergency response and mine rescue The Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) rate for 2018 was 0.35. Lost workdays were Protocols (HCPs), safe work procedures and permit commitment extends beyond the operational fence reduced for the third consecutive year, dropping from 1,223 in 2017 to 1,094 in systems, safe work observations, and incident reporting line. During 2018, teams from each of the operations 2018. Correspondingly, the lost time injury Severity Rate (SR) was reduced from and investigation make up the remainder of our health actively participated with, and supported, local 14 in 2017 to 12 in 2018. and safety management system. Our approach is emergency response and fire agencies in nearby aligned to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 requirements. communities. While the Candelaria team’s primary Hours worked during 2018 were up 11% over the previous year. This increase was mission is to respond to operational emergencies, due to significant near-mine exploration efforts as well as the ramp-up of expansion Our most significant risks are managed through they are ready, willing and capable of responding projects and construction activities across our operations. implementation of 11 High Consequence Protocols. Zinkgruvan – Underground to emergencies in the broader community or at Mine Employee These protocols establish our mandatory safe work neighboring mines. The Neves-Corvo Emergency program requirements and are fundamental to our Response team assisted a variety of local agencies SAFETY PERFORMANCE COMPARISON1 2018 2017 2016 fatality and significant incident prevention efforts. with fighting nine forest and brush fires nearby in 2018. Total Recordable Injury 0.67 0.56 0.64 Each operation must have training and formalized safe To help support emergency response capabilities in Frequency rate (TRIF) 2 work procedures to address each HCP requirement. those communities, Neves-Corvo donated critical Lundin Mining Company TRIF target 0.70 0.80 0.90 emergency response equipment to five community fire brigades, in addition to first-aid training at primary Lost Time Injury Frequency rate (LTIF) 3 0.35 0.30 0.39 HIGH CONSEQUENCE PROTOCOLS (HCPS) schools and nursing homes; providing free potable Lost workdays 1,094 1,223 1,473 water to several communities along the water line Obligation to Refuse Unsafe Work Lost time injury Severity Rate (SR) 4 12 14 20 from the Santa Clara Reservoir; providing water for Energy Isolation and Lockout / Tagout Almodovar’s public swimming pool; and providing 10 Fatalities 0 0 0 Working at Heights additional irrigation water for nine farms along the Total hours worked 19,019,632 17,117,550 14,405,437 Ground Control water pipeline route. The Eagle and Zinkgruvan teams Formal Joint Explosives Management also participated in multiple joint exercises with local Worker-Management 1. Our safety performance includes both employees and contractors. Machine Guarding emergency response agencies to test cross-team Health & Safety 2. Total Recordable Injury Frequency rate (TRIF) is calculated as (total number of recordable injuries [including Personal Protective Equipment capabilities and preparedness. Committees fatalities, lost time injuries, restricted work and medical treatment injuries] x 200,000) / total hours worked. Confined Space Entry 3. Lost Time Injury Frequency rate (LTIF) is calculated as (total lost time injuries x 200,000) / total hours worked. Operation of Equipment 4. Lost time Severity Rate (SR) is calculated as (total lost workdays x 200,000) / total hours worked. Lifting and Rigging Hot Work 756 2.5 Lundin Mining – TRIF & LTIF Trends Formal Monthly Health & Safety 2.0 2.01 Meetings held* 1.60 1.5 *Does not include pre-shift and tailgate safety meetings. 1.12 1.0 0.86 0.76 0.64 0.67 0.55 0.56 0.5 0.39 0.35 0.30 0.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 TRIF Target Lundin Mining TRIF Lundin Mining LTIF LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 34 HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and Safety Reporting Safety Leadership Our health and safety performance results are reported Involves Everyone to corporate senior leadership and shared across our operations monthly, and are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the Board HSEC Committee. Incidents that result in a reportable injury, and all high-potential, Over the past two years, a new safety non-injury incidents are reported, analyzed and shared leadership training model was introduced at Lundin Mining, initially through a series of courses across the Company on a weekly basis to emphasize key learnings to prevent recurrence. Consolidated health 2018 SAFETY AT A GLANCE at Eagle Mine. The training, entitled Managing and safety performance data are frequently evaluated to Safety Performance™, provides a variety of tools identify trends and to develop focused incident and injury and techniques designed to assist supervisors and 994 26,467 2,799 prevention strategies. Our health and safety performance managers with becoming more effective leaders. statistics, incident details, summary investigation findings The training is based on the book Alive and Well and lessons learned are readily available and accessible at the End of the Day authored by Paul Balmert. REPORTED WORKPLACE SAFETY PLANNED WORKPLACE to employees, contractors and visitors. In 2018, the training was expanded across NEAR MISSES OBSERVATIONS HEALTH & SAFETY INSPECTIONS Lundin Mining, when sessions were conducted Measuring Our Performance at Neves-Corvo and Candelaria. Demonstrating We measure our health and safety performance using their commitment to safety and Zero Harm, the a combination of leading and lagging indicators. Lundin Mining Executive Committee and senior These indicators and associated performance targets operational leaders also attended Balmert safety are established during the annual business planning 0.35 0.67 0.70 leadership training in Toronto. process and are published in corporate and site annual 0 33 Lost Time 64 ACHIEVED TARGET safety action plans. These plans are shared with our Fatalities Lost Time Total Total Recordable Injury Frequency employees and contractors. Injuries Rate [LTIF] Recordable Injury Frequency (per 200,000 hours worked) Injuries Rate [TRIF] Leading indicators help us identify strengths and (per 200,000 hours worked) weaknesses in our health and safety systems and procedures and highlight areas where we need to act to address potential issues and risks before they result in an incident, injury or illness. Leading indicators include occurrences like near-misses, planned workplace 19,019,632 ~9,500 health and safety inspections, identified hazard reports, HOURS WORKED EMPLOYEES + CONTRACTORS FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) WORKERS workplace safety observations and health and safety (Up 11% from 2017 due to projects and construction activities) (Based on reported hours worked) suggestions. More than 32,000 leading indicators were reported in 2018. Our primary lagging indicator for measuring health and safety performance and benchmarking against 1,094 12 10 61 our peers is the TRIF rate. Other lagging indicators Lost Work Days Lost Time Severity Zero Harm High-Potential, Rate [SR] Weeks Non-Injury Incidents used include LTIF rate, the Medical Aid Frequency rate (MAF) and lost time Severity Rate (SR). All rates are Cu calculated based on a 200,000-hour formula. We follow the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration Top 5 Types of Incidents Resulting in Recordable Injuries Top 5 Types of High-Potential, Non-Injury Incidents DID YOU KNOW? (OSHA) definition of medical treatment for classification 10% 7% Ancient societies used of recordable injuries at all operations, and our reporting 12% Struck by an object 10% Heavy equipment operation processes are aligned to the International Council on 25% copper for treating 35% Struck against something Ground support diseases and maintaining Mining & Metals (ICMM) Health and Safety Performance and ground control Caught by or good hygiene Indicators manual. between something Light / medium vehicle operation Overexertion or strain Equipment fires Slip, trip or fall to same level 19% 21% Control of hazardous energy 23% 19% LUNDIN MINING 36 HEALTH AND SAFETY 37 HEALTH AND SAFETY Once potential exposure sources are identified, we work to eliminate or minimize the source and the related risk to Improving our employee health by applying the hierarchy of controls. Understanding and Management Hierarchy of Controls Most of DPM effective Physically Elimination remove the hazard We want to ensure that potential exposure to diesel Replace particulate matter (DPM) in our mines remains below Substitution the hazard safe regulatory health limits. Our goal is to reduce the overall potential for DPM exposure to levels that Engineering Isolate people Controls from the hazard are as low as is practically achievable. As part of this effort, in 2018, we introduced the use of a new, Administrative Change the way real-time DPM sampling technology in our mines. This Controls people work technology was used in combination with traditional Eagle Mine – 1 year Recordable Injury-Free, Mill Operations PPE Protect the worker DPM field sampling and laboratory-based analytical with Personal Protective Equipment testing to better evaluate the DPM levels in our mines. In total, we took 432 air samples to assess INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE AND Industrial Hygiene Least effective DPM levels during 2018. The data will help us better OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH During 2018, all of our operations developed qualitative manage our operations and reduce potential DPM The management of industrial baseline exposure profiles. These profiles will assist us exposure risks in near term, while assisting us with hygiene and occupational health with performing future targeted sampling for industrial Occupational Health the development of long-term strategies to reduce is fundamental to our overall health and safety program. hygiene agents of concern while helping us to improve Our 2018 occupational health efforts saw 3,754 health or eliminate known sources of DPM. While our safety efforts focus on the elimination of hazards the effectiveness of our exposure-reduction and assessments and fitness-for-work examinations that can result in an acute injury or immediate incident, exposure-elimination efforts. conducted across Lundin Mining. These examinations our occupational health efforts are focused on identifying, included biological monitoring to assess potential worker monitoring and controlling exposures to workplace chemical, The industrial hygiene exposure profiles were based exposure to contaminants, such as heavy metals; hearing biological, physical or ergonomic agents that can lead to on collecting more than 3,700 workplace field samples. tests; respiratory evaluations; and workplace drug and acute illness or to long-term chronic occupational disease. A total of 1,122 samples were taken to assess work areas alcohol screenings. We operate professionally staffed In 2018, we continued efforts to improve our industrial for the presence and concentration of hazardous agents, on-site medical facilities at Neves-Corvo, Candelaria hygiene and occupational health assessments to better while 709 of the samples were taken to assess potential and Zinkgruvan, and we use outside medical service understand potential sources of exposure. worker exposure to those same agents. The remaining providers and community clinics at our other operations. samples involved evaluation of things like illumination, Our employees also have access to Employee Assistance vibration, airflow, heat and humidity. Programs and to confidential counselling services. 2018 INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE SAMPLING PLAN – AGENTS OF CONCERN Diesel Particulate (DPM) Silica Respirable Dust / Total Dust Oxides of Nitrogen Radon Heavy Metals Pb Temperature Relative Humidity Adequate Lighting in the Workplace Noise Ventilation Metal Fume / Metal Dust DID YOU KNOW? Lead provides effective 3,754 1,122 709 shielding from radiation during X-rays health assessments workplace industrial worker industrial hygiene and fitness-for-work hygiene samples collected samples collected examinations conducted LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 38 HEALTH AND SAFETY 39 HEALTH AND SAFETY CRISIS MANAGEMENT Developing an PLANNING AND EMERGENCY Interdependent PREPAREDNESS While we focus on the prevention of Safety Culture incidents and emergencies, we also work to ensure that we are prepared to respond effectively if an event does occur. Lundin Mining has a formal crisis In 2017 we conducted a company-wide safetymanagement and emergency preparedness program perception survey to establish a baseline measure that covers all operations and corporate headquarters. of our safety culture against DuPont’s Bradley Formal crisis management plans have been developed Curve™. We had excellent participation from and implemented across the Company. Facilitated employees and contractors across Lundin Mining, crisis management training and practice scenarios with an 82% response rate. Using the results from were conducted at each operation and at the Toronto more than 6,800 surveys, we achieved a relative headquarters during 2018. safety culture strength (RCS) score of 73, indicating good advancement towards the interdependent In addition, each operation maintains emergency safety culture1 sector of the Bradley Curve. Data and response capabilities and equipment suited to the other learnings from the survey were shared with working environment and the associated operating our workforce during 2018. This data was then used risks of the location. Site-specific emergency response to update annual safety action plans and to develop plans are developed where appropriate to support forward-looking strategies to further advance our the formal crisis management plans. safety culture efforts. Emergency Responders and Mine Rescue Team Lundin Mining Safety Culture Survey members receive monthly in-house training on Eagle Mine – Confined Space Rescue Training DuPont Bradley Curve™ Plot equipment and emergency response techniques. Practice exercises and simulated emergency scenarios, Mining / extraction (except oil and gas)* A range of emergency equipment is available to support emergency response activities at each of our operations. as well as external training, are also provided to ensure Lundin Mining / RCS = 73 Emergency equipment can include site ambulances, fire response vehicles, specific secondary routes of escape, Re that team skills are maintained. During 2018, teams ac evacuation elevators or ladderways in our underground mines, individual self-rescuers, strategically located first-aid tiv Benchmark Best from Neves-Corvo, Candelaria and Eagle participated e and emergency response equipment, contingency supplies, underground fresh-air stations, and underground in a variety of regional and international competitions 8 refuge chambers. We have continued to upgrade our refuge chamber capabilities and now have 83 refuge chambers De to test their skills and capabilities against their peers. Total Recordable Rate pe e in service with 37 of those being newer “best in class” units that have stand-alone capability. nd 6 nt Ind ep en 4 de UNDERGROUND nt Inter EMERGENCY TRAINED MINE RESCUE TRAINED MINE UNDERGROUND REFUGE CHAMBER depe 2 nden RESPONSE TEAMS EMERGENCY TEAMS RESCUE TEAM REFUGE COMBINED t Zn (SURFACE) RESPONDERS (UNDERGROUND) RESPONDERS CHAMBERS CAPACITY 0 40 60 80 100 12 152 9 117 83* 790 DID YOU KNOW? Relative Culture Strength (RCS) * Industry average RCS from DuPont Safety Perception Survey database Zinc is a health essential, *Included 37 stand-alone capable units. being the second 1 A  n Interdependent Safety Culture is one where safety is held most abundant metal as a value across the organization; where safety is led from the top and owned by everyone; where everyone makes a personal in the body 47 33 commitment to go home safe each and every day and where everyone looks out for the safety and well-being of others. Underground Emergency Surface Facility Emergency Evacuation Drills Conducted Evacuation Drills Conducted LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 41 OUR APPROACH The economic sustainability of our business is important to all of our stakeholders. We continuously monitor our performance ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE and objectives, conduct opportunity and risk assessments and integrate these findings into our economic strategy. Our 2018 economic strategy focused Across the Company, strategic plans focus on re-investing in sustaining capital on the Company being a catalyst and expenditures to support the stable partner in sustainable development for and sustainable future of our mines, the regions where it operates. advancing growth through internal expansion and exploration at our existing Lundin Mining’s 2019 economic strategy operations, and maintaining a strong and continues to be focused on stable flexible balance sheet to move quickly base metals concentrate production, on compelling growth opportunities. preserving cash flows from all operations, and continuing to maintain a strong We continued our emphasis on balance sheet while pursuing growth promoting economic diversification and opportunities both at existing operations advancing local entrepreneurship during and externally. The Company is focused on 2018, through effective completion improving productivity through operational of several initiatives at our mine sites advancements, continuous improvement, and Lundin Foundation projects. Each and investment in value-added technology. operation developed a Five-Year Social The strategy positions the Company to Performance Strategic Plan; engagement maximize annual production, generating IN THIS SECTION and investment activities are predicated on healthy cash flows and leading returns Our Approach 41 the socioeconomic context of the regions in a fluctuating and volatile commodity where we operate and business priorities. price environment. Economic Contributions 42 Local Procurement 42 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 42 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 43 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS Zinkgruvan and Neves-Corvo define local procurement to include all goods and services procured at the Investing in country level. At Zinkgruvan, our local-procurement rate Sustainable is 96.2%, and Neves-Corvo’s rate is 85.8%2. Given the larger geographic scope of the United States and Chile, Artisanal Fishing these sites distinguish between local-level procurement in Caldera Lundin Mining’s operations contribute to economic development and (Michigan state-wide and Copiapó province-wide prosperity in regions where we operate. Beyond wages and salaries procurement) and country-level procurement (all other paid to employees and contractors; and taxes, royalties and fees paid in-country procurement). Eagle’s local-level procurement In 2018, Candelaria announced a three-year to governments; we focus our major community investments on initiatives rate was 35.9% and the country-level procurement commitment, through a Lundin Foundation program, that advance sustainable development. These investments include rate was 51%, with a total national spend of 86.9%. to local fishermen and the nearby Punta Frodden education and skills training, economic diversification, infrastructure, At Candelaria, the local-level procurement rate was Seafood Processing Plant, to achieve improved business incubators, donations to local healthcare centres, and 12.4% and the country-level rate was 86.1%. productivity, standards and sustainable practises. environmental education and conservation. Our goals include continuing Technical expertise for the project will be provided to support our current economic diversification and local procurement In 2018, goods and services that could not generally be by Geomar, a Chilean company that specializes in programs in addition to creating new programs throughout 2019. sourced locally included specialized or heavy equipment, the export of seafood products with gourmet quality explosives, chemicals and certain types of specialized Zinkgruvan – New Control Room and sustainable practices. Through this program, As defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), our Total Economic technical consulting services. Rail and vessel shipping local fishermen will be able to sell seafood products Value (revenues) generated in 2018 was approximately $1.8 billion, are also services that are generally procured outside directly to exporters or national markets, avoiding and Total Economic Value distributed was approximately $1.1 billion, of local areas. intermediaries and increasing the revenue for their as detailed in the following table. We worked closely with the Lundin Foundation in 2018 on small businesses. The project aims to diversify the local procurement projects at Candelaria and Neves-Corvo. income sources in the region and create new jobs IN US$ 000'S 2018 2017 2016 These initiatives focus on building the supply chain group’s in operations for the plant. capacity to develop and implement local procurement and Total Economic Value Generated 1,759,753 2,089,664 1,553,734 entrepreneur training programs; this work will continue in Total Economic Value Distributed 1,129,147 1,274,672 1,052,565 2019. Additional information on these programs can be Total Economic Value Retained 630,606 814,992 501,169 found in the Social Performance – Community Investment section of this report. Total Procurement LOCAL PROCUREMENT 100% 5% 8% 8% 90% 80% Pb 70% 60% 74% 83% DID YOU KNOW? Lundin Mining’s procurement decisions and processes have a significant 50% 92% Lead has been mined and positive impact on the local communities at our sites. In 2018, 40% on all continents, approximately $1.58 billion of our goods and services were procured 30% except Antartica at the local or country level across the Company’s operating sites in the 20% United States, South America and Europe, up from $1.23 billion1 in 2017 10% 18% 12% (or 95%, up from 92% of total procurement). The shifts in percentages of 0% procurement by local, national and international level were driven in large part 2016* 2017 2018 by absolute increases in national-level procurement spending at Candelaria. * Our 2016 data collection did not differentiate between nationaland local-level procurement. 2 Neves-Corvo local procurement was reported as 72.1% in the 2017 1 Total goods and services procured at the local or country level was reported as $688 million Local Sustainability Report. The Company has refined reporting systems in the 2017 Sustainability Report. The Company has refined reporting systems as part of our as part of our evolving local procurement program and revised Nevesevolving local procurement program and revised the 2017 total goods and services procured National Corvo’s 2017 local procurement to 79.7%. at the local or country level to $1.23 billion. International LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT HUMAN RESOURCES 45 OUR APPROACH Lundin Mining is committed to its employees. We work hard to strengthen our culture of respect and transparency, and practice a management style that both listens to employees and actively addresses their concerns. HUMAN RESOURCES The Values that Lundin Mining adopted Lundin Mining aims to create safe work in 2018 were developed as a result of environments that promote dignity and a consultative process and reflect our respect, and in which diversity and approach to employees outlined in the the contributions of all employees are About Lundin Mining section. recognized and valued. We believe that success depends on a OUR EMPLOYEES skilled and motivated workforce and that employee engagement is key to employee retention. To effectively foster a meaningful work experience, we believe it is important that our employees have knowledge of the Company’s direction and priorities At December 31, 2018, Lundin Mining and understand how their efforts and globally employed 8,910 people: IN THIS SECTION successes contribute to overall goals. 3,346 employees (3,535 in 2017) and To ensure that employees are kept up to 5,564 contract workers (5,072 in 2017) Our Approach 45 date, employee communication channels across four operating mines in Chile, Our Employees 45 are continuously improved and expanded. Portugal, Sweden and the United States, Local Hiring 48 Employee training protocols and focused our exploration group, and our training initiatives further contribute to corporate office in Toronto, Canada. Labour Relations 49 motivation and to workforce engagement. Training and Professional 49 Development 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 46 HUMAN RESOURCES 47 HUMAN RESOURCES Contract employees are primarily 105 identified employees. Additionally, rest room facilities that accommodate Lundin Mining has gender-neutral compensation engaged in maintenance, mine the opportunity of a voluntary breast-feeding mothers are in the structures at all operations and offices, with salaries and Zinkgruvan development, mining and project retirement plan was extended to planning stage. Our Eagle operation rates of pay based on the responsibility and skill level Co-Hosts activities; temporarily replace employees who qualified, and this in Michigan voluntarily elected to required for each position, while also taking into account workers on leave; or are assigned option was accepted by a majority introduce paid maternity and paternity the experience level of the incumbent. Competitive Lakeside Pride to short-term-focus projects. All of employees approached, for a leave. There is no legislated paid leave remuneration practices facilitate the Company’s ability with Askersund contractors are included in our total workforce reduction of 160. in the state; at Eagle, however, new to attract well-qualified employees. The premise of equal safety performance statistics and are mothers are granted three months pay for work of equal value is systematically applied and held to the same HSEC standards Lower than average unemployment of maternity leave with pay, at either regularly reviewed; should a discrepancy be identified, In August 2018, Zinkgruvan teamed with the as Lundin Mining employees, in rates at several of the Company’s 80% or 100% of full salary, and new it is immediately addressed. Municipality of Askersund to organize its first “Pride” accordance with our RMMS. geographic locations have increased fathers are also accommodated with the challenges of recruiting and event, Lakeside Pride Askersund. This milestone two weeks of paid paternity leave. While some roles traditionally held by women (such as Reasons for minor fluctuations in retaining employees. At any operation event focused on celebration of the power of administrative / non-technical positions) are lower paid, staffing in 2018 included an increase where turnover increased in 2018, In 2018, Lundin Mining increased diversity, inclusion and equality. As the Municipality equally experienced women are paid the same wages as in temporary workers for the Zinc commitments were made to the number and percentage of of Askersund’s largest private employer, Zinkgruvan men for the same position. Differences in compensation Expansion Project at Neves-Corvo refocus on employee engagement female employees at each operation. has taken a lead role in championing diversity and are a result of performance or seniority level and it is and an increase in seasonal workers and development. Commitments were also made at inclusion in the region, reflecting our core values. equally possible for a female or male holding the same at Zinkgruvan to address employee all operations to continually increase The variety of events in Askersund Harbour included role to have higher compensation. vacation absences. As mining has traditionally been the number of women hired. Our art, film, music and fashion events, along with a male-dominated industry, the Neves-Corvo operation formalized In 2018, the female-to-male compensation ratio was a hi-tech virtual reality mine tour. Our Company-wide turnover rate attraction and retention of female a target for female workforce In honour of the first Lakeside Pride 92%. The ratio of women’s to men’s salaries at operating for 2018 was approximately 13.2%, employees, particularly for operating participation and set a goal that 50% event, Zinkgruvan proudly celebrated sites ranged from 84% to 99%. This range is primarily an increase over the 2017 rate of positions at industrial sites, can be of all new employee / contractor roles the launch of an LGBT version a result of differences in the seniority and position level 5.4%. This increase in turnover can challenging. In 2018, Lundin Mining would be filled by female candidates of their mine logo. of women employed at the operations. For example, at be largely attributed to a workforce proactively recruited female applicants, by 2020. To support such initiatives, Neves-Corvo, while the number of female employees is reduction at the Candelaria operation promoted opportunities for women, community-centric training programs low, their average seniority is high, and the roles in which in Chile. The decision to reduce and made good progress developing with direct emphasis on female they are employed are largely highly paid managerial headcount was made for the workplaces that accommodate applicants were launched, as were and senior technical positions. Conversely, at Candelaria, purpose of aligning skill sets and the needs of female workers. For job-readiness programs and Women the majority of positions held by the female workforce optimizing the operation’s production example, at our Candelaria Mine in Leadership training sessions. are support-level roles. processes. Termination agreements site, employees are provided time were successfully concluded with off for family-related matters, and Employee performance reviews are generally conducted annually or semi-annually, and at some operations, Total Workforce 2018 Employees by Gender on a quarterly schedule. In 2018, approximately 67% of our global staff participated in a system-driven 1,600 50% performance review process, with additional employees 45% receiving performance reviews outside of the system. 38% 1,400 40% The performance of all employees (100%) at the 1,200 supervisory, management or executive level is 35% 1,000 reviewed, at minimum, annually; and in most instances, 30% semi-annually. Compensation for such positions All permanent, full-time employees participate in one 800 25% incorporates a performance component and cash of various incentive plans, either at a corporate or at an 600 20% bonus incentive (CBI) compensation plans that operational level, which are linked to both corporate / 62% 15% consider metrics such as production, health and operational and individual performance. The Company 400 10% safety, environmental compliance and other corporate reviews its incentive plans annually and periodic revisions Employees 200 5% goals, as well as individual key performance indictors. are standard, generally with increased performance-related Contract Workers measures as objectives. 0 0% Candelaria Eagle Zinkgruvan Neves-Corvo Corporate Exploration Females Total Males % Female LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 48 HUMAN RESOURCES 49 HUMAN RESOURCES LOCAL HIRING Youth Engagement at Zinkgruvan Mine It is a priority at Lundin Mining to draw our workforce At Zinkgruvan, one of our social goals is to increase from our host countries, and specifically, regional and engagement with youth, particularly young women, local communities, to ensure the economic benefit of interested in science, technology, engineering and employment remains, to the greatest extent possible, mathematics. With the adoption of new technology, in our host communities. In part due to the developed like tele-remote operated equipment, we are not just regions where we operate, one of Lundin Mining’s transforming the way we mine but also cultivating strengths is its ability to source its workforce locally. the next generation of miners who will be leading this However, it is occasionally necessary to fill gaps by innovation in the future. sourcing specific skills, levels of experience, or technical expertise, from abroad. This is particularly necessary for large-scale projects, such as for the Zinc Expansion Project at the Neves-Corvo Mine in Portugal. In 2018, our employees were almost exclusively from in-country, with expatriates accounting for only 0.95% of our employees across our operations. EMPLOYEES EXPATS Candelaria 1,451 3 Eagle Mine – Mill Water Treatment Plant Work Zinkgruvan 401 2 Neves-Corvo 1,209 22 LABOUR RELATIONS if and when they arise. We engage There were no strikes, lock-outs or Eagle 196 4 with union leaders regularly on work stoppages of significance at our Total 3,257 31 matters of local labour laws, business operations in 2018. There is no history changes and the negotiation of terms of worker militancy in the last six years % Expats 0.95% and conditions. or longer at any of our sites. Lundin Mining supports the As of December 31, 2018, 84% of TRAINING AND unencumbered right to freedom of our employees across the Company PROFESSIONAL Contractors and suppliers are expected to have practices had union representation, which DEVELOPMENT association and collective bargaining Cu in place that support and parallel Lundin Mining policies is comparable to the 83% with Ongoing communication and training at all of our operations. The and standards, such as our RMMS, and in this regard, union representation in 2017. The are essential elements for employees relationships between the Company, we ask that our contractors and suppliers also adhere figure of 84% mainly represents and contractors to successfully DID YOU KNOW? its unions and employees are distinct to a similar standard with respect to the prioritization non-managerial employees working meet our stringent health and safety at each of our mines; however, what Copper is necessary for of local hiring. at mine sites who are covered under commitments, to develop the skills is consistent is that our approach brain and neurological collective bargaining agreements. and knowledge of our employees focuses on employee representation development Lundin Mining employees at Eagle and to achieve the objectives in our based on trust and transparency, respectful dialogue and constructive, Mine are not unionized, nor are our Responsible Mining Framework. peaceful resolution of any concerns, exploration group or our corporate office employees. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 51 OUR APPROACH We operate mines in four different countries, each with unique and diverse cultures, languages, landscapes and levels of economic development. Our social performance approach is tailored to adapt to these differing operational contexts. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Mining operations can generate significant relationships with those affected by our direct and indirect social benefits for operations; uphold fundamental human local communities, including employment rights; invest in meaningful community and capacity-building opportunities, the projects and sustainable development; stimulation and diversification of local and respect cultures, customs and economies, and business and community values, while engaging in open and partnerships. Mining can also contribute inclusive dialogue. to social impacts, including pressures on local infrastructure as a result of In 2018, our social performance mine worker influx, increased traffic in teams continued the refinement and communities and impeded access to implementation of site-level, five-year cultural resources. social performance strategic plans. These plans are an anchor for making Understanding and proactively managing decisions, and enable sites to allocate these benefits and impacts are integral resources informed by an understanding IN THIS SECTION to the success of our operations. For and assessment of social risks, current this reason, each site develops systems and potential impacts, contextual Our Approach 51 designed to optimize benefits, create changes, stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement 52 shared value with host communities and and social investment priorities. Indigenous Relations 58 anticipate potential social impacts of our activities. Our approach is to build strong Managing Impacts 60 Community Investment 63 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 52 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 53 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE The Social Performance Standard, Community In 2018, we refined our Stakeholder Engagement Standard • Informal engagement activities, including delivery of Engaging with the Investment Standard, and Stakeholder Engagement and developed the accompanying Guidance to ensure presentations at events, timely response to information Local Community Standard and Guidance were drafted in 2018 and will a systematic and consistent approach to engaging requests, social media and training sessions; and, be finalized in early 2019. The management of social with communities, employees and other stakeholders impacts will be addressed in an integrated manner, identified through these mapping processes. Under these • Reporting, including our annual sustainability reports, in alignment with the RMMS, upon approval from the standards, each operation is required to have a site-specific government-focused revenue transparency reports, From stimulating the economy to protecting the VP Environment and the COO. Stakeholder Engagement Communication Plan that financial statements, compliance statements and area’s natural resources, we believe that good outlines an effective strategy for continually strengthening news releases. community relations are as necessary for our In 2019, the corporate team will also develop and relationships with stakeholders and maintaining dialogue implement training to build Company-wide capacity and These tools are used regularly to engage with stakeholders business success as the effective engagement of about the site’s management of social impacts and its competency for best practices and for meeting policy on an ad hoc, monthly, quarterly, bi-annual or annual basis. our operations. An example of our engagement distribution and optimization of social benefits. efforts is our Community Forums, which are a commitments articulated in the revised Responsible The table below provides an overview of stakeholder participatory and conversational get-together, held Mining Policy. The revised policy includes new Common forms of stakeholder engagement across groups with whom Lundin Mining engaged in 2018, the twice per year in the Spring and Fall. During the commitments to workplace diversity and inclusion, our sites include: types and frequency of engagement, some examples Forum we provide a quick update on our operations, expectations for suppliers and contractors, and respect • Formal engagement activities, including community, of key interests and concerns raised in 2018, and how introduce attendees to some of our team members for human rights aligned with the United Nations Guiding one-on-one and committee meetings (e.g., health the Company is responding to these concerns. and find out what’s on everyone’s mind. Most Principles on Business and Human Rights. and safety), site visits, stakeholder perception importantly, our Forums are designed as a STAKEHOLDER surveys, grievance and suggestion mechanisms, two-way dialog between Eagle and the community. ENGAGEMENT and monitoring programs; We encourage anyone to come and ask questions about our operations and activities. With this open Lundin Mining is and honest approach, we look forward to feedback committed to ensuring that continuously improves the way that we operate. open and inclusive dialogue and mutual understanding KEY INTERESTS FREQUENCY OTHER KEY with our stakeholders during all phases of the mine life STAKEHOLDER AND CONCERNS LUNDIN MINING’S AND TYPE OF INTERESTS GROUP RAISED IN 2018 RESPONSE IN 2018 ENGAGEMENT AND CONCERNS cycle. Our approach is based on clear communication, transparency and trust, and helps us to earn and Local Transportation, Conducting site assessments Regular and ad Sharing the maintain long-term community acceptance and access Communities noise, dust and (where appropriate) and developing hoc meetings socio-economic to resources. Effective stakeholder engagement creates vibration issues plans to minimize impacts of throughout the year. benefits of mining value, manages risks and helps us to understand transportation, noise, dust and activities, such the interests and concerns of our stakeholders and Timely response vibrations in the communities as community communicate our business objectives. It also helps to requests for around our sites. investments, local to identify, on an ongoing basis, emerging issues engagement. hiring and local that could affect our business operations, as well Community procurement. as changing social situations that may influence perception surveys. stakeholders’ quality of life and perceptions of the mine. Indigenous Protection of Proactively provide information Continuous Sharing the Each of our sites uses a systematic process to identify Peoples environmental on operational activities and engagement with socio-economic and prioritize stakeholders from direct and indirect and cultural potential exploration areas. local Indigenous benefits of mining influence areas, as well as those interested in or resources community activities, such potentially affected by the site’s activities. Special Involvement in community members, as community consideration is given to identify potentially vulnerable environmental monitoring program. within the context of investments, local groups (either within the socio-economic or the political Monitoring of environmental and identified concerns hiring and local context, due to their specific identity or impacts cultural resources in regional and opportunities procurement. from operations). To ensure continuous improvement, operations and exploration areas. for collaboration stakeholder mapping exercises are updated at The Company’s Engagement processes to discuss and partnership. least every six months or, in the case of abrupt local awareness of socio-economic change, at the earliest opportunity. issues of interest, concerns and cultural traditions. investment initiatives. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 54 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 55 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE KEY INTERESTS FREQUENCY OTHER KEY KEY INTERESTS FREQUENCY OTHER KEY STAKEHOLDER AND CONCERNS LUNDIN MINING’S AND TYPE OF INTERESTS STAKEHOLDER AND CONCERNS LUNDIN MINING’S AND TYPE OF INTERESTS GROUP RAISED IN 2018 RESPONSE IN 2018 ENGAGEMENT AND CONCERNS GROUP RAISED IN 2018 RESPONSE IN 2018 ENGAGEMENT AND CONCERNS NonEnvironmental Continuing and creating Regular meetings Customers Health & Safety Our sites are transitioning to full Regular contact. Reliable supplies. Governmental and community partnerships with local planned throughout implementation of our new HSEC Environmental, Timely response High-quality Organizations development non-governmental organizations to the year (quarterly, management system (RMMS) social and to information products. issues build capacity and enhance social at a minimum). including supporting technical governance requests including and environmental performance standards and procedures to Information on Timely response (ESG) ESG surveys to across our sites. address HSEC considerations. any hazards. to requests for performance ensure accurate and engagement. Lundin Mining has policies and updated information. systems in place to support effective Government Environmental Our sites have formal environmental Regular meetings Labour law ESG performance, including the compliance management systems (standards or consultations. compliance. Code of Conduct, Ethical Values and and monitoring and procedures) in accordance Anti-Corruption, Responsible Mining Timely and Hiring of with the RMMS and monitoring Policy and RMMS. complete reporting local labour. requirements. Environmental where required. Labour Unions Collective Mine management engages One-on-one monitoring is undertaken routinely Health & Safety at all sites and Company-wide compliance. bargaining regularly and constructively with meetings. environmental compliance auditing employees on issues such as Infrastructure Group meetings. was initiated at all sites in 2015. schedules and working conditions. investments. Concurrent with the RMMS implementation, environmental Shareholders / Operational The Company transparently Annual General ESG performance. technical standards were updated / Investors and financial responds to questions and Meeting. Timely receipt of developed and global compliance performance provides relevant disclosures Fulsome and timely business-critical auditing against the new RMMS is through this report and other Capital financial statements, permits. planned for 2019. corporate filings. allocation MD&A and news releases. Employees Health & Safety Our sites have formal Health & Each operating site Working conditions. Growth by and Safety management systems maintains a Joint acquisition Quarter-end and Labour relations Career Contractors (standards and procedures) in place. Health & Safety and brownfields event-specific advancement. Reclamation Committee (JHSC). investments conference calls. Trained staff on social impacts for and closure Dependency upon consideration in closure planning. Regular meetings. Formal meetings, mine for local Closure workshops conducted at all Union meetings employment. analyst and investor sites in 2018 to support updated and and discussions. briefings, site visits. comprehensive closure planning. Responding to information requests to ensure accurate and updated information. Cu Presentations to analysts DID YOU KNOW? and investors. The Statue of Liberty contains 179,000 lbs of copper LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 56 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 57 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE KEY INTERESTS FREQUENCY OTHER KEY STAKEHOLDER AND CONCERNS LUNDIN MINING’S AND TYPE OF INTERESTS GROUP RAISED IN 2018 RESPONSE IN 2018 ENGAGEMENT AND CONCERNS Lenders / Capital The Company transparently Regular financial ESG performance. Financial allocation responds to questions and and compliance Institutions provides relevant disclosures statements. Operational through this report and other and financial Timely response corporate filings. performance to requests for information. Progress on capital development projects Suppliers Local economic Our sites have focused their Monthly meetings Financial health impact attention on strengthening / with local and payment terms. supporting fair and open local contractors and procurement practices. annual trade fairs. Local Elders in Peru Industry Economic Transparent and proactive Ongoing Associations / and regulatory communication. membership Regional performance for industry In 2018, Zinkgruvan developed a strategic stakeholder At Candelaria, the team continued to engage Business associations. engagement plan and an updated stakeholder map as constructively with residents of the nearby communities Associations part of the site’s communications plan and five-year social of Tierra Amarilla, Caldera and Copiapó in 2018. This Participation in performance strategy. The site also created a register included the signing of multi-year agreements with industry forums that documents all commitments the Company has the municipalities of Copiapó and Caldera to promote and work groups. made to its stakeholders, including written, verbal or sustainable development in the region. Community offices perceived commitments. Meetings with several partners located in Tierra Amarilla and Caldera continued to provide have been ongoing to create roadmaps for extended stakeholders with opportunities to receive information on collaboration in 2019. the operation and community projects, and to share their Lundin Mining’s sites and operations have continued interests and concerns. to strengthen their approach to stakeholder Neves-Corvo partnered with the University of Lisbon in engagement in 2018. 2018 to conduct the mine’s first stakeholder perception survey. Findings were positive and will be used to inform Engagement remains a priority for Eagle. In 2018, the stakeholder engagement, communications, community site conducted a local community perception survey that investments and operational activities. The site developed a received more than 900 responses. Results were positive, stakeholder engagement plan and formalized a set of tools, Zn with 89% of respondents indicating that they think Eagle procedures and forms; grievance processes; stakeholder Mine has either a good or excellent relationship with the meeting reports; and field-visit notes to ensure consistency. community. A focus on community capacity-building DID YOU KNOW? Meetings were held with the mayors and residents of the and transparent engagement initiatives, radio and print > 5.2 million metric tons five municipalities nearest to the mine to forge constructive advertisements about aerial exploration activities, and relationships and affirm the Company’s commitment to of zinc are consumed community forums in 2018 has contributed to building its employees, contractors, suppliers and surrounding annually in the a trusting relationship between Eagle Mine and the communities. Mine management held regular monthly Western World community. Eagle Information Centre in downtown meetings with union executives to discuss labour relations Marquette continued to attract local stakeholders and and matters of concern to employees. The introduction of tourists. Internally, engagement with employees has both a revised production bonus and quarterly employee continued in 2018, with a specific focus on promoting meetings with the Managing Director have contributed to Eagle Mine – Geology Intern diversity and inclusion of women in the workforce. positive employee relations. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 58 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 59 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Eagle Mine is committed to continuing constructive Lundin Mining Peru S.A.C. (Lundin Mining Peru) through engagement with local tribes throughout the mine’s its subsidiary Compañia Minera Mohicano S.A.C. operation. Through regular dialogue, we work with (Mohicano) signed a seven-year community agreement, local tribes to identify common interests with respect effective January 2018, with Sancos to obtain their to land (e.g., closure activities and mineral exploration), permission to undertake exploration activities. Since late water (e.g., water-quality monitoring) and protection of 2017, the Amauta team has dedicated significant effort cultural resources; to identify employment and economic to engage with Sancos to inform them on the scope of development partnership opportunities; and to identify the exploration project in a transparent, inclusive and opportunities for investment. In 2018, Eagle continued meaningful way, respecting their language and traditions. to meaningfully engage with local tribes and had initial conversations regarding cultural monitoring of regional In 2018, there were no disputes relating to land use, exploration areas. The social performance team is customary rights of local communities and Indigenous also engaging with the Marquette County Community Peoples, or incidents of violations involving rights of Foundation, Superior Watershed Partnership, KBIC, and Indigenous Peoples. As a result, grievance mechanisms other community members to identify new opportunities were not used to resolve any issues. Exploration – Community Workshop Exploration – Amauta-Sancos Community Meeting for the Community Environmental Monitoring Program (CEMP) structure, which expired in December 2018, to determine if changes to the partnership are required to INDIGENOUS RELATIONS monitoring and review. We currently improve the effectiveness of the program. have activities that take place in or Cu near areas where Indigenous Peoples In 2018, Candelaria continued to focus on deepening are located: its relationship with the local Colla community through an engagement process focused on the key interests DID YOU KNOW? • Our Eagle Mine operations and concerns of Indigenous community members and Copper is 100% Lundin Mining is committed to are located on ceded territory opportunities for community investment initiatives. The recyclable – nearly 80% respecting and considering the near the Keweenaw Bay Indian new community office in Tierra Amarilla has a mural that of copper that has rights, interests, concerns, traditional Community (KBIC) and Eagle’s reflects Indigenous heritage. been produced is still land uses and cultural activities regional exploration interests are near the Lac Vieux Desert Band of in use today Zn of Indigenous Peoples within our sphere of influence, as articulated Chippewa Indians, both of whom in our Responsible Mining Policy. are part of the Anishinaabe group DID YOU KNOW? For operations whose activities of Native American tribes. Zinc is critical for can directly or indirectly affect • Our Candelaria operations a healthy immune and Indigenous Peoples, our RMMS are in the Atacama Region blood system standard requires establishment of of Chile, where 3,000 people formal procedures and processes self-identify as Indigenous Colla to address Indigenous Peoples’ community members. engagement, economic inclusion and cultural heritage conservation, • Our exploration project Amauta is while ensuring we meet applicable located in southern Peru, Arequipa legislative requirements. Our Region, District of Acari. The Candelaria – Copiapó City, Chile Stakeholder Engagement Standard exploration site is located on the and Guidance steer the relationships border of the traditional land of the sites have with Indigenous Peoples Indigenous community Comunidad by outlining specific requirements Campesina de Sancos (Sancos), around engagement, communication, self-identified as a Quechua group integration of community input, with 1,100 registered members. LUNDIN MINING 60 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 61 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE MANAGING IMPACTS In 2018, Lundin Mining refined its Social Management Standards and developed accompanying Guidance to ensure that all sites develop appropriate assessment processes (implemented across the life cycle) to identify and assess the actual and / or potential social impacts. In 2018, grievance management requirements based on best practices and Lundin Mining operations are located immediately adjacent, or close to local communities. This proximity can result in a international standards were incorporated into our Stakeholder Engagement range of actual and potential impacts on local communities. The following table identifies the most significant social impacts Standard. All Lundin Mining operations have a grievance mechanism in place for each location, based on site-level assessment, and reflects stakeholder perspectives from ongoing engagement efforts. to ensure that stakeholders are able to voice concerns about Company activities and impacts, that these are documented in a transparent and Selected Social Impacts from our Activities in 2018 accountable manner, and that they are addressed on a timely basis. The table below lists the total number of grievances filed through grievance ACTUAL SOCIAL IMPACTS mechanisms at each of Lundin Mining’s operations in 2018 and breaks out SITE FROM OUR ACTIVITIES EXAMPLE MITIGATION MEASURES figures for grievances being managed or resolved. Candelaria Impacts on local communities Scheduling of mine-related buses and traffic due to operational activities, such to reduce interactions. TOTAL GRIEVANCES as dust, blasting and traffic. NUMBER OF WITH ONGOING GRIEVANCES A bypass road is used for Copiapó and Caldera, and routes OPERATION GRIEVANCES MANAGEMENT RESOLVED Candelaria – Church Restoration Impacts on economic development were modified in Tierra Amarilla to avoid residential areas. due to more than 20 years of Candelaria 43 12 311 Creation of a citizen committee to monitor noise operation in an area of low economic and vibration related to blasting. development, which has created Eagle 9 3 6 dependency on the mine. Social programs focused on economic diversification projects to identify opportunities for regional development Neves-Corvo 4 3 12 not based on mine activities and to provide support for local entrepreneurs. Zinkgruvan 5 0 53 Eagle Impacts on culture (impeded Continuing constructive discussion with local tribes 1 Four outstanding grievances from 2017 were resolved in 2018. access to sacred sites) and the local regarding the identification of cultural resources in 2 An outstanding grievance from 2017 continues to be managed by the Environmental group. economy (as the mine approaches exploration areas and economic development opportunities. 3 One outstanding grievance from 2017 was resolved in 2018. closure). Grievances were related Working with the Lundin Foundation to undertake to traffic noise. independent reviews of Eagle’s community investment programs to measure impact, understand closure options Cu Compared to other operations, Candelaria had the most grievances in and ensure the programs remain successful. 2018. This is due to the operational footprint of Candelaria being much larger than other sites, the proximity of communities to the operation, the Zinkgruvan Impacts on economic development Supporting local entrepreneurship programs and DID YOU KNOW? strength of the grievance mechanism and the stakeholders’ awareness of due to high local reliance on the economic growth initiatives not related to the mine. If all of the copper wiring the system. Most registered grievances included intermittent instability of the mine for jobs and economic growth. in an average car were Wi-Fi connection (currently, free Wi-Fi is provided to 85% of Tierra Amarilla laid out, it would strech residents by the mine; however, the mine does not control the system), Grievances were dust 1.5 km long blasting or its associated potential for vibration, and transportation (traffic, and traffic-related. dust, speeding vehicles). Neves-Corvo Impacts on economic development Social programs focused on economic diversification due to more than 30 years of projects to identify opportunities for regional development operation in an area of low economic not based on mine activities to provide support for development, which has created local entrepreneurs. great dependency on the mine. Completing a regional socio-economic impact study Grievances were dust, traffic and (2018) with the University of Lisbon to better understand noise for the small villages and farms. regional socio-economic impacts, risks and opportunities. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 62 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 63 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Eagle Mine’s grievance procedure covers both Eagle At Neves-Corvo, grievances were related to dust and COMMUNITY INVESTMENT employees and any contracted service. Therefore, when a noise impacts created by blasting and transportation Middle College community member expresses concern about a contractor, infrastructure (mainly roads). The site’s 2018 stakeholder Programs Eagle Mine takes ownership and works directly with the perception survey raised previously unknown concerns contractor to investigate the concern and report findings in the neighbouring community of Corvo regarding these back to the community member. Of the nine community impacts; these concerns will be further investigated, and the complaints received at Eagle Mine in 2018, five complaints site will increase its engagement with this community. New The Marquette Alger Technical Middle College involved transportation contractors. One transportation mitigation plans have been developed and systems installed (MATMC) is a public tuition-free, early college incident involved a near miss between a contracted (e.g., a seismographer) to address community concerns program which offers an integrated high school haul truck and a community member. The incident was about dust, noise and other mining-activity factors. and college program for students. MATMC Lundin Mining is committed to providing sustainable categorized by Eagle Mine as having significantly high enables students from throughput Marquette Grievances filed with Zinkgruvan related to transportation; benefits to local communities nearest our operations, potential for injury. The contractor was required to complete and Alger counties to earn a high school diploma, blasting (the impact of vibration on older infrastructure); working in partnership with governments, local businesses a tap-root investigation to understand what happened and a significant number of college credits and a low water-flow in a nearby creek; odour from an adjacent, and non-government organizations to support meaningful how the incident could be prevented in the future. Learnings Technical Certificate from Northern Michigan disused mine shaft; and property access. In response and outcomes-focused initiatives. We recognize that social from the incident investigation were communicated to the University (NMU) at no cost to the student or their to community concerns about heavy traffic, the site investment – including community investment, community community member involved and shared with Lundin Mining families. This program, created by the partnering contacted all major suppliers asking them to avoid routing development and capacity building – is an important benefit operations for awareness and education. of Eagle Mine, Marquette-Alger RESA, local school their trucks through the community of Åmmeberg, if that mining operations can provide in partnership with other districts and NMU, will increase the technical skills possible. In response to community concerns about local, regional and national organizations and governments. that are currently in demand in Marquette County dust, the site hired a contractor for dust control within Partnerships With the Lundin Foundation and create jobs for local people. Courses available the industrial area. The Lundin Foundation is a Canadian non-profit address a variety of technologies including: clinical Pb organization principally supported through contributions from lab, radiography, surgical, electrical, building, the Lundin Group of Companies. The Lundin Foundation automotive, aviation and industrial maintenance. DID YOU KNOW? works in partnership with Lundin Mining and other In ancient times, lead Lundin corporate partners, host governments and local was associated with communities to improve the management of, and benefit Saturn, the Roman streams from, natural resource development projects. god of agriculture Some of Lundin Mining’s most impactful community initiatives are the result of our work with the Lundin Foundation. Lundin Foundation program staff work with our social performance teams at each site to address stakeholder priorities aligned with business Neves-Corvo – Acoustic Survey needs or capacities. Lundin Foundation staff also work with Lundin Mining and other stakeholders to plan, implement and resource long-term community investment initiatives with a focus on market-based approaches. Our Community Investment Guidance outlines how the Company works with the Lundin Foundation to maximize shared value. We continue to leverage the Company’s Ni and Lundin Foundation’s respective strengths to increase the impacts of our investments, deliver efficiencies and DID YOU KNOW? communicate the outcomes of investments. Nickel gives glass Since its inception in 2007, the Lundin Foundation has its green colour disbursed more than $56 million USD ($76.3 million CAD) to implement projects across all Lundin companies into initiatives that enable local employment, nurture small business growth, and support financially viable social and environmental solutions. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 64 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 65 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Community Investment Initiatives Many of our social investment projects are implemented over several years, with some of the results only being demonstrated over the medium-to-long term. This reality will be reflected within the sites’ annual review of their Annual Community Investment Activity Plans, which consider the need for adjustments based on changing local circumstances, needs and priorities, capabilities, and emerging risks and opportunities. Information on the value of our 2018 community investment contributions can be found in the Funding Approaches for Community Investment section. The following tables highlight key community investment initiatives at each of our sites. Eagle PROGRAM (KEY ISSUE) PURPOSE OUTCOME Marquette-Alger Creates opportunities for high-school students 13 students graduated, and 53 students Technical Middle to earn college credits and develop local talent are enrolled in the program. College in high-demand career areas, such as skilled trades and health sciences. Eagle Emerging Contributes to the long-term economic EEEF enables early-stage and start-up Entrepreneurs development of Marquette County by creating businesses in Marquette County Michigan Fund (EEEF) and retaining jobs, supporting growth outside of to access financing for promising business Neves-Corvo – Entrepreneurship and Economic Diversification Course the mining industry. The fund provides affordable ideas. EEEF has enabled 37 entrepreneurs financing to high-risk clients who would otherwise to access over US$1.2 million in financing, be ineligible for traditional financing. The fund is with a repayment rate greater than 95%, Neves-Corvo operated in partnership with Northern Initiatives and has created more than 60 jobs. and targets small entrepreneurs. PROGRAM (KEY ISSUE) PURPOSE OUTCOME Accelerate UP! Contributes to the long-term economic Since inception, the program has development of Marquette County by providing supported the creation / expansion of more Nature-Based This initiative was developed in partnership The Lundin Foundation team, with support free business coaching to new and expanding than 400 businesses in Marquette County. Tourism with the Lundin Foundation, five municipalities from Neves-Corvo, held participatory businesses in the region. and 20 tour operators to contribute to workshops, meetings and fieldwork in economic diversification in the municipalities 2018. The team and partners developed a surrounding the mine through the development web-based mapping application containing of nature-based tourism opportunities. information on tourism resources, tested Zinkgruvan the proposed tourism route on the ground and completed a feasibility study for PROGRAM tourism attraction. (KEY ISSUE) PURPOSE OUTCOME Entrepreneurship Neves-Corvo, through the Lundin Foundation Seven students graduated from the Lakeside Pride In partnership with the Municipality of The event showcased Zinkgruvan as an Development and Lisbon University, provided business program in 2018. Focus was on business Askersund 2018 Askersund, Zinkgruvan organized this employer that advances workforce diversity Program training to local entrepreneurs. planning; entrepreneurship and marketing; high-profile community event to celebrate and strengthened the collaboration between finance and accounting; health, safety diversity and inclusivity. the municipality of Askersund and Zinkgruvan. The training program was launched in March and environment; contract monitoring and 2018 and completed in August 2018. The management; mine site registration and Entrepreneur Zinkgruvan continues to work on projects to A workshop was held on supporting local program combined training with customized requirements; and how to prepare a tender. Development advance local entrepreneur development, businesses and entrepreneurs in the one-on-one support to small businesses and including engagement with local small-to-medium southern part of the Örebro region and entrepreneurs in the region. enterprises, and providing free business classes training plans were developed, with course in collaboration with Nyföretagarcentrum (The rollout planned for 2019. Swedish Jobs and Society Foundation). LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 66 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 67 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Candelaria Funding Approaches to Community Investment Across Lundin Mining operations, our goal is to be a catalyst PROGRAM for sustainable development. Given that we operate in (KEY ISSUE) PURPOSE OUTCOME diverse socio-economic contexts, our local teams are skilled at identifying the priority areas of focus for investments that Scholarship In partnership with Atacamagica Foundation, During 2018, 76 students benefited are most impactful for our host communities. Program Regional Education Ministry and Atacama from the program. University, this program aims to grant In 2018, Lundin Mining’s social investments, comprising both Over 50% of scholarship recipients scholarships to students across the Copiapó Lundin Mining Corporation (LMC) direct investments and were women. province who are in the lowest 40% of family contributions to the Lundin Foundation, totalled $12 million. income. The scholarship includes support for The Company uses a combination of these funding tuition fees, housing, transportation, tutoring, approaches to community investment, as detailed below: materials and emotional needs. 1. Direct Lundin Mining community Local Suppliers Develops local supplier capacity through A total of 30 companies from Copiapó, investments in the communities Development personalized technical assistance, mentoring Tierra Amarilla and Caldera participate in and regions where we operate: Program and networking opportunities, in partnership the program and provide services, including Total direct community investment expenditures across Eagle Mine – Summer Students with Pumps Donated with the Lundin Foundation. engineering, transport, hospitality, and to Houghton Flood Relief civil and mechanical works. our operations and corporate headquarters in 2018 were approximately $9.79 million (compared to $6.07 million Inventa Program Inventa supports communities to solve To date, Inventa has trained more than in 2017) and supported education, health, environmental Direct Lundin Mining Community environmental and social issues in Chile’s 535 people and incubated 13 environmental concerns, community development, cultural programs Investments, 2015-2018 Atacama region. Through a business and social innovations. The third round of and small business economic stimulation. The increase in incubation approach, entrepreneurs develop Inventa will support twice the number of community investment compared to 2017 reflects growing 2018 2017 2016 2015 innovations to address water scarcity, energy innovations (30), provide later-stage business capacity across the Company to identify outcomes-focused access and other pressing challenges, such as support to existing entrepreneurs, and focus partnerships. Candelaria increased investments in the In $US 000s 9,796 7,946 4,650 14,828 waste management. innovations on specific environmental issues. municipalities of Caldera and Copiapó by establishing The program was launched in partnership Inventa entrepreneurs were short-listed for agreements with these municipalities and working with the Lundin Foundation and Chrysalis national environmental and start-up awards. collaboratively with local stakeholders to determine 2. Contributions to the Lundin Foundation (Universidad de Valparaiso) in 2016. shared objectives for sustainable development. Our in 2018 to advance programs in the Inventa has become a flagship program 2018 reporting includes community investments related communities and regions where we operate: for Candelaria and Lundin Mining. to the Amauta Exploration Project in Peru. In addition to direct community investments, Lundin Mining Direct Lundin Mining Community Investments, 2018 also contributed $2.2 million to the Lundin Foundation to Amauta support the development and implementation of social 2018 LUNDIN investment programs. MINING COMMUNITY PROGRAM OPERATION / INVESTMENT (KEY ISSUE) PURPOSE OUTCOME PROJECT EXPENDITURES Connectivity Expanding access to cellular coverage in Cellular signal repeater antennas were installed Direct Candelaria $8,336,000 for Rural the rural areas where Sancos community in four locations to serve the localities of Community Cu Communities members are located. Santa Rosa, San Luis Baja, Palca, Chicalli, Investment Eagle $588,000 San Luis Alta and Cajas, improving the communication and connectivity in the region. Neves-Corvo $380,000 DID YOU KNOW? Copper is needed CapacityStrengthening the organizational capabilities Donation of furniture and audio equipment Zinkgruvan $142,000 for healthy bones Building and capacity of the Sancos community. for improving the Sancos’ community centre. and teeth Technical and legal support to update Amauta $250,000 Sancos’ deeds and other legal documents to help advance their legal recognition Corporate $100,000 as Indigenous Peoples. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT METALS 69 VITAL FOR SOCIETY AND A LOW CARBON FUTURE Pb Lead is one of the most recycled materials, more than glass and paper METALS: TODAY & TOMORROW COPPER NICKEL LEAD • Copper is naturally antibacterial, • Nickel is a key component • Demand for lead is increasing, preventing the spread of disease in corrosion resistant alloys, primarily to support increased • Copper is critical to our such as stainless steel renewable energy storage cardiovascular health • Nickel can be used for several • Hospitals and emergency • Wind farm turbines can each contain decades without replacement services rely on lead batteries up to 30 tonnes of copper for back-up power • Nickel is essential for • Copper has a variety of uses, vegetation cell health • 80% of lead is used to produce Ni From 2011-2025, from electrical wiring to electronics, batteries, of which more than Lundin Mining’s Eagle plumbing, and transportation Mine will supply 1.5% 99% are recycled of the world’s nickel Cu Copper ranks as the 3rd most consumed industrial metal in the world ZINC • Lundin Mining sponsors Zinc Saves Kids (http://www.zincsaveskids.org) • Zinc Saves Kids is an IZA initiative, supporting UNICEF in providing zinc supplementation to undernourished children • Zinc metal coating increases METALS structural strength and reduces EVERYWHERE EVERYDAY corrosion in renewable energy Metals have been a key Metals improve your wind turbines factor in the evolution quality of life. of human civilization. REDUCE, REUSE, Zn Zinc is currently the 4th EVERYWAY RECYCLE most widely consumed Metals are used in a Metals are part of metal in the world multitude of industrial a sustainable future. and consumer products. MATERIALS AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 71 MATERIALS AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP OUR APPROACH Our stakeholders, ranging from employees, local communities and governments to our customers, suppliers, transportation providers and shareholders, are interested in understanding how our concentrate products are handled and transported, and the measures that we take to reduce any potential risks associated with these materials. Consumers are also expressing increased We routinely evaluate potential health interest in responsibly sourced and and safety impacts associated with managed goods. Lundin Mining’s the production of raw materials and marketing initiatives focus on being base metal ores and concentrates and a preferred, responsible supplier by have developed comprehensive Safety providing sustainably developed, quality Data Sheets (SDSs) to accompany products; technical and marketing our concentrate during transport to support; and dependable, on-time ensure that the health of employees, delivery. Concentrates are moved using business partners and service providers a variety of methods, including truck and is protected at all stages of the product rail car, either in bulk or in containers, stewardship process. We continually directly to smelters in North America evaluate potential risks associated with and Chile; or to ports where they are the production and transportation of our exported to smelters in Europe, Asia, concentrates and take steps to address or South America. Lundin Mining’s and manage any identified risks prior to concentrates are sold and transported proceeding with the activity. Lundin Mining in accordance with EU and international maintains a strong focus on ensuring regulations, and shipments are always that the contractors we engage are accompanied by appropriate and appropriately equipped and trained and IN THIS SECTION current documentation. follow best-practice procedures to enable Our Approach 71 them to deliver our concentrates safely. Our Activities 72 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 72 MATERIALS AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 73 MATERIALS AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP OUR ACTIVITIES For each shipment, SDSs with information on the The port facility at Punta Padrones health, safety and environmental hazards of our Caldera Historical in Chile is owned and operated by concentrates are provided to Lundin Mining personnel, Festival Lundin Mining. At Setúbal port, customers, and to those handling and shipping our in Portugal, Lundin Mining owns products. In 2018, the Company developed and and operates the rail car-unloading implemented site-level training to increase capacity and area, associated warehouses and ensure continued accuracy in future SDS updates. This During 2018, Candelaria supported the nearby laboratory, the conveyor belt and the is one of many activities undertaken by Lundin Mining community of Caldera in a theatrical re-creation ship loader. The ports at Otterbäcken, to stay current and compliant with constantly changing of the arrival of “La Calderina,” to celebrate the Sweden, and Trois-Rivières in international regulatory requirements and as required first train and railway in Chile. Referencing historical Québec, Canada, are operated by the Company’s RMMS. records, a local tourism company, Anariki, worked under contract by third parties, with with the Candelaria Mine team and other community oversight by Lundin Mining. To reduce During 2018, no concentrate transport-related organizations, such as the Craft Association of any potential for off-site migration of non-compliances were identified at our Neves-Corvo Artisanal Fishermen of Caldera, to recreate the dust, Lundin Mining has implemented operation during routine checks by the Portuguese arrival of train, which had transported passengers, various controls including transporting transport authority. In 2018, a decision was rendered parcels and food between Caldera and Copiapó. concentrate in covered trucks, on a prior minor 2017 non-compliance, resulting in a The festival celebrated the historical and positive containers, and covered rail cars payment of €1,542 (an estimated $1,770). There were contributions of mining-related infrastructure to the outbound port areas, where no other transport-related non-compliances reported developments to the advancement of the additional concentrate management at the Lundin Mining operations. Of note, in 2018, Atacama region. procedures, including truck washes Lundin Mining’s Eagle Mine in Michigan received and sweeper trucks, are utilized. the Canadian National Railway (CN) Safe Handling Award, which recognizes all aspects of rail safety and regulatory compliance. We have not received any complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Candelaria – Punta Padrones Port, Caldera or losses of customer data. There have also been no fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of our products. Public Tours at Eagle Mine At Eagle we offer a behind-the-scenes look at the nation’s only primary nickel mine! Mine and mill tours to the public are available yearly from June through September. The Eagle Ni Mine tour (3.5 hours) is primarily a driving surface tour of the mine site with a walking tour through the water treatment plant. Visitors can see where the ore is brought up from underground DID YOU KNOW? and where it is stored and loaded into the haul trucks. Other Many meteorites surface facilities include the storage area for development are composed of a (or waste) rock, the backfill plant, truck repair shop and the nickel-iron alloy water treatment plant. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 75 OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Effective environmental management is integral to the success of Lundin Mining’s operations, from day-to-day activities on-site to corporate strategic planning. Lundin Mining’s operations are threats of harm to the environment or committed to compliance with applicable to human health, lack of full scientific laws and regulations, our Responsible certainty shall not be used as a reason Mining Policy (RMP) and Responsible for postponing cost-effective measures Mining Framework (RMF), our integrated to prevent environmental degradation. Responsible Mining Management System We achieve this through effective use (RMMS), our corporate commitments, of environmental impact assessment to Mission and Values, and alignment with identify, quantify and eliminate or mitigate the UNGC Principles and SDGs. impacts; integration of environmental controls within our operations, with Our primary objective is to minimize monitoring to evaluate their reliability potential environmental impacts, and effectiveness and to identify IN THIS SECTION throughout the life of our mines and potential opportunities for improvement; Our Approach 75 post-closure, through robust engineering, employment of risk assessment and construction and operations along with management techniques to minimize the Water Management 78 the implementation of environmental potential for unforeseen environmental Tailings, Waste Rock and 86 management controls and procedures impacts or incidents; and routine checking Non-Mineral Waste Management that meet the individual needs of and continuous improvement through the Climate Change, Energy 95 each of our operations in their unique environmental audit process. Each of our and Emissions environmental settings. To protect the operations has also developed emergency environment, we apply the precautionary preparedness procedures for potential Biodiversity and Land Management 111 approach, such that where there are environmental incidents. Mine Closure 116 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 76 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 77 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT measures in 2018 with welding of selected sections of the management of permit conditions and obligations We are also continuing to track the December 23, 2016 the tailings pump lines to reduce the potential for leaks, through the use of the SIGEA (a Chilean-based online appeal filed by Minera Candelaria with the Environmental as well as fuel-station rebuild for improved spill collection, obligations management platform). Through the use Court, related to historical allegations of water management containment for spare transformers and significant of these various tools and systems, at both the project issues in 2013 and 2014, prior to Lundin Mining’s acquisition improvements to concentrate housing. and operational stages, we continue to demonstrate our of the mine (detailed on page 58 of our 2016 Sustainability commitment to improved management of our legal and Report). In the second quarter of 2018, Minera Candelaria We routinely monitor surface water, groundwater, soils other requirements and associated compliances. received notice that the Environmental Court appeal had and biodiversity to confirm the effectiveness of our been rejected and subsequently, the Company submitted environmental protection procedures and to enable Environmental Risk Assessment an appeal of this decision to the Supreme Court. The appeal timely identification of any issues that may arise. Environmental risk assessments are routinely conducted remained in process through 2018. Pending the decision, We also periodically conduct additional studies and at our operations in accordance with the requirements of Minera Candelaria submitted a payment of approximately have established partnerships at selected sites with our Corporate Environmental Standards and Procedures US$4 million. In the second quarter of 2019, the Supreme communities, educational institutions and universities and the RMMS. Environmental risks that are deemed Court overturned the Lower Court decision and remanded with the aim of improving our ability to manage risks to be significant are managed in accordance with our the case to the Environmental Court for rehearing by to human health and to the environment. Environmental Reporting Standard and tracked in the a new panel of judges. Company’s risk reporting system, which is used to develop Environmental Permitting and Compliance effective mitigating-action plans supporting effective In late 2015, at our Neves-Corvo Mine, a routine site Our commitment to responsible and sustainable mining, responses, continuous improvement and ongoing planning inspection from the Environmental Inspection Authority as demonstrated by our health and safety, environmental processes. Operational and enterprise environmental risks was conducted. In April 2016, the Authority alleged and social performance, has established and cemented are regularly reviewed and consolidated by our corporate that the mine had not formally reported two instances our credibility with our stakeholders, supporting our ongoing environmental and risk teams, as well as reported to of regulatory non-compliance from 2014, related to a Neves-Corvo – Weather Station license to operate. As part of these efforts, permitting, the HSEC Committee of the Board on a quarterly basis. waste water discharge and noise event, in accordance approvals and compliance management are critical Credible risk scenarios and appropriate mitigation with permit requirements. Neves-Corvo challenged this As previously stated, Lundin Mining also initiated the processes of our daily activities throughout the mine life approaches are identified and assessed on a routine basis. allegation and submitted a response to the authorities; development of a Five-Year Sustainability Strategy in cycle. These processes support the effective regulation of however, at the close of 2018, a decision was issued by 2018, to provide Company-wide strategic sustainability mining-related activities to prevent possible negative impacts Environmental Incidents and the Authority requiring the payment of the minimum fine governance and to demonstrate our Company-wide to the natural environment, as well as the interests and rights Compliance With Environmental Laws in the amount of €22,575, to be paid in 2019. commitment to the UNGC SDGs, organized around of local communities, and to encourage sustainable mining Lundin Mining has developed a rigorous reporting system our three Sustainability Pillars: Prosperity, Resilience practices. The RMMS, supported by effective technical for unplanned health, safety, environment, community An Environmental Offence Proceeding was issued to and Stewardship. This strategy, which will support our standards, guidance, training, auditing and corrective (HSEC) and security incidents, in accordance with our Neves-Corvo by the authorities in April 2018 for the continuous improvement in sustainability initiatives, including action programs, underscores and strengthens our global RMMS and supporting technical standards, including the historical operation of refrigeration equipment containing environmental management, is slated for completion in 2019 compliance management performance. Environmental Reporting Standard. The system classifies fluorinated gases in 2016 without prior notification to the and will be reported on in more detail in future reports. incidents in each of these categories on a severity scale Portuguese Agency for Environment. Use of this refrigerant Our mines operate under current valid environmental of Level 1 (low) to Level 5 (high). In the Environment was reported in March 2017 in annual environmental Environmental Management approvals and licenses and routinely submit applications category, the severity of an incident is judged by the filings, and the matter was resolved with the payment Each of our sites operates in accordance with robust for new permits, when required, as well as submitting impact upon one or more of: of a €1,500 fine in June 2018. on-site environmental management controls and practices compliance reports for existing permits, to demonstrate that have been designed to protect the environments conformity with current legal and other obligations. In • Species, communities and habitats that comprise in which we operate. Our operations carefully manage 2018, Lundin Mining developed custom-made strategic ecosystems of the natural environment; internal water flows, including mine water, process water, permitting and compliance tools, including the multi• The degree of regulatory non-compliance; and, tailings reclaim water, and collected seepage and run-off, departmental Obligations Register (OR) and Integrated with a focus on containment and redirection for re-use Project-Permitting Schedule (IPS), for implementation at • The potential concern to local communities. Pb and / or treatment prior to release to the environment. our Neves-Corvo ZEP project. These tools were developed Incidents that are classified as Level 3 or above are We also operate in accordance with strict storage and to track permit conditions, obligations, and legal and reported to the Board of Directors and are disclosed in DID YOU KNOW? handling practices for chemicals and fuels (and associated other requirements associated with the ZEP permitting our annual sustainability reports. There were no Level 3 Over one million tons waste products). A Hazardous Material Storage Plan for process, to support effective compliance performance for or above incidents at any of our operations in 2018. of lead is recycled Candelaria and Ojos del Salado was submitted to the the project. The OR and IPS have demonstrated success Chilean authorities in March and our Neves-Corvo operation in achieving optimal compliance performance for the each year also revised its hazardous chemicals management ZEP project and are under consideration for site-wide procedure in 2018. Zinkgruvan has upgraded its protection application. At our Candelaria Mine, our team advanced LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 78 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 79 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PRIMARY SOURCES OF WATER SITE FOR USE BY OPERATION Candelaria Desalinated seawater; treated municipal waste water; mine seepage Eagle Mine Site: Utility and potable wells; mine dewatering Mill Site: Groundwater and rainfall / run-off entering the former pit; industrial and potable wells Neves-Corvo Santa Clara Reservoir; mine dewatering Zinkgruvan Lake Trysjön; Lake Åmmelången; mine dewatering Eagle Mine – Humboldt Mill Concentrator Building at Sunrise Our 2018 assessment of the potential for operational water withdrawal to have a significant effect on water sources identified only one of our Eagle Mine – Aquatic Survey WATER MANAGEMENT These include initiating assessments of water-stress levels operations, Zinkgruvan Mine, under the criterion that its lake sources are in the catchments in which we operate, and the findings considered to have high value or importance to local communities. Part will inform how we prioritize our water management actions of the operation’s supply is sourced, under regulatory approvals, from local in the future. Our operations also renewed focus on water lake systems that cover an area of approximately 3.6 square kilometres. management in the contexts of extreme drought or flooding The lakes are not of protected status and are not known to be of in changing climatic environments. significant biodiversity value. We are fully committed to sustainable water management, Water Withdrawal and Recycling implementing a comprehensive water management Our measure of water recycling is primarily in the form of water reclaimed Lundin Mining’s operations have all developed water planning process to ensure responsible use of this from our tailings facilities for re-use in our operations, with an increasing balances and are progressing site water management shared resource and to minimize any negative impact on contribution from other internal flow streams, such as water treatment plans. Hydrometric data are used for operational control water sources, receiving environments and associated plants, as our operations increase their focus on internal water re-use and reporting purposes. The volume of rainwater captured ecosystems. Throughout 2018, our operations efficiency. Overall, in 2018, Lundin Mining’s record of water recycling Ni at our operations is estimated using locally measured continued to commit to continuous improvements in exceeded overall water volumes withdrawn and included recycling almost precipitation and catchment surface areas. We seek to water assessment and management practices through 79.2 million cubic metres of water, equal to using every cubic metre reduce water abstraction from natural water systems DID YOU KNOW? the implementation of our Water Management Group of Lundin Mining’s total water withdrawn approximately 2.5 times. through operational efficiency, water re-use and water Standard, which includes requirements for evaluation An estimated 40% of recycling wherever possible. At Zinkgruvan, our team continues to responsibly manage conditions at of water-use efficiency, implementation of measurable annual nickel use comes improvements to prevent unnecessary pressure on Lakes Trysjön, Åmmelången and Viksjön. Water from the lakes is used for from recycling Reflecting the diversity of natural environments in which shared resources and evaluation and minimization of mineral processing activities and to maintain designated minimum flow rates Lundin Mining’s operations are located, our mines rely environmental and social impacts on surface water and at the Björnbäcken and Dalbyån Creeks. Zinkgruvan monitors water levels on different sources of water for operational and potable groundwater environments. weekly at the lakes and adjusts its practices to minimize impacts on the water needs, including desalinated seawater, surface community and environment. It achieved full compliance with the permitted water, treated municipal waste water, mine water and Our operations actively monitor the impacts of all of our water-level ranges at the lakes in 2018. groundwater abstraction wells. Surface run-off and snow water withdrawals and discharges, focusing on aspects melt, where available, are also sources of water at some such as water availability for other users, recreational value of our operations. In recognition of the importance of of water resources and receiving environments, water responsible water use at our mines, these primary sources quality and aquatic biodiversity. In 2018, all of our operations are significantly supplemented by water reclaimed from took important steps toward gaining better understanding our tailings facilities and water treatment plants for re-use of the extent to which our activities could impact water by our operations. resources that benefit the ecosystem and other users. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 80 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 81 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT In recognition of the importance Annual Water Withdrawal by Source 2016 to 2018 Key water withdrawal trends are summarized individually for our operations as follows. of the Sector 4 Copiapó River groundwater source to local Candelaria Neves-Corvo communities, our Candelaria 30.00 Building on the responsible water stewardship activities Neves-Corvo continues to promote sustainable practices complex developed and operates demonstrated in our Candelaria Mine’s approach to local consistent with its key water management objectives a state-of-the-art water desalination 25.00 groundwater, the operation is also gradually reducing to reduce the consumption of fresh water, maximize facility at the port, Punta Padrones, its consumption of treated municipal waste water, in water-storage capacity inside project boundaries and to supply site-operation water 20.00 accordance with regulatory requirements, enabling these reduce discharges. The quantity of surface water million cubic metres requirements, thereby reducing resources to be redirected to other users in this water-scarce withdrawn increased in 2018 reflecting an increased pressure on precious water 15.00 region. The Alcaparrosa Mine environmental permit mill throughput rate. However, the site has achieved an resources in the Atacama Region. (approved 2018) added a new commitment to mitigate overall reduction of approximately 48% in surface water Candelaria did not use any 10.00 any effects on the aquifer related to use of groundwater withdrawal since 2015, continuing to demonstrate the groundwater from local wells in 2018. that seeps into the underground mine by the cessation of benefits of the implementation of water infrastructure and 5.00 groundwater extraction by Candelaria from its permitted management projects at Neves-Corvo in recent years. well, which has been assigned for use by Aguas Chañar. The LUNDIN MINING’S WATER operation is working towards its objective of solely sourcing Zinkgruvan 0.00 WITHDRAWAL 2018: water from our existing desalination plant by July 2025. Zinkgruvan continued to advance a strong focus on Surface Seawater Groundwater Municipal Treated Precipitation responsible use of surface water, given the environmental • Total of 31.8 million m 3 Water Water Municipal withdrawn across all Waste Water Eagle Mine and recreational value of the local lakes from which water four operations Further to the receipt of regulatory approval in 2018, our is supplied. This operation also withdrew more water this 2016 2.85 23.57 2.76 0.06 5.30 2.58 2016 Eagle Mine has initiated reporting on withdrawal from the year, to enable it to process an increased quantity of ore • 62% of total (19.6 million m3 ) 2017 2.00 20.15 3.10 0.09 4.19 1.51 Middle Branch Escanaba River at its Mill site. This water is compared to last year. However, significant benefits have 2017 was seawater withdrawn 2018 2.62 19.66 3.89 0.15 3.26 2.27 not used in the mill operations; it is pumped directly to the resulted from recent efforts to optimize the water balance, for treatment 2018 wetland to compensate for regulatory changes in 2018, with Zinkgruvan withdrawing only 63% of the 2015 surface • 7.8 million m3 of treated which permit the discharge of treated mill water directly to water withdrawal level in 2018. seawater pumped for use at the Middle Branch Escanaba River, rather than the wetland. Candelaria, the remainder Water Withdrawal by Source, By Operation 2018 returned directly to the sea 25.00 20.00 Our operations at Zinkgruvan Zinkgruvan – Lake Åmmelången million cubic metres and Neves-Corvo withdraw 15.00 additional water for supply to local residents. These quantities are 10.00 provided as a service to the local community and, therefore, are not 5.00 included in our operational water withdrawal accounting. 0.00 Cu Surface Seawater Groundwater Municipal Treated Precipitation Water Water Municipal Waste Water DID YOU KNOW? Zinkgruvan 1.49 0.00 0.58 0.01 0.00 0.41 Around 50% of Europe’s Zinkgruvan copper demand is met Neves-Corvo 0.82 0.00 1.83 0.00 0.00 1.52 Neves-Corvo by recycled material Eagle 0.30 Eagle 0.00 0.84 0.00 0.00 0.35 Candelaria Candelaria 0.00 19.66 0.63 0.13 3.26 0.00 LUNDIN MINING 82 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 83 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Annual Water Discharged to the Environment, by Operation 2016 to 2018 16.00 14.00 12.00 million cubic metres 10.00 8.00 6.00 4.00 2.00 0.00 Candelaria Eagle Mine Eagle Mill Neves-Corvo Zinkgruvan Neves-Corvo – Monitoring of Water Quality Zinkgruvan – Water Sample Collection (Pacific Ocean) (Groundwater) (Middle Branch (Oeiras River) (Ekershyttebäcken Escanaba Creek) River / Wetland) Water Discharges Throughout most of 2018, our Eagle mill operation 2016 13.41 2016 0.19 2017 2018 1.18 0.20 2.30 Water management at Lundin Mining’s operations involves continued its usual practice of discharging its treated water 2017 11.58 0.23 1.25 0.09 1.88 discharging treated water in accordance with regulatory to a neighbouring wetland, adjacent to the Escanaba River. 2018 10.59 0.20 0.81 0.14 2.02 requirements and corporate standards, which include On receipt of regulatory approval, Eagle commenced consideration of the aquatic and terrestrial environments discharging this treated water directly to the Middle Branch and the communities and users downstream of our Escanaba River. Concurrently, the operation was approved operations. All of our operations have effective water-quality to withdraw water from the Middle Branch Escanaba River Therefore, Candelaria metal loads LUNDIN MINING’S DESIGNATED monitoring systems in place, along with routine regulatory and discharge it directly to the wetland, to compensate WATER DISCHARGE 2018: represent the original seawater reporting, to verify that off-site discharges are compliant for the changed flow regime. The discharge is not chemistry and the desalination • 13.7 million m3 discharged with environmental regulatory requirements developed to required to be regulated. process. Candelaria does not across all four operations protect people and the environment. discharge to a freshwater environment. We report planned and unplanned water discharges from the designated discharge points at our operations, Our Neves-Corvo operation continues with all planned discharge quantities being measured by to benefit from water management Cu DESIGNATED DISCHARGE Our Candelaria operation and SITE RECEIVING BODY flow meters. Our Candelaria mining complex operates Eagle Mine discharged a smaller infrastructure upgrades implemented on a zero-discharge basis, with discharge only from the volume in 2018, as compared to in recent years. The increased DID YOU KNOW? Candelaria Desalination Plant: Pacific Ocean desalination plant at the coast. Due to the nature of our flexibility in the system, for storage 2017, consistent with reduced mill Average estimated site operations, precipitation collected at our sites and throughput rates at Candelaria and and recycling capability at the mine, Mining and Mineral Processing copper use / person / entering our water management systems is included in reduced precipitation requiring allows the operation to reduce, and Complex: Zero-discharge lifetime = 1,300 pounds our reported discharge quantities. None of our water collection and management at Eagle. even cease, discharge according to discharges in 2018 were re-used by another organization. Our Neves-Corvo and Zinkgruvan natural water-flow rates in the Oeiras Eagle Mine Site: Groundwater discharge operations both discharged an River. Due to increased precipitation Mill Site: Wetland increased quantity, consistent with and drought events over recent years, (adjacent to Escanaba River) increased mill throughputs during the site progressed an adaptive the same period. management approach for its Neves-Corvo Oeiras River discharge, culminating in permission At Candelaria’s desalination plant, from regulators to discharge in Zinkgruvan Ekershyttebäcken Creek at Punta Padrones, seawater is low-flow periods, with more (Lake Vättern catchment) withdrawn and desalinated before stringent discharge limits. discharge back to the ocean. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 84 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 85 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT All of our operations treat their N and P Species Load discharge water to achieve an in Our Permitted Water acceptable quality prior to discharge Discharges, 2018 to the environment. Candelaria’s 1,400 desalination process requires only pH neutralization prior to discharge 1,200 back to the sea. Eagle uses a 1,000 comprehensive treatment process, culminating in reverse osmosis 800 kg and final pH adjustment for its 600 groundwater discharge, and metals 400 precipitation / sedimentation and ultrafiltration for its wetland discharge. 200 Neves-Corvo’s water treatment 0 system is based on an oxidation Ammoniacal Nitrites Phosphorus process, followed by pH adjustment Nitrogen for metals and sulphates precipitation. Bahía Inglesa, Caldera, Chile Eagle Mine blank = not measured 0.096 0.005 0.002 A clarifying step is used to remove (to groundwater) solids, and then a reverse osmosis Eagle Mill 285 Mine (to groundwater) Eagle 43 process is completed for some of the (to river / wetland) water prior to discharge. Zinkgruvan’s Eagle Mill (to river/wetland) Metal Load in Our Permitted Neves-Corvo 937 55 34 Water Discharges, 2018 process is based upon residence time (to river) Neves-Corvo (to river) in a clarification pond. Eagle Mine – Tailings Management Facility 2,500 Note: Blank = not measured. The chemical load in our permitted 2,000 water discharges at Neves-Corvo and Zinkgruvan increased for some Candelaria’s ocean discharge was in measured in our discharges each of low flows in the Oeiras River and 1,500 parameters in 2018. At Neves-Corvo, full compliance with permitted limits in year, we recognize the importance of respectful of flow-based permit kg this was due to increased annual 2018. Permitted levels were exceeded compliance, not only for regulatory limitations, the Company ceased 1,000 precipitation resulting in emergency at our Eagle mill site discharge on purposes but also for protection of discharging. The site’s considerable discharges on occasions; these five occasions and investigations the environment and downstream investment in water management 500 were reported to the authorities. At into the source of the anomalies users. As a result, each of our sites infrastructure in recent years enabled Zinkgruvan, increased metal loads were immediately implemented. has implemented action plans to the safe and secure storage of the 0 resulted from various contributing At Neves-Corvo, permitted levels address the underlying conditions excess water on-site. Zinc Lead Cadmium Copper Arsenic Nickel factors, including operational changes were exceeded on five occasions for these non-compliances, with the to reduce the pond size at the tailings as a result of the need to conduct aim of improvement for next year. Candelaria blank46 = not measured. 381 (to sea) facility and automatic sampling emergency discharges during periods equipment issues. Both sites are of unexpected elevated precipitation. There was one unplanned discharge Eagle Mine 1 0.1 sea) 0.02 0.1 0.1 0.2 (to groundwater) Candelaria (to addressing these issues with the aim Guideline levels were exceeded at our at our operations in 2018, with no Eagle Mine (to groundwater) of improvement for next year. Zinkgruvan Mine for four parameters, identified impacts on the aquatic Ni Eagle Mill 4 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.4 5 (to river / wetland) Eagle Mill (to river / wetland) for variable periods from January to environment. Heavy rainfall at our Since the chemical parameters Neves-Corvo site necessitated the Neves-Corvo Neves-Corvo (to river) 1,258 6 2 49 2 7 May and October to December, as DID YOU KNOW? (to river) measured by our operations are a result of operational changes at discharge of excess water from the Zinkgruvan (to creek) Nickel steel is used site-specific, discharge load data do the Enemossen East tailings facility. site commencing in mid-March. Site Zinkgruvan 995 128 0.9 4 not exist for all parameters at all sites. management advised the authorities for burglar-proof vaults (to creek) Lundin Mining strives to be alwaysand armor plate compliant with its water discharge because permitted sulphate limit Note: Blank = not measured. licence conditions, and although values were temporarily exceeded at Note: Candelaria metal loads represent a return of original seawater metal the number of exceedances in the point of discharge. Discharge of concentrations to the sea following the desalination process. 2018 are small in comparison to the treated excess water was continued hundreds of water-quality parameters until late-April when, in consideration LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 86 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 87 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TAILINGS, WASTE ROCK AND Waste Rock Management generation of ARD. Since the mining Neves-Corvo’s comprehensive Waste Reclamation NON-MINERAL WASTE MANAGEMENT Almost 74.3 million tonnes of waste schedule requires that waste rock Management Plan is designed to of San Esteban rock were generated across all of is temporarily stored on surface mitigate the risk associated with the Lundin Mining’s operations in 2018, at the mine, the potential for ARD potential for ARD generation in its Tailings is managed by lining the surface waste rock. Where possible, waste of which 98% (72.4 million tonnes) was produced at Candelaria, due to storage facility and collecting contact rock with acid potential is retained in the scale of its open pit operation. water for treatment at the mine water the underground mine and used as Candelaria started removing the historical Lundin Mining’s operations generate mineral waste in At Candelaria, the waste rock that is treatment plant. Since 2014, Eagle backfill to stabilize previously mined San Esteban (SE2) tailings facility in 2018. Over the form of waste rock and tailings. Our comprehensive not used for construction of tailings has progressively returned waste rock areas. The remainder of the waste 1 million cubic meters of San Esteban historical approach to their management provides us with facility embankments on-site is underground, with the dual benefits rock is ultimately used in the tailings tailings, acquired during a property transaction in confidence that potential environmental and social stored in terraced surface-waste of stabilizing previously mined areas facility for construction of berms 2009, were relocated to the existing Candelaria impacts associated with our mineral wastes can be depositories located immediately to as well as controlling potential ARD. and cell cover. The storage facility tailings facility which is designed in accordance reliably identified and minimized. the north of the open pit (Deposito Waste rock from the development where waste rock is temporarily with current physical stability standards. Candelaria Esteril Norte) and south of the open of Eagle East is either directly stored stockpiled at the surface incorporates also decommissioned a historical sanitary landfill, Efficient mining and mineral processing, along with pit and plant area (Deposito Esteril underground or trucked to the waste a peripheral drainage system to including the construction of an effective cover and disposal underground where practicable, allow our Nantoco). Stability of the waste rock rock storage facility for subsequent allow collection and management of rainwater management system. operations to minimize the quantities of these wastes to depositories is a high priority and their return underground. At the close of contact water, along with the use of be stored on surface. Furthermore, a clear understanding design is based on geomechanical the reporting period, 576,000 tonnes engineering construction methods of the characteristics of the wastes, the facility and seismic parameters. The waste of waste rock were stored at the based on geological and geotechnical construction materials and the temporary and / or final rock at Candelaria has been classified surface. Because of the use of characterization studies to ensure settings in which they are placed enables our operations as having a low potential for acid waste rock as backfill at Eagle, it is overall stockpile stability. to minimize any risks associated with their disposal. generation – annual rainfall average is anticipated that no waste rock will 17 mm and there is no groundwater remain at the surface at mine closure. Operational and post-closure physical and geochemical infiltration. As a result, no specific stability of mineral waste deposits are a priority at ARD controls are required. Lundin Mining. Robust design, construction, quality Total Weight of Waste Rock control, inspection and monitoring are necessary to Expansion of the north waste rock and Tailings Generated 2018 ensure the physical integrity of our waste facilities. An depository for the Candelaria 2030 important environmental consideration for our mineral project was included as part of the 80,000 wastes is the potential for generation of acidic water, permitting package. Candelaria’s known as acid rock drainage (ARD), that can be formed design of the proposed expansion 70,000 when sulphide minerals, such as pyrite, in waste rock included the reconfiguration of 60,000 and / or tailings, are exposed to moisture and air. ARD, approximately 60 million tonnes if present, can adversely affect the quality of waterways thousand tonnes of material to reduce the potential 50,000 or groundwater by introducing undesirable levels of for “shadow effect,” the influence 40,000 acidity and dissolved metals. Appropriate geochemical that mining may have on the land 5 characterization programs allow us to understand and surrounding its operations, thereby 30,000 Active tailings facilities manage any ARD and / or metal-leaching risks associated mitigating potential for environmental 20,000 with our mineral wastes. Equally important in determining and visual impacts on the neighbouring the appropriate design for our disposal facilities is a Tierra Amarilla community. 10,000 5 Inactive and closed tailings facilities comprehensive assessment of the disposal setting, addressing aspects including geology, geotechnics, hydrogeology, hydrology, seismicity, biodiversity and At Eagle, the waste rock requires management to reduce the potential 0 Candelaria Eagle Neves-Corvo Zinkgruvan Total Mineral Waste ecosystems, and of course, local communities. for generation of ARD. Returning 36 Tailings dam structures across all sites waste rock to the underground workings is required by permit, since Waste Rock Tailings to Underground Mine 72,419 Waste Rock 0 Tailings to 382 0 1,048 1,548 411 493 74,261 2,041 the mine will be flooded on closure Underground Mine and the oxygen-deficient environment Tailings to Surface 26,850 576 1,878 634 29,937 Facility / Former Pit Tailings to Surface Facility / Former Pit is ideal for preventing the potential LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 88 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 89 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Zinkgruvan does not maintain waste rock stockpiles – all Of the four Lundin Mining operations, Eagle Mine is the Sites are required to identify a waste rock is used underground to stabilize previously only operation that does not have a constructed tailings Responsible Person to ensure mined areas or used in construction of on-site access roads impoundment with dams. ownership and proper management or tailings facility embankments. Characterization studies of the tailings facility. The Responsible for ARD potential have shown that the waste rock poses no Lundin Mining’s RMMS includes specific tailings Person guarantees procedures for immediate or long-term risk of generating ARD, owing to the management technical standards. All Lundin Mining’s each facility, including an Operating, low sulphide content and the high proportion of calcareous operations manage their tailings in accordance Maintenance, and Surveillance (OMS) minerals with buffering capacity. As a precaution against with our Tailings Management Technical Standard Manual and Emergency Preparedness the potential generation of elevated metals concentrations developed in 2015 and currently under update. The and Response Plan, are regularly in water, usage of waste rock at the surface is restricted Tailings Management Technical Standard requires that documented and made available to site to tailings facility embankments and road sections where all tailings facilities, including major water-retention personnel. The Responsible Person is contact water is directed to the tailings facility. dams, are planned, designed, constructed, operated, an appropriately qualified, experienced decommissioned and closed in such a manner that: and site-dedicated individual employed Tailings Management directly by the site. This person Lundin Mining operates four mines with five active • all structures are stable; and, typically has an environmental or tailings facilities and uses two widely accepted methods engineering background. • all aspects comply with regulatory requirements and of tailings disposal: conform to Company standards, accepted international Tailings dams are regularly inspected • Underground disposal involves mixing tailings with practices and any commitments to local stakeholders. by trained operators and technical products such as sand or cement, followed by disposal staff, sometimes as frequently as Neves-Corvo – Cerro do Lobo A requirement of the Tailings Management Technical as a paste backfill or hydraulic backfill in previously several times daily, with formal Standard is for all sites to conduct regular geotechnical, mined areas of underground mines; and, documented staff inspections hydrogeological and environmental monitoring to meet A component of the Tailings regulatory requirements and prevent the uncontrolled at least quarterly. INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY • Surface disposal involves placement in engineered Management Technical Standard is the release of tailings and / or water to the environment. All TAILINGS REVIEWS surface impoundments or, in the case of Eagle, Each active and inactive tailings requirement for regular independent in a previously mined open pit. sites employ surveillance systems, which may include • Require annual reviews facility has an appropriately qualified, third-party tailings reviews, which surface prisms, piezometers, inclinometers, remote by independent, qualified licensed and experienced third-party are recognized as a leading practice The five active tailings facilities use various construction sensing and other technologies to monitor tailings engineering specialists for all geotechnical engineer to act as for effective tailings and water dam techniques for the main and secondary or perimeter dams and water levels. Trigger action response plans active and inactive facilities. an external Engineer of Record stewardship. The reviews are focused dams, but none use upstream construction method. (TARPS) provide clear guidance on how to response to or Design Engineer in the relative on impoundment stability and integrity. • Provide an expert, independent Lundin Mining also maintains and monitors five inactive predetermined trigger levels for surveillance activities. jurisdiction. Formal dam safety opinion as to whether the tailings facilities, one of which is a rockfill combination In 2018, independent third-party inspections are conducted at least tailings facility design and centreline and downstream design, followed by rockfill tailings reviews were completed at annually by the external Engineer performance meet accepted upstream raises and buttresses (Enemossen tailings all Lundin Mining operations with of Record, and reports are issued international practices facility at Zinkgruvan). qualifying dam structures (according to the Responsible Person for action from geotechnical and to the definition provided in the Surface tailings impoundments can represent one of on recommendations. hydrogeological perspectives. Canadian Dam Association’s dam the more significant environmental risks for the mining Tailings and water dam safetysafety guidelines). No critical dam • Include all tailings facilities industry. Lundin Mining takes considerable care to Pb focused risk assessments are safety issues were identified during and water-retention structures ensure our tailings facilities are well-designed, built in reviewed and updated at least the third-party reviews. Results from at each site. accordance with leading industry practices and standards, annually and include input from site the third-party reviews are carefully well-maintained, inspected, independently reviewed and DID YOU KNOW? and corporate staff, the Engineer of tracked, and progress updates are • Program performance is carefully monitored. Lead is a key ingredient Record and independent reviewers. sent to the Board-appointed HSEC reported quarterly to the Boardin stained glass Committee each quarter. appointed HSEC Committee. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 90 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 91 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT The new Los Diques tailings facility, located to the southwest of the open pit and plant, was successfully commissioned in 2018. Los Diques will permanently replace the existing Candelaria tailings facility in mid-to-late 2019. The main Los Diques dam was constructed by the downstream method and currently has a height between 80 and 90 m. Ultimately, the Main dam has a maximum design height of 160 m and a capacity of approximately 600 million tonnes of tailings (340 million m3 ). Future phases of the Los Diques Main dam, planned to start in 2019, have been initiated ahead of schedule, taking advantage of synergies with the current project and the availability of mine waste from the open pit. This will lead to capital cost savings on future embankment raises. The inactive San Esteban tailings impoundments were acquired in 2009 as part of a land acquisition by Candelaria to gain additional area for waste rock depository development to support the mine expansion. There are two such impoundments: San Esteban 1 (SE1) and San Esteban 2 Candelaria – Port of Punta Padrones Sediment Eagle Mine – Tailings Management Facility (SE2). These facilities have never been used for tailings Sampling Program disposal by Candelaria. Candelaria started removing the SE2 impoundment in 2018 to provide for the expansion Eagle Mine Eagle’s Humboldt tailings facility has been constructed Candelaria of the North Waste Depository. Final closure construction At Eagle’s Humboldt mill site, subaqueous deposition and is operated in compliance with applicable regulations, The Candelaria tailings facility is located northwest of works for the SE1 impoundment will finish in 2019. of tailings commenced at the existing Humboldt tailings in particular, the Natural Resources and Environmental the Candelaria open pit and receives tailings from both facility in 2014. The Humboldt tailings facility is a former Protection Act. The act requires that the operator manage the main Candelaria and PAC processing plants within The inactive / closed Ojos del Salado tailings facilities the Humboldt tailings facility in such a way that reasonably open pit that was also used as a gold-operation tailings the mine complex. The physical stability of the tailings consist of six rehabilitated legacy dams across three minimizes actual and potential adverse impacts to storage facility after iron ore mining ceased in the 1970s. It embankments is inspected and monitored on a continuous locations. These tailings facilities are associated groundwater and surface water, and that the Company measures approximately 110 m in maximum depth and has basis by Candelaria site staff and a monitoring report is with historic operations at the Ojos del Salado Mine. obtains a permit to fill an inland lake so that the surface walls composed of bedrock, except at the north end of the submitted quarterly to the Chilean Mining and Geology Three tailings dams are located near the mill and the water quality of Michigan State remains protected. facility, where a bentonite cut-off wall has been constructed. National Authority. The tailings have been classified as other three are located to the north of the operation. Tailings from the processing plant are thickened to 45% having a low potential for acid generation and there are no All six tailings dams, which have a maximum height Added protection is achieved through water management, solids and, to date, approximately 1.4 to 1.5 million m3 of specific ARD controls required. Appropriate freeboard is of 35 m, have been reclaimed, do not retain water including maintaining water levels well below surface tailings have been placed at the facility by Eagle. maintained during operation to provide additional security. and were permanently closed in 2012. elevation to ensure water does not overflow into the Eagle’s tailings require management for ARD and environment. Water chemistry is a relevant aspect of The Candelaria tailings facility was designed and built Humboldt mill’s proximity to the former open pit mine tailings management at Eagle. The site water balance is using the downstream construction method, with a made subaqueous disposal an ideal management method. positive, thereby requiring discharges at specified locations low-permeability layer of compacted material at the ARD generation from the tailings is managed through and subject to effluent-quality limitations. Water collected base. Designed for zero discharge, an efficient water Cu subaqueous deposition by restricting oxygen access to in the tailings facility is treated by a multi-stage water recovery system allows the drainage water to be collected the tailings, thus preventing oxidation. To meet regulatory treatment system prior to discharge. The current water and returned to the processing plant. The tailings are DID YOU KNOW? requirements, Lundin Mining undertook studies to treatment plant includes polymeric technology (NALMET®) transported to the tailings facility through pipelines and demonstrate that the bedrock pit walls meet the hydraulic to precipitate heavy metals, ultrafiltration and reverse Professional chefs prefer spigots, and the clarified tailings water is collected and conductivity standard and are not a reasonable conduit of osmosis. Tailings water is reclaimed to the mill from the recirculated to the processing plant. Tailings will continue to cook with copper pots groundwater migration. A bentonite wall was constructed south end of the main basin and is treated for discharge to be deposited into the Candelaria tailings facility and pans as it delivers from the northeast basin. In addition, ongoing inspections to further reduce permeability and ensure negligible until the end of 2019. At this point, the Main dam will uniform cooking and water-quality monitoring are conducted to ensure that groundwater flow. A risk assessment was completed for have a maximum height of 170 metres (m) and contain the facility, with mitigation of risks incorporated into the the facility functions according to design. A contingency plan approximately 310 to 315 million m3 of tailings. design, and quality control programs are in place to ensure has been developed to further mitigate any residual risk. that design specifications are met. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 92 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 93 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Zinkgruvan Zinkgruvan’s tailings have been found height of 8 m, is permitted to a final At Zinkgruvan, the Enemossen and to pose no immediate or long-term risk height of about 30 m and will have Enemossen East tailings facilities of acid-generating potential, owing to capacity for 5 million m3 of tailings. are located four kilometres south of their low sulphide content and high the mine. The tailings management proportion of calcareous minerals. Approximately 44% of the tailings program at Zinkgruvan is based on produced at Zinkgruvan were the SveMin Dam Safety Guidelines, The Enemossen tailings facility used as paste backfill material in which incorporate cross-audits reached its capacity in 2017. The the mine in 2018, thus reducing the by SveMin member companies to mine is now operating under a new quantity of tailings to be deposited ensure that standards are applied. environmental licence that allowed in the surface tailings facility. The external Engineer of Record for the construction of the new conducts safety inspections on an Enemossen East tailings facility annual basis and prepares quarterly adjacent and downstream to the monitoring and performance reports original facility. Construction of the new facility began in 2016 and the Pb for the tailings facilities. Formal safety inspections are conducted every starter facility was completed in three years by independent, expert 2017. Enemossen East has two main DID YOU KNOW? consultants on impoundment design dams and is constructed as a waterModern lead to ensure their continuing integrity and retaining dam using the centreline batteries are reliable Neves-Corvo – Much-galego, or “Little Owl” (Thene noctua) construction method with engineered to ensure that rigorous programs of and sustainable, and rockfill. It has a current maximum ongoing monitoring are in place. often used in renewable Neves-Corvo The tailings embankments at tailings being retained by berms energy storage At Neves-Corvo, the Cerro do Neves-Corvo were constructed as constructed of mine waste rock Lobo tailings facility is located water-retaining structures to allow within the tailings basin. An internal four kilometres southeast of the subaqueous tailings deposition drainage system has been designed Zinkgruvan Mine processing plants. The tailings for ARD management. All tailings to capture seepage water from the facility is operated in accordance embankment lifts used downstream tailings facility. Comprehensive, with the EU legislation on extractive construction methods, and the routine monitoring and management waste (Directive 2006/21/EC), current main dam height is 42 m. of the tailings deposition process, the International Commission on As this facility reached capacity for tailings pore water pressure, and Large Dams (ICOLD) and Portuguese subaqueous tailings disposal in latestructural and hydraulic stability of national legislation. 2010, thickened tailings technology the tailings perimeter impoundments was implemented. Thickened tailings all contribute to managing the risk The current tailings disposal system at are tailings that have been further associated with ARD. Neves-Corvo has provided safe and dewatered than conventional slurry, reliable tailings storage since the late enabling them to be stacked. As Neves-Corvo aims to minimize 1980s. Neves-Corvo’s tailings contain there is less water in the thickened the volume of tailings to be stored pyrite and have been characterized tailings, there is reduced ability on surface by placing tailings as acid-generating. The site’s Waste for them to flow, thereby reducing (approximately 45% in 2018) Management Plan is designed to environmental risk. During 2018, underground as paste backfill mitigate the risk associated with sub-aerial deposition of thickened and hydraulic backfill to support ARD generation in the tailings. tailings was continued on top of worked-out areas of the mine. the existing tailings facility, with the LUNDIN MINING 94 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 95 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Non-Mineral Waste Candelaria is our largest producer of of hazardous waste. Hazardous CLIMATE CHANGE, ENERGY AND EMISSIONS Responsible management of non-hazardous waste, corresponding waste generated at our operational non-mineral waste at our operations to the relatively large size of the sites is generally transported off-site, is formalized at Lundin Mining through operation when compared to our other within country, for treatment and the implementation of comprehensive mines. Eagle Mine records relatively re-use or disposal, in accordance waste management plans. These high quantities of materials classified with applicable regulations and plans specify how the different types as non-hazardous waste, primarily requirements. As demonstrated in of waste produced by our activities due to the regulatory requirement to the following chart, the majority of are to be managed, including dispose of exploration drill cuttings both hazardous and non-hazardous identification of opportunities for from known sulphide zones to landfill, materials are recycled. Adaptation to Climate Change waste minimization, recycling and together with the waste from its Climate change has become an increasingly significant re-use. All waste generated by the water treatment plant crystallizer. global issue in recent years, and Lundin Mining recognizes Company’s operations in 2018 was Neves-Corvo’s generation of nonthe need for effective approaches to managing its climatestored and disposed of in accordance hazardous-waste increased this year, related responsibilities, especially in consideration of the with applicable waste regulations due to activities associated with the remote locations in which we operate, the energy-intensive mine’s expansion project. Zinkgruvan Cu nature of our extractive industry sector, and the sometimesand the site waste management plans. During 2018, approximately generated a smaller quantity of nonlimited availability of renewable energy in national energy 22,500 tonnes of non-mineral waste hazardous waste, consistent with the DID YOU KNOW? mixes. We also note that the commodities we mine, were generated by Lundin Mining, of relative scale of the operation. Copper mining including copper, zinc, nickel and lead, are critically which 19,500 tonnes, or 87%, were important in the technologies and innovations required for a Similar trends are observed for in England was traced classified as non-hazardous waste. low-carbon future, such as solar panels, wind turbines, and hazardous-waste generation, back to 3,000 BC Lundin Mining’s waste-generation batteries for associated energy storage. Furthermore, our levels have remained broadly with Candelaria being the largest commodities are among the most recycled materials on the consistent over recent years. producer, followed by Neves-Corvo planet, significantly contributing to the circular economy. and Zinkgruvan. By contrast, Eagle Neves-Corvo – Rainbow Mine generates a relatively low level Non-Mineral Waste by Disposal Method 2018 20,000 18,000 16,000 The 3 R’s and Introduction 14,000 of a Mobile Recycling Truck 12,000 tonnes 10,000 In 2018, Candelaria launched a new initiative to raise 8,000 awareness of improved waste management opportunities, 6,000 including increasing awareness about the “Reduce, 4,000 Reuse and Recycle” concepts. As part of this program, 2,000 Candelaria designed and introduced a mobile recycling 0 truck that is now deployed in the Atacama region. Re-use Recycling Recovery Incineration Landfill Temporary Physical / Composting Total Collected materials are directed to a local waste (inc. energy on-site Chemical management company. recovery) storage Treatment Hazardous 49 1,844 8 0.6 985 95 0.2 0 2,981 Non-Hazardous 0 Hazardous 14,781 142 0 4,244 0 0 367 19,534 Non-Hazardous LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 96 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 97 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT In 2018, climate change was included as a key component • Reduction of risk of business interruption at our of Lundin Mining’s Five-Year Sustainability Strategy. operations, so we may continue to provide the global Candelaria Located in the southern margins of From Lundin Mining’s perspective, key factors which market with the metal resources needed to support the Atacama Desert, the Copiapó are considered to be particularly relevant in our response the global transition to a low carbon future; and, valley is characterized by an arid to climate change include: climate. Rainfall is irregular from • Engagement with peers, regulatory bodies year to year, and several years • Assessment and implementation of opportunities to and associations. typically pass between significant reduce our contribution as we conduct our operations precipitation events. General which are unavoidably energy intensive; Our operational sites are located across a wide indications for this region are for geographical area and in a range of climatic zones. Risks an increase in temperature, with • Assessment of potential climate-related risks and opportunities associated with climate change at our uncertainty about rainfall patterns. to our business, including regulatory, physical, operations are considered with reference to a range of and other risk drivers; source data, including selected climate change model Eagle Our Eagle Mine is located in a projections. It is recognized that climate-related science temperate climate zone. Projections • Adaptation of our infrastructure, activities and behaviour, continues to evolve at a rapid pace; climate change indicate potential increases in mean within an appropriate timeframe, to projections continue to be developed and refined, varying annual temperature, with warming increase our resilience against identified risks; with predictive models, scenarios selected, timeframes in all seasons, along with increases • Assessment of climate-related opportunities to our and many other parameters. The temporal factor of mine in mean annual precipitation. business, including technological developments and life has also been considered in our assessment of climate the ability to source lower carbon electricity and fuels; change adaptation, noting that some of our operations Neves-Corvo Neves-Corvo Mine is located in a have already observed changes to weather patterns and semi-arid region. In broad terms, an increased frequency of extreme meteorological events. the strongest period of warming in Southern Europe is projected to occur in summer, along with a Eagle Mine – Environmental Monitoring decrease in precipitation, most notably during the summer months. A marked increase in extremes are Within the context of these broad climate change Milestone: Renewable Energy Developments projected for Europe, in the form of projections, the potential influence on our operations, heat waves, droughts and heavy and our approach to reducing and / or mitigating these precipitation events. influences are described further in this section. In 2018, Candelaria took steps to further reduce its carbon Selected potential climate-related regulatory risks footprint by initiating negotiations to review and update Zinkgruvan Zinkgruvan Mine is located in identified by our operations include: Candelaria’s electrical Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with south-central Sweden, at the their provider, AES Gener, resulting in a significant increase of northern extent of the temperate • The potential for regulatory bodies to require renewables in the energy mix over current contract levels. This climate zone. Projections indicate businesses to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) action was the result of pro-active and constructive collaboration warming, particularly during the emissions in accordance with ambitious goals; between Candelaria’s Mine Energy Champions and AES Gener. winter months, and an increase in precipitation. An increase in extreme • Cumulative-effects concerns that may impact The new agreement, signed in 2018, will take effect in 2023 precipitation in Northern Europe in permitting of future expansions; and upon completion of the current 10-year contract and extend through 2035. Through the implementation of this renegotiated all seasons is also predicted. • Financial impacts associated with the potential contract, an estimated 80% of Candelaria’s energy use will be application of market-based options focused on lowering provided through renewable clean energy sources, with an emissions, such as carbon tax or cap-and-trade. option to self-generate up to an additional 20 MW. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 98 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 99 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT To mitigate impacts to our business associated with potential Climate-related opportunities have also been identified by Energy and Emissions energy management. As well, in authorities. Our Candelaria operation regulatory risks, our operations continue to closely track our operations. The most substantial business decision Due to the typical energy-intensive accordance with the implementation also conducts routine energy audits regulatory developments in their respective jurisdictions with influenced by a component of climate change was the nature of mining and mineral of our RMMS, additional corporate in accordance with regulatory the support of corporate sustainability professionals. successful renegotiation of Candelaria’s energy contract processing, managing energy governance was provided through an requirements, and undertakes for supplying the mine operations from 2023 onwards. consumption and GHG emissions update to our GHG / Energy Efficiency energy efficiency and GHG-reduction Selected potential climate-related physical risks identified This provided an opportunity to dramatically improve the Technical Standard and associated awareness workshops for operations is becoming increasingly important by our operations include: renewable mix of energy supplied by the grid and reduce Guidance document in 2018. The staff and contractors. Eagle Mine’s for Lundin Mining as we continue • Flooding events of increased severity and / or frequency, the mine’s carbon footprint by a substantial margin. Another to increase our focus on our Standard requires all operations to operations team has continued with associated interruption to normal operations; benefit is the requirement of the supplier to build their climate-related risks and opportunities. address a range of factors, including to identify opportunities for more capacity in the renewables space, particularly through We are also committed to managing energy-use efficiency, identification efficient electricity and fuel usage, • Extreme rainfall events that could lead to the need the installation of a solar farm in the Atacama Region. In other emissions, including nitrogen of opportunities to reduce emissions, where possible, across its sites. for emergency discharge of untreated water; addition to the environmental benefits of this action, the new oxides and sulfur oxides (NOx and implementation of emissions controls, contract provides a positive business impact in the form of assessment of environmental Energy Consumption • Prolonged periods of drought that could impact SOx), particulates, noise and vibration, a measurable reduction in financial costs to the operation. and social air-quality impact, Typical of the global mining on availability of water supplies; from our operations, each of which monitoring and evaluation of data, sector, the Company’s energy has the potential to be a significant • Prolonged dry periods that could result in the need Opportunities associated with emerging low-carbon consumption remains a significant environmental, health and / or and training, as the foundation for increased management of dust / particulate and more energy-efficient technologies are also being input at all of our operational social issue for mineral operations of the sustainability strategy. emissions; and, tracked by our operations and integrated into our business sites. At Lundin Mining, we are if not effectively managed. strategy. Opportunities currently being tracked include In Europe, both our Neves-Corvo committed to a structured and • Increased risk of wildfire on neighbouring land. fuel-switching, use of renewable and lower-carbon All our operations track upcoming and Zinkgruvan operations comply transparent approach to our footprint energy, and improving energy efficiency. changes to regulations and policies, with regulatory requirements through energy-consumption reporting. Our operations continually assess conditions and upgrade particularly in relation to energy and the completion of periodic energy Details are provided in Appendix B. site responses and infrastructure, as required, to reduce While acknowledging our responsibility to manage our own GHG, allowing them to plan for any audits and submission of formal the risk to our operations and the environment due to GHG emissions and adaptation to climate change, we also adjustments required to future plans for energy efficiency to the flood events. Candelaria Mine’s primary water source is recognize the importance of our role in sustainably providing desalinated seawater, and a future requirement for additional raw materials that are critical to support the global transition water for the process due to anticipated climate-related to a low-carbon future. A number of studies published in changes could be satisfied by the existing seawater source recent years by high-profile organizations, including the and the high efficiency of water-use in Candelaria. Based United Nations, World Bank, Euromines and OECD forecast on Eagle’s estimated life of mine, and the design of its a significant growth in demand for our products, in particular water management facilities, no change in the operation is copper, lead and zinc. expected and business interruption risk is expected to be low. Risk to Neves-Corvo’s continued access to its primary water source, the Santa Clara Reservoir, is managed through intensifying the efforts to minimize the withdrawal of surface water by maximizing process-water recycling and by optimizing water management circuits and balances Cu at the mine. Similarly, our Zinkgruvan operation regularly reviews its existing water balance and evaluates the inclusion of additional water management strategies. DID YOU KNOW? Neves-Corvo – View of Operations The average home contains approximately 400 pounds of copper LUNDIN MINING 100 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 101 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT In 2018, our electricity supplies were 49% Renewable and Non-Renewable from renewable sources for Lundin Mining Energy Consumption as a whole, while, in common with most Within Lundin Mining 2018 mining operations, our fuel supplies 10,000,000 were largely non-renewable (less than 1% renewable). 8,000,000 Energy Consumption (GJ) When comparing energy consumption by operation, there are significant 6,000,000 differences that can be accounted for by the scale and nature of the operation. 4,000,000 Candelaria is our largest operation and our largest energy consumer, with 2,000,000 6.7 million gigajoules (GJ) consumed across its mining complex and port site. 0 To support advancements in responsible Energy Energy from Total Energy from Fuel Electricity Consumption energy management, Candelaria initiated Within Within Within discussions in 2018 with its supplier to Lundin Mining Lundin Mining Lundin Mining negotiate an increase of renewables in Non-Renewable 4,472,684 2,315,982 6,788,666 the energy mix, prioritizing wind and Renewable Renewable 33,039 2,231,192 2,264,231 solar energy, commencing in 2023. Non-Renewable The result of these discussions will be a significant increase to a minimum of 80% renewables in the energy mix and overall Zinkgruvan – Underground Mine Employees reductions in electrical costs, predicted to be almost half of the 2018 rate. Energy “Within” Lundin Mining Energy Consumption Neves-Corvo was our second-largest “Within” Lundin Mining, we define two categories of primary energy consumption: Within Lundin Mining 2018 energy consumer (almost 1.3 million GJ), Energy Consumption Within Lundin Mining reflecting its production levels, followed • Fuel consumed at our operational and corporate sites, both by Lundin Mining by Operation 2018 by our two smaller operations, Eagle Mine and by contractors, for activities associated with our core business, such as and Zinkgruvan. As expected, corporate 10,000,000 in vehicles and for heating; and, headquarters energy use was very low in comparison to our operational sites. Energy Consumption (GJ) 8,000,000 • Electricity consumed at our operational and corporate sites, both by 50% 50% Lundin Mining and by contractors. 6,000,000 ENERGY CONSUMPTION “WITHIN” LUNDIN MINING, 2018 4,000,000 Zn • Energy from fuel consumption: 4,505,723 gigajoules (GJ) 2,000,000 • Energy from electricity consumption: 4,547,174 GJ Energy from Fuel DID YOU KNOW? • Total energy consumption: 9,052,897 GJ Within Lundin Mining 0 Of the estimated 12 million Energy from Electricity Candelaria Eagle NevesZinkgruvan Corporate Lundin Within Lundin Mining tonnes of zinc annually Corvo Mining In terms of fuel consumption across our four operations, energy from diesel is produced, about 50% is Total consumed in the greatest quantities, followed by propane, gas oil, bio-pellets, used for galvanization Fuel Within 3,742,375 362,503 Lundin297,024 Fuel “Within” Mining 102,364 1,457 4,505,723 Lundin Mining gasoline, natural gas and finally biodiesel. Electricity “Within” Lundin Mining Electricity Within 2,962,506 222,869 996,507 363,538 1,755 4,547,174 Lundin Mining LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 102 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 103 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Total Electricity Consumption Within Lundin Mining: 2015 to 2018 Eagle and Neves-Corvo’s increased consumption of (ore + waste rock). A process to review and further refine fuels is attributed to the expansion projects at these our analysis to confirm a metric that most accurately 5,000,000 locations, both requiring the extraction of non-mineralized reflects our activities and efficiency is planned for 2019. rock for project development. A smaller increase in fuel consumption at Zinkgruvan is attributed to normal Notably, a decreasing trend in energy intensity can be 4,000,000 observed for Lundin Mining overall since 2016. This Electricity Consumption (GJ) fluctuations in site activities and fuel required for heating. demonstrates that, although total energy consumption 3,000,000 Energy Intensity increased this year, efficiency improvements have been In combination with our total energy consumption, energy achieved in relation to our mining activities. Candelaria has 2,000,000 intensity enables us to analyze our energy efficiency. Energy the lowest energy intensity levels, reflecting the relatively large intensity ratios define energy consumption in the context tonnage of ore and waste rock excavated at its large-scale, 1,000,000 of an organization-specific metric, and in previous years, open pit operation. Our remaining three underground we reported our energy intensity in terms of production operations do not benefit from such efficiencies of scale, 0 volume (per tonne of concentrate). Following a review in especially those located in colder climates, requiring 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018, we consider that a ratio that expresses the energy additional energy for heating. For example, Eagle Mine has Candelaria 3,117,879 3,094,170 2,956,850 2,962,506 required per unit of activity is a more representative intensity the highest energy intensity using this metric, since almost Candelaria Eagle Neves-Corvo denominator for our operations. Our energy intensity one-third of Eagle Mine’s energy consumption is for heating Eagle 172,859 171,692 195,961 222,869 Zinkgruvan Corporate Lundin Mining Total is, therefore, expressed as energy consumed “within” and its ore is hauled 100 kilometres to the mill site, neither Neves-Corvo 952,167 921,047 881,528 996,507 Lundin Mining (fuel and electricity) per tonne mined of which are reflected in terms of rock mined. Zinkgruvan 358,834 348,779 353,197 363,538 Corporate 1,115 1,154 1,191 1,755 Lundin 4,829,324 4,536,842 4,388,728 4,547,174 Mining Total Notes: 1) 2015 Candelaria data were recalculated in 2016. 2) Aguablanca, Spain 2015 data 226,471 GJ included in 2015 total consumption. Ownership of Aguablanca was divested in 2016. Energy Intensity (Within Lundin Mining), 2015 – 2018 Lundin Mining’s total electricity consumption is heavily the reclamation of the historical San Esteban 1 tailings 0.600 influenced by the relatively massive scale of our Candelaria facility, with relocation of tailings material to the Candelaria operation, with Candelaria’s reductions in consumption tailings facilities, and the continued construction and 0.500 in recent years having a positive impact on our overall commissioning of the Los Diques tailings facility. Other GJ consumed / tonne mined electricity-consumption levels. However, overall reductions factors included the decline in ore grade compared to 0.400 for Lundin Mining have not been observed this year, due previous years, which would result in the need to move primarily to the mine expansion projects at our Eagle and more material to obtain the same volume of concentrate 0.300 Neves-Corvo operations. As would be expected, electrical as compared to recent years, consistent with mine age; power requirements increase with the expansion of these extraction of non-mineralized rock to access new ore 0.200 underground mines. In addition, electricity consumption bodies; and increased waste rock haulage distances. increased this year at Eagle’s mill site due to the harder type 0.100 of ore that is being processed, requiring more energy to With expansion and new projects, increased fuelZinkgruvan – Heat Exchangers 2018 crush and mill. Neves-Corvo and Zinkgruvan also consumed consumption patterns at Candelaria are nearly inevitable; 0.000 additional electricity due to increased mill throughput. to offset these outcomes, the operation is focusing Candelaria Eagle Neves-Corvo Zinkgruvan Lundin Mining on achieving measurable improvements in efficiency Total The most significant increase in Lundin Mining’s overall to minimize resulting impacts. Examples include energy consumption in 2018 was fuel, with consumption re-investment in a new mining fleet in 2018, with the 2015 2015 0.071 0.437 0.293 0.289 0.089 increasing at all of our operations compared to last addition of new energy-efficient vehicles, and introduction 2016 2016 0.098 0.496 0.297 0.306 0.121 year. The largest increase was at Candelaria, which was of shovels that were chosen for additional benefits beyond 2017 2017 0.078 0.459 0.290 0.274 0.097 involved in numerous projects, expansion-oriented and their fuel consumption, such as improved dust control 2018 2018 0.074 0.516 0.266 0.272 0.092 permit-driven, that required the mobilization of more and adding to the energy-efficiency profile of the mine. equipment. Significant projects undertaken included The shovels are more efficient and consequently require Notes: Based on recalculated 2015 base year; “Total” includes corporate energy use. less running-time to complete the same work. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 104 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 105 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Energy “Outside” Lundin Mining GHG Emissions SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2 As a step toward tracking selected emissions associated Typical of the global mining sector, our operations use GHG EMISSIONS with our value chain, we collect contractor data for fuel significant quantities of diesel fuel to perform underground In common with other companies in the mining consumed during some transport activities that take place and open pit operations. Consumption of electrical power sector, operating conditions at our mines change beyond our project boundaries to support our operations. is also essential for our mineral processing operations over time. Typically, changes relate to the ore and is a significant contributor to the GHG emissions for (ore grade, hardness, depth and accessibility), “Outside” Lundin Mining, we define two categories our operations, all of which are linked to their respective expansion projects (extracting and hauling of primary energy consumption: national grids for electricity supplies. non-mineralized rock and creating new mine areas), haulage distances for ore and waste rock, • Fuel consumed by contractors for transport of At Lundin Mining, we are committed to a structured and on-site construction (new tailings facilities, concentrate and our most significant imported and transparent approach to our GHG data reporting. tailings facility embankment raises, drainage and raw materials; and, Details are provided in Appendix B. water-storage projects). Annual changes also • Fuel consumed by contractors for transport occur for some emission factors, particularly Scope Allocation of some non-mineral wastes off-site and some for electricity, as source-energy mixes fluctuate personnel transport. on an annual basis. GHG EMISSION TYPE GHG EMISSION SOURCE The data is allocated according to the categories defined Biogenic CO2 emissions in 2018 are not included in the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Direct (Scope 1) Fuel, refrigeration and in our Scope 1 accounting, in accordance with Accounting and Reporting Standard. air-conditioning equipment, GHG Protocol requirements, and are reported and blasting agents used on-site separately at 2,579 tonnes CO2e, reflecting Energy Consumption “Outside” by Lundin Mining and contractors an increasing trend in renewable content in Lundin Mining 2018 for core business activities and fuels in Europe. in corporate offices. Neves-Corvo – Lead Thickener Category 4: Transport of 257,232 GJ The trends in Lundin Mining’s total GHG Upstream concentrate Energy indirect Purchased electricity consumed emissions in 2018 correlate with those observed Transportation and our most (Scope 2) on-site and in corporate offices. in energy consumption, with an increase in and Distribution significant Scope 1 emissions reflecting the increased GHG Emissions: 2015 to 2018 imported raw Other indirect Fuel consumed “Outside” fuel consumption and the smaller increase in materials. (Scope 3) Lundin Mining for concentrate, Scope 2 emissions reflecting the smaller increase 600,000 some significant raw materials, in electricity consumption. Total Scope 1 and Category 5: Transport of 3,849 GJ some wastes and transport Scope 2 emissions have each increased since 500,000 Waste Generated our non-mineral for some personnel. our 2015 base year. Fugitive GHG emissions in Operations wastes. from refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment 400,000 at our operations are included in our Scope 1 tonnes CO2e Category 7: Transport of 26,893 GJ emissions for the first time this year, calculated 300,000 Employee some personnel. on a preliminary screening basis, the main Commuting purpose being to allow their relative contribution 200,000 to our GHG emissions to be assessed. These emissions form only 0.14% of Lundin Mining’s 100,000 Ni Scope 1 emissions. 0 DID YOU KNOW? As previously discussed, in September 2018, 2015 2016 2017 2018 Candelaria successfully negotiated a new Approximately 3,000 Scope 1 264,843 234,470 287,225 366,653 electrical contract, a Power Purchase Agreement nickel-containing alloys Scope 1 (PPA), to commence in 2023, that guarantees Scope 2 458,887 438,620 465,263 473,276 are used everyday Location-Based Scope 2 location-based an electricity supply with a minimum of 80% Scope 446,2722 market-based renewable energy content. This contract is an Scope 2 445,924 440,075 500,999 Market-Based important step towards reducing Candelaria’s carbon footprint and is expected to impact favourably on Lundin Mining’s market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions in the future. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 106 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 107 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT In our comparisons across operations Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG Emissions, The GHG emissions intensity level at each operation to development works associated with the expansion and for our GHG emissions intensity by Operation 2018 reflects its individual situation, including internal factors, projects at those operations. Similar to energy, although calculations, we have used the such as the type of mine, mine development activities and total GHG emissions increased this year, associated location-based Scope 2 data. 900,000 type of ore; and external factors, such as the renewable with significant development and construction projects 800,000 content of the grid electricity supply. The pattern of GHG and factors associated with increasing mine age, efficiency With the exception of Zinkgruvan, which 700,000 emissions intensity data generally replicates that observed improvements have been achieved overall in relation benefits from a low national electricity 600,000 for energy intensity. The relatively low GHG emissions to mining activity. tonnes CO2e emission factor, electricity consumption intensity at Candelaria reflects large-scale movement 500,000 is the greatest source of GHG emissions of rock at this operation and the relatively high intensity In 2018, Lundin Mining initiated a review of a previously 400,000 at our remaining operations. Candelaria’s at Eagle reflects emissions associated with heating and considered, preliminary, GHG-emissions-intensity target, 300,000 emissions reflect the large-scale ore haulage. Regional and national emission factors also based on trends from 2015–2017, to reduce Scope 1 200,000 operation, compared to our other sites; influence these data, whereby our Zinkgruvan operation and Scope 2 (market-based) emissions per tonne of the open pit mining, with the associated 100,000 benefits from a lower emission factor, while Eagle has the concentrate produced by 1% between 2015 and 2018. vehicle movements over longer 0 highest emission factor of all of our operations. Our preliminary intensity target was developed as a trial distances for haulage of ore and waste Candelaria Eagle NevesZinkgruvan Corporate Lundin in tracking GHG emission trends across Lundin Mining Corvo Mining rock; and the several large construction Total Lundin Mining’s GHG emissions intensity also replicates operations. Subsequent detailed analysis determined that projects, such as Los Diques. the decreasing trend described for energy intensity this metric was not the most representative in tracking Scope 1 Scope 1 24,666 310,894 23,051 7,968 74 366,653 for Lundin Mining overall since 2016. The increase GHG emissions at our operations. As a result, this metric Greenhouse Gas Scope 2 Scope 2 Location-Based 344,901 47,161 79,116 2,070 28 473,276 in emissions intensity at our Neves-Corvo operation is under adjustment and results will be presented Emissions Intensity Location-Based in 2017 and our Eagle Mine in 2018 can be attributed in future reporting. In combination with our assessment of our total GHG emissions, we also track our GHG emissions intensity, which enables us to analyze our efficiency in managing GHG emissions. As described GHG Emissions Intensity 2018 GHG Emissions Intensity, 2015 – 2018 for energy intensity, our GHG emissions intensity is expressed this year as 0.070 0.070 GHG emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2 location-based) per tonne mined 0.060 0.060 (ore + waste rock), as opposed to per tonne of concentrate reported tonne CO2e / tonne mined tonne CO2e / tonne mined 0.050 0.050 in previous years. 0.040 0.040 0.030 0.030 0.020 0.020 0.010 0.010 0.000 0.000 Candelaria – Haul Truck Candelaria Eagle Neves-Corvo Zinkgruvan Lundin Mining Candelaria Eagle Neves-Corvo Zinkgruvan Lundin Mining Total Total Scope 1 0.003 1 Scope 0.022 0.005 0.005 0.004 2015 0.006 2015 0.056 0.035 0.006 0.008 Scope 2 Scope 0.004 2 Location-Based 0.042 0.016 0.001 0.005 2016 2016 0.009 0.062 0.025 0.014 0.011 Location-Based Scope 1 + Scope 2 2017 2017 0.008 0.057 0.027 0.012 0.009 Scope 1 + Scope 2 0.007 0.063 0.021 0.006 0.009 2018 2018 0.007 0.063 0.021 0.006 0.009 LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 108 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 109 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Concurrent with the review of the trial intensity target, During 2018, 30 energyand GHG-emission-reduction initiatives were assessed and / or undertaken across our Recognizing ongoing efforts by Lundin Mining operations to reduce operations. Within Lundin Mining, energy-reduction initiatives – fully implemented by the end of the reporting period and overall GHG emissions were advanced in 2018, for which energy-saving data was available – resulted in estimated energy savings of 4,220 GJ, Scope 1 GHG-emission and Promoting with examples including the acquisition of improved savings of 237 tonnes CO2e, and Scope 2 GHG-emission savings of 69 tonnes CO2e. Energy Efficiency fuel-efficient vehicles at Candelaria in late-2018, the Initiatives Key aspects of our energyand GHG-reduction programs and initiatives under investigation or implementation in 2018, renegotiation of Candelaria’s Power Purchase Agreement are described below for each operation. (PPA) to include a greater percentage of renewables in the energy mix (completed in 2018, with implementation commencing in 2023), the completion of a Lean Candelaria • Specialist committee, supported by specialist consultants, to progress the identification In 2018, Lundin Mining’s global operations and implementation of energy-efficiency opportunities; Six Sigma Green Belt (LGBC)™ project at Eagle Mine participated in a GHG Emissions Reduction to optimize haulage truck loads with associated fuel • Early-stage energyand GHG-emission-reduction-assessment projects continued, including and Energy Efficiency benchmarking program, reductions, and the initiation of the development of a potential for re-use of wood and residual oil, and for installation of solar heating for dressing rooms; which worked collaboratively with site staff to long-term, Company-wide sustainability strategy. These identify best practices and recommendations efforts build upon the recommendations provided in our • Continued implementation of an energyand GHG-emission-reduction project comprising for improvement. Complementing this effort, our GHG emissions and Energy Efficiency Benchmarking gradual replacement of lighting above and below ground; mines advanced initiatives to improve energy program (2017), and associated GHG emissions • Trial of a fuel additive to reduce emissions; and, efficiency and reduce their carbon footprint. reduction findings will be presented in future reports. • Successful renegotiation of PPA with energy supplier, for a guaranteed 80% renewable In recognition of its efforts, Neves-Corvo Mine Scope 3 Emissions component (prioritizing solar and wind) in the electricity supply for the complex from 2023. received the 2018 Award for Best in Energy In tracking selected emissions associated with our value Reduction by local authorities (DGEG – Direção Eagle • Retention of a Continuous Improvement Lead and a Continuous Improvement Steering Committee chain, we calculate Scope 3 emissions from fuel used Geral de Energia e Geologia and SGCIE – Sistema to evaluate and implement selected staff-provided recommendations, including energy-reduction by contractors for transport of our concentrate product, initiatives, and advance overall Lean Six Sigma training and project implementation; de Gestão dos Consumos Intensivos de Energia) import of some of our main raw materials, transport of for its commitment to energy efficiency over the some of our wastes and some personnel transport off-site. • Assessment of new energy-saving projects in 2018 across the mine and mill sites, including course of the past 10 years. Our Zinkgruvan Mine lighting management in three new areas, modifications to reduce fan speeds between shifts, Our calculated Scope 3 emissions were 20,435 tonnes CO2e use of a fuel additive to reduce emissions and save on fuel consumption underground, and also achieved improved energy efficiency following in 2018, of which 17,111 tonnes CO2e was attributable to fuel an ambient heating and cooling optimization project in a facility at the mine site; and, the completion of a US$3 million investment in the used by contractors to transport concentrate to port. installation of two heat exchangers, resulting in a • Completion of a Lean Six Sigma Green Belt (LGBC)™ project to optimize haulage truck loading, decrease of the mine’s historical dependency on GHG Emission Reduction and resulting in an estimated reduction of 23,000 gallons of diesel fuel. heating oil. In addition to improved cost efficiency, Energy Conservation Measures the heat exchangers reduce energy consumption The benchmarking program assessment commissioned Neves-Corvo • Early-stage energyand GHG-emission-reduction-assessment projects progressed levels comparable to an estimated one hundred by Lundin Mining in 2017, and concluded in 2018, to implementation, including changes to lighting above and below ground; homes per year. identified that the GHG-reduction strategies that have • Implementation of energyand GHG-emission-reduction projects continued, been implemented, or are being considered, at each site including several retrofit projects in the processing plant to improve efficiency; and, form a solid foundation for a robust energy and GHGreduction program. Our operations continue to focus • A project streamlining the use of blowers to save energy was fully implemented. on identifying opportunities to improve energy efficiency Zinkgruvan • Implementation of energyand GHG-emission-reduction-assessment projects commenced, and reduce GHG emissions. including lighting management in new areas; Systems to enhance data collection on our energy • Implementation of energy-saving projects completed in 2018 including installation of new and and GHG-emission-reduction initiatives require further more energy-efficient heat exchangers in two shafts; and, development, as currently the benefits of a number • Maintenance of 100% renewable-energy source for electricity supply, supported contractually of implemented initiatives are not being quantified. In by Guarantees of Origin, since switching on January 1, 2017. some cases, initiatives have been undertaken without immediately transparent estimates of the anticipated Corporate • Office participation in “ForeverGreen,” a tenant engagement program where one of the core reductions, yet reductions have been evident. offices, components is energy efficiency and carbon-emission reduction; and, Our reductions in energy consumption are based on Toronto, • Design and construction of a new corporate office space with a focus on sustainability, including: estimates of the annual saving of fuel (Scope 1) or electricity Canada • consolidation of our two corporate offices (former UK and Toronto office location) (Scope 2 location-based) to be gained through each energyinto one Toronto-based location, reduction initiative fully implemented by the end of 2018. The methodologies for estimating the energy savings vary across • incorporation of recycled materials wherever possible; and, our sites, depending on the nature of the initiatives. • selection and installation of energy-efficient equipment and automatic lighting shut-off systems. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 110 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 111 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Air Emissions In addition to compliance monitoring at all of our sites, BIODIVERSITY AND LAND MANAGEMENT Lundin Mining’s objectives for biodiversity Eagle and Neves-Corvo are the only Lundin Mining sites particulate matter is routinely measured to assess any management include: with regulated nitrogen and sulphur oxides (NOx / SOx) impact from Neves-Corvo’s operations in the neighbouring air emissions. In accordance with Eagle’s regulatory villages of Graça, Corvo and Neves. Candelaria monitors • Documenting existing biodiversity conditions in areas approvals, they adhere to operational use restrictions on particulates in the communities of Tierra Amarilla, Caldera undergoing exploration programs; their stationary engines, such as operating the back-up and Nantoco for the authorities at official Community • Considering biodiversity-related information generator at the mine site for only a maximum 500 hours Status monitoring stations, the data representing the Lundin Mining considers its role in biodiversity stewardship cumulative effect of a range of sources of particulates and management systems during due diligence per 12-month period. At Neves-Corvo, samples from to be a fundamental sustainability responsibility. in the region, including from other mines and a smelter. assessment programs; two boilers are analysed for a suite of parameters; in 2018 Lundin Mining contributes to biodiversity management all samples were in full compliance with permitted limits. through the proper assessment of biodiversity conditions, • Undertaking comprehensive biodiversity baseline In 2018, all our operating mines were in full compliance, minimization of habitat degradation and contributions to studies to document conditions prior to the development Management of particulate emissions (dust) by mining with particulate emissions measured below permitted limits. habitat restoration during the life of mine cycle. of new mines, or significant expansion beyond a current operations is important for employees and contractors, In recognition of the fact that measurements recorded at the surrounding communities and the environment. the off-site Community Status stations are contributed mine’s footprint; All four of our operational sites have continued to progress This is particularly true at our Candelaria Mine, which is to by multiple local non-Candelaria activities, occasional the alignment of their existing biodiversity management • Monitoring biodiversity management programs located in a desert area that is already subject to dusty exceedances of limits recorded at these locations are not plans to the corporate requirements, including compliance and promotion of sustainable management of living conditions and where authorities publicized their intent considered by the authorities to be non-compliances. with the requirement to prepare and update their natural resources through the fostering of partnerships to formally declare the nearby area of Tierra Amarilla as biodiversity action plans on an annual basis, identifying Noise and Vibration Emissions that seek to integrate conservation needs and a saturated zone for particulate matter (PM 10) in early biodiversity risks and opportunities, and to inform the Lundin Mining continued to manage noise and vibration development priorities; 2019. In this area, as with our other sites, we continue to emissions from our sites throughout 2018 with the primary development of operational plans at each site. monitor regulatory changes and participate in government • Considering opportunities for implementing actions initiatives to monitor new dust control activities. aim of minimizing disturbance to local communities. to achieve similar biodiversity values after closure Noise-mitigation works undertaken in recent years at as those evidenced prior to the site’s development, All our operations have controls and procedures in place Neves-Corvo and Zinkgruvan have reduced emissions where possible; and, to manage emission of particulates both within and beyond our project boundaries, with associated monitoring to allow and improved compliance. At our Zinkgruvan Mine, an innovative retrofit to the Cecilia vent shaft in 2018, to alter • Aiming to include community-based knowledge the effectiveness of controls to be routinely assessed and in the development of the plans, where available. adjusted, if required. Controls include application of water on the direction of the noise emissions, has achieved a further unpaved roads and operations areas, tailings embankments, measurable reduction in noise emissions. The operation open pit working faces and following blasting; sprinkler also reduced noise by enclosing a cement silo and has systems at ore passes, loading bays and stockpile areas; upgraded its vibration monitoring system. Following addition of binding agents; dust capture systems and air on from previous noise-mitigation works at five shafts, filters in indoor areas; wheel washes and sweeping of paved further works were undertaken at two additional shafts areas; and covering of concentrate and other materials for at Neves-Corvo in 2018, enabling the mine to achieve full compliance with noise disturbance criteria at surrounding Walking for Biodiversity transport. Documented procedures and associated training of personnel as to the circumstances under which action is villages. All sites were in full compliance with regulated required are critical to the effectiveness of these measures. noise limits throughout 2018. Continuing their open-door policy of encouraging At our Candelaria Mine, a Participatory Vibration local community groups to tour the mine and learn Monitoring program was implemented in 2018, to about environmental, biodiversity, and operational collaboratively monitor mine-related blasting events in activities, Neves-Corvo launched a new initiative in a fully transparent manner with the nearby communities 2018, “Walking for Biodiversity.” More than 120 local Zn and local authorities. people joined the program to celebrate the area’s biodiversity and learn about Neves-Corvo’s commitment to supporting biodiversity and DID YOU KNOW? environmental stewardship. Visitors toured the > 2 million tons of zinc mine facilities, attended a workshop on local are recycled annually fauna and flora, and enjoyed meeting, greeting and eating at a group lunch. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 112 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 113 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IUCN Red List and National Conservation Environmental List Species With Habitats in Areas Where Lundin Mining Has Operations Stewardship, Partnerships 50 and Biodiversity 40 Number of Species 30 Back in 2007, Neves-Corvo signed an agreement with the Institute for the Conservation of Nature and 20 Biodiversity (ICNB) to contribute to the European target of halting biodiversity loss. Despite the expiry 10 of that agreement, Neves-Corvo has voluntarily continued biodiversity-related initiatives, including 0 biodiversity studies, review of best available Number Number of Number Number of Near Number techniques in industrial effluent management of Critically Endangered of Vulnerable Threatened of Species of Endangered Species Species Species Least Concern and treatment, stewardship of the Oeiras River, Species conservation of aquatic communities, and following Candelaria 0 2 17 8 17 the management plan of the Natural Park of the Zinkgruvan Guadiana Valley. Partnerships are important to Eagle 0 Neves-Corvo 0 3 0 6 Neves-Corvo’s initiatives and include the Animal Zinkgruvan – Ekershyttebäcken Creek Neves-Corvo 2 Eagle 7 5 3 18 Neves-Corvo – Training Centre Garden Neutering and Cat Rescue program, the Oeiras River Zinkgruvan Candelaria 0 1 1 7 8 biomonitoring program, a soil remediation program with the University of Lisbon, and the Coimbra Neves-Corvo’s lands in Portugal lie adjacent to the University aquatic biodiversity partnership. Bird Oeiras River, a High Biodiversity Value Area integrated conservation programs have also been developed in the Guadiana Valley Natural Park as part of the jointly with the League for the Protection of European Natura 2000 network. Conservation of the Species of Interest Nature (LPN). Oeiras River habitat is one of the highest environmental Habitats hosting two critically endangered and 10 endangered priorities for Neves-Corvo. species, as defined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and national conservation lists, are Ni In Sweden, part of our Zinkgruvan operational area located in regions where Lundin Mining has operations. The lies within the Knalla Nature Reserve, a popular area assessment and, where present, the monitoring and protection of DID YOU KNOW? for hiking. A minor part of Lake Viksjön lies within these species is included in the relevant biodiversity management this reserve and our Zinkgruvan operation plays an plans developed and implemented by each site. The 2018 data Nickel is essential for important role in managing the water level of the lake, differ slightly for Neves-Corvo and Zinkgruvan, as compared to vegetation cell health while maintaining the flow rate of a nearby creek within last year, benefitting from both the consideration of new data and a valley of high natural value. There are no protected the redefinition of boundaries to include only areas that could or High Biodiversity Value Areas within or adjacent conceivably be affected by our operations. to our Candelaria or Eagle sites. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 114 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 115 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Water Discharge affected. The historical Neves-Corvo water discharge Some of the more significant biodiversity management actions implemented or continued, and our engagement and Aquatic into the Oeiras River, which was previously reported to activities for biodiversity conservation, are summarized below, by site. Biodiversity have resulted in a localized biodiversity impact, continues A high priority for all of to be monitored to ensure the successful performance Lundin Mining’s operations is to minimize effects on receiving of mitigation measures. While Neves-Corvo reported Candelaria • Extensive biodiversity monitoring programs to periodically assess desert flora and fauna water bodies and related habitats. This is accomplished improved water chemistry in 2018, changing weather in the mine complex region; through the integration of robust water treatment and impacts observed in the region, including recent periods of • Coastal marine monitoring program continues to assess potential impacts upon aquatic life management facilities and comprehensive procedures for extreme drought such as recorded in 2017, have resulted and fish resources from the desalination plant’s seawater abstraction and discharge process the management of all discharges, with effective monitoring in prolonged river bed dryness, potentially contributing in addition to the port facilities and concentrate shipment; and, for timely detection of any changes to aquatic biodiversity to stresses on species diversity in the river. In response, that might be attributable to our activities. Neves-Corvo has implemented several partnerships with • Relocation of species of cactus and reptiles from the footprint of the new Los Diques tailings local universities to advance protection of river species, facility and waste rock expansion projects. In 2018, no water bodies or related habitats were including rare bivalves. These efforts, including ongoing significantly affected by water or run-off discharges Eagle • Annual flora, fauna and aquatic surveys, and threatened or endangered species assessments habitat protection, are supported through on-site water at Candelaria (ocean discharge) and coastal marine at the mine and mill sites and surrounding areas; and comparison of results to baseline data treatment and storage management initiatives, which monitoring at our Punta Padrones Port Desalination Facility to assess any changes that could be potentially attributable to mining operations; and, remained a strong focus for the operation in 2018. has continued to demonstrate that no negative impacts • Rigorous management of discharges to ensure the downstream water environment and upon biodiversity have been recorded since the mine’s Our Zinkgruvan Mine, in continuous operation for the ultimate receiving water bodies for the discharges from the mill site (Lake Michigan) port and desalination plant operations commenced. over 160 years, also previously reported progress on a and the mine site (Lake Superior) are not adversely impacted. series of water-quality and ecotoxicology studies that In 2018, no water bodies or related habitats were commenced in 2015 to assess the potential, if any, for Neves-Corvo • Routine monitoring of flora and fauna (birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians), and air significantly affected by water or run-off discharges at our long-term risks to the aquatic community in the catchment and water quality; Eagle operations. At Eagle’s mill site, the water treatment areas of our regulated discharge, tailings facility and plant discharged during most of 2018 to an existing • Soil remediation and biomonitoring initiatives (including aquatic macroinvertebrates, clarification pond. The studies have concluded that, wetland adjacent to the Escanaba River, which eventually fish and shellfish) in partnership with the University of Lisbon and Coimbra University; typical of historical mining and industrial areas, there are discharges into Lake Michigan. The water treatment plant selected elevated metal concentrations in water; however, • Working with the League for the Protection of Nature, contributing to the conservation discharge is estimated to account for at least 5% of the the benthic communities in the creek that receives our of three endangered species of bird prioritized by the European Union: Bustard, Lesser Kestrel annual average water volume in the wetland. While this discharge are thriving, with the number of taxa in the and Little Bustard; wetland is not protected, does not contain any protected bottom fauna increasing since the 1990s. This is attributed or endangered species, and does not have significant • Working with the Institute for the Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity (ICNF) / to the contribution made by Zinkgruvan water discharges habitats or a high biodiversity value, Eagle maintains Parque Natural do Vale do Guadiana (PNVG) to support several projects and management towards the maintenance of consistent water levels in optimal water levels for the health of the wetland’s planning for the Guadiana Valley; the creek during periods of low flow, which are associated vegetation in compliance with its permit conditions. At with naturally occurring seasonal water-level variability, • Implementation of an emergency response plan developed in collaboration with Évora University Eagle’s mine site, Lake Superior is the final receiving water thereby reducing negative impacts on aquatic fauna. and PNVG to safeguard the Red Listed mollusc species Unio tumidiformis in the Oeiras River; and, body for the treated mine site water, following its injection to groundwater within the mine’s boundary. Monitoring • Further studies to evaluate the feasibility of applying Best Available Techniques in the treatment / is routinely undertaken and will be continued throughout management of water discharged to the Oeiras River. operations, closure and the post-closure period. Zinkgruvan • Development of species inventories for areas closest to operations for natural values The concerns at our Neves-Corvo Mine have been on and biodiversity classification; improving water management and biodiversity initiatives Zn • Biannual monitoring of the success of the relocation of a Swedish protected orchid while also monitoring and managing an effect that was (Dactylorhiza incarnata) to a nearby sheltered area, to protect flora species in an area of high reported in the past. In general, Neves-Corvo’s strategy DID YOU KNOW? natural value adjacent to the new tailings facility; for the conservation of biodiversity is to preserve areas 30% of zinc production with no impact; improve conditions in areas with low • Commitment to transferring water from Lake Viksjön to supplement the flow rate in a creek is from recycled sources that flows through a high natural value valley, maintaining water levels as agreed to in association impact; improve conditions in areas that have experienced high impact, after removal of the cause; and, in areas with the previous approval of the tailings facility; and, where impacts cannot be avoided, create new habitats • Nearby lakes are of high cultural value and, as such, the operation considers it to be a key priority or improve existing habitats in areas that have not been to ensure these lakes are not adversely impacted. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 116 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 117 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Land Management The updated Procedure for Mine Closure Planning At the beginning of 2018, Lundin Mining was managing 5,706 hectares of land we own or lease that are occupied by involves the definition of post-closure land uses, employee Revegetation our mining and processing activities and associated infrastructure. At the close of 2018, Lundin Mining was managing and public safety, chemical and geotechnical stability, Program 5,802 hectares. Most of the land managed by Lundin Mining is located at our Candelaria Complex (4,961 hectares). post-closure monitoring and aftercare, post-closure land ownership and tenure, temporary closure and unplanned Land Management (Hectares) premature closure. Stakeholder participation is integral to our closure planning process. Progressive restoration During the 1990s, the Santos Underground Mine CANDELARIA EAGLE NEVES-CORVO ZINKGRUVAN TOTAL forms a key part of our closure planning process, being implemented a mine drainage plan that included integrated into the operational mining plan, where feasible. planting of 10 hectares of eucalyptus trees to Total land disturbed 4,865 55 605 181 5,706 support mine water management. As a result of and not yet rehabilitated Lundin Mining actively managed the former Storliden severe weather conditions, including flooding events (Opening Balance) Mine in northern Sweden which was closed in 2008. in 2015 and 2017, the trees were damaged. In During 2018, in response to a communication from response, Candelaria engaged with local experts at Total amount of land 96 0.5 0 0 96 the local county board (VCAB), Zinkgruvan initiated Tierra Amarilla to remove the damaged eucalyptus, newly disturbed within additional groundwater monitoring around the sealed support soil recovery and replant with native the reporting period decline. Monitoring data are being analyzed to determine, species, including Pimientos Chañar (a type of Total amount of land 0 0 0 0 0 what if any, additional action may be required to support willow), Hawthorn and Carob. In 2018, newly rehabilitated within site relinquishment. four hectares of trees were planted to advance the reporting period to the completion of a 10-hectare tree replanting At Lundin Mining, our closure activities are aligned with the agreed-upon end use program by 2020. our commitment to achieve post-closure biodiversity values, wherever possible, that strive to be comparable Total land disturbed 4,961 56 605 181 5,802 to pre-operations in our habitat restoration programs. and not yet rehabilitated (Closing Balance) In addition to the mine sites undergoing active closure, Zinkgruvan monitors the nearby Åmmeberg historical operating site, where Vieille Montagne processed Most of the land disturbance in 2018 was located at our Candelaria operation, associated with an increase in the footprint Zinkgruvan ore from the 1850s until the late 1970s. of the waste rock dump and existing tailings facility, and including the completion of the construction of the new Los Diques The area was reclaimed by Vieille Montagne (the former tailings facility. Eagle’s slight increase was due to the construction of a new water-discharge outfall at the mill site. operator at Åmmeberg) during the 1980s and currently has various uses, including a golf course and a marina facility. In June 2018, Zinkgruvan submitted to the local county board (ÖCAB) a site-specific risk assessment MINE CLOSURE In 2018, we initiated the update of our Lundin Mining addressing potential residual human health and ecological Mine Closure Planning Standard as part of our RMMS risks associated with the reclaimed industrial properties. implementation process and this document will be will ÖCAB has responded with additional questions and be finalized in 2019. The document requires use of a Zinkgruvan is in communication with ÖCAB risk-based approach to closure planning, and the definition of site-specific closure objectives and completion criteria Social Aspects of Mine Closure Planning At Eagle Mine, which is currently forecast to close Lundin Mining takes a responsible and integrated approach for each operation. Our closure plans are required to Mine closure plans that incorporate both physical circa 2024, social programs have been developed to mine closure planning, with the principal aim being to address legal obligations and corporate commitments, rehabilitation and socio-economic considerations are with closure in mind. In preparation for closure, mine design, develop and operate our facilities to minimize their financial provisions, community interests, the environment an integral part of the project life cycle. Mines should be representatives provide annual updates to local overall social and environmental impact upon their eventual and employees’ expectations once the mine is closed. designed so that future public health and safety are not government to explain tax structure changes and closure. Lundin Mining’s operational and closed sites have Lundin Mining has implemented financial provisions for compromised, after-use of the site is beneficial to affected provide budget recommendations related to closure. approved mine closure plans (MCPs), as required by Lundin mine closure in accordance with legal requirements and communities, and adverse socio-economic impacts are In 2018, Lundin Mining held mine closure workshops Mining’s Procedure for Mine Closure Planning. The MCPs the respective Company policies. The closure-related minimized while socio-economic benefits are maximized. to review the current mine closure programs and mine are developed to a level of detail that reflects the stage of financial provisioning and accrual details are provided closure costs at each operating site, ensuring plans each mine’s life cycle, and they are updated at least every in Lundin Mining’s latest Annual Information Form. are aligned with the Company’s Procedure for Mine three years or when required due to operational changes. Closure Planning. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 118 APPENDIX A 119 APPENDIX A KEY PERFORMANCE DATA STAFFING SUMMARY Metal Production Statistics (contained metal)* Candelaria Neves-Corvo Copper (tonnes) Gold (000 ounces) MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Number of Employees 1,310 141 1,451 Number of Employees 1,068 141 1,209 Candelaria (100%) 134,578 183,858 166,592 Candelaria (100%) 78 104 97 Permanent Employees 1,305 140 1,445 Permanent Employees 838 100 938 Eagle 17,974 21,302 23,417 Eagle 5 5 6 Temporary Employees 5 1 6 Temporary Employees 230 41 271 Neves-Corvo 45,692 33,624 46,557 Full-Time Employees 1,310 141 1,451 Full-Time Employees 1,068 141 1,209 Total 83 109 103 Zinkgruvan 1,386 997 1,906 Part-Time Employees 0 0 0 Part-Time Employees 0 0 0 Other Workers* 3,605 314 3,919 Other Workers* 1,204 92 1,296 Total 199,630 239,761 238,472 Lead (tonnes) Non-National / Expatriates 2 1 3 Non-National / Expatriates 17 5 22 Employee Turnover (%) 18 Employee Turnover (%) 7 2018 2017 2016 Nickel (tonnes) Non-Managerial 84 Non-Managerial 100 Neves-Corvo 6,571 5,164 4,126 Workforce (%) – Workforce (%) – 2018 2017 2016 covered by collective covered by collective Zinkgruvan 24,613 28,324 31,661 bargaining agreements bargaining agreements Eagle 17,573 22,081 24,114 Total 31,184 33,488 35,787 Total 17,573 22,081 24,114 Eagle Zinkgruvan Silver (000 ounces) MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL Zinc (tonnes) 2018 2017 2016 Number of Employees 161 35 196 Number of Employees 330 71 401 2018 2017 2016 Candelaria (100%) 1,206 1,821 1,665 Permanent Employees 161 35 196 Permanent Employees 329 70 399 Neves-Corvo 75,435 71,356 69,527 Eagle 158 200 223 Temporary Employees 0 0 0 Temporary Employees 1 1 2 Zinkgruvan 76,606 77,963 78,523 Neves-Corvo 1,791 1,292 1,242 Full-Time Employees 161 35 196 Full-Time Employees 330 69 399 Zinkgruvan 2,155 2,361 2,159 Part-Time Employees 0 0 0 Part-Time Employees 0 2 2 Total 152,041 149,319 148,050 Other Workers* 246 23 269 Other Workers* 65 Total 5,310 5,674 5,289 Non-National / Expatriates 4 0 4 Non-National / Expatriates 1 1 2 Employee Turnover (%) 14 Employee Turnover (%) 13 * Metal Production Statistics (contained metal) updated from previous reports to reflect 100% Candelaria contained metal. Non-Managerial 0 Non-Managerial 100 Workforce (%) – Workforce (%) – covered by collective covered by collective bargaining agreements bargaining agreements LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 120 APPENDIX A 121 APPENDIX A STAFFING SUMMARY HEALTH AND SAFETY STATISTICS 2018 Exploration Corporate EMPLOYEES CONTRACTORS* MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Number of Employees 12 5 17 Number of Employees 42 32 74 Neves-Corvo Permanent Employees 12 5 17 Permanent Employees 42 32 74 Temporary Employees 0 0 0 Temporary Employees 0 0 0 Total Recordable Injuries 10 0 14 1 Full-Time Employees 12 5 17 Full-Time Employees 42 32 72 Injury Rate (TRIF) 0.45 0.00 0.62 0.04 Part-Time Employees 0 0 0 Part-Time Employees 0 0 0 Occupational Diseases 2 0 NR NR Other Workers* 11 Other Workers* 4 Occupational Disease Rate 0.09 0.00 NR NR Non-National / Expatriates 0 0 0 Non-National / Expatriates Lost Workdays 288 0 277 22 Employee Turnover (%) 14 Employee Turnover (%) 10 Lost Day Rate (SR) 12.86 0.00 12.36 0.98 Non-Managerial 0 Non-Managerial 0 Work-Related Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Workforce (%) – Workforce (%) – Zinkgruvan covered by collective covered by collective bargaining agreements bargaining agreements Total Recordable Injuries 5 1 2 3 Injury Rate (TRIF) 1.16 0.23 0.46 0.69 *Workers who are not employees (including those whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization). Data was compiled from the annual head count at each operation and head office in Lundin Mining Corporation. Data for employee turnover and NonOccupational Diseases 7 0 NR NR Managerial Workforce covered by collective bargaining agreements are only reported as totals. Occupational Disease Rate 1.62 0.00 NR NR Lost Workdays 8 5 1 24 HEALTH AND SAFETY STATISTICS 2018 Lost Day Rate (SR) 1.85 1.16 0.23 5.55 Work-Related Fatalities 0 0 0 0 EMPLOYEES CONTRACTORS* Exploration MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Total Recordable Injuries 2 0 0 0 Candelaria Injury Rate (TRIF) 6.74 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total Recordable Injuries 2 0 8 0 Occupational Diseases 0 0 NR NR Injury Rate (TRIF) 0.03 0.00 0.13 0.00 Occupational Disease Rate 0.00 0.00 NR NR Occupational Diseases 7 0 NR NR Lost Workdays 0 0 0 0 Occupational Disease Rate 0.11 0.00 NR NR Lost Day Rate (SR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Lost Workdays 145 0 274 0 Work-Related Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Lost Day Rate (SR) 2.34 0.00 4.42 0.00 There were zero Total Recordable Injuries, Occupational Diseases, Lost Workdays or Work-related Fatalities reported / recorded at the Corporate office in 2018. Work-Related Fatalities 0 0 0 0 *Workers who are not employees (including those whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization). Eagle Total lost workdays updated to 1,094 for 2018 due to data reconciliation post reporting (1,089 reported in above table). Explanation of how data are compiled Total Recordable Injuries 2 0 12 2 •  Types of Injuries: For the purpose of this report, the ‘Injury Rate’ is based on total recordable injuries (Medical Treatment Cases + Restricted Duty Cases + Lost Time Cases). First aid injuries are not included. Injury Rate (TRIF) 0.38 0.00 2.30 0.38 • Lost Day Rate / Severity Rate (SR): Based on workdays lost after the initial day of incident. SR is calculated as ‘(lost workdays x 200,000) / hours worked’. • Rate calculations: For comparability, all rates are calculated based on the 2017 total hours worked (employee + contractor) at the respective location. Occupational Diseases 0 0 NR NR • NR: None reported or incomplete data. Occupational Disease Rate 0.00 0.00 NR NR • Note: Data for Absentee Rate is not collected because it is not a material issue for Lundin Mining. Lost Workdays 0 0 45 0 Lost Day Rate (SR) 0.00 0.00 8.64 0.00 Work-Related Fatalities 0 0 0 0 LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 122 123 APPENDIX B INDEPENDENT Basis for Energy and Greenhouse Gas Reporting ASSURANCE STATEMENT INTRODUCTION AND • Stakeholder Grievances filed during the year; BASIS FOR LUNDIN MINING ENERGY REPORTING 2018 OBJECTIVES OF WORK Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (Bureau Veritas) was • Stakeholder engagement as it relates to AccountAbility’s • Data sources include Lundin Mining’s internal purchase records and fuel-consumption records reported AA1000AS (2008)1 principles of inclusivity, materiality engaged by Lundin Mining Corporation (LMC) to conduct to Lundin Mining by contractors. and responsiveness. an independent third party assurance of select sustainability • Factors to convert quantities of fuel consumed to energy units sourced in-country from product data sheets information presented in its 2018 Sustainability Report A table listing the reported and assured data is attached and national publications. (the Report) for the calendar year ending in December to this statement. • Electricity-consumption data obtained from suppliers and from on-site meters. 2018. This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance below. The intended users of the assurance statement of information relating to: are LMC’s management and stakeholders of LMC. The overall objective of the assurance process was to provide • Performance indicators and text in the report BASIS FOR LUNDIN MINING GHG REPORTING 2018 assurance on the accuracy, reliability and objectivity of not indicated above; and • Approach to calculation of GHG emissions aligned with the GHG Protocol methodologies and the CDP LMC’s Report for the specific key performance indicators (KPIs) covered by the scope of work (below). • Activities outside the defined assurance period (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project). of calendar year 2018. • Consolidation approach based on operational control. The information that was assured and its presentation in the Report are the sole responsibility of the management METHODOLOGY • Latest Global Warming Potentials given in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fifth of LMC. Bureau Veritas was not involved in the drafting Bureau Veritas undertook the following activities: Assessment Report used, as recommended by the GHG Protocol and CDP. of the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide • Calculations include carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, reported as carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e). independent assurance on the selected KPIs. 1. Interviews with relevant personnel of LMC (including managers and staff members at the corporate and site • 2015 defined as the base year for GHG emissions reporting, primarily because data were externally assured level) and LMC’s consultant; in that year and both location-based and market-based Scope 2 data were reported. ASSURANCE STANDARDS APPLIED The assurance engagement was performed in accordance 2. Interviews with selected external stakeholders of LMC; • In 2016, base year Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions were recalculated to account for the divestment of our with AccountAbility’s AA1000AS-2008 standard and was operation in Spain in 2016, to account for the first full year of production at our Eagle Mine, and to improve conducted to meet the AA1000AS Type II moderate level 3. Review of internal and external documentary evidence on the accuracy of activity data used to determine 2015 Scope 2 GHG emissions at Candelaria in Chile. of assurance requirements for most metrics. produced by LMC; • Scope 1 emissions accounting based on fuel, blasting agents, and fugitive emissions from refrigeration However, greenhouse gas emissions were verified to 4. Audit of select KPI data presented in the Report and air-conditioning equipment at our operations. a reasonable level in accordance with ISO 14064-3: including a detailed review of samples of data; • Where available, fuel emission factors obtained in-country, from national publications; otherwise default fuel Greenhouse gases -Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions 5. Site visit to the Candelaria Mining Complex emission factors from 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories used. (Candelaria Mine) located near Copiapo, Chile. • Fugitive emissions calculated in alignment with the GHG Protocol’s Screening Method (WS3 Emission Factor-Based SCOPE OF WORK Approach to Estimate HFC and PFC Emissions from Refrigeration / AC, 2015). 6. Visit to LMC office in Toronto, Canada, where LMC requested Bureau Veritas to include independent sustainability data from each site is collected, aggregated, assurance of the following KPIs for the calendar year • Scope 2 emissions accounting based on electricity consumption on-site and in corporate offices. analyzed and reviewed for quality and accuracy; 2018 reporting period: • “Location-based” and “Market-based” Scope 2 emissions calculated in accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 7. Review of LMC data and information systems for Guidance, published in 2015. • Safety – total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIF) collection, aggregation, analysis and internal verification and lost time injury frequency rate (LTIF); • Emission factors for location-based emissions calculations were regional or national data obtained in-country, and review; and, where available, and otherwise were sourced from the International Energy Agency (Emissions Factors 2018). • Total amount of water withdrawn from all sources; 8. Review of the Report as it relates to the assured KPIs. • Emission factors for market-based calculations were sourced from a contractual arrangement between our • Total amount of water discharged; Swedish operation and its electricity supplier; European Residual Mix (AIB, 2017) for Portugal; and, since residual The work was planned and carried out to provide a mix data are not currently available for Chile and the US, regional grid average data were applied. • Energy consumption within LMC’s operations moderate level of assurance and we believe it provides including electricity, liquid fuels and gaseous fuels; a sound basis for our conclusions. • Scope 3 emissions determined based upon fuel-consumption data supplied by contractors. • Greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 1, Scope 2 (location and market based); 1 Published by AccountAbility: The Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 124 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 125 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS employees during our visit to the Candelaria Mine. LMC’s KEY OBSERVATIONS The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting On the basis of our methodology and the activities approach to stakeholder engagement, examples of primary AND RECOMMENDATIONS assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health described above, it is our opinion that: stakeholder groups and the key interests and concerns of • LMC’s commitment to Stakeholder Engagement was and safety information, systems and processes, has over each stakeholder group are described in the Stakeholder evident during our February 2019 visit to the Candelaria 20 years combined experience in this field and an excellent • The information and data related to the KPIs identified Engagement section of the Report. Our observations Mine, as well as during our previous visits in 2017 and understanding of Bureau Veritas standard methodology for in the scope of work that are included in the Report are indicate that LMC takes Stakeholder concerns into 2018 to Eagle Mine and Zinkgruvan Mine, respectively. the Assurance of Sustainability Data and Reports. accurate, reliable and free from significant error, material consideration and has adequately addressed the inclusivity It was observed that Candelaria Mine utilizes a custom mistakes or misstatements. principle in its operations and the 2018 Report. made software tool for managing social / stakeholder Attestation: engagement. Consider sharing this tool with other • The Report provides a fair representation of LMC’s Materiality LMC mines for their site specific modification and use. activities as it relates to our scope of work over the LMC commissioned a materiality assessment during reporting period. 2017 that included identifying issues of importance for • Candelaria Mine was found to have a written procedure internal and external stakeholders. LMC conducted an for reporting GRI data. Consider requesting that all • LMC has established appropriate systems for the internal review of material aspects identified in the 2017 sites develop written procedures for how various data collection, aggregation and analysis of relevant information, materiality assessment to determine issues of importance David Reilly, Lead Verifier (energy, water, safety, etc.) that is entered into the GRI and has implemented underlying internal assurance to the company. LMC also identified additional issues Principal Consultant template is collected, recorded and reported. Having practices that provide a reasonable degree of confidence that, while not deemed to be material to the business, Sustainability and Climate Change Services written procedures will standardize reporting at the that such information is complete and accurate. were identified as issues of interest to some of their Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. site level, will help ensure continued consistent data • The Report adequately reflects the organization’s stakeholders. These additional issues were Governance, management and reporting in the future and will be alignment to, and implementation of the AA1000AS (2008) Human Rights, Biodiversity and Product Stewardship. helpful in the event of employee absence or turnover. principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness The Report included a discussion of these identified issues and is organized to align with the issues determined to • Based on our visits to three LMC mines over the last in its operations (further detail is provided below). be material to LMC’s business and stakeholders. Based three years, most key performance data are tracked and • LMC has processes in place for consulting and on our site visit to the Candelaria Mine, interviews with reported on a regular basis to local mine management engaging with its key stakeholders in a structured external stakeholders and LMC employees and review during the reporting year. However, the mine sites Trevor Donaghu, Technical Reviewer and systematic manner. of the Report, LMC has adequately addressed the appear to report select KPIs to corporate on a yearly Program Manager materiality principle in its operations and the 2018 Report. basis. More frequent and consistent reporting of KPIs Sustainability and Climate Change Services • LMC has processes in place for recording and to corporate should be considered to allow identification Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. managing grievances through to their resolution. Responsiveness of trends and implementation of opportunities for LMC has developed requirements and systems to improvement throughout the year. ADHERENCE TO THE respond to stakeholder issues such as grievances and PRINCIPLES OF AA1000AS complaints in their Stakeholder Engagement Standard STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE, Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. As required by the AA1000AS (2008) standard, outlined and associated Stakeholder Engagement Procedure IMPARTIALITY AND COMPETENCE Santa Ana, California, USA below are our observations relating to LMC’s adherence to (Guidance). The Guidance document requires sites to Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services April 30, 2019 the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. have a Stakeholder Communication and Engagement company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, Social Plan and a Grievance Mechanism in place to identify, and Environmental management with over 185 years Inclusivity track and respond to concerns raised by stakeholders history in providing independent assurance services. LMC’s Responsible Mining Policy and Stakeholder both formally and informally. Bureau Veritas observed the Engagement Standard outlines the company’s implementation of Stakeholder Engagement Guidance No member of the assurance team has a business commitments regarding communities, stakeholders and and the Grievance Mechanism through our discussions relationship with LMC, its Directors or Managers beyond external engagement. LMC’s Stakeholder Engagement with external stakeholders and LMC employees during our that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and Standard and supporting Stakeholder Engagement visit to the Candelaria Mine, and through review of internal reporting. We have conducted this verification independently Corporate Procedure (Stakeholder Engagement Guidance reports. Responses to stakeholder concerns were found and we believe there to have been no conflict of interest. document) provides the minimum requirements for sites to to be timely and complete based on observations made at Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across identify and engage with groups and individuals who may be the Candelaria Mine and reviews of internal reports. Based the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff impacted by company activities. Bureau Veritas observed on our review, we conclude that LMC has adequately in their day-to-day business activities. implementation of external stakeholder engagement during addressed the responsiveness principle in its operations our discussions with external stakeholders and LMC and the 2018 Report. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 126 127 INDEPENDENT GRI CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE STATEMENT In Accordance with the ‘Core’ Option LUNDIN MINING CORPORATION DATA AND INFORMATION SUBJECT TO ASSURANCE Core Additional Page number (s) GRI Standard Disclosures Disclosures Description and / or URL(s) TYPE UNIT RESULTS FOR 2018 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Fuels and Energy GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organization 7 General Purchased Fuels (Scope 1) Gigajoules 4,505,723 Disclosures 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 7, 8, 11 Purchased Electricity (Scope 2) Gigajoules 4,547,174 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters 6, 7, Back Cover Total Energy Consumption Gigajoules 9,052,897 102-4 Location of operations 5, 6-11 (Scope 1 and 2) 102-5 Ownership and legal form AIF: pages 16-20 Emissions 102-6 Markets served 11 Direct CO2e Emissions (Scope 1) Metric Tons CO2Eq 366,653 102-7 Scale of the organization 8-9, 45, 119-120 Indirect (purchased electricity) CO2e Metric Tons CO2Eq 473,276 Emissions (Scope 2) (Location-based) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 8-9, 45, 119-120 Indirect (purchased electricity) CO2e Metric Tons CO2Eq 500,999 102-9 Supply chain 11 Emissions (Scope 2) (Market-based) 102-10 Significant changes to the organization 11 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e Metric Tons CO2Eq 839,929 and its supply chain Emissions (Location-based) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 12, 27-28, 75-77 Water 102-12 External initiatives 29 Total Water Withdrawal Cubic Meters 31,846,420 102-13 Membership of associations 12 Total Water Discharged Cubic Meters 13,750,367 STRATEGY GRI 102: 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2-3 Safety General Disclosures 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 2-3, 16-23 Total Recordable Injury Frequency TRIF is calculated as (total number 0.67 2016 Rate (TRIF) of recordable injuries (including fatalities, lost time injury, restricted ETHICS AND INTEGRITY work and medical treatment injury) GRI 102: 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 7, 14, 25-26, website x 200,000 hours)/ total hours worked General Disclosures 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 25-26, 52, 123 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIF is calculated as (total lost time 0.35 2016 (LTIF) injuries x 200,000 hours)/ total hours worked Stakeholder Engagement and Grievance Mechanism Stakeholder Engagement NA LMC was found to be effectively engaging with Stakeholders and considering stakeholder input in adherence to the AA1000APS principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. Grievance Mechanism NA LMC has a functioning grievance mechanism in place and in use. Grievances Filed Number of grievances filed during 61 In accordance with the ‘Core’ option, no omissions 2018 company wide Represents data and information subject to external assurance LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 128 GRI CONTENT INDEX 129 GRI CONTENT INDEX In Accordance with the ‘Core’ Option Core Additional Page number (s) Core Additional Page number (s) GRI Standard Disclosures Disclosures Description and / or URL(s) GRI Standard Disclosures Disclosures Description and / or URL(s) GOVERNANCE REPORTING PRACTICES GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 25 GRI 102: 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 5-6, Financial Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, General financial statements Statements: pages 6-7 Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach Disclosures 2016 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 6 GRI 102: 102-18 Governance structure 5, 25 General 102-47 List of material topics 6 Disclosures 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 25 2016 and its committees 102-48 Restatements of information 42, 43 (footnotes 1& 2) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Information Circular: 102-49 Changes in reporting 6 governance body page 3 102-50 Reporting period 5 102-25 Conflicts of interest 25, Code of Conduct 102-51 Date of most recent report 5 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 13, Information Circular: purpose, values, and strategy page 20 102-52 Reporting cycle 5 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics 13, 27-28 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Back Cover 102-32 Highest governance body’s role 5, 6, 13, 25 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 5, 6, 127-135 in sustainability reporting with the GRI Standards 102-33 Process for communicating critical concerns Information Circular: 102-55 GRI content index 127 to the highest governance body page 17 102-56 External assurance 123 102-35 Remuneration policies Information Circular: pages 43, 44 ECONOMIC TOPICS 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Information Circular: Economic Performance page 43-49 GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 41 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 53-56, 60 Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 42, 43, 63, 67 Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks 95, 99 GRI 102: 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 53-56 2016 (partial) and opportunities due to climate change General Disclosures 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 49 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 52 GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 64 Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 5, 6, 53-56 Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 45, 52, 53-56 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 42-43 Indirect Economic 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 60, 64-66 Impacts 2016 (partial) In accordance with the ‘Core’ option, no omissions Represents data and information subject to external assurance LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 130 GRI CONTENT INDEX 131 GRI CONTENT INDEX In Accordance with the ‘Core’ Option Core Additional Page number (s) Core Additional Page number (s) GRI Standard Disclosures Disclosures Description and / or URL(s) GRI Standard Disclosures Disclosures Description and / or URL(s) ECONOMIC TOPICS ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS Local Economic Impacts Biodiversity GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 64 GRI 304: 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, 112 Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, Biodiversity or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach 2016 high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 42-43, 48 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products 113 Procurement (partial) and services on biodiversity Practices 2016 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 111 GRI 202: 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from 42, 48 (partial) Market the local community Presence 2016 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 113 species with habitats in areas affected by operations Anti-Corruption Mining and MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased and managed 116 GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 26, Code of Conduct Metals Sector for production activities or extractive use) distributed Anti-corruption Disclosures or rehabilitated 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 26, Code of Conduct 2013 policies and procedures MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified 111 as requiring biodiversity management plans according 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 26 to stated criteria and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS Emissions Energy GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 95 GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 100-103 Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, Energy 2016 Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 104 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 105-106 302-3 Energy intensity 103 Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 105-106 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 105-109 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 108 Water 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 106-108 GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 75 Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 108-109 Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX) 110 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 80 and other significant air emissions 2016 303-2 Water sources significantly affected 81 (partial) by withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 78 In accordance with the ‘Core’ option, no omissions Represents data and information subject to external assurance LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 132 GRI CONTENT INDEX 133 GRI CONTENT INDEX In Accordance with the ‘Core’ Option Core Additional Page number (s) Core Additional Page number (s) GRI Standard Disclosures Disclosures Description and / or URL(s) GRI Standard Disclosures Disclosures Description and / or URL(s) ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS SOCIAL TOPICS Effluents and Waste Employment GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 82, 86 GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 119-120 Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, Employment Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach 2016 GRI 306: 306-1 Water Discharges by quality and destination 82 Occupational Health and Safety Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 94 GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 31 Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, 306-3 Significant spills 77 Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 94 GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management – 31, 54 (partial) Occupational worker health and safety committees Health and 306-5 Water bodies affected by water Discharges 114 Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 32, 120-121 and/or runoff diseases, lost days and absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities Environmental Compliance 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk 31, 36 GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws 76-77 (partial) of diseases related to their occupation Environmental and regulations Compliance Training and Education 2016 GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 49, Tailings and Waste Rock Management Training and 83,740 hours / 3,351 Education employee = 25 hours GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 86 2016 Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 47 Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach performance and career development reviews Mining and MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings 86-88 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Metals Sector and sludges and their associated risks Disclosures GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2-3, 16, 25, 46 2013 Diversity and Equal 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 47 Reclamation and Closure Opportunity of women to men 2016 GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 116 Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, Non-Discrimination Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 29 Mining and MM10 Number and percentage of operations 116 discrimination actions taken Metals Sector with closure plans 2016 Disclosures 2013 In accordance with the ‘Core’ option, no omissions Represents data and information subject to external assurance LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 134 GRI CONTENT INDEX 135 GRI CONTENT INDEX In Accordance with the ‘Core’ Option Core Additional Page number (s) Core Additional Page number (s) GRI Standard Disclosures Disclosures Description and / or URL(s) GRI Standard Disclosures Disclosures Description and / or URL(s) SOCIAL TOPICS SOCIAL TOPICS Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Mining and MM5 Total number of operations taking place in 58 Metals Sector or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples' territories GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 49 Disclosures and number and percentage of operations or Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, 2013 sites where there are formal agreements with Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach Indigenous Peoples' communities GRI 407: 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right 29, 49 MM6 Number and description of significant disputes 59 Freedom of to freedom of association and collective relating to land use, customary rights of local Association bargaining may be at risk communities and Indigenous Peoples and Collective Bargaining MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were 58 2016 used to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Mining and MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding 49 Peoples and the outcomes Metals Sector one week's duration Disclosures Local Communities 2013 GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 51 Child Labour Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 29 Labour 2016 for incidents of child labour GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 51-53, 61 Communities impact assessments and development programs Forced or Compulsory Labour 2016 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential 51, 52, 53, 60-61 GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 29 negative impacts on local communities Forced or for incidents of forced or compulsory labour Compulsory Socio Economic Compliance Labour 2016 GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 36, 71, 77, 110 Rights of Indigenous Peoples Socioeconomic in the social and economic area Compliance GRI 103: 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, 58 2016 Management 103-2, the management approach and its components, Approach 2016 103-3 evaluation of the management approach MATERIALS AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP GRI 411: Rights 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights 59 GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product and service 71 of Indigenous of Indigenous Peoples Marketing and information and labelling Peoples 2016 Labeling 2016 GRI 417: 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning products 73 Marketing and and services, and marketing communication Labeling 2016 GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 73 Customer of customer privacy and losses of customer data Privacy 2016 GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 73, 77, 110 Socioeconomic (partial) in the social and economic area Compliance 2016 In accordance with the ‘Core’ option, no omissions Represents data and information subject to external assurance LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 136 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 137 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SDGS Lundin Mining joined the UNGC in 2016 and has PRINCIPLES PROGRESS ACHIEVED documented its support of the 10 Principles on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption, Expectations Labour and the 17 SDGs, through an annual Communication on Progress (COP). Lundin Mining’s COP presents annual 3. Business should uphold the Lundin Mining is committed to achieving a safe, productive and 3, 5, 8, 10 progress and actions on both the UNGC Principles as freedom of association and healthy work environment across all operations. The Company well as the SDGs, achieved through Company-wide the effective recognition of the supports freedom of association and collective bargaining, does activities, documented in detail throughout this 2018 right to collective bargaining not tolerate any form of harassment and fosters a work environment Sustainability Report. free from discrimination. We support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, and child labour. Based on our internal assessment, none of our operations are at risk for incidents of child labour, or forced, or compulsory labour. SDGS PRINCIPLES PROGRESS ACHIEVED 4. The elimination of all forms of Lundin Mining initiated a Human Rights Risk Assessment Expectations Human Rights forced and compulsory labour program in 2018, which will be completed in 2019 and presented in future reporting. 1. Businesses should support Lundin Mining currently integrates human rights into its business 5, 8, 16, 12 and respect the protection practices and processes such as the Code of Conduct, Ethical 5. The effective abolition Lundin Mining’s position on labour is guided by the following policies, of internationally proclaimed Values, and Anti-Corruption (“Code of Conduct”), Responsible Mining of child labour principles, standards and / or commitments: human rights Policy and Framework. In addition, the Company initiated a Human • Human Resources / Compensation Committee of the Board Rights Risk Assessment program in 2018 that will be completed in • Code of Conduct 2019 and reported on in future reports. • Diversity Policy 2. Business should make sure The Company fosters a work environment free from discrimination • Equal Pay* that they are not complicit against gender, age, race, national origin, marital status, sexual • Human Resources Policy* in human right abuses orientation, religious beliefs, disability, or any other personal characteristics protected by international human rights law. • Freedom of Association* In addition to the UNGC, Lundin Mining demonstrates its commitment • Proof of Age Requirements* to support human rights through consideration of the following • Strategic Social Investment Standard* international principles / standards: Organization for Economic • Five-year Social Performance Strategic Plans* Co-operation and Development (OECD), Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (MNEs), United Nations Guiding Principles on Business (*) details for these topics can be found on pages 7 & 8 of the 2017 Communication on Progress Report and Human Rights, and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPs). 6. The elimination of Lundin Mining provides oversight and governance for these Principles Supplementary details on progress on these areas can be found discrimination in respect of through the activities of the Human Resources / Compensation in these sections of the 2018 Sustainability Report: employment and occupation Committee of the Board. As well, the Company is a member of the UNGC to advance the 10 Principles and 17 SDGs and considers the • Governance – Human Rights International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards on • Human Resources Social and Environmental Sustainability as best practice. • Social Performance – Our Approach More details on progress on these areas can be found in this report: • Feature Stories (throughout this report) Our Performance against 2018 Targets – Social. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 138 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 139 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDGS SDGS PRINCIPLES PROGRESS ACHIEVED PRINCIPLES PROGRESS ACHIEVED Expectations Environment Expectations Anti-Corruption 7. Business should support a Lundin Mining supports the precautionary approach and continues 7, 9, 12, 13 10. Business should work Lundin Mining has a zero-tolerance policy for bribery and corruption 10, 12, 16 precautionary approach to advancement of numerous programs and partnerships to improve against corruption in all its by employees, officers, directors, consultants, and contractors of the environmental challenges and optimize environmental and sustainability performance. forms, including extortion Company. The Company is committed to meeting or exceeding legal and bribery requirements wherever we operate. 8. Undertake initiatives Our material environmental areas of focus include: water and to promote greater effluents, mine closure planning, mineral wastes, climate change The Lundin Mining Board has approved an updated Code of environmental responsibility adaptation and GHG emissions. Conduct for further clarity of alignment with the recent amendment of the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act (Canada), removing 9. Encourage the development Our practices are guided by the following: the facilitation payments exception under the Act. Lundin Mining’s and diffusion of position on anti-corruption is guided by the following: • HSEC Committee of the Board environmentally friendly • RMMS and supporting HSEC technical standards • Audit Committee of the Board technologies • Responsible Mining Policy • Code of Conduct • Participation in local, national, and international associations • Gifts and Entertainment (this report: Our Operations – Memberships and Associations) • Conflicts of Interest In addition to the UNGC, Lundin Mining’s environmental practices • Political Contributions and Activities voluntarily align with the IFC’s Performance Standards on Social Lundin Mining monitors and evaluates anti-corruption best practices and Environmental Sustainability, the OECD Guidelines for and performance through internal audits and the Company’s MNEs. Lundin Mining is a member of the Mining Association of ClearView Connects reporting system. Details on progress on these Canada (MAC) and considers the MAC Towards Sustainable areas can be found in the following sections: Mining Framework as a best practice to enhance Company-wide environmental standards and practices. • Governance • Social Performance In 2018, Lundin Mining advanced the inclusion of innovation and technology through the creation of a corporate-level resource, Director Operational Technology. Details on progress in these areas, and partnerships to advance them, can be found in these sections of the 2018 Sustainability Report: • Our Performance Against 2018 Targets – Environment • Environmental Management • Feature Stories (throughout this report) LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 140 141 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ON FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Certain of the statements made and information contained “initiative”, “intend”, “likely”, “model”, “objective”, “on track”, Forward-looking information and statements are subject or services; the inherent uncertainty of exploration and herein or incorporated by reference is “forward-looking “opportunity”, “option”, “outlook”, “PEA”, “phase”, “plan”, to a variety of known and unknown risks and uncertainties, development, and the potential for unexpected costs and information” within the meaning of applicable Canadian “positioning”, “potential”, “predict”, “preliminary”, “priority”, and ultimately, actual events or results may differ materially expenses including, without limitation, for mine closure securities laws. All statements other than statements “profile”, “project”, “probable”, “proposed”, “prospect”, from those reflected in the forward-looking information. and reclamation at current and historical operations; risks of historical facts included in this Sustainability Report, “ramp-up”, “risk”, “schedule”, “seek”, “strategy”, “study”, Risks and uncertainties that may impact the Company’s associated with the estimation of Mineral Resources and including but not limited to statements regarding the “target”, “uncertainty” or “view”, or any variations of or performance include, without limitation, risks inherent in Mineral Reserves and the geology, grade and continuity of prospects of the industry and Lundin Mining Corporation’s similar terminology or statements that certain actions, and/or associated with operating in foreign countries; mineral deposits including but not limited to models relating (“Lundin Mining” or the “Company”) prospects, plans, events or results “could”, “may”, “might”, “should”, “would”, uncertain political and economic environments; community thereto; actual ore mined and / or metal recoveries varying future financial and operating performance and business or “will” be taken, occur, or be achieved, or the negatives activism, shareholder activism and risks related to negative from Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimates; strategy, constitute forward-looking information. or variations of any of the foregoing terms or expressions, publicity with respect to the Company or the mining mine plans, and life of mine estimates; the possibility that Forward-looking information is based on current are intended to identify such forward-looking information. industry in general; changes in laws, regulations or policies future exploration, development or mining results will not expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections as including but not limited to those related to permitting be consistent with expectations; natural phenomena such well as beliefs and assumptions made by the Company’s Forward-looking information is based on various factors and approvals, environmental management, labour, trade as earthquakes, flooding, and unusually severe weather; management. Such forward-looking information includes, and assumptions including, without limitation, the relations, and transportation; delays or the inability to potential for the allegation of fraud and corruption involving but is not limited to, statements about the Company’s expectations and beliefs of management, including that obtain necessary governmental approvals and / or permits; the Company, its customers, suppliers or employees, or plans, prospects, position, future results, and business the Company can access financing, appropriate equipment regulatory investigations, enforcement, sanctions and/or the allegation of improper or discriminatory employment strategies; the timing and amount of future production; and sufficient labour; assumed and future price of copper, related or other litigation; risks associated with business practices, or human rights violations; security at the costs of production; project and permitting timelines; the nickel, zinc and other metals; anticipated costs; ability arrangements and partners over which the Company does Company’s operations; breach or compromise of key Company’s outlook and guidance on estimated metal to achieve goals; and that the political environment in not have full control; risks associated with acquisitions and information technology systems; materially increased or production and production profile; costs, and exploration which the Company operates will continue to support related integration efforts (including with respect to the unanticipated reclamation obligations; risks related to mine and capital expenditures; timing and possible outcome the development and operation of mining projects. Chapada Acquisition); the risk that the Chapada Acquisition closure activities; risks related to closed and historical sites; of pending litigation; technical information, including Certain important factors that could cause actual results, will not be completed on the terms set out in the definitive title risk and the potential of undetected encumbrances; the results of any Preliminary Economic Assessment, performance or achievements to differ materially from purchase agreement, or at all; competitive responses to risks associated with the structural stability of waste rock Feasibility Study, or Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve those in the forward-looking statements include, among the announcement of the Chapada Acquisition; dumps or tailings storage facilities; and other risks and estimations (as such terms are defined in the definitions others, metal price volatility; discrepancies between competition; development or mining results not being uncertainties, including but not limited to those described adopted by the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy actual and estimated production; Mineral Reserve and consistent with the Company’s expectations; estimates in the “Risk and Uncertainties” section of the Annual and Petroleum Council on May 10, 2014 (the “CIM Mineral Resource estimates, and metallurgical recoveries; of future production and operations; operating, cash and Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2018 Standards”)), life of mine estimates, and mine and mine mining operational and development risks; litigation risks; all-in sustaining cost estimates; allocation of resources and and the “Managing Risks” section of the Company’s closure plans; the parameters and assumptions underlying regulatory restrictions (including environmental regulatory capital; litigation; uninsurable risks; volatility and fluctuations management’s discussion and analysis for the year ended the Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimates and restrictions and liability); changes in national and local in metal and commodity prices; the estimation of asset December 31, 2018, which are available on SEDAR at financial analysis; anticipated market prices of metals, government legislation, taxation, controls or regulations carrying values; funding requirements and availability of www.sedar.com under the Company’s profile. Readers currency exchange rates, and interest rates; the Company’s and/or change in the administration of laws, policies and financing; indebtedness; foreign currency fluctuations; are cautioned that the foregoing list is not exhaustive of anticipated capital and operating costs for its material practices, expropriation or nationalization of property interest rate volatility; changes in the Company’s share all factors and assumptions which may have been used. mineral properties; the development and implementation and political or economic developments in jurisdictions price, and equity markets, in general; changing taxation Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties of the Company’s Responsible Mining Management in which the Company carries on business, or may carry regimes; counterparty and credit risks; health and safety materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove System; the Company’s ability to comply with contractual on business in the future; delays, suspensions or technical risks; risks related to the environmental impact of the incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those and permitting or other regulatory requirements; the receipt challenges associated with capital projects; higher prices Company’s operations and products and management described in forward-looking information. Accordingly, and maintenance of all necessary permitting and approvals; for fuel, steel, power, labour and other consumables; thereof; unavailable or inaccessible infrastructure and there can be no assurance that forward-looking information the Company’s intentions with respect to exploration currency fluctuations; the speculative nature of mineral risks related to ageing infrastructure; risks inherent in will prove to be accurate, and so readers are advised not to and development activities at its projects; expectations exploration; the global economic climate; dilution; share mining including but not limited to risks to the environment, place undue reliance on forward-looking information. The regarding the results of operations and production at the price volatility; competition; loss of key employees; industrial accidents, catastrophic equipment failures, forward-looking information contained herein speaks only Company’s mines; the intentions of the Company regarding additional funding requirements; and defective title to unusual or unexpected geological formations or unstable as of the date of this Sustainability Report. The Company the acquisition of the Chapada mine (the “Chapada mineral claims or property. Although the Company believes ground conditions; actual ore mined varying from estimates disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise Acquisition”) and the terms, timing, completion and any that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking of grade, tonnage, dilution and metallurgical and other forward‐looking information or to explain any material anticipated benefits thereof; and the Company’s integration information contained herein are reasonable, these characteristics; ore processing efficiency; risks relating difference between such and subsequent actual events, of acquisitions (including the Chapada Acquisition) statements, by their nature, involve risks and uncertainties to attracting and retaining of highly skilled employees; except as required by applicable law. and any anticipated benefits thereof. Words such as and are not guarantees of future performance. Although ability to retain key personnel; the potential for and effects “aim”, “anticipate”, “assumption”, “believe”, “budget”, the Company has attempted to identify important factors of labour disputes or other unanticipated difficulties with “commitment”, “continue”, “contingent”, “endeavour”, that could cause actual results to differ materially from or shortages of labour or interruptions in production; the “estimate”, “expansionary”, “expect”, “exploration”, those contained in forward-looking information, there may price and availability of energy and key operating supplies “feasibility”, “flexibility”, “forecast”, “focus”, “forecast”, be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, “foresee”, “forward”, “future”, “growth”, “guidance”, estimated, forecast or intended. LUNDIN MINING 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Corporate Head Office 150 King Street West, Suite 2200 PO Box 38 Toronto, ON M5H 1J9 Phone +1 416 342 5560 info@lundinmining.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FEEDBACK We welcome feedback from stakeholders regarding our 2018 Sustainability Report. For further information or comments, please contact: Linda Wrong Director, Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs linda.wrong@lundinmining.com Telephone: 1 416 342 5560 Cover photo: Candelaria Mine Additional photo credits: Site and Corporate Staff
