November 2019 Communication on Progress To the United Nations Global Compact Message from the Co-CEOs expressing support for the Global Compact (Extract of JCDecaux’s 2018 Registration Document) “Our new world, which is facing multiple challenges, must also be preserved because we do not have a planet B. In this regard, our Sustainable Development Department is working closely with all our activities to create real opportunities for growth while also respecting the 3 major challenges which drive our strategy (Environmental, Social and Stakeholder responsibility) and our commitment to the Global Compact, to ensure the continued existence of our assets, to create shared value and to have a positive impact in society.” In 1964, Jean-Claude Decaux invented an economic model that is, today more relevant than ever: providing cities with products and services offering a public service to citizens financed by advertising revenues. Deployed across all of the Company’s activities (cities, airports, transport services, shopping centres, etc.), our economic model offers numerous advantages particularly in its service dimension. This economic model allows cities to provide high-quality services to citizens, to have outdoor communication spaces available to connect with them, and to improve their eco-mobility offer with no impact on local finances and taxpayers, thanks to advertising revenues. We provide urban solutions with a low environmental impact and offer high-quality, aesthetically pleasing and accessible products and services in line with our values to serve cities and the public. With the launch of our Sustainable Development Strategy in 2014, JCDecaux set itself ambitious objectives to minimize its impacts on the environment and create social and stakeholder value: Reduce our energy consumption Reduce our other environmental impacts Deploy a group-wide Health and Safety Policy Implement an ambitious group-wide Social Policy Reinforcing sustainable development in the Purchasing Policy Strengthen employees’ commitment towards sustainable development In this Communication on Progress, we report on specific Company commitments, practical measures and outcomes which have been achieved to date in each of the four areas addressed by the Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. All the information published in this document was compiled mainly from JCDecaux’s 2018 Registration Document as well as the JCDecaux’s International Charter of Fundamental Social Values, JCDecaux’s Code of Ethics and JCDecaux’s Code of Conduct of Suppliers. -2JCDecaux’s 2019 Communication on Progress content table UN Global Compact JCDecaux’s Public Public Main implementation actions and outcomes principles commitments references references HUMAN Principle 1: Businesses The Company has issued JCDecaux • The International Charter of Fundamental Social Values is made available to all 2018 RIGHTS should support and respect a formalised commitment International JCDecaux employees. Registration the protection of to respect human rights Charter of Document • An evaluation is carried out every other year on the compliance of subsidiaries’ internationally proclaimed standards and prevent Fundamental (pdf pages local practices with the Charter’s principles. At the start of 2018, a new human rights any violations in its Social 69 ; 79-80) assessment of the countries was made to which 56 of the Group entities International Charter of Values (all Principle 2: make sure that responded, covering 97% of the FTEs at the end of 2017. This assessment Fundamental Social pages) they are not complicit in enabled to identify 17 entities with non-compliances, mainly related to the Values. human rights abuses JCDecaux principles of non-discrimination and working time. The entities concerned While the Charter applies Code of undertook to implement corrective action plans. Some noncompliance may still to the benefit of all Conduct of remain, justified by specific local legal constraints in certain countries. These JCDecaux employees Suppliers elements are being monitored by the Human Resources International Projects around the world, (pdf pages Department. JCDecaux extended its 8-11) • A legal representation letter is signed by each subsidiary’s General Managers commitment to respecting every year stating their compliance with the Charter and its principles. human rights to its suppliers through the • A verification of the local deployment of the Charter is carried out systematically JCDecaux Code of by the Internal Audit Department when auditing subsidiaries. Conduct of Suppliers. • An online confidential vigilance alert system is in place and available to all Related SDGs: SDG3, employees since November 2018. SDG5, SDG8, SDG10 • The signature of the Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 71% of Group key suppliers in 2018. This measure is currently being expanded. • A yearly evaluation and an audit every three years of key suppliers including human rights criteria are carried out. In 2018, 46% of key suppliers were evaluated and 21% were audited. This measure is also currently being expanded. -3UN Global Compact JCDecaux’s Public Public Main implementation actions and outcomes principles commitments references references LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses The Company has JCDecaux • At the end of 2018, there were 568 employee representatives at JCDecaux 2018 should uphold the issued a formalised International worldwide, 612 meetings were held with staff representatives, 73 agreements were Registration freedom of association commitment to respect Charter of signed for a total of 241 agreements in force in 2018 and 50% of Group employees Document and the effective employees’ rights to Fundamental were covered by collective bargaining agreements. (pdf pages recognition of the right to freedom of association Social • The International Charter of Fundamental Social Values is made available to all 69 ; 77; 79collective bargaining and collective Values (all JCDecaux employees. A practical guide is also deployed aiming to provide all 80) bargaining as well as pages) subsidiaries with guidance on how to implement the Charter’s principles. Principle 4: the prevent forced labour, elimination of all forms of JCDecaux • An evaluation is carried out every other year on the compliance of subsidiaries’ child labour and any forced and compulsory Code of local practices with the Charter’s principles. At the start of 2018, a new assessment forms of discrimination labour Conduct of of the countries was made to which 56 of the Group entities responded, covering in its International Suppliers 97% of the FTEs at the end of 2017. This assessment enabled to identify 17 Principle 5: the effective Charter of Fundamental (pdf pages entities with non-compliances, mainly related to the principles of nonabolition of child labour Social Values issued in 8-11) discrimination and working time. The entities concerned undertook to implement 2013. Principle 6: the corrective action plans. Some noncompliance may still remain, justified by specific elimination of The same commitments local legal constraints in certain countries. These elements are being monitored discrimination in respect apply to the Group’s by the Human Resources International Projects Department. of employment and suppliers as detailed in • A legal representation letter is signed by each subsidiary’s General Managers occupation JCDecaux’s Code of every year stating their compliance with the Charter and its principles Conduct of Suppliers issued in 2014. • A verification of the local deployment of the Charter is carried out by the Internal Audit Department when auditing subsidiaries Related SDGs: SDG3, SDG5, SDG8, SDG10 • An online confidential vigilance alert system is in place and available to all employees since November 2018. • The signature of the Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 71% of Group key suppliers in 2018. This measure is currently being expanded. • A yearly evaluation and an audit every three years of key suppliers including human rights criteria are carried out. In 2018, 46% of key suppliers were evaluated and 21% were audited. This measure is also currently being expanded. -4UN Global JCDecaux’s Public Public Compact Main implementation actions and outcomes commitments references references principles ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: As part of its 2018 • The use of Life Cycle Analyses (LCA) and an eco-design approach by the R&D 2018 Businesses Sustainable Registration Department for the design of furniture Registration should support a Development Document • Furniture energy reduction initiatives are undertaken on (1) energy efficiency, (2) energy Document precautionary Strategy, the (pdf pages usage and (3) carbon neutrality. Subsidiaries must comply with strict rules such as the use (pdf pages approach to Company has issued 58-64) of highly efficient lighting technologies for all new contracts. Other measures in place are 58-64 ; 79the introduction of schedule power modulation, lighting switch-off at night, and lighting environmental 2 strategic priorities retrofits of existing furniture where possible 80) JCDecaux challenges which concern the Code of • Vehicle energy reduction initiatives are undertaken, including eco-driving training, protection of the Principle 8: Conduct of optimization of logistics rounds, and the choice of environmentally friendly vehicles. These environment: the measures led to a 13% fuel consumption per km travelled reduction in 2018 vs. 2012. undertake Suppliers Reduction of our initiatives to (pdf pages • JCDecaux’s renewable electricity procurement policy coverage rose from 54% in 2017 to Energy Consumption promote greater 12-13) 69% in 2018. Since the policy was launched in 2014, JCDecaux’s emissions have nearly and the Reduction of halved (from 185,478 TEQ CO2 in 2013). In 2018, purchasing of renewable energy environmental our Other allowed JCDecaux to avoid the emission of nearly 158,253 TEQ C02.Our objective is to responsibility cover 100% of our electricity consumption by renewable energy by 2022. Environmental Principle 9: Impacts. • The use of PEFC or FSC certified paper posters (87% of paper posters ordered were encourage the hence certified in 2018) and the recycling of paper posters (73% of paper posters posted This commitment is were recycled in 2018). development also reflected in the and diffusion of • The reduction of waste volume produced through the refurbishment of furniture at the end Group’s Code of of a contract. environmentally Conduct of Suppliers friendly • The implementation of the ISO 14001 certification covered 58% of Group revenues in which includes 2018, with 16 countries certified. technologies principles on the preservation of the • A digital learning training programme on Sustainable Development was deployed in all Group subsidiaries reaching over 9,600 employees worldwide. environment. • The signature of the Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 71% of Group key Related SDGs: suppliers in 2018. A yearly evaluations and regular audits of key suppliers including SDG12, SDG13 environmental criteria are carried out. In 2018, 46% of key suppliers were evaluated and 21% were audited. This measure is currently being expanded. -5UN Global Compact JCDecaux’s Public Public Main implementation actions and outcomes principles commitments references references ANTIPrinciple 10: The Company has JCDecaux • Ethics matters are dealt with at the highest level of the organisation through the 2018 CORRUPTION Businesses should work issued a formalised Code of Ethics Committee, a sub-committee of JCDecaux’s Supervisory Board. Registration against corruption in all commitment to Ethics (all • The Code of Ethics and its Practical Guide are made available and must be signed Document its forms, including prevent corruption in pages) by all JCDecaux employees. (pdf pages extortion and bribery all its forms in its Code 79-80 ; 293JCDecaux of Ethics. • A legal representation letter is signed by each subsidiary’s General Management 294) Code of every year stating their compliance with the Code of Ethics and its principles. The same Conduct of commitment applies Suppliers • A verification of the local deployment of the Code of Ethics is carried out by the to the Group’s (pdf pages Internal Audit Department when auditing subsidiaries. suppliers as detailed 12-13) • An ethics online confidential alert procedure is in place and available to all in JCDecaux’s Code employees. Three alerts were reported in 2018 (two are being examined and the of Conduct of third was filed without further action). Suppliers. • The signature of the Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 71% of Group key Related SDGs: suppliers in 2018. This measure is currently being expanded. SDG8 • A yearly evaluation and an audit every three years of key suppliers including ethics criteria are carried out. In 2018, 46% of key suppliers were evaluated and 21% were audited. This measure is also currently being expanded. -6-
