ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC Annual Report 2018/19 WE CAN CLAIM TO BE ONE OF SRI LANKA’S TOP TIER ENGINEERING ENTERPRISES. WE CAN ATTEST TO THE CONSIDERABLE IMPACT AND VALUE ADDITION WE ENGENDER THROUGH A MULTITUDE OF IMPORTANT INFRASTRUCTURAL PROJECTS WE SPEARHEAD ACROSS THE COUNTRY. IN AND THROUGH OUR ENTERPRISE, WE “LIVE” THE DUALITY OF MEANING THAT OUR COVER CAPTION SUGGESTS...WE TRULY “ENGINEER LIFE” FOR MANY AND OUR PRODUCTS ARE “ENGINEERED FOR LIFE”. THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES CONTENTS CONTENTs 4 15 67 THIS IS ACCESS OUR VALUE ENGINEERING STRATEGY CREATION 4... About Us 16... Operating Environment 68... Financial Capital 5... About this Report 21... Stakeholder Engagement 78... Manufactured Capital 6... Milestones 29... Materiality 79... Intellectual Capital 7... Our Group Structure 32... Strategic Direction 82... Human Capital 8... Highlights 33... Capital Trade-offs 87... Social and Relationship Capital 10... A Message from the Chairman 34... Our Value Creation Model 101... Natural Capital 12... Joint Statement from the 36... Our Business Portfolio Managing Director and the 109... GRI Content Index Chief Operating Officer ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 113... Independent Assurance Report to AEL 2 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES CONTENTs 115 173 277 STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL ANNEXES REPORTS 116... Board of Directors 174... Annual Report of the Board 278... Operating Structure of Directors on the Affairs 120... Corporate Management Team 279... Eight Year Summary of the Company 124... Corporate Governance 280... Our Story 180... Statement of Director’s 164... Enterprise Risk Management Responsibility 282... Awards and Accolades 181... Director’s Statement on 284... Abbreviations Internal Control 286... Directors of Subsidiary 182... Independent Auditors’ Report Companies and Associates 188... Consolidated Statement of 287... Notice of Meeting Profit or Loss and Other ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Comprehensive Income Enclosed... Form of Proxy 189... Consolidated Statement of Inner Back Corporate Financial Position Cover... Information 190... Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 191... Statement of Cash Flows 193... Notes to the Financial Statements 3 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6 ABOUT US Vision To be the foremost Sri Lankan business enterprise in value engineering. Mission To meet the challenges in the development of multi-sector civil engineering projects, providing innovative solutions whilst developing long-term progressive relationships with all our stakeholders. Access Engineering PLC (AEL), established Engineering has been bestowed with in 2001, is the premier civil engineering recognition as a “Major and Specialist firm in the Sri Lankan construction sector. contractor” by the National Construction Since our inception, we have extensively Association of Sri Lanka. It also has contributed to the construction landscape the highest CIDA grading across most in Sri Lanka through numerous completed number of disciplines of civil engineering. construction projects. We collaborate It is compliant to ISO 9001:2015, across disciplines and industries like energy ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007 and resource, environmental and water to accreditations for its quality, environmental, bring highly diversified projects to life. and health and safety management Our project portfolio over the years include systems, and is a signatory to the UN bridges and flyovers, roads and highways, Global Compact. AEL is also a TRACE harbours, water treatment plants and water member in good standing. supply projects, land drainage and irrigation schemes, telecommunication infrastructure AEL has the following wholly-owned projects, and more. subsidiaries: Access Realties (Private) Limited, Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited, We have set ourselves apart from the ARL Elevate (Private) Limited, and Horizon competition by way of innovative, Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited. one-of-a-kind solutions combined with our end-to-end project and engineering Other subsidiaries are Sathosa Motors know-how. Our workforce consists of staff PLC, which is 84% owned by AEL, Access and labour amounting to over 2,400. Projects (Private) Limited which is (80% Managerial and professional staff account owned), and Harbour Village (Private) for over 150 and technical staff for about Limited (60.83% owned). AEL has 50% 400. We also possess an island-wide joint ventures in Blue Star Realties (Private) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 network of quarries, crusher plants, Limited. Our associate company, ZPMC asphalt plants, and concrete batching Lanka Company (Private) Limited, in which plants along with the latest machinery. we have a 30% stake is a joint venture with Shanghai, Zhenhua Heavy Industries Our local strength, knowledge, and Company Limited (ZPMC) of China, relationships, coupled with our world-class the world’s largest container handling expertise, have allowed us to provide equipment manufacturer. advanced, yet personalised engineering solutions to our stakeholders. The “Access Engineering Promise” is to maintain the highest professional standards from planning and design to execution. Access 4 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-11, 102-12, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56 ABOUT THIS REPORT What you have before you is the sixth Key frameworks and compliance Precautionary principle consecutive Integrated Annual Report of Access Engineering PLC. The Report This integrated Annual Report draws on The Company applies the precautionary provides an overview of the financial concepts, principles, and guidance given in principle in relation to social and highlights, key functions, strategic the following, where applicable: environmental sustainability. The Company investments, and the performance of the  Companies Act No. 07 of 2007; is mindful of the impacts caused to main business segments of the Company. society and environment by its operations  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The Report includes information regarding and have taken necessary measures to Sustainability Reporting Guidelines GRI the value creation process of AEL and mitigate any negative impacts and risks in Standards (www.globalreporting.org); outlines the Company’s short and long-term operational planning and activities.  The International Integrated Reporting strategies, governance, performance, Framework (IIRC) (www.theiirc.org); and the Company’s efforts towards Queries sustainability.  A Preparer’s Guide to Integrated Corporate Reporting” issued by The Further queries regarding the Report or Institute of Chartered Accountants of its content should be addressed to the Report content Sri Lanka; Chief Operating Officer, Access Engineering We have disclosed only the key material PLC at rohana@accessengsl.com  Code of Best Practice on Corporate aspects in the Annual Report 2018/19 Governance issued by The Institute of to ensure the Report is comprehensive Address: 12th Floor, Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka yet concise. These topics are selected Access Engineering PLC, Access Tower, and the Securities and Exchange based on the reporting principles of Union Place, Colombo 2. Commission of Sri Lanka; materiality, sustainability context, balance,  The Ten Principles of UNGC; completeness, and stakeholder inclusion. Phone: +94 117 606 606 The value creation process is described  Sri Lanka Accounting Standards under the six capitals of financial, (SLFRS and LKAS) The Report is available in both print manufactured, intellectual, human, social Securities and Exchange and online versions. The latter may be and relationship, and natural capitals. Commission Regulations downloaded from the Company’s website www.accessengsl.com Listing Rules of the Colombo Report boundary and Stock Exchange reporting period  Smart Integrated Reporting MethodologyTM The overall boundary of this Report (www.SmartAnnualReport.com). includes both Access Engineering PLC  (referred to as AEL or Company) and its subsidiaries as listed out in page 7 Compliance (collectively referred to as the “Group”). This Report presents financial aspects as Financial aspects cover the entire Group well as the wider social and environmental while other aspects cover only Access impact of the Company’s activities. This Engineering PLC. Access Engineering Report is prepared in accordance with the PLC’s Integrated Annual Report 2018/19 core criteria of GRI Sustainability Reporting covers the period from 1 April 2018 to Guidelines GRI Standards. 31 March 2019. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 There are no significant changes from External assurance previous reporting periods in the scope The Financial Statements were audited by and aspect boundaries. Messrs KPMG Chartered Accountants while assurance on the sustainability reporting The most recent Annual Report covered the was also provided by Messrs KPMG. 12-month period ended 31 March 2018. 5 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES MILESTONES MARCH Access Engineering PLC and Sathosa Motors PLC recorded the highest ever turnover Commencement of the Civil works of Construction of 100mw Semi Dispatchable Wind Farm in JANUARY Mannar Island Commissioning of the Kochchikade Bridge to the public FEBRUARY Commencement of the commissioning work of ZPMC Ship Completion of the Piling works of Phase I — to Shore and Rubber Tired Gantry “Marina Square” of Harbour Village (Pvt) Ltd. Cranes to CICT and SAGT DECEMBER Recipient of the “Gold Award” in the Construction category and the “Silver Award” for CSR reporting at the CA Sri Lanka 2018 Annual Report Awards 2019 NOVEMBER Ranked among Top 10 Corporate Citizens in Sri Lanka at the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards 2018 Commencement of MEP works of Capital Heights by Blue Star Realties (Pvt) Ltd. OCTOBER Commencement of the design and construction and financing works of the housing project at Cyril C Perera Mawatha, Bloemendhal MAY Commencement of the construction works of ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Anuradhapura North Water Supply Project — Phase 01 APRIL 2018 Commencement of the construction works of ISUZU Workshop for Sathosa Motors PLC at Peliyagoda 6 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-6, 102-45 OUR GROUP STRUCTURE Access Engineering PLC Parent Construction and supply of construction-related services and materials Access Projects (Private) Limited 80% CONSTRUCTION AND CONSTRUCTIONConstruction and supply of construction-related RELATED MATERIALS services and materials Access Realties (Private) Limited 100% Commercial property development for lease and rental Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited 100% Commercial property development for lease and rental Harbour Village (Private) Limited 60.83% Residential and commercial property development (In partnership with China Harbour Engineering Company Limited and Mustafa’s Pte. Ltd.) PROPERTY Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited 50% Residential property development Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited 100% Property development ARL Elevate (Private) Limited 100% Provision of conference, restaurant, and support facilities for Access Towers Sathosa Motors PLC 84.42% ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Authorised distributor for ISUZU in Sri Lanka AUTOMOBILE SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited 42.21%* Authorised distributor for Jaguar and Land Rover in Sri Lanka ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited 30% Commission, repair, and maintenance of port machinery MECHANICAL ENGINEERING * Effective Holding 7 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-7 HIGHLIGHTS 2018/19 2017/18 Change (%) Group Company Group Company Group Company Earnings highlights and ratios Revenue LKR Mn. 32,277 19,356 26,056 17,937 23.9 7.9 Gross profit LKR Mn. 5,184 3,173 4,061 2,811 27.7 12.9 EBITDA LKR Mn. 4,891 3,912 5,677 3,697 -13.8 5.8 EBIT LKR Mn. 4,173 3,184 5,044 2,990 -17.3 6.5 Earnings before tax LKR Mn. 3,129 2,545 4,231 2,391 -26.1 6.4 Profit attributable to equity holders LKR Mn. 2,150 1,962 2,507 1,908 -14.2 2.8 Dividend LKR Mn. 500 500 1,200 1,200 -58.3 -58.3 Earnings per share LKR 2.15 1.96 2.51 1.91 -14.3 2.7 Dividend per share LKR 0.50 0.50 1.20 1.20 -58.3 -58.3 Dividend payout % 23 25 48 63 -52.1 -60.1 Statement of financial position Highlights and ratios Total assets LKR Mn. 48,062 34,621 44,439 32,989 8.2 4.9 Stated capital LKR Mn. 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 0.0 0.0 Retained earnings LKR Mn. 11,936 9,932 10,388 8,715 14.9 14.3 Total equity/Shareholders’ funds LKR Mn. 23,588 19,085 22,092 17,868 6.8 6.8 Total liabilities LKR Mn. 24,474 15,536 22,346 15,122 9.5 2.7 Current assets LKR Mn. 27,918 15,995 23,268 13,358 20.0 19.7 Current liabilities LKR Mn. 16,941 9,635 14,818 9,165 14.3 5.1 Net asset per share LKR 21.19 19.08 19.79 17.87 7.1 6.8 Investor highlights and ratios Price per share LKR — 13 — 20.50 0 -36.6 Gross profit margin % 16.1 16.4 15.6 15.7 3.3 4.7 Net profit margin % 7.0 10.1 9.5 10.6 -25.9 -5.0 Return on equity % 9.5 10.3 11.15 10.7 -14.8 -3.5 Debt/Total assets % 18.2 16.1 20.4 21.5 -11.1 -25.1 Debt/Equity % 37.0 29.3 41.1 39.7 -10.1 -26.2 Current asset ratio Times 1.6 1.7 1.6 1.5 5.9 13.9 Quick asset ratio Times 1.3 1.5 1.2 1.3 8.6 17.9 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 NET ASSETS CONSOLIDATED REVENUE TOTAL ASSETS LKR Mn. LKR Mn. LKR Mn. 25,000 35,000 50,000 20,000 28,000 40,000 15,000 21,000 30,000 10,000 14,000 20,000 5,000 7,000 10,000 0 0 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 8 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Highlights MANUFACTURED CAPITAL Project Highlights LKR 705 Mn. LKR 286 Mn. Investment in property, plant, Invested in heavy machinery and and equipment equipment fleet INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL LKR 20.5 Mn. Invested to upgrade integrated information and planning systems Commenced construction of 100 MW Wind Power HUMAN CAPITAL Project, in Mannar, largest wind power project in 529 LKR 5 Mn. 2,458 2.38 Sri Lanka Total number of Investment on Staff and Lost time injury training hours employee training labourers frequency rate and development SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 100% 13,695 1,785 Project completion Registered suppliers Pairs of desks and chairs, ratio distributed to 50 schools Completed a major portion of Central Expressway Project Package – A Stage 2 from NATURAL CAPITAL Mirigama to Riloluwa 2,070 2,844 Litres 153,481 Cubic meters Trees planted Water reused and Total water consumed recycled 290,014,952 Megajoules Energy consumed Completed a major portion of the construction Awards of Sathosa Motors PLC’s ISUZU Work Shop at ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Peliyagoda Winner of the Construction Sector Award at the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards 2018 Ranked among the Top 10 Corporate Citizens in Sri Lanka at the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards 2018 Recipient of the Silver Award for Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting at the CA Sri Lanka’s 54th Annual Report Awards 2018 Recipient of the Gold Award for Construction Companies at the CA Sri Lanka’s 54th Annual Report Awards 2018 Reaffirmed “(SL) A+ with a stable outlook” Entity Rating by ICRA Lanka Limited Commissioning of the Kochchikade Bridge to the public 9 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-14 A MESSAGE FROM A MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN THE CHAIRMAN In 2018, we relied on the trust of our stakeholders, and internally, the strength and calibre of our ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 corporate governance, our team, our investments in state-of-the-art technology, and our systems and processes to remain resilient in a challenging climate. 10 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES A MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN We outperformed our expectations amidst vehicle-related financing coupled with Yet, substantial progress were made in the a volatile environment recording the the steep depreciation of the rupee had a construction of both projects where the highest Company and Group turnover profound impact on the automobile sector. piling work was completed and excavation since incorporation, of LKR 19.4 Bn. and shoring commenced in the Marina One of the main challenges the industry and LKR 32.3 Bn. respectively with Square project and in Capital Heights, the and our Company faced during the year was corresponding yearly growth rates of major portion of its superstructure was the lack of clear policy stability and slow 8% and 24%. completed within the year. The two projects approval processes which hindered growth. will continue as planned with Capital Our outstanding financial performance has Further, the shortage of skilled labour, Heights poised for completion in 2020 and positioned us to confront the forthcoming ambiguities in regulatory provisions, like the Marina Square in 2023. demands in the construction sector to 15% VAT introduction from April 2019 on deliver value for all our stakeholders. During condominium apartments, the rising price the year, tangible steps were taken to of raw material, and a curtailed spending OUTLOOK expand our core business lines and further and consumption patterns were other We can claim of being the most innovative develop our prospective and diversified significant challenges that impacted the construction company in the sector with business areas. This is evident from the fact industry during the reporting year. a diversified customer proposition and that the biggest contributor to the growth portfolio. During the coming years, we will experienced at Group level came from the A COMMENDABLE follow our strategic framework to become automobile and the property arms. PERFORMANCE the leader in our sector. The mega These ventures have widened our scope infrastructure projects that have been and cemented our position as a leading Our stellar performance in the year commissioned to us in the state and private corporate entity in Sri Lanka. 2018/19, outlined in the joint statement sectors will spur growth potential in our Equipped with strong foundations, we of the Managing Director and the Chief core business line of construction. Our real envision creating value to the communities Operating Officer, exemplifies our estate ventures will also contribute to the in which we operate and to the Nation continuous leadership in the sector. Our Company growth, while the completion of at large, in the short, medium as well as core and subsidiary business lines have Access Tower I and II have added A grade long term. During the year, we completed created a niche for themselves and continue office spaces. The automobile sector is infrastructure projects of national to occupy market leadership positions in showing encouraging signs of recovery. importance and continued large-scale their respective sectors. Thus, despite economic headwinds, we projects both independently and in joint Over the recent history, we have remain optimistic about the immediate venture with international companies. consistently delivered value to our future. Our confidence is derived from the As we look ahead, our focus is set on stakeholders embodying our principal strong foundations that are in place, clear achieving our strategic goals, business ethos of value engineering in all our strategic direction that steers the Company, continuity, and diversification to sustain operations. Our diversified business and the value of resilience that is embedded our growth momentum. portfolio that complements one another, in our organisational culture. the synergies derived from international A CHALLENGING CONTEXT partners, as well as our strong relationships ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS with our principals and partners are some Sri Lanka experienced a challenging of our core strengths. The exceptional In conclusion, I wish to thank our year where a slow growth momentum in performance in 2018/19 is due to the highly-skilled team of professionals who economic activity prevailed for the most leveraging of new technology in the form the lifeblood of this Company and part of the year. According to the CBSL industry, highly-skilled employees, who drive us towards innovative solutions. Annual Report 2018, Sri Lanka recorded high retention rate, best practices in Further, my colleagues on the Board of a subdued growth of 3.2% in 2018, much management systems and processes, Directors for their exemplary governance, below the growth forecasts by CBSL, and the strong governance structures guidance, and support. The Corporate ADB, and IMF. Management Team led by the MD and the ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 that are in place. COO, deserves my gratitude for steering Though measures were taken by the CBSL the Company towards success. Finally, to relieve the pressure on the exchange DIVERSIFICATION IS THE KEY I wish to thank our customers, business rate, the Sri Lankan Rupee depreciated by partners, investors and shareholders for A clear strategic direction is essential to the 19% against the US Dollar in 2018. This their continued trust and loyalty in Access long-term sustainability of our Company. had a negative impact on all the imported Engineering PLC. Thus, our medium-term strategy focuses raw materials and USD priced condominium on improving our core business lines. units. Further, the Company’s core However, in the long term, we recognise construction business being taxed at 28% that diversification and synergy between commencing 1 April 2018 will influence the different business lines will be key to take sector as a whole. the next step in our corporate journey. Introduction of higher LC margin on motor The subdued macro-economic conditions Sumal Perera car imports, cash margin requirement on impacted our flagship real estate ventures Chairman selected consumer goods imports and “Capital Heights”, Rajagiriya and the lowering of the loan to value ratio on motor “Marina Square”, Colombo in terms of sales. 10 July 2019 11 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES JOINT JOINTSTATEMENT FROM STATEMENT FROM THE THE MANAGING MANAGING DIRECTOR DIRECTOR AND THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER AND THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER Access Engineering PLC remained resilient during ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 a turbulent market setting to achieve the notable milestone of the highest turnover in the history of Company and the Group. Rohana Fernando Christopher Joshua Chief Operating Officer Managing Director 12 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES JOINT STATEMENT FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR AND THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER Our key projects in the state and Profit after tax was LKR 2.2 Bn. and During the year two investments in Horizon private sectors to develop much needed LKR 2 Bn. at the Group and at the Company companies were disposed and the Company infrastructure continued over the reporting levels. We also paid dividends amounting intends to dispose Horizon Holdings year. Our flagship project for the year to LKR 500 Mn. during the year, compared Ventures during 2019/20. The reason for 2018/19, the Mannar Wind Power project, to LKR 1.2 Bn. paid in 2017/18. The disposal was the long gestation period of the largest wind power project in the net asset value per share grew by 7.5% the anticipated development and the country, commenced its operations. and 7% respectively at the Group and the better attractiveness of new investment Further, Access Tower II completed its first Company levels. options. We recorded a capital gain on year of operations and we are already this transaction. reaping the benefits of that investment. During the year, our primary ventures in AEL GROUP YIELDS FROM The performance of our Associate ZPMC real estate, Marina Square Colombo and VERTICAL INTEGRATION AND Lanka Company (30%) was exemplary with Capital Heights Rajagiriya progressed DIVERSIFICATION a 145% growth recorded during the year. according to expectations. Its operations were carried out both in The AEL Group continued to deliver the local and international markets. It This year, our focus was mainly on steady operating performance during contributed LKR 27 Mn. to the Group streamlining of existing services and the year building on our previous bottom line during the year, compared internal processes to improve the workflow, year’s performance and calibrating our to LKR 11 Mn. in 2017/18. to save time which leads to efficiency. portfolio and business operations towards Moreover, the procurement process, one sustainable value creation. of the key areas of our business, was LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY assessed and improved for better One of our principal strengths is our FOR PROGRESS management of capital. vertical integration of construction arm of the Group which has led to We are a forerunner in the application of increasing market share, self-reliance, innovative technology in the field and in STRENGTHENED FINANCIAL and strengthening our leadership position the introduction of new and unconventional PERFORMANCE in the industry. Our integrated supply construction methods to the Sri Lankan chain with engineering designs, piling industry. These value engineering solutions Access Engineering PLC, remained operations, production plants, workshops have resulted in time and cost saving. For resilient during a turbulent market setting which ensure timely delivery of projects example, the alternative beam casting to achieve the highest turnover in the with little disruption of operations. The method adopted for the Central Expressway history of the Group and the Company capacity development initiatives instituted Project has enabled us to remain ahead of LKR 19.4 Bn. and LKR 32.3 Bn. in the previous years are yielding positive of schedule along with a reduction in respectively with corresponding yearly benefits. The batching plants of Peliyagoda construction cost. We also continued to growth rates of 8% and 24%. This was and Kandana and the asphalt plants of use technologies such as HDD, Diaphragm possible due to the passion and dedication Kotadeniyawa, Ibbagamuwa, Vavuniyawa, walls, Micro trenching, Post tensioning, of our team, performance of key business and Mathugama are running at good and others in our projects. areas in line with our expectations, capacity levels and have increased their prudent internal governance, and the contribution to revenue. Our systems and internal controls are trust and support of all our stakeholders. compliant with international best practices Our diversified business operations also and we leverage the latest technology The Company’s core construction business yielded healthy results during the year. in the construction field. This has made recorded a 19.44% year on year growth The automobile sector recorded a growth Access Engineering an employer of choice ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 in the backdrop of construction-related of 32.2%. Sathosa Motors PLC recorded possessing an above industry average activities that continued throughout the considerable increases in sales of spare retention rate in a market where there year. The growth of construction material parts and new vehicles. Sathosa Motors is dearth of skilled labour and a high segment was also impressive with 16.9% PLC and SML Frontier Automotive (Private) turnover rate. year on year growth, another first by Limited have increased their market share Access Engineering in the country’s civil in their respective market segments. engineering sector. Construction-related During the year 700 ISUZU vehicles and activities contributed 54.7% to the Group 200 new units of Jaguar Land Rover were turnover, while 33.5% was contributed sold. Further, we invested LKR 300 Mn. by automobile sector, 9.4% from sale of in the construction of a new workshop for construction-related material and the rest Sathosa Motors PLC. being made up of leasing office space. 13 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES JOINT STATEMENT FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR AND THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER NOTABLE PROJECTS IN  Widening the Kandy-Colombo road from Our property arms Marina Square Colombo 2018/19 Kadawatha to Nittambuwa and carried and Capital Heights Rajagiriya will make our water supply projects in Deduruoya positive contributions to the Company The development of infrastructure is and Anuradhapura North. profits in coming years. Access Tower I essential for sustainable economic  Dialog and SLT Fiber Optic laying and Tower II will continue to contribute development creating a healthy, happy, and work during the year. to revenue and profits. We expect both thriving economic climate in communities. towers to maintain their full occupancy We possess diversified business operations in the medium term. across all sectors of civil engineering — we SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY are one of the highest graded contractors INITIATIVES IN 2018/19 The automobile arm is showing promise by Construction Industry Development and will continue to contribute to the Authority (CIDA) and a leading civil As a leading corporate entity in Sri Lanka, revenue and profits due to the superior engineering business in the industry. we have a responsibility to give back to the brand performance of ISUZU, Jaguar, communities that we are operating in. We Land Rover and the exclusive clientele. During the year, we undertook a number of strive to create social value by engaging projects in the segments of transportation, in sustainable practices that permeates water, urban infrastructure, and others, ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS across our operations, and also through our marking significant milestones in our community development initiatives. We would like to recognise the contribution project portfolio. Given below is an overview of our customers, principals, business of the notable projects during 2018/19: We continued to conduct vocational training partners, shareholders, and all other  The construction work of the Mannar programmes which leads to the creation stakeholders for their trust and confidence. Wind Power Project commenced in of skilled labour. The mentoring programme Further, we would like to extend our thanks partnership with the prime contractor, in partnership with the University of to the members of the Board led by the Vestas Asia Pacific A/S, the world’s Moratuwa continued this year. Furthermore, Chairman and the Board of Directors for largest wind turbine manufacturer. we continued the fabrication and donation their guidance. Our dedicated Corporate Access Engineering has undertaken the of school desks and chairs initiative this Management team and employees civil engineering work in this 100 MW year. Making use of scrap material, over must be praised and thanked for their wind power plant project, which is the 1,750 pairs of desks and chairs were commitment and continued passion. We first of this scale. fabricated and donated to 50 schools. will work together to continuously expand Our tree-planting programme, launched our position as an innovation leader in the  Access Tower II with approximately over a decade ago, continued this year industry, to create better value for all our 200,000 sq.ft. of “Grade A” office space with over 2,000 trees planted during stakeholders. was fully-occupied during the year. the year. A detailed description of our Access Tower II is now home to some community development and sustainability of the world’s leading multinational initiatives can be found on page 99. businesses and leading local enterprises.  Our flagship projects in real estate, We made contributions to the Marina Square Colombo and Capital newly-established Accident and Emergency Heights Rajagiriya made substantial Trauma Unit of the Teaching Hospital in progress within the year. Batticaloa and for the development of the Christopher Joshua  A major portion of the Stage 2 of proposed National Centre for Children with Managing Director the Central Expressway Project was Disabilities spearheaded by The Faculty of completed during the year. The project Medicine, University of Kelaniya. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 is due to be completed by 2020.  We carried out work in a number of FUTURE OUTLOOK commercial and residential projects which included the UDA Public Sector Housing The future of Access Engineering as a project, UDA Phase II Urban regeneration diversified, integrated corporate citizen Rohana Fernando housing project, the structural work looks optimistic. The construction arm of the of the Waterfront Integrated Resort Chief Operating Officer Group will remain its dominating business Project, New Odel Mall Development line. The sale of constructionrelated 10 July 2019 project, Bloemendhal Housing project, material too has a promising future with the new building for the Sri Lanka Institute of high number of private and public sector Nanotechnology etc. infrastructure projects. 14 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES OUR ﻿ STRATEGY Our strategy is founded on our vision “To be the foremost Sri Lankan business enterprise in value engineering” and our aim of creating sustainable value for all our stakeholders. 16 OPERATING 21 STAKEHOLDER ENVIRONMENT ENGAGEMENT 29 MATERIALITY 32 STRATEGIC DIRECTION 33 34 36 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL OUR VALUE OUR BUSINESS TRADE-OFFS CREATION PORTFOLIO MODEL 15 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES OPERATING ENVIRONMENT GLOBAL ECONOMY AND not fully regained their pre-crisis volumes. The cyclical nature of the construction sector THE GLOBAL CONSTRUCTION has strengthened over the past years, which suggests that the sector growth will be dragged down by the rising interest rates and tighter credit conditions in Western economies INDUSTRY (with the Eurozone starting in H2 2019) and the economic growth slowdown in China. Global growth has moderated in 2018 and grew at an estimated 3.6% according GLOBAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY VS GLOBAL GDP to World Economic Outlook 2019 and is projected to decline to 3.3% in 2019. (Real USD, % change y/y) Global economic activity was impacted by 6 trade tensions between China and the US, 4 Brexit and its implications on Europe, and a strong US Dollar leading to a tightening 2 of financial policy in the emerging markets. 0 Global economic activity within the year was supported by advanced economies -2 such as the US, UK, and Japan. The global -4 economy was characterised by a softening -6 of industrial production and slowing down 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018f 2019f of trade. Further, global energy prices declined by 17%. CONSTRUCTION (US, EUROZONE, CHINA) CONSTRUCTION GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT Sources: OECD, National Statistical Offices, Allianz Research analysis The ongoing trade war between China and the US impacted both economies as well as the world as a whole. Japan’s momentum GLOBAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY GROWTH was hindered by natural disasters and Canada grew at a robust pace largely due to (Real USD, % change y/y) its strong labour market. GDP growth in the 5.0 UK expanded at a meagre pace. Euro zone 2.5 markets decelerated due to social unrest in France and weak momentum in Germany. 0 Brexit uncertainty too continue to influence -2.5 all European markets. 5.0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018f 2019f The Chinese economy is expected to slowdown due to the need of financial DEVELOPED MARKETS EMERGING MARKETS TOTAL CONSTRUCTION regulatory tightening and the ongoing trade war with the US. In the Emerging Sources: National Statistical Offices, Allianz Research analysis 2018 Market and Developing Economies (EMDEs), borrowing costs have increased. Central Residential construction volumes growth — Banks in the EMDEs raised policy rates Top 20 largest construction markets as a result of concerns about inflation effects from oil price increase and 2017 2018f 2019f 2017 2018f 2019f currency depreciation. % % % % % % ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 1. China 4 5 4 12. Russia -3 -4 2 GLOBAL CONSTRUCTION 2. US 6 4 3 13. Brazil -5 -1 3 INDUSTRY 3. Japan 2 1 1 14. Mexico 2 0 0 Global construction sector grew by 3.5% 4. India 2 10 9 15. Spain 7 6 4 in 2018 from 2.7% in 2017, recording 5. UK 9 2 2 16. South Korea 16 0 2 the fastest growth rate during the current 6. Germany 2 2 3 17. Turkey 8 4 2 construction cycle from 2008/18. It is forecasted to grow by 3.0 in 2019 after a 7. France 4 2 2 18. UAE -2 5 4 gradual slowdown. 8. Australia -1 1 -4 19. Saudi Arabia -3 -2 2 9. Indonesia 6 6 5 20. Netherlands 12 9 2 Over the past decade, most of the growth 5 4 2 10. Canada Global 4.2 3.5 3 came from emerging markets (57% since 11. Italy 2 1 2 2008), while the developed markets have Sources: National Statistical Offices, Allianz Research analysis 2018 16 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Environment The sector risk rating points towards the The Government continued its major The growth in credit to the private sector deterioration of liquidity, demand, and infrastructure projects in 2018 including the granted by Licensed Commercial Banks profitability over the past four years. The rehabilitation of the existing road network (LCBs) for construction activities also slowed elevated liquidity risk has led to delays to uplift the country’s infrastructure and to down to 14.1% in 2018, compared to 22.5% and the sector remains one of the worst uplift the economic activity. Several major growth recorded in 2017. Particularly, performing. Further, the volume of growth road development projects are implemented the growth in credit granted for personal in the construction market in the developed like the iRoad project, New Kelani Bridge, housing construction activities by LCBs economies is negative during the current extension of the Southern Expressway, slowed down to 13.1% in 2018, from 21.4% construction cycle. Profitability has also Section II of the Central Expressway, and growth recorded in 2017. The corporate tax been affected due to the rise of material other projects. rate for construction was increased to 28% costs and labour costs. The sector has also from 1 April 2018 negatively affecting the experienced skilled labour shortages that Construction activities, which accounted profitability of the sector. limit construction activity and increasing for 6.8% of GDP, contracted by 2.1% labour costs. The sector also records on during 2018 compared to the expansion Main challenges of the sector remain the of the highest rate of turnover among all of 4.3% recorded in the previous year. In shortage of skilled labour and the lack of sectors above 20%. tandem with the decline in construction proper policy initiatives from the regulatory activities, mining and quarrying activities bodies or slow decision making process also contracted during the year. The which hinders the awarding and execution SRI LANKAN ECONOMY subdued performance of large scale of projects. Further, funding constraints of AND THE SRI LANKAN construction activities, especially related the Government and the effects of national CONSTRUCTION SECTOR to infrastructure development projects debt negatively affect the industry. However, during the year, slowed down the overall in an encouraging sign, the Government Sri Lanka underwent a challenging year construction activities. has decided to remove the Nation Building with GDP growth reaching 3.2% for the Tax (NBT) on construction which will have a year. The growth momentum in the first two positive impact on the industry. quarters slowed down in the last two due to political instability. However, recovery in the agriculture and services sector and Change 2018/19 2017/18 % advances in the export and tourism sectors will drive growth in 2019. This growth was Comparison based on monetary value largely supported by services activities that expanded by 4.7% and the recovery Construction industry at current market prices as per in agriculture activities, which recorded a CBSL 2018 Annual Report (LKR Mn.) 1,054,287 1,040,876 1.29 growth of 4.8%. Industry activities slowed AEL Company turnover (LKR Mn.) 19,356 17,937 7.91 down significantly to 0.9% during the year, mainly as a result of the contraction Comparison based on employment in construction. The per capita GDP was Total employment in construction, electricity, gas, steam recorded at USD 4,102 in 2018, which was and air conditioning supply, water supply, sewerage, marginally lower than in the previous year. waste management and remediation activities as per CBSL 2018 Annual Report (’000 persons) 713 688 3.64 Measures were taken by the CBSL to relieve Total workforce at AEL as at 31 March 2,458 2,670 (7.94) the pressure on the exchange rate, however, the Sri Lankan Rupee depreciated by 19% ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 against the US dollar in 2018. Further, Sri Lanka is reported to have USD 5.9 Bn. in external debt repayments in 2019, including an international sovereign bond of USD 1 Bn. which matured in January and was repaid. IMF forecast an expected growth of 3.5% for Sri Lanka in 2019. Activity will be supported by robust domestic demand as consumption rebounds following natural disasters, and investment is boosted by infrastructure projects. 17 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Environment The construction sector will be called upon to take on the development of the country’s infrastructure through long-term projects such as the Section I of the Central Expressway, Port Access Elevated Highway, Light Rail Transit, the extension of the Marine Drive, projects under the Urban Regeneration Programme, other private-sector investment projects, as well as the construction of the Phase I of the Colombo Port City project will begin shortly. These long-term projects will be complemented with other projects such as rehabilitation of existing road network, the construction of flyovers and bridges to minimise traffic, improvements to existing water treatment plants and irrigation systems, and also the upgrading of the island-wide telecommunication infrastructure. These national construction projects and the private-sector infrastructure projects will be a huge boost to the national economy as well as the construction industry. SWOT analysis STRENGTHS WEAKNESSES Visionary leadership and support from the top management. Communication hindrances between distantly located project Past experience (Over 150 projects completed successfully). sites and the Head Office. Highly-reputed entity. Among the top 3 local construction companies. Limited overseas expansion. Commitment to value engineering resulting in high quality construction, low cost, and speedy completion. In-house service portfolio that complements construction projects including the designs office, piling division, production plants, workshops, etc. The decentralised operating structure for project execution that results in high productivity and efficiency. Having the highest CIDA grading across the most number of engineering disciplines. Long-term relationships with clients, suppliers, and Government. Having executed a large number of projects jointly with reputed international partners. Possessing human capital that is best in the industry. Use of latest information systems and communication platforms for decision making. OPPORTUNITIES THREATS Diversification of the product Devaluation of the Rupee impacting margins. portfolio (e.g. — wind power). Cultural mismatches in overseas expansions. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Overseas expansion with Competition from foreign construction firms. international partners. Migration of Sri Lankan professionals and skilled staff creating a scarcity Further strengthening presence of potential employees. in office space renting. Frequent changes in Government policy decisions negatively affecting infrastructure development. Frequent changes in Government tax structures affecting profitability. 18 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Environment ANALYSIS OF POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, SOCIAL, AND TECHNOLOGY FACTORS Political Ecological issues Concerns on preventing environmental pollution (Air, water, and land pollution) Continuation and renewal of operating licenses based on the stated rules and regulations of Central Environmental Authority (CEA) and Local Authorities Current legislations Laws stated by the Labour Authority relating to working hours, minimum wage rates, Employee Provident Fund, Employee Trust Fund, and health and safety of employees Laws and regulations relating to obtaining construction licenses, approval of plans etc. International The open economy policy adapted by Sri Lanka and the encouragement to improve Foreign Direct Investments has legislations attracted the participation of international firms, especially in the construction sector (Global influence) Local Companies including construction companies are bound by the International Treaties that Sri Lanka has pledged to uphold Regulatory bodies All industry participants should confirm to the specifications stated by the Construction Industry Development and processes Authority (CIDA) The CIDA has specified grading for construction companies and the renewal of grading will occur by observing compliance with the established rules and regulations Government policies, Infrastructure development is heavily dependent on the policy directions set out by the GoSL terms, and changes Funding, grants, The tendency to increasingly engage in multilateral and bilateral funded projects will improve the flow of foreign and initiatives funds and grants to the country Payment terms negotiated by the GoSL including the grace period, interest rate, etc. will have a direct impact on construction contracts Market lobbying The influence of market lobbying groups in determining: groups The sustainable utilisation of natural resources Protection of human rights Prevention of environmental damages through air, water, or land pollution Wars and conflicts With the end of the three-decade war in 2009, Sri Lanka perceived a massive growth in infrastructure development Economic National economies Construction industry experienced only a marginal 1.3% growth in 2018 and if this slow growth momentum and trends continues local companies too could be affected Funding constrains due to Treasury not having sufficient funds can also influence the progress of infrastructure development activities General taxation Construction activities are now taxed at 28% as opposed to the concessionary tax rate of 12% prior to 2018 issues ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Removal of NBT from construction activities as suggested by the 2019 budget will have a positive impact on projects Seasonality or other Extreme weather conditions affecting the progress of construction-related activities weather issues Special sector The emergence of the construction boom and high degree of attention towards condominium developments in the factors country will favour the building construction sector 19 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Operating Environment Interest and Interest rate specifies the borrowing capacity and influences the investment process especially if the projects are exchange rates debt financed Depreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee has led to foreign exchange losses and high cost of imports for raw materials such as cement and steel International trade Tendency to import construction-related material and machinery from low cost destinations like China will reduce and monetary issues the cost of construction Free Trade Agreements, bilateral and multilateral agreements enhancing the potentials for engaging in international trade including the possibility of carrying construction projects overseas Social Lifestyle trends Increase in urbanisation has created opportunities for construction companies specially for construction of condominium apartments Demographics Ageing population creating limitations for the potential workforce especially engaging in construction-related works Consumer attitudes People becoming more concerned about the environment creating a tendency to demand for more sustainable and opinions construction methodologies Media views Influence of the public media by bringing to limelight pressing issues of the general public like housing, water, electricity, etc. is creating more opportunities for construction activities and companies Image of the High degree of concern towards organisational reputation, brand image, adaption of good corporate organisation governance practices Consumer buying Increase in demand for condominium developments patterns Major events and Promotion of Sri Lanka as a MICE destination is creating the need for new infrastructure developments influences and renovations Technology Competing Development of modern techniques that: technology Reduce the use of natural resources and raw materials development Reduce pollution Reduces cost and speeds up construction Associated/ Development of sophisticated software. Especially for the purposes of designing which in turn result in accuracy dependent and speed. technologies Maturity of The construction industry is moving from being a strictly labour incentive one to a more knowledge incentive one technology Emerging technological advances used throughout the world to foster efficient construction are now introduced and used in Sri Lanka Innovation potential Heavy emphasis on research and development to further initiate technological advancements and construction ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 materials Maturity of Construction related products and services don’t face the problem of having a shorter life cycle. Most of the organisation’s products are perceived as long-term investments. However there is technological obsolescence of machinery and products/services methods used in the construction processes. 20 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our Sustainable development depends on balancing short-term and long-term interests of our stakeholders. To achieve this, effective engagement of internal and external stakeholders is fundamental. In line with our strategic priorities, we adapt our policies and practices to the needs and expectations of our stakeholders and aid them in making business decisions proactively. Our approach to engaging with stakeholders is a continuous process as shown below: ER ENGAGEMENT PR LD HO OC KE ES TA o r t S S and re p pe rform ew ance vi to stakeholders Re Industry Board of Engaging eholders peers and Directors stak competitors em st ategy imp ploye r ey ssues y k rial i Society Corporate tif ate le m e Management en s in Team ta en m ti o Id and Business Investors and partners n Shareholders Suppliers Bankers including and subcontractors prospective lenders Clients and Employees eh te customers o ra s ity lder Government St ocu gy and k s f ed d e regulatory sta rial on velo authorities h e pr pme e wit mat g ior itie t n Enga erify s to v ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 21 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement Identify key stakeholders and material issues Engage employees in strategy The process starts with the identification of key stakeholders and issues that are of implementation material to them. This process involves analysis of internal and external environment while Next stage of engagement is the monitoring micro and macro facts and aligning them with our strategic objectives. The list implementation of prioritised strategies. of stakeholders identified is then analysed in groups, based on the power they can exert on AEL engages its employees cohesively in AEL and their level of interest on AEL’s operations and activities as shown below: devising strategies addressing stakeholder issues and implements them depending on the interest and power each stakeholder group exerts. This process devises methods of engagement with stakeholders which Keep satisfied Key players involves utilising the responsive methods that enables fast decision-making. Government and Clients and customers regulatory bodies Investors and shareholders HIGH Review and report performance Business partners to stakeholders AEL continuously and regularly reports outcomes of the engagement process to stakeholders. We also consider regulatory and statutory requirements which act as POWER minimal criteria in deciding frequency of engagement. Minimum effort Keep informed AEL follows this process iteratively Bank and Employees improving the engagement with prospective lenders stakeholders in each cycle and creating Suppliers and optimum value to them. LOW subcontractors Society Industry peers and OUR STAKEHOLDERS competitors Board of Directors Corporate Management Team Investors and shareholders LOW HIGH Bankers and prospective lenders Employees INTEREST Government and regulatory bodies Clients and customers Engage with stakeholders to verify materiality Suppliers including subcontractors Assessing the issues that are material is an ongoing process that includes consultation with Business partners ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 internal and external stakeholders. This would enable AEL to assess the materiality of the Society issues accurately and engage them in an early stage of the decision-making process. Industry peers and competitors Strategy development focused on priorities After verification of issues with stakeholders appropriate engagement strategies are devised which are then prioritised. Prioritisation of the issues would make AEL to proactively attend to stakeholder concerns and directs the resources and management efforts to the issues at hand with a lower lead time. 22 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement Our rationale behind engaging with the stakeholder groups identified above is as follows: Stakeholder group Rationale for engagement and expectations BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board is mainly responsible for: Setting corporate objectives, formulating strategies and policies Reviewing the performance of corporate management Representing the views of the Company to the outside world Protecting Company assets and shareholder interests Establishing a sound system of governance CORPORATE The Corporate Management Team is responsible for implementing the objectives, strategies, and policies MANAGEMENT TEAM set forth by the Board and for effective functioning of the Company. INVESTORS AND As the Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) is not able to finance all planned infrastructure development SHAREHOLDERS projects, investors play a key role in funding projects. The investors of mega infrastructure projects expect us to provide them a reasonable return on their investment in the long term and to honour contractual obligations. Shareholders provide equity capital and approve/reject company strategic decisions while expecting a reasonable return on their investment. They also expect us to provide periodic updates about our Company, our key financial figures and our long-term business strategy/direction. As the custodians of their wealth the shareholders expect us to build a growing and sustainable business while being a good corporate citizen. The long-term strategy of AEL is to increase its market value to shareholders. BANKS AND Banks play a major role in the following areas: PROSPECTIVE LENDERS Financing infrastructure development projects of the country Processing day-to-day monetary transactions of the Company Providing funding arrangements enabling effective working capital management Providing investment opportunities through accepting deposits EMPLOYEES The industry we operate-in is highly labour intensive. Thus to remain competitive in the market we need to have the best talent pool and human capital in the industry. A fully-engaged workforce that is highly satisfied will go an extra mile for the benefit of the Company to achieve its goals and objectives. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 In return for their commitment the employees expect us to provide them with a safe working environment, equal opportunities, individual career growth, opportunities for training and development, reward their performance, and to promote work-life balance. Similarly our vision towards sustainability is driven by our employees, who need the most up-to-date information to make a valuable and informed contribution. 23 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder group Rationale for engagement and expectations GOVERNMENT AND Maintaining cordial relationships with GoSL is very important to the Company since most infrastructure REGULATORY BODIES projects are initiated by the Government. Thus building confidence is paramount to business operations and our continuity. The Government expects us to create direct and indirect employment opportunities, engage in investment opportunities and drive economic growth while complying with all their laws and regulations. We act as a source of revenue to the Government by paying direct taxes and channelling indirect taxes. Regulatory authorities play a vital role in approving and reviewing completed, on-going and future infrastructure development projects. They also expect us to fully comply with all their rules and regulations. CLIENTS AND Maintaining cordial relationships with clients is important since most of the repeat orders are based on CUSTOMERS this. Similarly client satisfaction through effective project implementation is important in securing future business. Hence, client interaction is one of most important factors of our success. We also carry out a substantial amount of engineering projects and services at the client’s premises and need customers to continually subscribe to our engineering products and services in order to generate business. SUPPLIERS INCLUDING Construction industry is heavily dependent on raw material and, therefore, suppliers play a key role in SUBCONTRACTORS the achievement of business objectives and timely completion of projects. While enabling us to deliver innovative value engineering solutions to various clients they also help us to make our processes more efficient. We also need subcontractors who are capable of carrying out work in an uninterrupted manner, who are trustworthy, competitive in terms of prices, quality of service offered and flexibility, easy to communicate with, have a good past track record and adhere to ethical conduct. In carrying out our projects and services they expect us to build progressive long-term relationships while honouring all contractual obligations. BUSINESS For us to be a leader in knowledge-based value engineering, we need to liaise with companies PARTNERS specialising in particular areas enabling a valuable knowledge transfer process. They also collectively expect us to safeguard their interests honouring their obligation on time while building progressive sustainable relationships. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 SOCIETY The end user of almost all our products, i.e., construction projects, is the general public. Hence they expect us to build infrastructure and provide services that are of high quality and safe to use while being sustainable economically, socially and environmentally. Being a responsible corporate citizen adhering to social norms and culture and maintaining a positive public image is very important to succeed in this industry. The general public also expects us to create direct and indirect employment generation. INDUSTRY PEERS AND Fostering and engaging in fair competition while promoting ethical business practices is vital for the COMPETITORS development of the industry. The peers expect us to actively promote and uplift the standard of the industry as a whole through our active participation in various industry initiatives. 24 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-44 The following table illustrates in detail the Company’s approach and processes for stakeholder engagement by stakeholder group: Stakeholder group Method of engagement Frequency of engagement BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board meetings Continuous with at least a meeting Board Committee meetings every quarter Independent evaluation of performance Annual CORPORATE Corporate Management meetings Continuous MANAGEMENT TEAM Progress review meetings Monthly Performance review meetings INVESTORS AND Periodic meetings to ascertain/review project progress When required SHAREHOLDERS Business promotion meetings Annual Report and General Meeting Annual Interim Financial Statements Quarterly Extraordinary general meetings When required Updated website and dedicated investor relations e-mail Continuous Newspaper articles and other publications Road shows and Investor Forums CSE Disclosures and Announcements Research reports of the stock broking community Telephone communication Email and other written correspondence BANKS AND Timely settlement of dues Continuous PROSPECTIVE LENDERS Providing periodic financial information Responding to lenders’ queries When required EMPLOYEES Periodic management-employee meetings Continuous Open-door policy Training and development Maintaining transparency in all activities CSR initiatives Staff welfare activities ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 AEL News Portal Exit interviews “News Within” quarterly newsletter Performance appraisal and rewarding Annual Employee satisfaction surveys Annual get-together and staff outing Sports carnival Joint communication from MD and COO via mail to every employee at the beginning of each year AEL “Core Team” meeting 25 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder group Method of engagement Frequency of engagement GOVERNMENT AND Public Private Partnership projects Continuous REGULATORY BODIES Timely feedback through submission of reports, tax returns, updates etc. Ensuring compliance Participation at various forums, meetings, discussions organised by the Government and regulatory authorities Continuous membership in industry associations CLIENTS AND Publication of the Integrated Report Annual CUSTOMERS Proactive business development Continuous Progress review meetings Updated web site Relationship Managers for each major customer Regular correspondence during defect liability period (DLP) SUPPLIERS INCLUDING Subcontractor/supplier evaluation Continuous SUBCONTRACTORS Regular progress review meetings Updated website Contract negotiation and communication Procurement Committee meetings BUSINESS Regular visits to/from business partners Continuous PARTNERS Updated website Regular written communication and periodic meetings for ongoing projects Relationship Managers for each major customer SOCIETY Updated website Continuous Regular media and other communications with public Participation/sponsoring trade exhibitions Providing employment and internship opportunities Various Corporate Social Responsibility projects Consultation of local communities in project planning ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 and execution Publication of the Integrated Report Annual INDUSTRY PEERS AND Membership in industry associations Continuous COMPETITORS Joint execution of infrastructure projects with peers Industry advancement workshops, discussion forums and CSR projects 26 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement Stakeholder group Key concerns raised during the year Company response BOARD OF DIRECTORS Facilitation of meetings with the Meetings between the Chairman and Independent Non-Executive Chairman without the presence Directors are held as and when required of Executive Directors Rationalisation of business Divested investments made in Horizon Holdings Private Limited activities and Horizon Knowledge City Limited during the year. Divestment of Horizon Holding Ventures will be completed in 2019/20. Scrutinised and strengthened the monitoring of subsidiary performance. To this effect a new Management was appointed at Sathosa Motors PLC and was brought under close supervision of the parent. Based on the success of Access Tower I and II and the demand for high quality office space, the Company progressed in obtaining necessary approvals for the development of Access Tower III. Further, capacity was added at Sathosa Motors PLC with the addition of a new workshop at an investment of LKR 300 Mn. Consolidation of core business Continued with infrastructure development projects while extending the product/service portfolio via the introduction of new construction techniques. A new vertical of construction was added with the launching of Mannar Wind Power Project during the year. CORPORATE Improving efficiency and Rationalised the procurement function including those of Project MANAGEMENT TEAM productivity Management Divisions to achieve cost and quantity savings Strengthened cost and project management functions INVESTORS AND Timely securing of projects Vigilant and pro-active business development efforts SHAREHOLDERS Provision of a monetary return Declared and paid LKR 500 Mn. in dividends on their investment Providing up-to-date Press releases featuring every project at three stages of the life cycle information about the affairs of (commencement, execution and completion), earnings reviews and the Company other publications such as the Annual Integrated Report Frequent release of research reports about the Company via stock broker companies Participation at investor forums both local and foreign One-to-one meetings with institutional investors, stock broker firms, research companies, etc. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 BANKS AND Mitigating the negative effects Negotiated better rates with financial institutions and strengthened PROSPECTIVE LENDERS of high interest regime Treasury management functions at the Group level 27 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder group Key concerns raised during the year Company response EMPLOYEES Need of recognising and Continued the performance-based reward system rewarding high performers Need to enhance the Provided training and development opportunities to staff members with competence of staff the main area of focus during the year being health and safety Need to provide staff with “AEL News” email based information dissemination system more up-to-date information “Access Within’’ quarterly newsletter about the Company GOVERNMENT AND Need to participate in the Carried out infrastructure development projects throughout REGULATORY BODIES infrastructure development the country drive/initiatives of the Participated at various industry-related forums, discussions Government spearheaded by the GoSL Need to comply with all Complied with all applicable rules and regulations of the Government Government regulatory with timely payment of all dues requirements and payment of dues such as taxes, rates, etc. CLIENTS AND Speedy delivery of projects Provided solutions that are less costly and speedy such as the diaphragm CUSTOMERS at a lesser cost wall, prefabricated bridges, post-tensioning, HDD, micro trenching, etc. during the year Need for high quality Completed projects with least number of defects construction SUPPLIERS INCLUDING Timely settlement of dues Settled all dues on time with zero fines or penalties for delayed payments SUBCONTRACTORS BUSINESS Need to maintain sound Carried out projects in partnership with foreign principles PARTNERS business relationships Continuous training for business development staff SOCIETY Addressing the timely needs of Carried out various social responsibility initiatives the public Offered direct and indirect employment opportunities Enhancing the knowledge base Offered internships for 249 students of the industry Introduced innovative solutions to the industry during the year ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 INDUSTRY PEERS AND Need to jointly execute Continued construction of a section of the Central Expressway in COMPETITORS mega-scale infrastructure partnership with two local contractors development projects 28 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-47, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, MATERIALITY Determining materiality and identifying The materiality matrix illustrated below shows the aspects that were identified to be material material matters are important aspects to AEL as well as stakeholders based on the determination process adopted above. of our integrated business model. These topics are analysed according to their GRI Aspect Significance Significance to Internal/ importance to the Company as well as to AEL stakeholders external the stakeholders by the Board and the Management. AEL has identified aspects ECONOMIC that are material to the Company’s 201 – Economic performance High High Internal stakeholders and AEL in the context of its economic, environmental, and social 202 – Market presence Moderate High Internal agenda for sustainable value creation. 203 – Indirect economic impacts High High External 204 – Procurement practices High High Internal The topics AEL considers to be important 205 – Anti-corruption High Moderate Internal are thus rated as low, moderate, and high as tabulated next. AEL has used GRI 206 – Anti-competitive behaviour Moderate Moderate External Sustainability Reporting Guidelines GRI ENVIRONMENTAL Standards in this process. 301 – Materials Moderate Moderate Internal Our materiality determination process is 302 – Energy High High Internal given below: 303 – Water High High Internal Internal factors 304 – Biodiversity High High Internal  Strategic direction mapped out and the 305 – Emissions High High Internal outcomes derived from Board meetings, 306 – Effluents and waste Low Low External Board Committee meetings, and Corporate Management meetings 307 – Environmental compliance Moderate Moderate External  Annual Core Team meeting 308 – Supplier environmental assessment Low Low Internal  Results of engagement with employees SOCIAL  Results of internal audits and 401 – Employment High High Internal management system audits carried out 402 – Labour/management relations Moderate Low Internal  Key focus areas of Company policies, 403 – Occupational health and safety High High Internal values, ethics, AEL Code of Conduct, and the risk management process 404 – Training and education High High Internal 405 – Diversity and equal opportunity High High Internal External factors 406 – Non-discrimination High High Internal  Political, economic, social, 407 – Freedom of association and collective bargaining Low Low Internal technological, environmental, 408 – Child labour Low Low Internal and legal/regulatory developments in the local and global space 409 – Forced and compulsory labour Low Low Internal  External initiatives such as UNGC 410 – Security practices Low Low Internal the Company is committed to 411 – Rights of indigenous people Low Low External  Results of our engagement with 412 – Human rights assessment Low Low External ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 external stakeholders 413 – Local communities High High External 414 – Supplier social assessment Moderate Moderate External 415 – Public policy Low Low External 416 – Customer health and safety Moderate High External 417 – Marketing and labelling Low Low Internal 418 – Customer privacy Low Low Internal 419 – Socioeconomic compliance High High External 29 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Materiality We evaluate suppliers through a stringent 201 203 204 302 screening process and as a part of our 303 304 305 401 engagement with the local community, we strive to utilise as many local suppliers HIGH 202 416 403 404 405 406 as possible. We also consider health and 413 419 safety of the general public to be of utmost importance. We follow strict health and SIGNIFICANCE TO STAKEHOLDER safety guidelines in all our operations. Our infrastructure is built following all required health and safety guidelines. 206 301 MODERATE 307 414 205 Anti-corruption and anti-competitive behaviour Access Engineering has taken every possible measure to prevent corruption 306 308 407 408 from taking place. We educate our employees and evaluate our Company 409 410 411 412 through annual financial reports, audits, 415 417 418 402 and other controlling measures. We also LOW understand that anti-competitive behaviour can affect the industry as a whole. We have always maintained cordial relationships with our competitors and wish to maintain LOW MODERATE HIGH professionalism in our dealing with the external world. SIGNIFICANCE TO AEL MANAGEMENT APPROACH Energy We are aware that the construction industry Economic performance is energy intensive, with high electricity and We consider economic viability to be one local and global reporting/accounting fuel consumption. We take all the necessary of the most significant material topics principles and accounting and auditing measures to minimise our consumption to our Company and a prime driver of standards. We clearly communicate internal through energy saving practices. This stakeholder wealth maximisation. We strive control procedures and standard operating includes but are not limited to: for organic and inorganic growth through procedures that govern all financial Use of renewable energy such as engaging in various economic activities, matters. The annual financial audit, the solar power wherever possible acquisitions and mergers, and entering into annual assurance engagement, and the  Use of and investment in energy new ventures. Our continuous investments random and continuous audits carried out efficient construction methodologies, made in construction plants, equipment, by the Internal Audit Department are our equipment and latest technology and machinery are our means of supporting main methods of evaluation. The Audited organic growth. Where necessary we add Financial Statements are the utimate  Recording, monitoring and new business verticals within our core method of communicating our financial improving energy consumption ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 construction activities in order to gain performance to the public. As a public  Educating employees on the new experience in diversified fields of quoted Company we are also governed by importance of being energy efficient engineering. The latest addition to this was the Rules and Regulations of the Colombo the Mannar Wind Power Project which was Stock Exchange and need to adhere to the Further, each business unit is given a a completely new area of operation. We best practices of corporate governance. target on energy consumption and our also acquire lucrative business ventures, Management Systems Team monitors make prudent investments, and move energy usage through periodic evaluations. Procurement practices and into related diversification to support our inorganic growth. While retaining sufficient customer health and safety Water resources to fuel our sustainable growth Our procurement policy clearly outlines prospects we also maintain our dividend AEL’s policy on sustainable procurement Our core business is a heavy consumer payout at approximately 40% to 50% thus practices. Throughout the years, we have of water and our operations also have giving a return on their investment. All established long term, healthy relationships the potential to pollute water and water financial matters are in accordance with with suppliers and subcontractors. resources. Thus, we have implemented 30 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Materiality various strategies to minimise and save Employees: Labour management We conduct a training needs analysis water usage where possible. These practices relations, occupational health through performance evaluations and include but are not limited to: recommendations of managers. AEL and safety, market presence, and  Use of innovative construction formulates a training calendar for every non-discrimination year. Once training programmes are techniques that consume less amounts of water Human capital is the quintessential complete, a formal evaluation is conducted element of Access Engineering. Our highly by the HR Department which helps with  Budgeting water consumption for trained, skilled workforce is the secret gap analysis and also the feedback leads to each activity/project and rigorous to our success through which we have improvements. monitoring of same gained a competitive advantage within the  Reusing and recycling water wherever industry. We hope to be the “most preferred possible. i.e., such as in our workshop Diversity and equal opportunity employer” among the potential candidates.  Educating employees on the We keep our employees incentivised Access Engineering family welcomes those importance of saving water through training programmes, monetary from different backgrounds. We are also and non-monetary rewards, performancea diverse, equal opportunity employer.  Each business unit is given a target based remunerations, welfare activities, Though most of our staff is made-up of on water consumption and other benefits. We offer internal and males, we take all possibilities to decrease external training programmes to all our the gap in gender by employing females. Further, targets to be achieved on water employees regardless of their grade. There Our rewards schemes, promotions, consumption are communicated to each is a clear career progression path that is recruitments are all conducted in a highly business segment and monitored by our performance driven and based on merit. We transparent, and a non-discriminative Management Systems Team. also have created a healthy, safe working manner. The employee handbook is used environment to our employees and conduct to formally communicate information Emissions, environment, an OHSAS audit as well as set specific regarding equal opportunity at AEL. and biodiversity objectives each year. AEL is reputed in the Our sustainable construction practices industry as an equal opportunity employer. Local communities: We do not discriminate on the grounds of have led to a minimal negative impact Socio-economic compliance race, religion, gender, class, or disability. on the environment. The first step of any Though due to the nature of the industry, and indirect economic impacts project is to carry out an Environmental Impact Assessment by relevant authorities. our workforce is made-up principally of We recognise that our projects may Our environmental performance is also male workers, we take every possible effort have a major impact on the communities monitored through the Environmental to recruit females. We, as a responsible that we operate in. We support the local Management System (EMS). The EMS is corporate, adhere to all local labour laws communities by creating direct and indirect also externally verified. We set an annual and regulations. We have prepared an economic benefits which include generation target for emissions at the beginning of employee handbook which communicates of employment, sourcing material locally, each financial year and conduct audits. the benefits, rules and regulations, and engaging in community building Importance of preserving biodiversity administrative matters, company policies initiatives. We have built meaningful is communicated across the Company that are applicable to all employees and by relationships with the communities through system audits and site visits by our which they are bound. In our recruitments, we operate in. Our projects have the Management Systems Team. Impacts on we give priority to hiring locally since they potential to affect the local communities. biodiversity are periodically reported to the possess local knowledge. All our Senior We contribute to the communities that client as well as included in project process Management is hired locally and we comply we operate in by offering employment review meetings. We also conduct employee with all the necessary regulations in opportunities to people from the locality, ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 awareness programmes and strictly monitor remuneration and other benefits. We also sourcing material, machinery, and other environmental performance through regular conduct annual performance appraisals resources locally, and carrying out CSR EMS audits. The Company environment which monitor and evaluate employee programmes. Our sustainability policy policy, environmental laws and regulations, performances. Discussions take place about and strategy are our primary means and the requirements of the Environment performance management in meetings. of communicating our commitment to Management System (EMS) are the primary the community. Our Integrated Annual means of communication on biodiversity Training and education Report also form an important part issues. We also plant trees and have of communicating our work to uphold implemented a regular, annual tree In an industry where there is a dearth of communities. Our CSR programmes are planting programme to offset the impact highly skilled labour, we have recognised constantly reviewed and are evaluated of our emissions. the importance of training and development at monthly progress meetings and programmes. We offer both internal performance review meetings. In all our and external programme to employees: operations we comply with the applicable staff as well as worker categories. laws and regulations. 31 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES STRATEGIC DIRECTION In a highly volatile, evolving business WINNING HIGH-QUALITY BEING THE PREFERRED landscape, a prudent strategic framework CONTRACTS IN OUR CHOSEN PARTNER AMONG is needed for any organisation to thrive. MARKETS AND FIELDS INTERNATIONAL Our strategy is founded on our vision, “To be the foremost Sri Lankan business Wining high-quality contracts in the CONTRACTORS enterprise in value engineering”. Through industry supports our brand and is our strategy we aim to create sustainable Our reputation in the local industry as a fundamental to the sustainability of our value for all our stakeholders. We take an thought leader has led to multiple business business. Our leadership in the sector inclusive, company-wide approach in the partnerships. It has also led to a number is a result of consistent, continued trust formulation of our strategy. of key partnerships with international placed on us by our clients. We follow contractors. Our strong work ethic and our a stringent process in the selection of delivery of exceptional, world-class service contracts and bid for projects only with a ENSURING SUSTAINABILITY minimum guaranteed rate of return. We have contributed to the continuation of such IN ALL OPERATIONS partnerships. Our objective is to establish maintain a strong construction capability long-term business links through delivering and capacity in the local market and We are a Company focused on and sustainable value. These synergies have have positioned ourselves as an industry committed to the triple bottom line led to knowledge sharing, knowledge leader through offering core engineering delivering sustainable economic and transfer, and exposure to the best practices solutions and expansion beyond our shores financial growth through organic and in construction at the global stage. We through strategic partnerships. In order inorganic means. Organically we expand have continued long term, interdependent to consistently win high-quality contracts, by strengthening the internal systems partnerships which has led to the growth of we have recognised the need to embrace and processes and externally, we acquire the relationship from a subcontractor, to a new technologies and review the market to lucrative businesses that have potential. JV partner, and an investment partner. anticipate changes. Further, we continue to Preserving the environment in all our extend integrated service offering utilising operations is a top priority at Access KPIs synergies/skills between services and Engineering PLC. We ensure that all our 1. Revenue generated through foreign construction projects and have identified operations are conducted in a sustainable, partnerships to expand and diversify our portfolio. accountable manner throughout every 2. Number of foreign principals stage of the operation from project planning KPIs to execution and delivery. Further, we 1. Orders secured during the period have nurtured long term, progressive, and DEVELOPING AND ATTRACTING 2. Project pipeline mutually beneficial relationships with all EXCELLENT PEOPLE AND our stakeholders which has led to repeat 3. New product/service offerings CAPABILITIES business. Our comprehensive stakeholder engagement process is directed towards DELIVERING CONTRACTS Our goal has always been to attract the maintaining these relationships. We support SAFELY, SUSTAINABLY, AND TO best in the sector and become the most local communities through engagement preferred employer to outperform the programmes and initiatives that focus on BEST-IN-CLASS STANDARDS competition. In an industry with a high community development. We understand Through prudent project planning turnover rate and a dearth of skilled that the sustainability of AEL rests on our and execution, we deliver exceptional, labour, we focus on employee retention highly-skilled, loyal workforce. We continue world-class service to our clients. by investing in our workforce. We conduct to attract and recruit the best talent in the Our internal processes work at the optimal leadership programmes (both technical and industry. We support our employees by any levels in order to prevent any unforeseen non-technical) at all levels. Our programmes means possible to create a safe and healthy circumstances. Stakeholder engagement for university students, apprentices, and engaging working environment. at every stage of the project has helped us interns are all directed towards building successfully execute our projects. We have skills. We have also focused on enhancing KPIs also maintained leadership in the sector in our governance process to create a 1. Revenue and profit growth quality, environment management, health value-based culture. Over the years, ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 2. Reduction in emissions and use of and safety, and sustainability. We also we have successfully been able to materials continue to raise the bar in terms of time, retain talent within our Organisation. 3. Investment in and number of CSR cost, and quality performance. Our use of cutting-edge technology and the adoption KPIs programmes conducted of modern construction techniques have 1. Staff retention ratio 4. Staff retention ratio enhanced our productivity. 2. Employee satisfaction ratio 3. Gender ratio KPIs 4. Number of training hours per employee/ 1. Revenue growth Cost of training per employee 2. Operating margin 5. Staff welfare and benefits 3. EPS 4. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 5. Saving in electricity consumption 6. Amount of water recycled and reused 7. Number of processes certified 32 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES CAPITAL TRADE-OFFS We consider resource allocation to be critical in the implementation of corporate strategy. We prudently allocate our resources in the form of capitals, financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social and relationship, and natural to create sustainable value for our stakeholders. The capitals interact with one another and work interdependently in the process of transforming the inputs into outputs and outcomes. This process is illustrated in our value creation model on page 34. Our overall strategy is geared to achieving equitable resource allocation across all capitals taking a macro view of the trade-offs in the allocation of financial and other forms of resources to create value. For example, we invest in community development initiatives to create social value. Thus, financial capital is used to fund these various activities that contribute to the development of the community. While it will improve the corporate image of the Company, it will reduce profits generated for financial capital. Yet in the long term, being a socially-responsible corporate citizen will boost the image of the Company and help gain potential business that would generate income for the Company. Our Company recognises the significance of equitable resource allocation and capital trade-offs and their impact to the Company, its capitals, and its operations as a whole. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 33 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES OUR VALUE CREATION MODEL INPUTS FINANCIAL CAPITAL MANUFACTURED CAPITAL INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL  Base of over 7,226 equity shareholders  LKR 286 Mn. invested in heavy LKR 20.5 Mn. invested to upgrade  LKR 23.58 Bn. equity employed machinery and equipment integrated information and  LKR 1.9 Bn. fleet of machinery planning systems  LKR 8.74 Bn. obtained from banks and financial institutions  18 production plants in Sri Lanka The AEL Brand Refer page 68 Refer page 78 Refer page 79 HUMAN CAPITAL SOCIAL AND NATURAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL  186 internal and external training  Energy consumption programmes conducted  Network of 13,695 suppliers 290,014,952 joules  Total staff and labourers 2,458  Water use 153,481 litres  AEL organisational culture Refer page 82 Refer page 87 Refer page 101 OUTCOMES VALUE CREATED FOR STAKEHOLDERS Investors and shareholders Suppliers and business partners Clients and the Government  Financial growth and stability  Long-term relationships with suppliers  A diverse, innovative product portfolio  Shareholder wealth maximisation and business partners  A vibrant business entity that is resilient  Improved creditworthiness and rating  Strategic alliances that strengthen AEL’s to changing client needs position within the industry  At the forefront of technological  Better retention and attraction of shareholders  Suppliers and partners who follow AEL’s advancements values and code of conduct  An exemplary culture of compliance  Public Private Partnerships leading to projects of National importance ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Employees Society and local community Environment  Employer of choice in the industry  Infrastructure development driving local  Mitigating the negative impact of our  Employee engagement and satisfaction economic growth business on the environment  Safe working environment  Development of the local community  Responsible, efficient energy and natural  A corporate citizen committed to resource management  A workforce committed to achieve sustainable growth sustainable development  Responsible practices in waste management  A culture of learning and knowledge to provide value engineering  Sustainable and green development 34 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Value Creation Model VALUE CREATION PROCESS VISION AND MISSION 1. Stakeholder management 2. Business development and project CONSTRUCTION AND identification CONSTRUCTION RELATED ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT MATERIALS 3. Tendering CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4. Negotiation and project awarding 5, 6 5. Planning, implementation, and project management 1 2, 3, 4 6. Project closure and management AUTOMOBILE PROPERTY of defect liability period 8, 9 7 7. Advertising, marketing, and sales 8. Warehousing 9. After sales service — parts and workshop MECHANICAL 10. Import and resource deployment ENGINEERING 10, 11 11. Commission, repair, and maintenance SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY OUTPUTS  Profit after tax of LKR 1.96 Bn.  Development of much-needed public  Upgraded Standard Operating  LKR 744 Mn. interest paid to infrastructure to fuel economic growth Procedure (SOP) financial institutions  707 employees with over five years  LKR 3 Bn. generated from operations of experience  LKR 500 Mn. dividends declared ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19  LKR 2.4 Bn. paid and distributed among  1,785 pairs of desks and chairs  2,070 trees planted employees distributed to 50 schools  1,579 kg of wastepaper recycled  LTIFR ratio of 2.38  LKR 5.2 Bn. paid to subcontractors  315.8 kg reduction in GHG emissions  249 industrial placements offered  LKR 1.8 Bn. spent on local suppliers  LKR 11.1 Bn. worth of projects executed in joint-venture partnerships 35 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES OUR BUSINESS PORTFOLIO COLOMBO MANNAR Design and construction of Beira Lake Bridge and Associate Civil Works of construction of 100 MW Semi works for Waterfront Integrated Resort Development Project Dispatchable Wind Farm — Mannar Island Nanotechnology Building Phase IB — Homagama Construction of 608 Housing Units for Government Servants — Borella Waterfront Integrated Resort Project — Colombo 02 GAMPAHA Design, construction and financing of Housing Project at 601 Watta, Cyril C Perera Mawatha, Bloemendhal Piling works of Bauer Service Center — Kadawatha ISUZU workshop for Sathosa Motors PLC — Peliyagoda Relocation of underserved settlement project — 941 low cost housing units at Henamulla — Phase II Rehabilitation and improvements to Colombo-Kandy Road Proposed hostel building for SLTC — Padukka section from Kadawatha to Nittambuwa Pling works for “Eliot Place’’ Condominium Development Construction of the proposed Package — A of the Central at Borella by Urban Development Authority Expressway Project Section II from Mirigama to Riloluwa Substructure, piling and diaphragm wall construction of Reconstruction of Kochchikade Bridge ODEL Mall — Town Hall (Bridge No. 38/3) on Peliyagoda-Puttalam Road (A003) Piling works for “Marina Square” Condominium Development Concrete Batching Plant — Kandana by Harbour Village Asphalt Plant — Kotadeniyawa Piling works of Ambatale storm water pumping station Concrete Batching Plant — Mabima Construction of guide wall and piling work for Havelock City — Phase III Quarry — Mirigama Piling works for “Access Residencies’’ condominium development — Thalawathugoda “Sherwood Apartments” condominium development by Complement Investments at Battaramulla KALUTARA Stabilisation of cuts slopes at Nugagahapura below CMC land using soil nailing technique — Phase 2 Asphalt Plant — Mathugama Piling works for “Capital Heights” by Blue Star — Rajagiriya Quarry — Wallavita Piling works of Senok Head Office — Colombo 05 Crusher — Mathugama Construction of proposed ring road along west bank of West Beira Lake Dialog Optical Fiber Backbone Network — Phase VII — Bentota and Bandaragama Towns East of Colombo District Water Supply Project — Padukka, Seethawaka Mechanical workshop — Kaduwela GALLE Design unit — Union Place Central equipment division — Kaduwela SLT new subscriber connection project SLT new subscriber connection project ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Bridges and flyovers Road and highways Telecommunication Buildings Water and Wastewater Workshops* Piling Irrigation and land drainage Plants* * Internal units 36 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio KILINOCHCHI Rehabilitation of downstream and upstream dam embankments of Iranamadu reservoir (Package I and II) VAVUNIYA Asphalt Plant — Vavuniya Kilinochchi Quarry — Vavuniya Mannar Vavuniya ANURADHAPURA Anuradhapura North Water Supply Project — Phase I Anuradhapura KURUNEGALA Asphalt Plant — Ibbagamuwa Crusher Plant — Nagollagama Kurunegala Concrete Batching plant — Deduruoya Kandy Deduruoya Water Supply Project — Contract 1 and 2 Gampaha Kegalle Colombo KANDY Kalutara Rathnapura Quarry — Mailapitiya Galle KEGALLE Hambanthota Matara ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Crusher Plant — Warakapola MATARA HAMBANTHOTA RATNAPURA SLT new subscriber SLT new subscriber SLT new subscriber connection project connection project connection project Dialog Optical Fiber – Weligama 37 Our Business Portfolio ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 GRI 203-1, 203-2 CONSTRUCTION ROADS AND HIGHWAYS 38 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status Rehabilitation and improvements Ongoing to Colombo-Kandy Road section Location from Kadawatha to Nittambuwa Kadawatha to Nittambuwa on As a part of the National Road Colombo-Kandy Road-A001 Rehabilitation Plan, rehabilitation and Client improvement of existing Colombo-Kandy Road Development Authority Road from Kadawatha to Nittambuwa was initiated by Road Development Authority Project value (RDA) with the assistance of local bank LKR 6,956 Mn. funding and the rehabilitation and Funded by improvement works were awarded to Government of Sri Lanka Access Engineering PLC. Role in contract The 23 km, two-lane stretch from Main contractor Kadawatha (17+000 km) – Nittambuwa Start date (40+000 km) is rehabilitated and improved 11 September 2013 to a four lane standard carriageway where End date the width of a single lane would be 3.7 m. 30 September 2019 The scope also includes extensive land ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 acquisition and utility shifting, widening and improvements to existing cross drainage structures, elevated footwalks and centre median/islands as necessary, rehabilitation and improvement of road pavement structure, improvement of the existing drainage system. The scope of the project also includes town improvements of Imbulgoda, Balummahara, Yakkala, and Thihariya junctions and widening of four bridges to which includes the bridges over Balummahara Oya and Uruwal Oya. Two major RCC girder bridges are to be widened and rehabilitated to 25 m and 22 m widths. 39 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 40 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Construction of the proposed Package — A of the Central Expressway Project Section II from Mirigama to Riloluwa The Central Expressway, a much-needed expressway for enhancing the development and economical transportation was spearheaded by the Road Development Authority with the funds from local banks of Sri Lanka. The Central Expressway from Kadawatha-Dambulla and the link Expressway from Pothuhera-Galagedara with the highway link to Ambepussa is the 4th Expressway of Sri Lanka. The Central Expressway (CEP) spreads along a total length of 169.53 km and is executed under four sections namely, Sections I: Kadawatha (0.0 km) to Mirigama (37.1 km), Section II: Mirigama (37.1 km) to Kurunegala (76.8 km), Section III: Pothuhera (0.0 km) to Galagedara (32.5 km) and Section IV: Kurunegala (76.8 km) to Dambulla Status (137.1 km). Ongoing Location The Section II was subdivided into four Mirigama to Riloluwa subsections and each section was awarded Client to contractor consortiums which were Road Development Authority selected from the pre-qualified local contractors. Package — A of CEP-2 which ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Project value is 9.71 km was entrusted to the contractor LKR 9,378 Mn. consortium; ICC-ACCESS — (NAWALOKAFunded by KDESH JV). Out of the total stretch of Local banks of Sri Lanka 9.71 km, the construction of CH 38+927 to CH 40+430 and CH 40+730 to CH 46+800 Role in contract was entrusted to Access Engineering. Main contractor The work scope of AEL includes Start date construction of earthen roadway together 16 January 2017 with 1.23 km long viaducts to accommodate asphalt concerted four traffic lanes with End date several culverts, underpasses and a bridge. 20 January 2020 Access Engineering is progressing according to the plan and expecting to complete the project on time while fulfilling the expectation of RDA. 41 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status Construction of proposed Completed ring road along west bank of Location West Beira Lake Along the west bank of In order to anticipate the new developments The road was constructed along with a West Beira Lake, Colombo of hotels and condominiums in and around 1.8 m wide footpath on right side and a Client the Beira Lake area, the Colombo Municipal 0.75 m wide footpath on left side and a 7 m Colombo Municipal Council Council funded by the Government of wide two lane connection road connecting Sri Lanka initiated the construction of to the Galle-Colombo Road. The scope Project value the new by pass and access road along the of the work also involved several soft LKR 418 Mn. west bank of the Beira Lake. The scope of ground treatments as some of the ground Funded by the projects was to construct a 1.15 km areas have previously been swamps with ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Government of Sri Lanka long four lane carriageways where the demolished road debris. The works are width of a single lane was 3.3 m. The completed and have been handed over Role in contract construction work was entrusted to to Colombo Municipal Council. Main contractor Access Engineering PLC. Start date 15 May 2017 End date 30 August 2018 42 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Design and construction of Beira Lake Bridge and Associate works for Status Waterfront Integrated Resort Development Project Completed Access Engineering PLC recently completed the project for the design and construction of Location Beira Lake Bridge and Associated Works under the Waterfront Integrated Resort Project, Justice Akbar Mawatha, Colombo 02 one-of-a-kind iconic mix development project of Water Front Properties (Private) Limited, Client a subsidiary of John Keells Holdings. Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, A subsidiary of John Keells Holdings PLC The 35 m wide and 50 m long connection Bridge for the newly constructing Waterfront Integrated Resort consists of six lanes, with aluminium claddings on either side, flower Project value troughs, high mast light towers and decorative lamps while the deck was constructed of LKR 689.39 Mn. pre cast concrete slabs and in-situ concrete finished with asphalt concrete. The deck, Funded by which rises from the side of Justice Akbar Mawatha, subsequently diverges into two key John Keells Holdings PLC lanes which give easy access to the hotel development and condominium development. Role in contract The design and supply of the steel superstructure was undertaken by Centunion S A of Spain and the design and construction of the substructure and related works was done by AEL. Main contractor Start date 21 July 2016 End date 5 December 2018 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 BRIDGES 43 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 44 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status Reconstruction of Kochchikade Completed Bridge (Bridge No. 38/3) on Location Peliyagoda-Puttalam Road Bridge No. 38/3 on (A003) Peliyagoda-Puttalam Road (A003) across The new bridge replaces the existing Mahaoya River bridge (Bridge No. 38/3) on Mahaoya Client River which has been built around the Road Development Authority year 1936. Road Development Authority Project value initiated a project together with the financial LKR 695 Mn. aids from the Government of Austria to construct a new bridge and the design Funded by and construction works were entrusted to Government of Sri Lanka Messrs Bilfinger MCE GmbH of Austria and Role in contract Access Engineering PLC with the objective Subcontractor of widening the bridge with four traffic lanes while discarding the existing steel bridge. Start date 24 July 2016 The scope of the project was to construct a End date pre fabricated steel bridge, 150 m long ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 19 December 2018 three span bridge with spans of 30 m, 45 m and 30 m. The bridge is 19 m wide and has two separate carriageways. Each abutment of the bridge comprises of 11 Number of bored piles and each pier comprises of 10 Number of bored piles. The deck of the bridge was built out of reinforced concrete with asphalt paving on the top. All the piles are of 1.2 m diameter and around 21 m in depth. The approximate lengths of newly built approach roads are 140 m towards Negombo and 110 m towards Chilaw. The project was completed ahead of the planned completion date and now is opened for the use of the public. 45 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio WATER AND WASTEWATER ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 46 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status Anuradhapura North Water Ongoing Supply Project — Phase I Location The objective of the Project is to provide Anuradhapura safe drinking water and increase water Client supply coverage by constructing a water National Water Supply and supply system in Anuradhapura North Drainage Board where the people depend on unsafe ground water which causes dental and skeletal Project value fluorosis, thereby contributing to improving LKR 3,650 Mn. hygienic status and health condition in Funded by the area. The Project is implemented National Water Supply and by National Water Supply and Drainage Drainage Board Board with the funds provided by Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA). Role in contract Construction works of the project were Main contractor awarded to Access Engineering. Start date 14 May 2018 The scope of the project includes the construction of an intake facility, flow End date control structures, Water Treatment 13 April 2020 Plants, three ground reservoirs, four elevated water towers and associate building works and electro-mechanical works. The project is being executed in six locations; Mahakanadarawewa, Rambewa, Medawachchiya, Isinbassagala, Ethakada, Pihimbiyagollawa (East Rambewa). ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 47 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 48 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Towns East of Colombo District Water Supply Project The Towns East of Colombo District Water Supply Project is implemented by National Water Supply and Drainage Board and funded by local banks. The project is to cover a total of 116 Sq km area which includes 40 Grama Niladhari Divisions under Seethawaka, Padukka, and Horana Divisional Secretariat Divisions. The project which aims to provide pipe borne water supply to an estimated population of 373,000 in the eastern part of the Colombo District is implemented through three contract packages. The contract Package I which was awarded to Access Engineering PLC includes supply and laying of 1000 mm diameter DI transmission pipes for a length of 4 km from Meepe to Meegoda and HDPE pipes of variable diameter as distribution mains for 200 km. Final stage of the project is in progress and is expected to be completed by end of this year. Status Ongoing Location Padukka, Seethawaka DS Area Client National Water Supply and Drainage Board Project value LKR 4,390 Mn. Funded by Government of Sri Lanka Role in contract Main contractor Start date 4 January 2015 End date 30 September 2019 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 49 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio IRRIGATION AND LAND DRAINAGE ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 50 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status Deduruoya Water Supply Ongoing Project — Contract 1 and 2 Location Recognising the urgent requirement to Ridi Bendi Ela, Maho control the growing threat of chronic Client diseases rapidly spreading across the areas National Water Supply and of Nagollagama, Maho, and Polpithigama. Drainage Board National Water Supply and Drainage Board spearheaded the said project together Project value with Kolon Global Corporation of Korea LKR 1,984.5 Mn. in order to provide safe drinking water Funded by to the surrounding communities. Government of Sri Lanka and Government of South Korea A major part of the construction work was subcontracted to Access Engineering Role in contract and the scope of works awarded includes Subcontractor construction of an intake pump station Start date (16,500M3/day capacity) at the left canal 12 June 2017 bank of Deduru Oya Reservoir, Potuwewa water treatment plant (15,000 m3 per End date day capacity), water towers at Maho 31 March 2020 (1,000 m3 capacity) and Nagollagama (750 m3 capacity) and laying of 500 mm diameter 3.5 km long raw water main DI pipeline, laying of 26 km long clear water transmission line and installation of distribution network for 164 km of diameters by 100 mm – 300 mm (PVC and HDPE). ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 51 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio BUILDINGS ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 52 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status Nanotechnology Ongoing Building Phase IB Location Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology Pitipana, Homagama (SLINTEC) is a recognised pioneer in Nanotechnology and Advanced technology Client research in Sri Lanka which offers Ministry of Science, Technology significant opportunities to nurture young and Research entrepreneurs in the pursuit of scientific Project value discovery. Being the first public-private LKR 3,088 Mn. research institute in Sri Lanka, it has made significant progress over the past Funded by several years. Government of Sri Lanka Role in contract SLINTEC is based at Pitipana, Homagama Main contractor is currently undergoing an expansion of Start date its facility there under the direction of 19 March 2018 the Ministry of Science, Technology and Research with the intention of widening the End date limited research facilities into a world-class 29 December 2019 laboratory facility complex with state-of-theart equipment, incubation spaces and pilot plant facilities. The expansion work of phase IB which involves expansion of the main laboratory, accommodation building and new gate house with canteen building was awarded to Access Engineering PLC. The scope of the work awarded to AEL includes the construction of a hexagonal shaped G+4 building of 11,500 m2 with two basements adjacent to the existing hexagonal shaped three storey building on ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 a pile foundation for the main laboratory building, construction of a G+6 building of 3,300 m2 with 44 bed rooms and eight studio apartments on a pile foundation for accommodation and construction of a G+1 1,650 m2 to house a canteen and a gate house. 53 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 54 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Construction of 608 Housing Units for Government Servants at Borella Initiated by the Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development under the guidance of UDA, this project ensures the Government’s initiative in making housing more accessible to the public sector employees of Sri Lanka. This is a contract where the contractor has to finance the project during design and construction stage. Status Ongoing The work scope of the contract awarded Location to Access Engineering, includes Lesley Ranagala Mawatha, investigation, design and construction of Serpentine Road, Borella G+24 storey building that accommodates 608 residential housing units. 638 Client parking slots spread across five parking The Urban Development Authority floors provide parking slots for each unit. Project value The complex will comprise 2/3 bedroom LKR 4,889 Mn. apartments of 658 sq. ft. to 870 sq. ft. (approx.) floor areas along with arranged Funded by spaces for living, pantry, and modern Public-Private Partnership bathroom facilities. These residential Model-Government of Sri Lanka and AEL buildings will include a swimming pool, Role in contract gymnasium, restaurant, and shopping Main contractor complex to ensure comfortable living in the middle of the city. The facilities provided Start date at the development also includes electrical 19 March 2016 supply with backup power system, water End date supply, fire protection, eight numbers of ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 19 October 2019 elevators, wastewater and sewerage system, storm water system, car charging points, provisions for disabled car parking, solid waste collection, gas supply system, and internal roads and beautifully landscaped common areas. 55 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Design, construction and Proposed hostel building financing of Housing Project for SLTC at Padukka at 601 Watta, Cyril C Perera Sri Lanka Technological Campus (SLTC) Mawatha, Bloemendhal functions as a fully owned subsidiary This housing project to upgrade the living of Sri Lanka Telecom (SLT). SLTC offers standards of the underserved communities Engineering Degree programmes and is implemented by the Ministry of Megapolis they are fully accredited by the Ministry and Western Development under the of Higher Education and Highways and guidance of UDA. The scope of project recognised by the University Grants is to design, construct and finance for a Commission (UGC). 15 storied (G+14) building consisting of 500 sq. ft. carpet area housing units. SLTC is expanding its hostel facilities and related construction works were awarded Number of housing units shall be 450 and to Access Engineering with funds by SLTC. each housing unit includes two bed rooms, The project is to design and construct a living area, kitchen, dining area, balcony, G+3 storied hostel building in a short period and toilet and bath. The scope includes of five months. Main structure works are provision of electricity, water supply, currently in progress as scheduled in sewage, wastewater disposal system, solid order to complete the project in time. waste disposal system, internal roads, and drainage system. Initial stages of piling and preliminary works are now completed and the project is in progress as per schedule. Status Status Ongoing Ongoing Location Location 601 Watta, Cyril C Perera Mawatha, Padukka Bloemendhal Client Client Sri Lanka Technological Campus (SLTC) The Urban Development Authority Project Value Project value LKR 486.18 Mn. LKR 2,737 Mn. Funded by Funded by Sri Lanka Technological Campus (SLTC) Public Private Partnership Role in contract Model-Government of Sri Lanka and AEL ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Main contractor Role in contract Start date Main contractor 1 March 2019 Start date End date 15 October 2018 31 August 2019 End date 15 April 2021 56 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Status ISUZU workshop for Sathosa Completed Motors PLC at Peliyagoda Location With the acquisition of Sathosa Motors Peliyagoda PLC by Access Engineering PLC as a Client subsidiary, the need of a more spacious Sathosa Motors PLC and user-friendly workshop was identified in order to expand the current services Project value and facilities. The project was to construct LKR 313.6 Mn. a 2-storey steel workshop building and an Funded by administration building with four stories. Sathosa Motors PLC The new workshop is equipped with 32 repair bays, 8 service bays and a body ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Role in contract and paint shop equipped with Main contractor state-of-the-art equipment. Start date 14 March 2018 End date 15 June 2019 57 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio POWER Civil Works of Construction of 100 MW Semi dispatchable Wind Farm in Mannar Island Mannar wind power project is an electrical Funded by the Asian Development Bank Status power generation project, which will utilise and spearheaded by the Ceylon Electricity Ongoing energy in the wind to produce electrical Board the main contract was awarded Location energy. Ceylon Electricity Board is to to Vestas Asia Pacific A/S. The civil Mannar Island build and operate a semi-dispatchable construction works are subcontracted to wind farm of 100 MW capacity as the first Access Engineering where the subcontract Client phase of harnessing the available wind scope includes design and construction of Ceylon Electricity Board electric potential in the Mannar region. The foundations and hardstands for the wind Project Value state-of-the-art wind energy conversion turbines, building the access road networks, LKR 4,156 Mn. and 1.56 Mn. USD systems (WECS) would be selected for the construction of the administration and proposed wind farm to generate clean accommodation buildings with utility and Funded by electrical energy in a sustainable manner. other supportive structures, cable trenching Asian Development Bank The proposed Wind Power Park will be for MV electrical cable and fibre optic cable Role in contract located in the southern part of Mannar line, supply of the employer’s supportive BoP Subcontractor Island from Thoddaveli to a length of about vehicles, miscellaneous works/supplies for Start date 12 km along the coast. The first row of 33 social safeguard commitments including turbines will be installed and the second row dug wells and toilets. 18 March 2019 of 6 turbines will be located at a distance End date about 1 km from the shore. 8 September 2020 TELECOMMUNICATION Dialog Optical Fibre Backbone Network — Phase VII Access Engineering PLC which has was carried out across the island installing Status long been a catalyst of growth in the an approximate total of over 200 km of Completed telecommunication infrastructure fibre cables. The coordination between Location development sector was actively engaged the utility agencies, road authorities, and Multiple locations in the deployment of the Optical Fibre general public was extremely challenging Backbone Network and an Optical Fibre and executing work in urban areas was a Client Sprouts Connectivity Project for Dialog tough task when the cables were required Dialog Broadband Networks (Pvt) Ltd. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Broadband Networks (Pvt) Ltd. The National to be installed underground along the busy Project value Optical Fibre Backbone Network Project roads. Yet the Horizontal Directional Drilling LKR 186 Mn. was introduced in order to enhance and technology and Micro Trenching technology develop the current internet penetration employed by the Company assured the work Funded by levels by introducing the state-of-theprogressed with minimum damage to the Dialog Broadband Networks (Pvt) Ltd. art wireless technology for broadband road surfaces and least disturbances to the Role in contract internet delivery. The projects is to be traffic and pedestrians. Main contractor conducted under several phases and up to Phase VII was completed recently. Start date Optical Fibre Sprouts Connectivity Project 13 April 2018 involves the supply of services related to End date the deployment of Dialog Optical Fibre 23 October 2018 Network in urban areas and the project 58 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio SLT new subscriber connection project Sri Lanka Telecom executes a FTTH implementation project to provide high speed internet and related facilities to households around the country using optical fibre cables. The project entrusted to us is carried out in three main areas; Southern Province, Sabaragamuwa Province and in Metro region Colombo. Access Engineering work scope includes installation of new telephone line connections, PEO TV connections, Fibre to the Home (FTTH) connections, fault rectification and maintenance. In addition, we also conduct MSAN installation and development and expansions of the optical fibre networks in the said areas. The contract is a unit rate contract and is renewed annually depending on the performance of the installation teams employed by AEL. In the SLT Service Excellence Awards 2017/18 Access Engineering was awarded runners-up (best overall performance — contractor category). Status Status Dialog Optical Fibre Sprouts Ongoing Ongoing Connectivity Project Location Location This project involves the supply of services Multiple locations Multiple locations related to the Deployment of Dialog optical Client Client fibre network including pre-installation Sri Lanka Telecom PLC Dialog Broadband Networks (Pvt) Ltd. survey, supply of ducts, network deployment (Including indoor works), installation of Project Value Project value ducts, manholes and handholes, road Unit rate contract LKR 1,547.3 Mn. reinstatement, installation of cables, splicing Funded by Funded by and testing and commissioning the project. Sri Lanka Telecom PLC Dialog Broadband Networks (Pvt) Ltd. The project is carried out in Colombo and island wide. Horizontal Directional Drilling Role in contract Role in contract technology and Micro Trenching technology Main contractor Main contractor are employed mainly in urban areas. The ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Start date Start date project commenced in September 2013 1 October 2013 5 September 2013 and the projected date of completion is in December 2019. A total of 336.5 km End date End date was laid in Colombo and island wide with 31 December 2019 31 December 2019 connectivity at 750 sites. 59 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio ACCESS PROJECTS (PRIVATE) LIMITED Access Projects, a member of the AEL STAFF COMPOSITION Group, was established in 2002 to provide architectural and engineering building Staff category Staff as at solutions to a spectrum of clients. The 31 March 2019 Company has made its imprint primarily in the leisure industry for construction, Managerial 33 refurbishment, and renovation. It also has Operational 67 a significant market share in the aluminium Clerical and supportive 31 and ceiling segment in Sri Lanka. The Company is the sole franchiser of Aluk Italy proprietary aluminium doors, windows, and curtain wall systems. The Quality Management System (QMS) and the Environment Management System (EMS) of Access Projects are ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified. The workforce of ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Access Projects (Private) Limited exceeds over 100, comprising professionally qualified engineers, quantity surveyors, draftsmen, marketers, accountants, etc. focused to deliver excellence to clients and services of the highest standard. 60 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Access Realties is a fully-owned subsidiary of Access Engineering PLC. It is the proprietor and managing agent of Access Tower I (North), a 12-storey office complex providing more than 125,000 sq. ft. of office space completed with slick captivating design, corporate amenities, and contemporary resources. Access Tower I was completed in 1998 and at present is home to a number of tenants. It also functions as the headquarters of AEL. STAFF COMPOSITION PROPERTY Staff category Staff as at 31 March 2019 Managerial 3 Operational 5 ACCESS REALTIES Clerical and supportive 23 (PRIVATE) LIMITED Access Realties 2 is a fully-owned subsidiary of Access Realties. Its premier project: Access South Tower is a high-rise office building. The G+29 storey modern office complex provides approximately 200,000 sq. ft. of A Grade, state-of-the-art office space. Located in close proximity to the urban centre, Access Tower II (South) is an ideal location to grow and develop a business. The location is also blessed with breathtaking views of the Indian Ocean, Beira Lake, and the Colombo Skyline. The Tower has a diverse range of occupants from a wide-variety of sectors. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 STAFF COMPOSITION Staff category Staff as at 31 March 2019 Managerial — Operational 1 Clerical and supportive 10 ACCESS REALTIES 2 (PRIVATE) LIMITED 61 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Elevate is situated on the 28 and 29 floors of Access Tower II. It boasts of an exclusive member’s lounge, private dining, a wellness centre, a restaurant, conference hall, and meeting rooms which offer personalised services to any visitor. Elevate is the perfect choice for professional meetings, leisure, bespoke and customised events comprising of the finest amenities, event management services and state-of-the-art technology offering a unique experience in the heart of Colombo. STAFF COMPOSITION Staff category Staff as at 31 March 2019 Managerial 10 ARL ELEVATE Operational Clerical and supportive 96 6 (PRIVATE) LIMITED HORIZON HOLDINGS VENTURES (PRIVATE) LIMITED Horizon Holdings Ventures is the owner of a property of land in extent of over 4 acres located in Malabe. During 2018/19 Access Engineering PLC entered into a share sale and purchase agreement for the disposal of the Company in its entirety. The disposal will be completed and the Company will be transferred in 2019/20. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 62 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio Blue Star Realties’ flagship project Capital Heights, Rajagiriya is a unique real estate venture comprising 242 apartments. It goes beyond a residential apartment complex with its offering of a refined lifestyle as well as a long-term investment. It is situated in the residential capital of Rajagiriya that has recently been transformed into a beautiful lake city replete with quiet neighbourhoods, landscaped parks, serene waterways, and a natural bird sanctuary. Capital Heights has the privilege of these peaceful surroundings that belie its close proximity to the city. STAFF COMPOSITION Staff category Staff as at 31 March 2019 Managerial 9 BLUE STAR REALTIES Operational 6 (PRIVATE) LIMITED Clerical and supportive 6 Harbour Village is a joint venture formed between Access Engineering PLC, China Harbour Engineering Company Limited (CHEC), and Musthafa’s Singapore (Private) Limited. This Company was formed with the objective of seizing opportunities in the real estate sector in Sri Lanka. Its mixed-development project, five-towered, Marina Square, Colombo with 1,068 units and 150,000 sq. ft. of commercial space is equipped with finest finishes, modern amenities and sweeping views of the Indian Ocean and Colombo Port. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 STAFF COMPOSITION Staff category Staff as at 31 March 2019 Managerial 7 Operational 11 Clerical and supportive 1 HARBOUR VILLAGE (PRIVATE) LIMITED 63 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES AUTOMOBILE SATHOSA MOTORS PLC Sathosa Motors PLC (SML) is the official STAFF COMPOSITION dealer for Isuzu vehicles and spare parts manufactured by Messrs Isuzu Motors Staff category Staff as at Limited. SML offers sale of new vehicles, 31 March 2019 spare parts, and workshop services. It has capitalised on the niche market of reliable, Managerial 12 low maintenance transportation solutions. Operational 68 The value proposition and unmatched after Clerical and supportive 95 care service that SML offers has created a loyal customer base. SML will further expand its position as a trusted leader in the automotive industry. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 64 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio SML FRONTIER AUTOMOTIVE (PRIVATE) LIMITED SMLF is the only authorised distributor STAFF COMPOSITION of Jaguar and Land Rover in the country operating in the highly competitive Staff category Staff as at premium automobile segment. SMLF is a 31 March 2019 growing company, bolstered by strength of international automobile brands, Managerial 20 that has increased its market share Operational 43 in the sector since its inception in 2012. Clerical and supportive 36 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 65 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Business Portfolio MECHANICAL ENGINEERING ZPMC LANKA COMPANY (PRIVATE) LIMITED ZPMC Lanka Company is a joint venture ZPMC Lanka recently commenced the between Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy commissioning work of ZPMC Ship to Industries Company Limited of the People’s Shore and Rubber Tired Gantry Cranes Republic of China and Access Engineering to CICT and SAGT. PLC. Currently, ZPMC Lanka provides services to all the container terminals in Sri Lanka, including maintenance STAFF COMPOSITION contract for container handling equipment and facility maintenance for Colombo Staff category Staff as at International Container Terminals (CICT). 31 March 2019 It also conducts special repairs and spare Managerial 10 parts supply for the South Asia Gateway Terminals (Private) Limited of Port of Operational 125 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Colombo, Sri Lanka Ports Authority, King Clerical and supportive 4 Abdullah Port of KSA, Gwadar International Container Terminals Limited of Pakistan, Pakistan International Container Terminal of Pakistan and Qasim International Container Terminal of Pakistan. 66 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES VALUE ﻿ CREATION Our capitals interact with one another to create long-term, sustainable value for all our stakeholders in a highly-competitive, evolving business context. 68 FINANCIAL 78 MANUFACTURED CAPITAL CAPITAL 79 INTELLECTUAL 82 HUMAN 87 SOCIAL AND CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 101 NATURAL 109 GRI CONTENT 113 INDEPENDENT CAPITAL INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT TO AEL 67 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES FINANCIAL CAPITAL The following review of financial capital and financial performance elaborates how the Group and the Company met the shareholders’ expectations while mitigating the industry level risks and challenges through operational efficiency, effective utilisation of assets and optimal capital structure. The diagram below depicts the breakdown of Du-Pont Analysis designed to identify all the key drivers behind asset utilisation, operating efficiency with profitability, and capital structure and how each of these drivers contribute towards the annual ROE. (Follow from right to left) Effective tax rate: Interest cost/ Total liabilities/ (ETR) (X) Total liabilities: Total assets: Year ETR Growth (Q1) (Leverage) (R1) % % Year Int. cost/ Growth Year Leverage Growth 2015/16 11.37 15.62 Total liab. % % % % 2016/17 10.60 -6.80 2015/16 0.00 — 2015/16 36.91 108.25 2017/18 20.20 90.61 2016/17 4.57 — 2016/17 39.42 6.79 Net return/Equity: 2018/19 22.91 13.41 Total assets/Equity: (Equity multiplier) (U) 2017/18 4.45 -2.80 2017/18 45.84 16.30 (ROE) (Z) Year Equity Growth 2018/19 6.94 56.18 2018/19 44.87 -2.10 Year ROE Growth Y*(1-X) multiplier % % % % 2015/16 13.09 12.23 Q1*R1 2015/16 158.50 30.41 2016/17 15.59 19.03 2016/17 165.06 4.14 2017/18 10.68 -31.49 Pre-tax return/Equity: 2017/18 184.63 11.86 2018/19 10.28 -3.75 Interest cost/Total assets: (Pre-tax ROE) (Y) 2018/19 181.40 -1.75 (T) Year Pre-tax Growth Year Int. cost/ Growth ROE Tot. assets % % U*V % % 2015/16 14.78 14.17 2015/16 — — 2016/17 17.44 18.00 2016/17 1.80 — 2017/18 13.38 -23.25 Pre-tax return/Assets: 2017/18 2.04 13.03 2018/19 13.33 -0.36 (Pre-tax ROA) (V) 2018/19 3.12 52.90 Year Pre-tax Growth ROA % % S-T 2015/16 9.32 -12.5 2016/17 10.56 13.3 2017/18 7.25 -31.4 EBIT/Total assets: 2018/19 7.35 1.4 (ROCE)* (S) Year ROCE Growth % % 2015/16 9.32 -12.45 2016/17 12.37 32.66 2017/18 9.29 -24.91 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 2018/19 10.47 12.71 68 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital Investment in financial Investment in debentures/ instruments/Total assets: (N) Total assets: (F1) Year Inv. in FI/ Growth Year Inv. in deb./ Growth Total assets Total assets % % % % Interest income/ 2015/16 29.92 499.23 2015/16 3.42 Total assets: (P) 2016/17 7.22 -75.88 2016/17 3.42 0.20 Year Int. inc./ Growth 2017/18 4.01 -44.48 2017/18 3.05 -10.85 Tot. assets % % 2018/19 4.36 8.82 2018/19 2.91 -4.53 N*O 2015/16 0.60 -0.77 F1+G 2016/17 1.34 122.85 Interest income/Investment in Investment in short-term 2017/18 0.69 -48.92 financial instruments: (O) deposits/Total assets: (G) 2018/19 1.72 149.79 Year Int. income/ Growth Inv. in FI Year Inv. in ST dep./ Growth % % Total assets % % 2015/16 2.02 -83.44 2015/16 26.51 430.80 2016/17 18.63 823.84 2016/17 3.79 -85.69 2017/18 17.14 7.99 2017/18 0.96 -74.83 2018/19 39.34 129.54 2018/19 1.45 51.51 Investment in subsidiaries, JV, associates/Total assets: (L) Investment in subsidiaries/ Year Inv. in sub., JV, Growth Total assets: (E) asso./Total assets Year Inv. in sub./ Growth % % Total assets Dividend income/ 2015/16 26.38 -8.23 % % Total assets: (Q) 2016/17 38.90 47.46 2015/16 25.17 -11.51 Year Div. inc./ Growth 2016/17 34.84 38.40 Tot. assets 2017/18 45.12 15.97 % % 2017/18 41.62 19.45 2018/19 40.69 -9.82 P+Q+R 2015/16 0.28 88.9 L*M 2018/19 38.22 -8.17 2016/17 1.09 296.0 Dividend income/Investment in 2017/18 1.69 55.0 subsidiaries, JV, associates: (M) Investment in JV/ 2018/19 0.96 -43.3 Year Dividend income/Inv. Growth Total assets: (F) in sub., JV, asso. % % Year Inv. in JV/ Growth Total assets 2015/16 1.04 105.90 D+E+F % % 2016/17 2.80 168.53 2015/16 0.99 2017/18 3.74 33.62 2016/17 3.87 2018/19 2.35 37.13 2017/18 3.33 -13.83 2018/19 2.31 -30.70 Investment in core business/ Total assets: (J) Year Inv. in core business/ Growth Investment in associates/ Total assets Total assets: (D) % % Year Inv. in asso./ Growth 2015/16 27.33 -43.69 Total assets % % Core income/ 2016/17 32.49 18.89 2015/16 0.22 -27.72 Total assets: (R) 2017/18 26.19 -19.40 2016/17 0.20 -11.14 Year Core Inc./ Growth 2018/19 26.09 -0.39 Tot. assets 2017/18 0.17 -13.83 % % J*K 2018/19 0.16 -4.71 2015/16 8.44 -14.66 Core income/Investment in core 2016/17 9.93 17.63 business: (K) 2017/18 6.91 -30.43 Year Core inc./Inv. Growth Investment in PPE/ ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 in core bus. 2018/19 7.79 12.78 % % Total assets: (A) Year Inv. in PPE/ Growth 2015/16 30.89 51.54 Total assets 2016/17 30.56 -1.07 % % 2017/18 26.38 -13.68 2015/16 13.17 -31.31 2018/19 29.87 13.23 2016/17 13.20 0.23 2017/18 11.17 -15.31 2018/19 10.06 -9.95 H-I A+B Revenue/Investment in Operating cost/Investment Investment in working core business: (H) in core business: (I) capital/Total assets: (B) Year Revenue/Inv. Growth Year Op. cost/ Inv. Growth Year Inv. in WC/ Growth in core business in core business Total assets % % % % % % 2015/16 168.10 32.46 2015/16 137.21 28.81 2015/16 14.17 -51.77 2016/17 160.09 -4.77 2016/17 129.53 -5.60 2016/17 19.30 36.24 2017/18 207.60 29.68 2017/18 181.22 39.91 2017/18 15.02 -22.19 2018/19 214.31 3.23 2018/19 184.44 1.78 2018/19 16.03 7.32 69 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC — BALANCE SHEET (COMPANY) Horizontal analysis Vertical analysis 2018/ 19 2017/ 18 2016/17 2015/16 2018/ 19 2017/ 18 2016/17 2015/16 % % % % % % % % Property, plant and equipment -6.20 -7.37 14.70 -5.04 8.86 9.91 12.42 12.19 Investment properties 0.00 89.00 26.15 0.00 1.20 1.26 0.77 0.69 Intangible assets -10.90 -14.82 -14.38 -12.58 0.14 0.16 0.22 0.29 Investments in subsidiaries -3.63 38.63 55.75 22.43 38.22 41.62 34.84 25.17 Investments in joint venture -27.27 0.00 340.00 0.00 2.31 3.33 3.87 0.99 Investment in associate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.16 0.17 0.20 0.22 Other non-current financial assets 0.19 3.47 12.76 0.00 2.91 3.05 3.42 3.42 Total non-current assets -5.12 23.89 46.01 24.06 53.80 59.51 55.74 42.97 Inventories -10.99 65.99 16.05 -9.58 4.16 4.90 3.43 3.33 Trade and other receivables 18.29 26.02 48.19 0.72 29.18 25.89 23.84 18.10 Amount due from related parties 72.95 -82.68 191.88 -15.55 1.18 0.72 4.81 1.85 Current tax assets -100.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.18 0.00 0.00 Other current financial assets 22.66 25.45 18.46 29.91 7.13 6.10 5.64 5.36 Short-term investments -27.53 -1.36 -10.74 -36.80 0.07 0.11 0.13 0.16 Short-term deposits 70.01 -73.19 -84.33 684.95 1.37 0.85 3.67 26.35 Cash and cash equivalents 86.42 -26.04 63.77 -68.60 3.11 1.75 2.74 1.89 Total current assets 19.74 6.18 -12.67 51.50 46.20 40.49 44.26 57.03 Total assets 4.95 16.06 12.54 38.35 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 Stated capital 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 26.00 27.28 31.66 35.63 Revaluation reserve 0.00 -16.91 82.17 0.00 0.44 0.46 0.65 0.40 Retained earnings 13.97 8.43 17.59 15.45 28.69 26.42 28.28 27.06 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 6.81 3.75 8.07 6.09 55.13 54.16 60.58 63.09 Total equity and liabilities 6.81 3.75 8.07 6.09 55.13 54.16 60.58 63.09 Interest-bearing borrowings — — — — 14.99 15.73 18.25 20.55 Employee benefits 8.51 42.97 4.33 6.23 0.56 0.54 0.44 0.47 Deferred taxation -12.12 131.16 24.93 -15.77 1.50 1.79 0.90 0.81 Total non-current liabilities -1.47 6.98 0.99 1451.64 17.05 18.06 19.59 21.83 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Trade and other payables 18.15 30.14 53.66 25.94 24.64 21.88 19.51 14.29 Amount due to related parties 787.69 -55.31 130.21 161.46 0.81 0.10 0.25 0.12 Interest-bearing borrowings — — — — 1.16 5.77 0.00 0.00 Current tax liability — — — — 1.19 0.00 0.04 0.65 Unclaimed dividend 33.40 42.59 83.78 72.93 0.04 0.03 0.02 0.01 Bank overdrafts — — — — 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total current liabilities 5.14 62.62 47.97 32.23 27.83 27.78 19.83 15.08 Total liabilities 2.74 34.97 20.18 188.12 44.87 45.84 39.42 36.91 Total equity and liabilities 4.95 16.06 12.54 38.35 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 70 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC — INCOME STATEMENT (COMPANY) Horizontal analysis Vertical analysis 2018/ 19 2017/ 18 2016/17 2015/16 2018/ 19 2017/ 18 2016/17 2015/16 % % % % % % % % Revenue 7.91 21.30 27.42 3.20 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 Cost of sales 6.99 32.89 25.89 4.96 -83.61 -84.33 -76.98 -77.92 Gross profit 12.88 -17.43 32.84 -2.58 16.39 15.67 23.02 22.08 Other income -10.63 51.64 89.91 1,416.55 3.35 4.04 3.23 2.17 Administrative expenses 14.38 -5.81 27.12 -21.07 -3.96 -3.73 -4.81 -4.82 Other expenses -13.83 -25.86 -25.85 -50.04 -0.13 -0.16 -0.26 -0.45 Net finance income 8.78 244.85 -184.82 37.28 -2.51 -2.49 -0.87 1.31 Profit before tax 6.43 -20.37 27.52 21.12 13.15 13.33 20.31 20.29 Income tax expenses 20.69 51.78 18.85 40.05 -3.01 -2.69 -2.15 -2.31 Profit for the period 2.81 -28.92 28.64 19.06 10.13 10.64 18.15 17.98 REVIEW OF FINANCIAL Details of the increase in revenue from 2017/18 to 2018/19 are shown in the chart below: PERFORMANCE GROUP REVENUE GROWTH Review of financial performance covers LKR Mn. aspects of improving the Return on Equity (ROE) via operational efficiency (Net Profit REVENUE 2017/18 26,055 Margin) and effective utilisation of assets 2,961 CONSTRUCTION (Asset Turnover). 355 PRODUCTION OF CONSTRUCTION RELATED MATERIAL PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT 276 TURNOVER 2,630 AUTOMOBILE In the year under review, the Company and REVENUE 2018/19 32,277 the Group recorded highest ever turnover of LKR 19.4 Bn., and LKR 32.3 Bn. with corresponding growth rates of 7.91% and 23.88% respectively. PROPERTY AUTOMOBILE At Group level, Property Development First full year of operation of the Access The second highest contribution for the of (+55.59% YOY) and Automobile Tower II since its opening in August 2017 overall increase in Group revenue was made (+32.21% YOY) segments made the biggest and the consequent increase in Rental by the Automobile segment (+32.21% contribution to the turnover. Construction Income (+55.92% YOY) enabled the YOY), which operates under 84.42% ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 (+19.99% YOY) and Production of Property segment to make the highest owned subsidiary of Sathosa Motors PLC. Construction-related Materials (+13.78% contribution to the Group Turnover, Considerable increase in the sale of spare YOY) segments too achieved significant Access Tower II was fully booked/leased parts and over 700 new ISUZU vehicles growth in turnover. out even prior to completion and added sold in 2018/19 are the key drivers behind approximately 200,000 sq.ft. of premium this Growth. “A” grade office space. 71 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital CONSTRUCTION YOY GROWTH OF REVENUE COMPONENTS Road and Highway construction — 2018/19 2017/18 YOY Significant revenue growth was mainly LKR Mn. LKR Mn. % fueled by the Stage 2 of the Central Expressway which was in full swing during Highways construction 7,714 2,979 159.0 the year with a major portion of work being completed. We completed around 65% of Water and drainage construction 1,943 1,277 52.19 our scope of work during the year and the Bridge construction 314 1,754 -82.1 project is due to be completed and handed Building and other construction 7,688 8,677 -11.4 over by 2020. Hiring income 104 71 47.3 Water and Drainage construction — Fabrication income 13 57 -77.8 Anuradhapura North and Daduru Oya Water Construction segment 17,777 14,815 19.99 Supply Projects are the key contributory Sale of construction-related material 2,929 2,574 13.78 factors for the significant 52.19% YOY Rental income 772 495 55.92 growth in revenue during the period. Service charges 1 2 -48.88 Building and Other — Housing Project for Property and other 773 497 55.59 Government Employees in Borella and Automobile 10,799 8,168 32.21 the structural works of the Water Front Integrated Resort development along with new projects of Nanotechnology Centre and Bluemendhal Project that started work YOY GROWTH OF REVENUE COMPONENTS during the year helped boost revenue of the Building Sector. 31.35% CONSTRUCTION-RELATED 33.46% MATERIAL 2018/19 2017/18 Sale of construction-related materials 55.08% 56.86% 1.91% increased by 13.78% YOY as a result of 2.39% capacity development initiatives which were 9.07% 9.88% completed in the previous years. It was mainly the batching plants in Peliyagoda CONSTRUCTION SEGMENT SALE OF CONSTRUCTION-RELATED MATERIAL and Kandana and the asphalt plants of PROPERTY AND OTHER AUTOMOBILE Kotadeniyawa, Ibbagamuwa, Vavuniyawa and Mathugama that increased their PROFITABILITY contribution to revenue. Overall Gross Profit Margins of the Company Despite the growth in the operational and the Group marginally improved to activities with higher revenue reported, 16.39% (2017/18: 15.67%) and 16.06% at the Company level, administration and ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 (2017/18: 15.59%) despite the macro level other expenses as a percentage of revenue challenges faced by the industry in the remained at 4.09% (2017/18: 3.9%) previous financial year continuing to affect which is an increase of 13.21% YOY. This the industry in the current period under emphasised the Management effort on review too. reducing the Company’s overall overhead costs by improving the efficiency and Positive impact of significant boost in productivity of operations via efficiently the revenue towards the gross profit managing the micro factors of the Company has been offset by the increased cost of with special focus on improving efficiency of sales at the same pace, leading the Group “procurement activities” for better working and, the Company to report gross profit capital management. of LKR 5,184 Mn., and LKR 3,173 Mn. respectively. 72 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital Despite the increase in activities of the FINANCE EXPENSES TAXATION subsidiaries, at Group level, administration and other expenses decreased by -3.60% Interest expenses of the Group and the The effective tax rates for 2018/19 YOY. Again, this indicated that it is not only Company increased from LKR 914 Mn. remained at 28% and 23% respectively at the Company level that Management has and LKR 672 Mn. to LKR 1,520 Mn., and at the Group and the Company level as given more focus towards the efficiency LKR 1,079 Mn. respectively mainly as a opposed to 42% and 20% respectively in and cost savings but it has been done result of the Interest expenses identified 2017/18. Group level effective tax rate across the Group. on mobilisation advance given (As per the deduction compared to the previous year Accounting Standard SLFRS 15) in addition was due to the deferred tax provision At Group level, other Income was only to the increase in interest on bank loans accounted for in the previous year relating LKR 482 Mn. against the LKR 2,519 Mn. due to frequent utilisation of short-term to the property revaluation. reported in 2017/18 which was supported loan facilities. by a revaluation of investment property. Similarly, interest income of the Group PROFIT AFTER TAX (PAT) The Group and the Company level EBIT and the Company also increased from The profit after tax for the year ended stood at LKR 4,173 Mn. and LKR 3,184 Mn. LKR 531 Mn. and LKR 227 Mn. to 31 March 2019 was recorded at LKR 2,245 with corresponding growth rate of growth LKR 869 Mn. and LKR 594 Mn. respectively Mn. and LKR 1,962 Mn. respectively at rates of -17.27% and 6.49% respectively. due to the interest income on contract the Group and the Company level. Highest liability (As per the Accounting Standard contribution to the Group PAT was from SLFRS 15). Interest income on fixed EBITDA the Construction segment followed by the deposits reduced at the Group level by contribution from ARL I and II Towers. LKR Mn. % LKR 85 Mn. due to the utilisation of funds in subsidiaries to support the increase in 6,000 30 Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) the operational activities. Limited, Horizon Knowledge City Limited 4,800 24 and Harbour Village (Private) Limited 3,600 18 Reduction in EBIT at the Group level generated a combined marginal profit compared to the previous year coupled 2,400 12 of LKR 36 Mn. mainly in the form of with the decline in interest income and the Interest Income. 1,200 6 increase in interest expenses caused the 0 0 interest coverage ratio of the Group 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 to decline from 6.22 to 3.90 times. PAT GROUP EBITDA (LKR MN.) LKR Mn. % COMPANY EBITDA (LKR MN.) FINANCE INTEREST EXPENSES 3,500 20 GROUP EBITDA MARGIN (%) AND INTEREST COVERAGE COMPANY EBITDA MARGIN (%) 2,800 16 LKR Mn. Times 2,100 12 1,250 7.5 1,400 8 EBIT 1,000 6.0 700 4 750 4.5 LKR Mn. % 0 0 500 3.0 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 6,000 25 250 1.5 4,800 20 GROUP PAT (LKR MN.) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 0 0 COMPANY PAT (LKR MN.) 3,600 15 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 GROUP NP MARGIN (%) 2,400 10 COMPANY NP MARGIN (%) INTEREST EXPENSES — GROUP (LKR MN.) 1,200 5 INTEREST EXPENSES — COMPANY (LKR MN.) 0 0 INTEREST COVERAGE — GROUP (TIMES) Earnings per ordinary share was recorded 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 INTEREST COVERAGE — COMPANY (TIMES) at LKR 2.15 (2017/18: 2.51) and LKR 1.96 GROUP EBIT (LKR MN.) (2017/18: LKR 1.91) at the Group and the COMPANY EBIT (LKR MN.) Company level respectively. GROUP EBIT MARGIN (%) COMPANY EBIT MARGIN (%) 73 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital REVIEW OF FINANCIAL LKR 4.5 Bn. increase in the Group operating EPS AND DPS current assets was partially offset by POSITION LKR 2.4 Bn. increase in the Group operating LKR Total non-current asset base of the Group current liabilities* which resulted in net 3.00 and the Company decreased by 4.85% operating working capital to increase by 2.40 and 5.12% to LKR 20 Bn. and LKR 19 Bn. only LKR 2.1 Bn. 1.80 respectively, primarily due to the disposal of its investment in the two Horizon companies GRI 201-3 1.20 during the year. The reason for disposal was 0.60 the long gestation period of the anticipated DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN horizon development and the better OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER 0 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 attractiveness of new investment options. RETIREMENT PLANS EARNINGS PER SHARE Employees are eligible for the defined DIVIDEND PER SHARE DECLARED ASSET DECOMPOSITION — GROUP contribution plans of Employees’ LKR Mn. Provident Fund (EPF) and the Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF) at the rate of 20% In the year under review, the Directors 50,000 (Employer — 12% and Employee — 8%) have approved two interim dividends of 40,000 and 3% on salary. Employees are also LKR 0.25 per share for the year totaling entitled to retirement gratuity. The to LKR 500 Mn. in addition to LKR 1.2 Bn. 30,000 defined benefit liability of the Company paid in 2017/18. 20,000 as at 31 March 2019 was LKR 193 Mn. 10,000 (31 March 2018 — LKR 178 Mn.). At the Company level, improving the efficiency and productivity of operations 0 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 GRI 201-4 remained a key priority during the year and further savings in cost and time can be PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE achieved through this. INVENTORIES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES RECEIVED FROM THE CASH AND SHORT-TERM DEPOSITS GOVERNMENT Another key focus area was improving OTHER NON CURRENT ASSETS efficiency of “procurement activities” for OTHER CURRENT ASSETS The concessionary tax rate of 12% on better working capital management. construction income was removed with We continue to explore more areas of effect from 1 April 2018. improving procurement. Despite the significant growth in the revenue during the year at the Group and The income tax concession given for the These strategies helped the Management the Company level, property, plant and manufacturing of construction-related to keep reasonable profit margin and ROE equipment values remained at 16.10% and material ended on 31 March 2018. despite the continuity of industry challenges 15.85% of revenue which are less than from the previous year to the current those of the previous reporting period. Hence, the Company did not receive year too. This is another positive indication of proper any special financial assistance from utilisation of the existing asset base with the Government. At the Group level, more focus was given more focus on streamlining the processes. on streamlining the core functions of SML. With the commencement of new ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 This was essential for the development and sustainability of this business. There operational activities of subsidiaries, is close supervision and monitoring with a the Group current asset base also stood at new Management put in place and the new LKR 28 Bn., a growth of 19.99% YOY while structure has started to yield better results. the Company’s operating current asset base increased by 19.74% YOY. 74 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital YOY growth of key working capital components CAPITAL STRUCTURE 2018/19 2017/18 % of The gearing ratio, which is calculated as LKR LKR Growth a proportion of the total interest-bearing liabilities to equity, has improved from Group 43.72% and 39.70% to 41.21% and 29.29% at the Group and the Company level Inventory 6,578,633,179 6,085,842,007 8.10 respectively. Trade and other receivables 13,784,379,147 11,249,413,659 22.53 Trade and other payables 12,491,096,071 10,116,721,429 23.47 Though the short-term borrowings reduced from LKR 1,900 Mn. to LKR 400 Mn. at Company the Company level with the completion of Inventory 1,440,013,027 1,617,818,301 -10.99 the projects, at the Group level, borrowings Trade and other receivables 10,101,674,043 8,539,769,405 18.29 reduced only marginally due to increase in short-term borrowings of Sathosa Motors Trade and other payables 8,528,943,819 7,218,909,464 18.15 from LKR 2,018 Mn. to LKR 3,224 Mn. At Company level, total increase in current assets was partially been offset by the increase in GEARING RATIO current liabilities which resulted in only a LKR 477 Mn. increase in total net working capital, which is another positive indicator of the Company’s efficient operational management. % 50 * Operating current assets = current assets ­— Short-term investments — Short-term deposits * Operating current liabilities = current liabilities — Shortterm borrowings 40 30 WORKING CAPITAL MOVEMENT — GROUP 20 LKR Mn. 10 WORKING CAPITAL — 2017/18 10,321 0 4,521 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 OP CURRENT ASSETS -2,418 COMPANY GROUP OP CURRENT LIABILITIES WORKING CAPITAL — 2018/19 12,423 At the Group level and the Company level, the majority of assets were funded by equity at 49% and 55% respectively which resulted in lower financial leverage WORKING CAPITAL MOVEMENT — COMPANY compared to the previous reporting period LKR Mn. which further augmented the benefit of competitive borrowing rates. WORKING CAPITAL — 2017/18 5,783 2,451 OP CURRENT ASSETS -1,973 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES — GROUP OP CURRENT LIABILITIES ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 LKR Mn. WORKING CAPITAL — 2018/19 6,260 50,000 40,000 30,000 The liquidity position remains strong with approximately LKR 4.6 Bn. at the Group level held in short-term deposits and cash mainly due to unutilised funds of subsidiaries until they 20,000 commence full operation in addition to the cash generated from the disposal of investment 10,000 in the two Horizon companies. 0 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES CURRENT LIABILITIES NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST 75 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital SUBSIDIARY — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL LEVERAGE REVIEW OF FINANCIAL Times PERFORMANCE AND 2.50 FINANCIAL POSITION 2.00 Access Realties (Private) Limited 1.50 (ARL) 1.00 The Company’s fully owned subsidiary 0.50 Access Realties (Pvt) Ltd., which is the 0 owner and the managing agent of Access 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Tower I and Tower II reported a turnover of LKR 1,083 Mn. and LKR 274 Mn. COMPANY GROUP respectively at Group and Company level during the year. Group Company With gross profits amounting to 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 LKR 842 Mn. and LKR 235 Mn. respectively at Group and Company level the Company Current ratio (times) 1.65 1.57 1.66 1.46 enjoyed high margins of 86%. Quick ratio (times) 1.30 1.20 1.51 1.30 Asset turnover (times) 0.67 0.59 0.56 0.54 Access Tower II with approximately 200,000 sq. ft. of “Grade A” office space Total debt/equity ratio (%) 0.37 0.41 0.29 0.40 was 100% occupied throughout the year Total debt/total assets (%) 0.18 0.20 0.16 0.22 and continued to give us a good yield. With Interest coverage 3.90 6.22 4.78 4.99 the Access Tower II completed its first full year of operation since its launch, Other Income of Company level increased from LKR 132 Mn. to LKR 622 Mn. due to the SUMMARY — REVIEW OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND dividend income from Access Realties 2 FINANCIAL POSITION (private) Limited. ROE is the final barometer of financial performance and the financial position. Amidst Addition to this Access Elevate (Pvt) Ltd. continuity of the macro challenges similar to the previous reporting period, as a forerunner which is 100% owned by Access Reality in the use of value engineered construction technologies and innovations with more focus (Pvt) Ltd. contributed by LKR 237 Mn. towards improving the efficiency and productivity, Company has reported a positive increase to the Total Turnover of the Group as of the overall ROE. Restaurant, Banquet and Membership Fee. With the strategies implemented to ensure proper asset utilisation via procurement strategies and with the expected increase of dividend income from subsidiary companies, TENANT ANALYSIS OF ROE is expected to trend upwards in the future. ACCESS TOWER I For a further analysis of the ROE, please refer the Annual ROE Decomposition Tree. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 33% ROE (Company) = Net profit margin X Asset turnover X Financial leverage 39% 2018/19 10.28% 10.13% 0.56 1.81 2017/18 10.68% 10.64% 0.54 1.85 2016/17 15.59% 18.15% 0.52 1.65 14% 14% LESS THAN 5 YEARS 6-10 YEARS 11-15 YEARS 16-20 YEARS 76 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Financial Capital FUTURE OUTLOOK TENANT ANALYSIS OF ACCESS TOWER II We will continue to provide the highest return on investment to our shareholders as a reward for their trust and loyalty they have placed on Access Engineering. We plan to achieve a 5% higher profit after tax to invest in tax-free ventures with a view to declare tax free dividends. Our dividend policy of declaring 40% to 50% out of Company profits will remain unchanged. With a view to better manage the working capital, we will strengthen the treasury management system in the Company. Further, we will strengthen internal control procedures and closely monitor the performance of our subsidiaries and our investments. GRI 201-1 95% DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED >1 YEAR 2 YEARS 2018/19 2017/18 LKR LKR Sathosa Motors PLC Value created Gross revenue 19,356,105,575 17,937,033,665 During the year under review Sathosa Motors PLC which has the franchise in (-) Cost of goods and services (Excluding Depreciation and remuneration to employees) (13,236,742,742) (12,299,905,201) Sri Lanka for ISUZU motors vehicles and spare parts manufactured by ISUZU Motors Value added from operations 6,119,362,833 5,637,128,464 Limited of Japan generated a top line Other income 647,816,174 724,888,499 of LKR 11,126 Mn. and LKR 4,033 Mn. Finance income 154,440,941 153,621,910 at Group and Company level, a growth Total value created 6,921,619,948 6,515,638,874 of 36.06% at Group level. AEL holds approximately 84.4% of SML which is a Value distributed Public Quoted Company. Operating costs 370,523,697 275,380,132 Remuneration to the employees 2,429,645,077 2,297,187,793 The Company’s gross profit margins Directors’ fees and remuneration 24,790,000 23,190,000 at Group and Company level were 11.87% and 17.30% respectively. Community investments 12,563,806 12,626,624 Government levies 2,597,831 2,736,726 Further, Sathosa Motors PLC is engaged Corporate taxes 652,117,427 185,750,576 in the construction of a new workshop at Interest cost 666,142,500 599,432,728 Peliyagoda and LKR 300 Mn. was invested in this. SML will reap the benefits of this Non-controlling interest — — investment in the years to come. Dividends 500,000,000 1,200,000,000 Total value distributed 4,658,380,337 4,596,304,579 The sale of spare parts has recorded a Total value retained 2,263,239,611 1,919,334,295 considerable increase and is projected to Total value distributed and retained 6,921,619,948 6,515,638,874 increase further. New vehicle sales at SML ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 showed good results with over 700 new Value retained ISUZU vehicles sold in 2018/19. Profit retained 1,380,965,724 1,058,857,711 Depreciation and amortisation 882,273,887 860,476,584 Access Projects (Private) Total value retained 2,263,239,611 1,919,334,295 Limited (APL) Top line for the financial year 2018/19 was recorded at LKR 1,886 Mn., with a gross profit of LKR 231 Mn. the margin was 12%. The Company’s finance expenses record at LKR 48 Mn. mainly on account of short term borrowings taken for working capital requirements. The Company’s net profit for the period was LKR 98 Mn. 77 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES MANUFACTURED CAPITAL Manufactured capital is the collection of Concrete batching plants were located physical and technological infrastructure AGING OF THE MACHINERY FLEET in Kandana, Mabima, Peliyagoda, that are available for use in the provision Deduruoya, and Nagollagama with of services and the smooth running of our a total installed capacity of 285 m3/H. operations. It entails our physical assets 32% Quarries were located in Vavuniyawa, such as the land bank, buildings, our Mathugama, Hakmana, Mailapitiya, production plants, the quarries we have Wallallavita and Mirigama. leased, our heavy vehicle machinery and equipment fleet, furniture and fittings. The manufactured capital is integral to 68% Our extensive network our success since the proper management of these assets will directly contribute to of production plants operational efficiency and profitability. 0-5 YEARS 5-10 YEARS located at strategic We also use the latest IT infrastructure including our ERP system. locations allows us to IT Infrastructure execute our projects and HEAVY CONSTRUCTION VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT Our centralised advanced IT infrastructure our service delivery and system applications, such as latest AND MACHINERY servers, storages, firewalls, backup systems FUTURE OUTLOOK The heavy construction vehicles, equipment and the Company ERP systems have and machinery we possess enable the enabled us to perform functions faster We see investments in manufactured smooth operation of our core business. with improved efficiencies. Continuous capital as necessary to remain They also help us to generate additional investment in our IT infrastructure has competitive in a highly saturated market. revenue in the form of hiring income. allowed us to have a competitive edge in We plan to invest to strengthen our vertical The machinery is maintained through the sector. The state-of-the-art IT integration efforts and take further control regular service and supervision. There infrastructure has contributed to of the supply chain. We have selected is a designated team to ensure the safe accelerating the decision-making process. strategic locations for the expansion operation of the machinery, equipment, of production plants and workshops to and vehicles. Production plants increase their capacity to meet future demands of infrastructure development. Access Engineering is the leader in We recognise that our heavy machinery and They include but are not limited to piling the production of construction-related equipment require regular maintenance for machines, grab machines, crawler and materials. Our extensive network of longevity. Therefore, to ensure the proper tower cranes, pavers, pump cars, drilling production plants located at strategic management and utilisation of the fleet we machines, form work systems, mobile locations allows us to execute our projects will further streamline internal processes. cranes, motor graders, excavators, Kelly efficiently. Understanding the market and We will regularly invest in our IT systems bars, wheel loaders, micro trenching demand potential for construction material and processes which not only saves time machines, HDD machines, concrete we have taken conscious decisions to in the decision-making process but lead to mixers, silos, desanders, rollers, shotcrete further invest in production plants to cater process improvement, information security, machines, compactors, loaders, trailers, to ever increasing demand. We are currently and improved efficiency. grouting machines, cable blowing machines, one of the leading asphalt and concrete weigh bridge systems, air compressors producers in the country. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 and other construction equipment we continuously use in the day-to-day business. Our production plants were located in the following areas: During the year we invested over LKR 286 Mn. in our heavy machinery and equipment Asphalt plants located in Kotadeniyawa, fleet. Bulk of this investment was towards Mathugama, Mailapitiya and upgrading our piling fleet including new Vavuniyawa. The total installed additions to desanders, mobile cranes, capacity was 456 TPH. piling rigs, winch machines and a new aluminium formwork system. Crusher plants were located at Mirigama, Vavuniyawa and Mathugama. The total installed capacity was 340 TPH. 78 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Our intellectual capital comprises important We are a “Major and Specialist contractor” We are one of the most accredited sources of business advantage like the accredited by the National Construction civil engineering companies as per the accumulated internal knowledge base and Association of Sri Lanka. We are a accreditations given by the Construction internal systems and processes that lead forerunner in the application of innovative Industry Development Authority (CIDA) to improvement in operational excellence. technology in the field and in the possessing the highest accreditation across Our investments in intellectual capital introduction of unconventional construction the most number of disciplines: have helped us to reduce the inefficient methods to the Sri Lankan market such as use of resources while being on par with Horizontal Directional Drilling (HDD) and No. Field name Grade the top players and trends in the industry. micro trenching method of cable installation The efficient use of the intellectual in telecommunication works, use of post 1 Highways CS — 2 capital enables us to be proactive and tensioning and the aluminium formwork 2 Water supply and CS — 2 be future-ready through innovation and system in high rise building construction sewerage enhance efficiency. It comprises intangible and diaphragm wall for basement 3 Buildings CS — 2 elements such as corporate culture, construction among several others. 4 Bridges C—1 systems and processes, knowledge bases, brand value, ethics and integrity. The numerous accolades bestowed on 5 Irrigation and C—1 Access Engineering cements the position drainage canals of our brand within the industry as well as 6 Dredging and reclamation C — 1 THE ACCESS the country. We were the only construction 7 Maritime construction C—1 ENGINEERING BRAND company to be selected to the category of 8 Piling GP — B1 “10 Best Corporate Citizens” by the Ceylon Over the years, our brand has developed Chamber of Commerce for two consecutive 9 Soil nailing and SP — 1 into one of the most trusted brands in years 2017 and 2018. We were adjudged stabilisation Sri Lanka integrating diversified business as one of the “Most Admired Companies 10 Electrical installations EM — 1 operations and civil engineering disciplines. of Sri Lanka” in 2018 by the International (Low Tension) In a highly competitive landscape, we have Chamber of Commerce (ICC) and CIMA UK. become one of the most sought after and a 11 Heavy steel fabrication EM — 1 preferred partners among the international Further, we are the only civil engineering contractors in Sri Lanka. Thus, our brand company in Sri Lanka who is a signatory and reputation have moved offshore, and to the United Nations Global Compact SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES our partners hail from China, Hungary, and to be a member in good standing of Australia, United Kingdom, USA, Japan, Trace International, UK for anti-bribery We are focused on continuously improving Malaysia, Korea, Spain and others. We also compliance. We are a Patron Member of the all aspects of our operations, which possess the highest market capitalisation in Business and Biodiversity Platform of the includes ensuring the right systems, rigid the construction and engineering sector in Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, a member internal controls, and efficient processes in the Colombo Stock Exchange. We were the in good standing of the National Chamber place, as well as the utilisation of relevant only company from the construction and of Commerce and one of the very few resources that contributes to operational engineering sector which was a constituent companies accredited by the Institute of excellence. We have developed systems in of the S&P SL 20 index of the CSE during Engineers of Sri Lanka to train engineers for areas such as business controls, information the 2018/19. their professional charter review. management, digital construction, strategic sourcing, and partnerships that contributes to establishing a more structured approach to delivering world-class projects. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 79 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Intellectual Capital Our SAP system cover critical operations We are in the process of introducing We have also created a culture where we such as finance and controlling, material digital notice boards to reduce the take responsibility for our impact on the management, sales and distribution, usage of paper. These notice boards community, environment, and society as project systems, production planning, will feature project information and a whole. The value of transparency and plant maintenance, equipment, and tool updates, Company announcements and responsible corporate practices form the management. ERP system works on mobile notices, and information on financial basis of the corporate culture persisting devices and has improved the approval performance. at Access Engineering. We ensure that we process. We also possess an internal team comply with all the necessary regulations that oversees the SAP system who are and strive to provide the best possible capable of doing system modifications and QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL service to our clients. enhancements where necessary to make CERTIFICATIONS operations smoother. Sustainability has been embedded in all our Access Engineering has always complied practices such as the use of environmentally We have an “AEL News” platform which with the necessary environmental standards friendly solutions in construction, use of keeps all employees updated on project and has gone beyond the expected innovative and unconventional construction progress, financial news and any other standards in quality. Over the years, we methods, use of renewable energy, and our important information. Further, “Access have earned our certifications through corporate social responsibility projects. Engineering News Within” which is a efficiencies in our systems and by working Our commitment to sustainability has quarterly newsletter provides information towards specific goals. We ensure that we enabled us to continuously deliver about construction projects, sustainability upgrade to the latest standards in order to superior performance despite being initiatives, technological advancements, be on the forefront of the industry. in a challenging industry. human capital, and financial performance of Access. Our in-house library is a valuable resource to technical and managerial Through our vertical We possess a culture of learning and development where continuous professional personnel (on paper and electronic integration strategy, development is facilitated through research, media) on civil engineering and project knowledge transfers through our joint management. We have also improved our IT we have increased our ventures with international bodies, the drive systems by keeping them up to date. They are equipped with the latest hardware and internal suppliers for to use the latest innovative, unconventional methodologies, and others. software, firewalls, servers, and backups. ready-mixed concrete, There exists a culture of rewarding The following systems were introduced, aggregate-base course, performance through various means implemented, or completed during the year: and asphalt-concrete such as: monetary rewards in the form of increments, profit sharing schemes, and  The implementation of the Document Management System was completed which has reduced costs incentives and non-monetary rewards in the form of promotion, recognition, during the year. This system is used to track, manage, store documents and to and emission training and development. reduce the usage of paper. GRI 102-16 We maintain high standards of ethics and The implementation of “SAP Fiori”, integrity being an example to the whole which provides a set of applications on CORPORATE CULTURE community. We have a zero tolerance compatible hand-held devices enabling Our corporate culture has developed since policy for corruption and unethical to perform certain business functions, the inception of our Company and is guided behaviour. Our policy in this regard is was also completed during the year. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 by our Mission, Vision, and core Values. clearly laid down in the AEL code of ethics. “SAP Fiori” is user friendly, more The practice of value engineering and All new employees are given an orientation secured, and more efficient compared striving to achieve excellence are the programme where they are introduced to the existing system. It facilitates pillars of our culture and has enabled us to to the Company culture and our values, a faster approval process and hence consistently deliver value to our customers systems, and processes. Further, our policy decision-making. through efficient, effective, durable, less on disciplinary management and annual costly, and faster means. core team meeting headed by the MD reinforces the addressing of ethical issues, disciplinary issues, and conflicts of interest. 80 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Intellectual Capital Anti-corruption forms an integral part NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND of our culture. We combat corruption PROCESSES through internal audits, systems audit, effective whistle-blowing policy, audits We are currently in the process of by principal partners, the annual renewal developing a new Human Resource of TRACE membership where an annual Management system that will provide surveillance is carried out, and through integrated HR information. This system our Compliance Committee. will improve the efficiency of the HR department, enhance employee experience, increase accuracy while PROCUREMENT POLICY making data collection and data analysis easier. This system is expected to be We have a fair, transparent, and stringent implemented in 2019/20. procurement policy in place. As a leading player in the industry, a sound procurement Our health and safety management policy is needed to manage our extensive system is currently certified for OHSAS suppliers and supply chain. We procure all 18001:2007 and we are in the last material, such as concrete, steel and wood, phase of upgrading our health and and subcontractor services such as the safety management system to meet services of crafts trades through our supply the requirements in the international chain. Further, sustainability plays a vital standard ISO 45001:2018. We aim role in the procurement process. to be certified during the financial year 2019/20. Through our vertical integration strategy, we have increased our internal suppliers for ready-mixed concrete, aggregate-base FUTURE OUTLOOK course, and asphalt-concrete which has reduced costs and emission. Since most of Our involvement in projects of national our contracts are with government entities importance and large-scale private which include additional regulations and infrastructure development projects requirements, we have a screening process undertaken with foreign partners lead in place for suppliers. Thus, through our to the consistent improvement of our screening process, we ensure that our intellectual capital. We have already made suppliers comply with all the necessary a name for ourselves as pioneers of new environmental and construction-sector and unconventional methods to improve regulations. Further information about our our existing processes. Our knowledge base screening process and assessment of the improves every year and at the completion environmental and social impact of our of every major project. We will leverage our suppliers will be provided under natural brand and our reputation as a market leader capital in page 101 and in financial capital to enter into strategic partnerships with in page 68. local and international entities. Moreover, we continue to improve our product offering GRI 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 venturing into novel fields of engineering. We will also improve and upgrade our ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 COMPLIANCE internal management systems to improve The effective operation of all the environmental, quality, and health and components discussed in the intellectual safety performance. capital has driven Access Engineering to conduct business in an open and a transparent manner complying with all the necessary regulatory requirements. We are happy to report that there were no incidents of non-compliance reported within the year. 81 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-8, 102-41, 402-1, 405-2, 406-1 HUMAN CAPITAL Our employees function as ambassadors Total staff by category New recruitments by category of Access Engineering and we are blessed (excluding labour) (excluding labour) with a team of motivated, committed, and well-rounded professionals who are at the Category Total Category Total heart of all our operations. We in turn give the utmost priority to our employees by Management and professional 156 Management and professional 22 investing in them and empowering them Technical 418 Technical 88 to grow and excel in a rapidly changing business environment. Clerical and supportive Clerical and supportive (Operational) 413 (Operational) 93 There is a healthy engagement between Skilled and unskilled 635 Skilled and unskilled 172 our team and the Management where our Total 1,622 Total 375 employees are aligned with our corporate values to fulfil our strategic objectives. We empower our employees by fostering In addition to our staff, there were 857 GRI 202-1, 202-2 labour recruitments during the 2018/19 learning and development within the Financial Year. workplace to spur collaboration that cuts RECRUITMENT across traditional boundaries. AND RETENTION Employee turnover by gender All our employees are offered equal Our proactive recruitment and (excluding labour) opportunities based on their skills. remuneration policy and our employee As an equal opportunity employer, we proposition attract talent and make Access Male % Female % Total % do not discriminate based on gender, Engineering a desirable place to work. race, religion, or ethnicity. Further, we We operate in an intensively competitive 417 94 28 6 445 100 industry with a high rate of turnover. maintain an equal ratio of basic salary Therefore, our recruitment policy is remuneration between men and women. implemented effectively to recruit the top AEL employees are not covered under talent in the market. We offer positions Employee turnover by category the collective bargaining agreement and without biases, and our remuneration (excluding labour) there are no trade unions operating within follows industry standards. The stringent AEL. We take into account the views of our process consists of three policies namely, Category Total employees when implementing significant Employee interview and selection guide, operational changes and have in place a Guideline on employee induction, and Policy Management and professional 16 minimum notice period which is specifically on staff recruitment, selection, placement. mentioned in the employee handbook. There were a total of 249 industrial Technical 142 placements offered during the period. Clerical and supportive We have made safety as a top priority (Operational) 68 GRI 401-1 every single day and have created safety Skilled and unskilled 219 culture that is deeply rooted within all our New recruitments by gender Total 445 operations. Further, we provide benefits to (excluding labour) our employees to keep them incentivised and happy. Male % Female % Total % In addition to our staff, there was 988 of labour turnover during the 2018/19 340 91 35 9 375 100 Financial Year. GRI 405-1 WORKFORCE PROFILE ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM LOCAL COMMUNITY Total workforce by age and gender Recruitment for our Senior Management Age category Male % Female % Total % is done locally. The existing Senior Management Team are all hired from < 30 479 30 73 4 552 34 the local community. There were no 30 to 50 896 55 58 4 954 59 recruitments for Senior Management during the year. > 50 113 7 3 — 116 7 Total 1,488 92 134 8 1,622 100 In addition to our staff, there were 836 labourers who were part of our workforce in 2018/19 bringing the total number of workforce to 2,458. 82 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Human Capital GRI 404-1 We also faced several challenges in the execution of our training programmes such as employee engagement where it is difficult with the busy workload to get learners to TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT attend, actively participate, and follow through. Moreover, there are practical issues such as geographical location of projects and plants to deliver consistent training. Finally, it We operate in a highly competitive is difficult to quantify the effectiveness of training and to incorporate these findings into landscape where our peers in the sector post-training assessments. offer similar employment propositions. Further, due to increasing digitalisation 64 EXTERNAL AND 122 of the construction sector and research TRAINING HOURS and development, new innovations, while revolutionising the industry have BASED ON GENDER INTERNAL TRAINING PROGRAMMES a disruptive effect. As a pioneer in the industry adopting the latest methodologies and investing in state-of-the-art equipment, we have to make sure that Access 4,101 PARTICIPANTS 2.7 Engineering and our employees are MALE HOURS 249 equipped to handle the latest technology and methods. Therefore, we continue to invest in professional development to enhance our value proposition and to INDUSTRIAL PLACEMENTS achieve institutional excellence. IN 2018/19 5.4 We conducted a number of training FEMALE HOURS programmes to match the needs of the respective units, and the diverse needs LKR 5.1 Mn. targeting employees at all levels. A total COST OF TRAINING of LKR 5.1 Mn. was invested on training PROGRAMMES IN 2018/19 and development. There was a total of TRAINING HOURS 64 external and 122 internal training 2.88 programmes conducted during the BASED ON CATEGORY reporting year with a participation of 4,101 AVERAGE employees. The number of total training TRAINING HOURS PER hours stood at 529 hours. There was an average of 2.9 hours for staff and 2.83 hours for labourers. EMPLOYEE 2.9 STAFF HOURS There is a significant reduction of training hours compared to last year. This was due to the introduction of a Training Mechanism in 2018/19 where a Steering Committee was established for each discipline: Engineering, business development, IT, HR, 2.8 LABOUR HOURS etc. The task of the Steering Committee was to identify and design training programmes for their respective team members based on the results of the Training Needs Analysis (TNA). Training programmes were both technical and non-technical. Because GRI 404-2 of a delay in the implementation of this Training programmes overview ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 mechanism, average training hours per employee dropped in the reporting year. Internal training programmes However, this systematic mechanism will yield positive, and productive results in Training area/Focus Number of training Total participants Training hours the future. programmes conducted Our training programmes are divided to Health and safety 79 1,974 103 two main categories of internal and external. We evaluate training programmes Technical 38 675 100 using Feedback forms, questionnaires, Steering committee 5 58 3 annual performance analysis, and by feedback analysis. These methods have Total 122 2,707 206 helped the Steering Committee to identify gaps and address training needs. 83 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Human Capital External training programmes WORK-LIFE BALANCE Training area/Focus Number of training Total participants Training hours We promote work-life balance to ensure programmes conducted that our employees are paying attention to all aspects of their lives and not just their Health and safety 12 580 46 employment. The type of work is often Technical 26 537 161 labour intensive that can be physically and psychologically exhausting. The activities Communication skills 7 119 40 that we promote have a positive effect on Linguistic skills 19 158 76 increasing cohesion and productivity of our Total 64 1,394 323 team where they feel as they belong to the Access Engineering family. We organise staff trips, a Christmas carnival, and a sports carnival every year and we have GRI 401-2 List of benefits available also opened a cafeteria and gymnasium in EMPLOYEE BENEFITS to temporary or part time Access Tower II. employees In a competitive market, we offer benefits that both attract and retain i. Surgical and hospitalisation coverage To promote the spirit of talent. Employee benefits impact the level of engagement and happiness of (extended to the whole family) volunteerism and the ii. Personal accident and death insurance employees. The benefits that we offer to coverage ideal of giving back, our employees keep our team motivated and help us achieve objectives. iii. Accommodation facilities we encourage our iv. Target-based allowances employees to take List of benefits available to full-time employees GRI 401-3 an active part in our i. Performance-based recognition PARENTAL LEAVE CSR activities ii. Career development As per the Shop and Office Act, all female iii. Annual bonus employees are entitled to maternity leave. INVOLVEMENT OF EMPLOYEES iv. Performance-based incentives We provide 84 working days leave for all IN CSR ACTIVITIES child births. v. Surgical and hospitalisation coverage To promote the spirit of volunteerism and (extended to the whole family) the ideal of giving back, we encourage our Parental leave during 2018/19 vi. Festival advance employees to take an active part in our CSR activities. CSR activities are endorsed by vii. Morning and evening tea with snacks Total the Board and the Senior Management is viii. Annual trips involved in their execution which motivates Number of employees entitled ix. Sports day all employees to take part. There is also a to parental leave 134 x. Christmas carnival separate budget available for CSR projects Number of employees that and cross functional teams are put in xi. Providing meals and transport when took parental leave 9 charge of managing them. We also consider working extended hours/on holidays ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Number of employees that employee participation in CSR activities at xii. Library facilities returned to work after parental their performance appraisals. We are happy xiii. Corporate T-shirts leave ended 9 to report that our employees proactively xiv. Personal loans with 5% interest rate Number of employees that involved in our projects during the year with returned to work after parental great enthusiasm. xv. Personal accident and death insurance coverage leave ended that were still employed 12 months after xvi. Death donations their return to work 9 84 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Human Capital GRI 404-3 GRI 403-2 To achieve the objectives mentioned about we carried out numerous initiatives PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Health and safety parameters throughout the year. The following is a list in 2018/19 of measures carried out under the health Through our fair and transparent and safety policy: Performance Management System, Total safety hours 7,984,856 we evaluate our employees.  Conducting frequent safety awareness Fatalities 0 programmes and safety training Further, we are in the process of drafting a Major accidents* 8 programmes (both internal/external) Performance Measurement Policy that will Minor accidents 11  Conducting safety inductions further streamline the process. Frequency of (videos/presentations) major accidents 1  Identifying health and safety hazards The Performance Management System at Access Engineering serves two purposes: Frequency of and assessing risks associated with It acts, firstly as an evaluation system, and minor accidents 1.38 such hazards secondly as a feedback system. The primary  Establishing and practising operational aim of the evaluation system is to identify * A major accident is defined as one where the worker controls based on the results of risk is unable to report to work for 3 or more consecutive strengths of the person and performance days due to the accident. assessment gaps while the main aim of the feedback system is to inform the employee about the During the year all workers who met with (Eg. working at heights, working with quality of his/her performance. major accidents reported to work after electricity, welding, operating heavy undergoing treatment. No permanent vehicles and machinery, etc.) We conduct performance evaluation disabilities have been caused due to the discussions and our employees are  Identification of Personal Protective said major accidents that occurred during continually appraised during the year. Equipment (PPE) needs based on the the year. Every employee is given an opportunity activities carried out, appropriate usage, to conduct a self-evaluation against their and monitoring its effectiveness The Health and Safety policy at Access and their department’s KPIs. A preliminary Engineering has outlined the following  Display of safety signage evaluation is done by the immediate objectives:  Adhering to OHSAS 18001 Health and supervisor which will be reviewed by the Safety Management System and strictly ZERO Head of the Department/Project Manager monitoring it with HR personnel and technical personnel.  Health and safety audits by the These reviews will be forwarded to the SGM Management Systems team and by and Director and they will approve and external assurance providers recommend promotions and increments in discussion with the Corporate Management.  Providing first-aid training to all site staff OCCUPATIONAL  Identifying and conducting DISEASE RATE emergency mock drills to ensure that HEALTH AND SAFETY pre-determined responses are adequate We understand that safety in the workplace and effective begins with a proper safety plan that is put FATALITIES  Site trainings and awareness to work into place by Management and observed safely with minimum impact to health by all employees. In our line of work,  Selection of best “Safety Performer” ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 safety precautions and measures must be among the employees to cultivate a strictly adhered to while working on sites safety culture MAJOR INJURY RATE to prevent work-related accidents and  Ensure the competencies of workers other occupational hazards. We have made prior to the assignment of high-risk workplace safety our top priority for our activities employees as well as our subcontractors MINOR INJURY RATE OF and suppliers. The Company health and  Review of health and safety safety management system is currently BELOW FOUR performances monthly in the activity certified for OHSAS 18001:2007 and we centre and annually at Head Office ANNUALLY are in the end of the process of upgrading our health and safety management system to meet the requirements in the international standard ISO 45001:2018, and to be certified by June 2019. 85 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Human Capital EMPLOYEE GRIEVANCE REMUNERATION BASED FUTURE OUTLOOK HANDLING ON GENDER Recruitment and retention We understand the importance of a Our remuneration policy does not We will continue our recruitment drive systematic mechanism to handle grievances discriminate between gender or any by developing our brand to offer a better in a timely, proactive manner before they other biases. We maintain an equal employee value proposition. We will also escalate into an issue. We, at Access ratio of basic salary remuneration continue to focus on attracting talent Engineering, address grievances in a fair between men and women. graduating from the local universities. Our and equitable manner and all parties social media channels have impacted the concerned are given an open, fair hearing. There were no grievances reported during INITIATIVES IN 2018/19 way our brand and people management is perceived. Therefore, we will strengthen the year. At present, employees look for more than the human capital aspect through our a fair salary and the usual set of benefits. social media channels to attract the best GRI 406-1 They want to be part of something that possible talent to Access Engineering. We INCIDENTS OF makes a positive change to the community have always focused on retaining our best DISCRIMINATION AND and environment as well as a Company employees by providing various benefits CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN that motivates, engages, and promotes and above-average remuneration packages. well-being. We have transitioned, through Further, our strong leadership and prudent There were no reported incidents of the use of innovative technology in the governance structure with their clear sense discrimination on grounds of race, sex, sector, to provide a more holistic of direction have assured our employees of religion, political opinion, or social origin, experience to our employees. Therefore, a stable, sustainable business entity. or other relevant forms of discrimination our investment in human capital as well involving internal/external holders during as the latest tech in the industry have Innovation the year. created a company that our employees are happy to be a part of. We shall further our efforts towards enhancing innovation and creativity of CHILD LABOUR AND We continue to attract and retain talent in our employees. Our open door policy and LABOUR RISK a highly competitive business environment project-specific quality circles have led and an industry with a high turnover rate. to feedback and creative ideas that can The internal audit team carries out a risk There are processes in place that recognise effectively tackle a solution. Employees assessment where child labour is one of our employee capabilities which facilitate also relish the opportunity to propose their the aspects it focuses on. Our stringent their progression within the Company. suggestions, ideas, and opinions some of recruitment policy, implemented by the which will be implemented. HR, strictly adheres to the labour laws During the year we have strived to develop of Sri Lanka. The HR department closely a more integrated process for talent monitors all hires in the Company to acquisition, training and development, prevent any malpractices. In recruitments performance management, incentives the NIC/Birth Certificate is mandatory and and rewards, and other aspects of human age is cross checked before the offering capital. This integrated system will help us of employment. There are external audits to face future needs and challenges. like site visits by the District Labour Commissioner or Team at least twice an year. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 86 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL CUSTOMER CAPITAL VALUE ENGINEERING GRI 416-2 SOLUTIONS We also value health and service of our Access Engineering is at the forefront of customers and take the utmost care to sustainability supported by global trends in We deliver value engineering of the highest ensure our projects once executed pose urbanisation and demographics. Our ethos standard to our customers. Further, in no health or safety risk to our customers of value engineering prioritises flexibility, addition to the number of projects we or whoever might be using our services. innovation, and quality. Guided by our execute in the island, we possess an There were no incidents of non-compliance drive to create value for our customers, integrated portfolio of engineering services concerning health and safety impact to our we offer competitive solutions for our that include geotechnical investigation, customers reported during the year. broad customer base from both simple designs, production of construction and the most complex assignments. materials, piling, and workshops. ENGINEERING SERVICES Our service proposition includes the We possess a knowledge base and utilise the delivery of tailor-made, personalised experience accumulated over the years in Engineering design service in the design and implementation the delivery of value. We have acquired the of our projects. Through our international Innovation, is at the heart of Access highest CIDA accreditation across several partnerships that enable knowledge Engineering and it boosts competitiveness fields of civil engineering which enables sharing, we are up to date on the latest and drives added value. The progress us to bid for projects and easily pass the trends and methodologies in the industry. we make through innovation helps set pre-qualification phase. We also leverage us apart and signals our head start in a the latest technology in the industry across Our diversified business portfolio includes market undergoing transformation. all engineering fields. state-of-the-art solutions that serve all We are equipped to execute cutting-edge customer needs. Our primary objective engineering designs on a par with Our long-standing, international is to serve our customers by continuous international standards. Building on our partnerships have enabled joint-ventures, engagement and exceeding their unique, design-build positioning, we cope knowledge sharing, raising capital, and to expectations. Our focus on sustainable with the shifting landscape by moving up take our operations beyond our shores. development and lowering carbon output the value chain to deliver strong, lasting Further, our fleet of machinery and our have helped up to deliver sustainable and potentially disruptive solutions for employees who are well-trained in new solutions to our customers that help meet our customers. methods and unconventional, practical their own carbon and energy objectives. solutions allow us to undertake projects In 2018/19, we commenced Phase I of of any magnitude. Our venturing into real Mannar Wind Power Project. The design of estate continue to drive collaborations CUSTOMER MIX between and within business units resulting the foundation work for this project follows internationally-accepted Euro codes. A large number of our customers are in operational and financial synergies. private due to the bulk of customers There are also a number of engineering purchasing asphalt concrete, ready Our ISO certified Quality Assurance and design projects continued from the mix concrete and aggregate products Management Systems ensure that all previous year, most notably the design and being private. regulations regarding safety, health, and construction “Marina Square” a proposed quality are met. We focus on going beyond mixed-development project comprising compliance when meeting the standards 1,068 apartment units and commercial CUSTOMER MIX of safety and quality. We conduct a space. The development is considered one minimum of three audits during a project, 5% of the largest mixed development projects at commencement, execution, and upon in Sri Lanka. In the proposal for the design ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 completion. Ad hoc audits are also carried we were able to achieve a substantial cost out on a needs basis. Through these saving from the pile foundation. mechanisms we have ensured the delivery of value engineering to all our customers. Another such project is the Urban Regeneration Project — Colombo: 95% Construction of 608 housing units for Government servants at Borella. Our Design Division uses design software such as ETAB, STAADPRO, SAP 2000, SAFE, Auto Cad, PRIVATE PUBLIC ADAPT BUILDER, and ADAPT. 87 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital The following table outlines the design projects carried out by the Design Division of AEL: No. Project name Description of work carried out Type Status as of Date of Expected/ Client 31 March 2019 commencement Actual date of completion 1 Proposed Housing Design of 15 story building with Building Ongoing November April 2021 Urban complex for UDA 450 apartments units, including pile 2018 Development at 601 Watta, foundation, sumps and superstructure Authority Bloemendhal 2 Mannar Wind Design of— Building, Ongoing December August Ceylon Power Project 1. Pile foundation for 33 Numbers Tower 2018 2019 Electricity Phase 1 — of wind turbines/generators Foundation, Board Construction of Roads 2. Design of admin building, 100 MW semi accommodation buildings, dispatchable security houses, sport complex, wind farm boundary walls and water tanks. 3. Design of main access road, access roads 1, 2 and 3, turbine access roads, community roads and internal roads 3 Proposed Design of single storey steel warehouse Steel Ongoing December August Camso warehouse building of 426,000 sq.ft. with a Building 2018 2020 Loadstar facility for Camso mezzanine floor including steel (Pvt) Ltd. Loadstar (Pvt) portal frames Ltd., Ekala 4 Urban Design of two 25 storey buildings Building Ongoing March 2016 October Urban Regeneration comprising 608 apartment units. Scope 2019 Development Project – City of work includes design of pile foundation, Authority of Colombo: sumps, pools, and the superstructures Construction of 608 housing units for Government servants at Borella 5 “Marina Square” Design of five 40 storey buildings Building Ongoing March 2017 March Harbour — Proposed mixed comprising 1,068 apartment units 2023 Village development at including the commercial complex and (Pvt) Ltd. No. 250, Srimath swimming pools Ramanathan Mawatha, ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Colombo 15 88 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital Piling  Piling works of the proposed HDD and telecommunication Ambassador Resort and Spa at Mirissa services We specialise in piling work that is a  Piling works of the Ambathale storm fundamental requirement to maintain safety The Telecommunications Division water pumping station in multistory buildings. AEL has undertaken undertakes the development and major projects within the year which  Piling works of Marina Square mix construction of HDD and telecommunication include piling works. The Piling Division is development at No. 250, Srimath infrastructure in the country which form well-equipped with the latest machinery Ramanathan Mawatha, Colombo 15 an essential part of economic development including piling machines, a hydraulic grab,  Piling works and diaphragm wall linking the rural areas to the urban. The crawler cranes, excavators, mobile cranes, construction of ODEL Commercial Division is equipped with Horizontal and desanders. Complex Directional Drilling (HDD) machines, Cable Blowing machines, Micro Trenching In 2018/19, three static load tests were machines, and Optical Fibre Splicing carried out at the Central Expressway Our focus on machines. We have been a trusted partner Project (CEP) using Pre-stressed Ground Anchoring system. This system is different sustainable development to major telecommunication companies in the country and our contribution from the conventional static load testing and lowering carbon was recognised at the SLT Service methodology and was first used in the Excellence Awards 2017/18 where we piling works of Capital Heights Rajagiriya output have helped up were selected as the first runner-up (Best apartment development project. It requires less space and is safer than to deliver sustainable overall performance — contractor category). the conventional testing method. The solutions to our The Division carried out the following conventional system requires a quite large works during 2018/19: foundation to transfer its dead load to customers that help  Total HDD distance — the ground whereas this system has the capability to conduct the test even in a meet their own carbon Approximately 2.1 km loose soil strata. Further, in CEP project the and energy objectives  Total cable blowing distance — Approximately 54.7 km conventional method could not be applied due to its loose geological formation in top  Total Optical Fiber Network Development most soil formation and the condition of PILING REVENUE distance — Approximately 113.4 km pilot roads in rainy season is not safe for  Total sites connected during the year — logistic arrangements of approximately LKR Mn. 103 Nos. 1,000 Ton dead weight. Hence, the 3,000  New subscriber connections — pre-stressed Ground Anchoring System 2,400 5,022 connections was used. 1,800  PEO TV connections — The following major projects were carried 4,174 connections 1,200 out during the year by the Piling Division:  Fibre to the Home (FTTH) new 600 Subscriber connections —  Piling works of the Central Expressway 0 1,005 connections Project (CEP-2) “Package A” from 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Mirigama to Riloluwa  Fibre to the Home (FTTH) Network Development — 4,000 new ports  Piling works of proposed low cost housing project at Bloemendhal There is a substantial YoY drop in revenue ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 generated from piling activities due to the  Piling works of proposed housing project major portion of piling works of Havelock at Elliot Place, Borella City Phase III Mix Development ending in  Piling works of Nanotechnology Centre 2017/18. of Excellence (Phase 1B) 89 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital PRODUCTION PLANTS Batching plants WORKSHOPS Batching plants were located in Mabima, Asphalt plants Fabrication workshop Peliyagoda, Kandana, Deduru Oya, and Our asphalt plants are located in Nagollagama. The total installed capacity The purpose-built fabrication workshop Kotadeniyawa, Mathugama, Mailapitiya, was 285 m3/H. offers efficient production and fabrication and Vavuniya. of quality steel components for machinery and construction projects. The qualified and The total installed capacity was 456 TPH. TOTAL SALE OF CONCRETE specialist team at the fabrication workshop M3 provides with cutting-edge solutions for TOTAL ASPHALT PRODUCTION 150,000 design and fabrication of steel and metal components including plant and machinery MT. 120,000 components, structural steel and other steel 300,000 90,000 elements for diverse requirements. The fleet of equipment at the workshop enables 240,000 60,000 the team to take full control on the time and 180,000 30,000 quality matrices of the projects in progress. 120,000 0 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 60,000 FABRICATION WORKSHOP 0 11% 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Quarry operations During the year Access Engineering had quarries operated in Vavuniyawa, Crusher plants Mathugama, Hakmana, Mailapitiya, Our crusher plants are located in Mirigama, Wallallavita, and Mirigama. Mathugama, and Vavuniyawa. The total installed capacity was 340 TPH. TOTAL SALE OF QUARRY PRODUCTS 89% Cubes TOTAL SALE OF AGGREGATES SERVICES PROVIDED TO INTERNAL CUSTOMERS 125,000 SERVICES PROVIDED TO EXTERNAL CUSTOMERS Cubes 100,000 80,000 75,000 64,000 50,000 48,000 25,000 32,000 0 16,000 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 0 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 90 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital CUSTOMER SERVICE AND ENGAGEMENT We provide world-class service to our customers and maintain continuous dialogue with them at each stage of project implementation. A dedicated Business Development Manager is assigned for our priority customers which ensures that their concerns are addressed within a short period of time. The following diagram illustrates our customer engagement process at every stage of a project: Stage in the project Medium of dialogue Typical dialogue content Pre-contract Pre-bid meeting Description of the project and key deliverables Obtaining of bidding documents Site visits Understanding of the actual ground situation Gathering vital information/technical data for preparing bidding documents Queries and clarifications Follow-up queries and clarifications are sought from the customer where required Formal bidding Submission of formal bid together with the technical and financial proposal Submission of guarantees/bonds as required Negotiations Once shortlisted the client commences negotiations and further clarifications are sought if required Implementation Kick-off meeting Happens prior to work commencement where the following is discussed in great detail: Obligations of parties Project implementation schedule and the way forward Progress review meeting Every two weeks at the site where the project progress is discussed at length Site challenges and proposed actions Special meetings If and when required Substantial completion Formal handing over of the site and completed project to the client/customer or taking over Defect Liability Inspection Regular visits are made by the client/customer during the DLP to identify any defects Period (DLP) — or errors and same is communicated for rectification (Usually for one year) Performance certificate Issued after the expiry of the DLP Customer grievance handling Customer grievance handling process As an essential component of the service Each Project Manager, Plant Manager, Activity Centre Manager, and we offer, we handle customer grievances 01 Departmental Head nominates an officer to record customer complaints and complaints before they escalate into an issue. A standard policy is set up in place The relevant officer records the complaint and communicates to handle grievances. Project Managers, 02 it to responsible people according to the nature of complaint Plant Managers, Activity-Centre Manager, and Departmental Heads follow this policy The relevant officer reviews the complaint and takes while the Management Systems Manager 03 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 monitors its implementation. At all the immediate actions to rectify the issue raised, if possible locations we operate, a Complaint Register Subsequently the relevant officer shall investigate and determine is kept to track, record, and respond to customer complaints. 04 the root cause(s) and record in the customer complaint register Corrective actions are taken to avoid recurrence by 05 eliminating the root causes identified 06 Effectiveness of actions are evaluated within a reasonable time period Finally feedback is obtained from the complainer and 07 further actions are taken if required 91 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital Responsible advertising, INVESTOR CAPITAL promotions, or direct Almost 90% of AEL’s share capital is owned by a few major shareholders, many of customer sales systems whom have long-standing ties with the Company. However, our structure of good We operate in a B2B market and we don’t corporate governance and transparency ensures that interests of smaller shareholders engage in large-scale marketing operations. are also safeguarded. A significant percentage of our work projects are obtained through the public sector. All large infrastructure development INVESTOR CAPITAL STRUCTURE projects in both public and private sectors are awarded through a competitive and From To Number of Number of Percentage transparent bidding process. Marketing shareholders shares (%) efforts play no role in this process. 1 1,000 3,531 1,331,677 0.13 However, we provide a large range 1,001 10,000 2,396 10,101,404 1.01 of services targeted at private sector 10,001 100,000 977 32,002,664 3.20 customers. This requires us to engage in 100,001 1,000,000 263 74,967,230 7.50 marketing activities at a minimal scale. Such activities involve producing of Point Over 1,000,000 59 881,597,025 88.16 of Sales (POS) materials for the purpose 7,226 1,000,000,000 100.00 of marketing construction materials such as ready mix concrete, aggregate, asphalt, and others. CATEGORIES OF SHAREHOLDERS All such materials are produced in-house or in liaison with a responsible advertising Number of Number of Percentage shareholders shares (%) agency. All materials are approved by the Director Business Development prior Local individuals 6,765 759,566,457 75.96 to being produced and all design and production work is monitored by a dedicated Local institutions 372 167,849,752 16.78 Manager Corporate Communication Foreign individuals 64 4,979,726 0.50 whose scope of the work involves ensuring Foreign institutions 25 67,604,065 6.76 responsible advertising. 7,226 1,000,000,000 100.00 Nevertheless we are engaged in regular and proactive brand building activities such as:  Frequent updating of our web-site DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING AS AT 31 MARCH 2019  Regular press publications on projects Name of the Director Number of Percentage  Outdoor advertising such as display shares held (%) of banners, pennants, etc.  Vehicle branding Mr S J S Perera 250,000,000 25.00  Work-wear branding Mr J C Joshua 101,000,000 10.10 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19  Advertisements Mr R J S Gomez 75,130,325 7.51  Sponsorships Mr S H S Mendis 24,000,000 2.40 Mr D A R Fernando 24,000,000 2.40 Mr S D Munasinghe 24,000,000 2.40 Mr S D Perera 2,000,000 0.20 Mr K A M K Ranasinghe 100 0.00 Mr N D Gunaratne Nil Nil Mr D S Weerakkody 10,000 0.00 92 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital SHARE PRICES FOR THE YEAR PUBLIC HOLDING The shares that are held publicly account Market price per share 2018/19 2017/18 for 41.934% of the total shareholding LKR LKR comprising 7,206 shareholders. Highest 21.00 27.00 The float adjusted market capitalisation (9 April 2018) (3 August 2017) of the Company was LKR 5,451.4 Mn. Lowest 12.70 20.20 The float adjusted market capitalisation of (27 March 2019) (28 March 2018) the Company falls under option three of As at end of year 13.00 20.50 Rule 7.13.1 (a) of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Company has complied with the minimum public holding requirement applicable under the said option. TWENTY MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 31 March 2019 31 March 2018* Name of shareholder Number of shares Percentage Number of shares Percentage (%) (%) 1 Mr S J S Perera 250,000,000 25.000 250,000,000 25.000 2 Mr J C Joshua 101,000,000 10.100 100,000,000 10.000 3 Mr R J S Gomez 75,130,325 7.513 75,130,325 7.513 4 Mrs R M N Joshua 70,000,000 7.000 70,000,000 7.000 5 Mr S J S Perera 50,811,814 5.081 50,233,000 5.023 6 Mrs D R S Malalasekera 45,000,000 4.500 45,000,000 4.500 7 Foresight Engineering (Pvt) Ltd. 30,000,000 3.000 30,000,000 3.000 8 Mr D A R Fernando 24,000,000 2.400 24,000,000 2.400 9 Mr S H S Mendis 24,000,000 2.400 24,000,000 2.400 10 Mr S D Munasinghe 24,000,000 2.400 24,000,000 2.400 11 Employees’ Provident Fund 20,478,289 2.048 20,478,289 2.048 12 SEB AB — Tundra Sustainable Frontier Fund 19,282,027 1.928 — — 13 Citibank Newyork S/A Norges Bank Account 2 16,241,069 1.624 29,118,188 2.912 14 Access Medical (Pvt) Ltd. 13,000,000 1.300 13,000,000 1.300 15 Nuwara Eliya Property Developers (Pvt) Ltd. 8,102,042 0.810 8,102,042 0.810 16 Mr M J Fernando 7,102,869 0.710 6,102,869 0.610 17 Amaliya Private Limited 6,579,648 0.658 — 0.000 18 RBC Investor Services Bank S.A. — Blackfriars Developing ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Markets Funds PLC — Blackfriars Oriental Focus Fund 6,000,000 0.600 6,000,000 0.600 19 Deutsche Bank AG — National Equity Fund 5,850,000 0.585 5,850,000 0.585 20 Deutsche Bank AG as Trustee for JB Vantage Value Equity Fund 5,072,312 0.507 5,072,312 0.507 801,650,395 80.165 786,087,025 78.609 Others 198,349,605 19.835 213,912,975 21.391 Total 1,000,000,000 100.000 1,000,000,000 100.000 * Comparative shareholdings as at 31 March 2018 of the twenty largest shareholders as at 31 March 2019. 93 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital INVESTOR RELATIONS DIVIDEND POLICY Clear, consistent communication with our The dividend policy of the Company remains unchanged. An interim dividend of LKR 0.25 investors is a top priority for us. Providing per share was declared for 2018/19 on 30 November 2018 and paid in full by the Company accurate and timely information has always on 20 December 2018. A second interim dividend of LKR 0.25 per share was declared for led to building long-standing relationships 2018/19 on 25 February 2019 and paid in full by the Company on 18 March 2019. with them. The trust that we have built over the years with our investors have helped Earnings and dividends gain investor confidence. 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 All material and price sensitive information Group Company Group Company Group Company Group Company Group Company is communicated to the Colombo Stock Exchange immediately. The Company EPS website is also frequently updated with (LKR) 2.15 1.96 2.51 1.91 2.71 2.68 2.47 2.09 2.35 1.75 price sensitive information. Real-time trading information, Financial Statements DPS and Company research reports are freely (LKR) 0.50 0.50 1.20 1.20 1.50 1.50 0.75 0.75 1.00 1.00 available online on www.accessengsl.com. Payout The Company also participates in investor (%) 23 25 48 63 55 56 30 36 43 57 forums organised by stock broker firms. We also maintain a dedicated investor relations mail. In addition, any shareholder could Performance of shares relative to ASPI meet with Directors by prior appointment. 31 March 2019 1 April 2018 Change (%) Release dates of interim Financial Statements — 2018/19 AEL Price (LKR) 13.0 20.4 (36.27) ASPI 5,557.24 6,449.9 (13.84) Quarter Due date Actual release date S&P SL 20 2,738.95 3,634.03 (24.63) Construction and engineering sector 1,327.76 2,067.04 (35.77) 1 15 August 14 August 2018 2018 2 15 November 07 November 2018 2018 Trading statistics 3 15 February 07 February 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 2019 2019 4 31 May 30 May Number of shares 2019 2019 traded 102,113,697 108,091,199 146,979,343 199,334,867 476,248,674 Value of shares Release date of Annual Reports — traded 2017/18 (LKR) 1,637,455,435 2,728,514,261 3,624,740,014 4,570,150,971 14,900,355,246 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Number Due date Actual release date of days traded 240 236 242 241 239 Annual 31 August 27 August Number Report 2018 2018 of trades 24,276 10,750 25,709 36,018 49,154 AGM 30 September 19 September 2018 2018 94 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital DETAILS OF THE DEBENTURE ISSUE projects allow the industry to advance and to share knowledge with reputed, In November 2015, AEL issued 50 Mn. rated, senior, unsecured, redeemable debentures international entities. The PPP (Private and with tenures of five to eight years raising LKR 5 Bn. The debentures were listed on the Public Partnerships) model has eased the Colombo Stock Exchange on 23 November 2015, but were not traded on the CSE in constraints on the Government Treasury. the year under review. The debentures were rated “(SL) A+ with a stable outlook” by Further, partnerships make it possible to ICRA Lanka Limited. address pertinent issues of the industry through collective lobbying. During the year under review, the Central Expressway AEL TRADING project progressed where Access Indices LKR Engineering was a partner of a consortium. The only PPP project that we continued 7,000 25 during the year was the Housing Project 5,600 20 for Government Employees at Borella. 4,200 15 The following table illustrates in monetary terms the value that we have derived from 2,800 10 such business partnerships: 1,400 5 Partner 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 0 0 status LKR LKR LKR April March 2018 2019 As a ASPI (INDICES) S&P SL 20 (INDICES) subcontractor 4,054.50 2,707.13 4,244.68 CONTRIBUTION AND ENGINEERING (INDICES) AEL SHARE PRICE (LKR) In Public Private engage with a range of suppliers such Partnerships GRI 206-1 (PPP) 1,710.42 2,102.70 854.95 as subcontractors, material suppliers, BUSINESS PARTNER CAPITAL labour suppliers, machinery suppliers, As a and stationary/utility suppliers. Partner of a As a trusted business entity operating Consortium 5,354.63 1,226.50 40.53 in Sri Lanka for over a decade, we have Total 11,119.55 6,036.33 5,140.16 established long-lasting, interdependent TYPES OF BUSINESS business partnerships with a number of PARTNERSHIPS partners who share our values to deliver GRI 102-9, 102-10 sustainable returns to our stakeholders.  Subcontractor We consider our partners to be essential Type of supplier  Joint Venture Partner cogs in the Access Engineering machine.  Partner of a Consortium Type of supplier Number of suppliers In our delivery of value engineering, we as at 31 March 2019 work closely with consultants, suppliers,  Public Private Partnership subcontractors, joint-venture partners, and Local 13,193 others. We take a 360-degree management approach to projects that ensures the VALUE DERIVED FROM Foreign 395 engagement of partners from the early PARTNERSHIPS Internal 107 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 stages to consider financial, social, and Total 13,695 environmental aspects. Following our We deliver and derive value from numerous Code of Conduct and stringent selection interdependent partnerships we have process, we take sustainability, ethical entered since our inception. Our Company practices, and environmental preservation has gone from strength to strength into account formulating our agreements through the business partnerships we have with all partners. established, the supplier base we work with, and the strategic partnerships effected There were no reported incidents of with local and international entities. We anti-competitive behaviour within the generate business from our partners via reporting year. Our partners follow our repeat orders and through joint ventures. values and high standards when it comes They allow us to venture overseas and to to quality and execution of projects. We expand into other markets. The consortium 95 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital SELECTION AND EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS We follow a systematic, stringent process in the selection and evaluation of suppliers. The process differs according to the project and customer. For instance, our contracts with public authorities require to fulfil additional requirements imposed by the Government. In addition, we consider the compliance of our partners and suppliers with environmental, labour regulations, the use of child or forced labour, and other regulations in the selection of our partners. Further, we procure material from suppliers that has the highest cumulative weighted average score across quality and environmental criteria. After our evaluation, we give regular feedback and share knowledge with our partners for improving their standards. The following provides an overview of the section and evaluation process: Management criteria Evaluation criteria Description Quality Price Price offered by the supplier as opposed to other suppliers Delivery time Track record of delivering goods on time Responsiveness and flexibility Degree of responsiveness and openness to change Quality of material Percentage of goods rejected upon supply Credit facility Credit facility granted Environmental Packaging Degree of conformance with specifications Legislation Conformance with applicable legislations Waste management Soundness and quality of waste management practices adopted Test reports Availability of test reports for inspection ISO 14001 Certification Availability of ISO 14001 Certification Labour and environment standards applied to suppliers Labour and environment standards vary from supplier to supplier. As a general practice, all labour and environment standards and regulations that are applicable to AEL are also applicable to our subcontractors who are equally liable to all laws that are applicable to us. In this regard the following laws and regulations can be considered as important: Labour The following list is in addition to EPF, ETF and Gratuity related Acts: Wages Boards Ordinance Factories Ordinance Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance Employment of Women, Young Persons and Children Act Shop and Office Employees act Industrials Disputes Act Environmental Regulations imposed by the National Environment Act Regulations imposed by the Mines and Minerals Act Regulations imposed by the Coast Conservation Act Regulations imposed by the Marine Pollution Prevention Act ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Regulations imposed by the Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance Regulations imposed by the Forest Ordinance Regulations imposed by the Soil Conservation Act Regulations imposed by the State Land Ordinance Regulations imposed by the Explosives Principle Act Under above regulations the suppliers are required to obtain the following where applicable: Environmental Protection License (EPL) Mining License Archaeology Clearance UDA Clearance 96 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital GRI 204-1 SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS Province Material purchases CAPEX Total Local purchases made from the budget (LKR) (LKR) (LKR) (%) Western 1,326,923,123 23,902,332 1,350,825,455 56 North Central 253,028,284 12,542,217 265,570,502 147 North Western 172,678,463 2,509,723 175,188,186 61 1,752,629,870 38,954,272 1,791,584,142 62 ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA USED BY THE COMPANY Our Company has AEL is committed to protect the environment and has obtained Environment Management gone from strength to Certification ISO 14001:2015, which provides a framework for environment protection. Criteria defined by this certification have to be adhered by all suppliers. The following strength through the environmental criteria are used by the Company. business partnerships Management Evaluation criteria Description we have established, criteria the supplier base we Environmental Legislation Conformance with applicable legislations work with, and the Process adaptation Use of technology and methodologies to preserve resources strategic partnerships Reduce impact on environment due to construction effected with local and works (dust control, noise level, dispose of chemical and hazardous materials) international entities Use of environmentally Reduce water, air, and soil pollution using friendly materials environmentally friendly materials Waste management Soundness and quality of waste management practices adopted Environmental Located in strategic geographical locations transportation ISO 14001 Certification Availability of ISO 14001 Certification At present the Company is following a vertical integration strategy focused on environment protection. This has led to the increase use of internal suppliers for ready-mixed concrete, aggregate base course and asphalt concrete. Further, the production plants are located in strategic locations minimising the need for long run transportation between the project site ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 and plant. This results in lower emission. All our plants follow the Company’s environmental policy while certain rules are imposed by Central Environmental Authority and local government institutes. AEL prefers suppliers who utilise sea freight rather than air freight since air-travel is more expensive and carbon intensive. Mode of transportation 2018/19 Percentage (%) Air–freight 32 Sea-freight 68 97 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital NEW SUPPLIER POSSIBILITIES OF SUBCONTRACTING FROM LARGE FOREIGN SCREENING PROCESS CONTRACTORS Our screening process is based on the The Sri Lankan government often employs large foreign contractors for infrastructure compliance with the requirements specified projects of national importance. In such instances, bilaterally and multilaterally funded by our Standard Operating Procedures and projects are awarded to foreign contractors who subcontract work to local companies. requirements imposed by Environmental There are other occasions where the primary contractor is foreign but there needs to Management Systems ISO 14001:2015 be a local contractor within the project. and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series OHSAS 18001:2007 The working relationships of Access Engineering with foreign principles have evolved over Standards. Apart from this we perform the years where we tend to jointly execute projects with them rather than subcontracting periodical supplier evaluations such as work. This has enabled AEL to be on par with them as a joint venture partner. reviewing samples, conducting factory visits, collecting test reports, discussion GRI 102-13 with suppliers and trade agencies, and participating in open trade forums both NATIONAL REGISTRATIONS locally and internationally. The screening process in place for suppliers considers No. Organisation Information factors that are weighted on priority basis. 1 Construction Industry Development Authority (CIDA) Refer page 79 for CIDA gradings New suppliers in 2018/19 2 National Construction Association of Sri Lanka Member 3 Institute of Engineers Sri Lanka Recognition of Organisation for Training Type of supplier New suppliers added of Graduate Engineers for Corporate during 2018/19 Membership (Civil Design Engineering) Local 1,664 4 Institute of Engineers Sri Lanka Recognition of Organisation for Training Foreign 61 of Graduate Engineers for Corporate Membership (Civil Construction Internal 11 Engineering) Total 1,736 5 Chamber of Construction Industry Sri Lanka Corporate member 6 Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka Approved Training Institution for Certificate Level NEW AND CONTINUED 7 International Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Organisational membership PARTNERSHIPS IN 2018/19 8 Condominium Association — Ordinary member Ceylon Chamber of Commerce During the year AEL entered into a number of strategic alliances that have 9 Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Business and Patron member Biodiversity Platform strengthened AEL’s position in the construction industry. During the year we 10 National Chamber of Commerce Corporate Member, Serving for Engineering and Construction entered into a partnership with Vestas Committees Wind Systems A/S of Sweden as their local partner in Mannar Wind Power project to 11 Employer Federation of Ceylon Member construct a 100 MW semi dispatchable wind farm. We also completed the construction ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 work of Kochchikade Bridge with Bilfinger of Austria. Further details about our business partnerships and joint Projects with local, governments, foreign entities can be found on the projects section on pages 38 to 59. Our strategic alliance with China Harbour Engineering Company and Mustafa’s Singapore for the development of Marina Square continued in 2018/19. Further, our partnership with ZPMC China for the commissioning, repair, and maintenance of port machinery also continued during the year. 98 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital SOCIAL CAPITAL Our national Human capacity building policy As a responsible corporate member of the infrastructure projects We will build human capacity and develop human resources in the society, including community, we are extremely conscious of the impact of our operations on the and our projects our own employees and their families, focusing our attention on formal preschool, local community. Being a leading player in the construction sector, we make a with private partners school, technical and tertiary education substantial impact on the communities have contributed to as well as informal education and social interaction and dialogue by means of we operate. Our national infrastructure projects and our projects with private economic development, transferring knowledge, mentoring and coaching, apprenticeships, scholarships, partners have contributed to economic development and community upliftment as community upliftment, and other financial contributions. well as urbanisation and raising standards urbanisation, and of living. We consider social responsibility Industry advancement policy and sustainability as an integral part of raising standards We will take leadership in the advancement our operations. Our understanding of sustainability is based on the concept of living of the construction industry to take up of systematically reconciling economy, future challenges through the introduction of modern technology, development of ecology, and community in all our ACCESS ENGINEERING SOCIAL business activities. human resources and dissemination of best RESPONSIBILITY POLICY practices in construction management. GRI 419-1 We have set up a policy which forms the In all our dealings with the larger basis of all our CSR activities. Our social Environmental stewardship community that we operate in, we ensure policy revolves around complying with legal policy (Refer to Natural Capital that we follow all the necessary regulations. norms and business ethics and building page 101) We are happy to report that we have trusting relationships with our stakeholders complied with all the necessary regulations by strictly adhering to professional We will contribute to sustain natural in social and economic areas. We also standards of activity. We are cognisant of resources and the environment for future fund community development projects the impact of our operations and through generations, through initiatives to ensure throughout the year. A CSR Committee extensive review we strive to minimise that our business is in compliance with selects, reviews, and executes potential and manage them through professional all applicable environmental regulations. CSR projects. All our CSR projects are mediation. The CSR activities were We will conserve resources by using them carefully evaluated before implementation. incorporated into several platforms efficiently and recycling appropriately, We take into consideration our CSR policy, and policies were drawn up for each and protect and enhance wildlife habitats the CSR budget, and project objectives. platform as described below: around our businesses. We will limit the Our Managing Director together with amount of hazardous wastes produced the CSR Committee has been involved in GRI 413-1 and disposed, and improve the efficiency monitoring and guiding the CSR projects. of our operations to reduce the amount of Local community waste generated. We will also support local This reflects the commitment of our development policy environmental projects and activities. Senior Management which has contributed significantly to the success of our CSR We will actively work to support the wellinitiatives. All our CSR initiatives concerning being of the community, contribute to the preservation of the environment are the enrichment of the society and make a ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 given in Natural Capital section (page 101). tangible contribution to economic and social development of the localities where our During 2018/19 we carried out CSR projects and plants are located; mitigate activities under three different categories: health and safety impacts of infrastructure,  Local community development projects hazardous materials, emissions, and discharges; counteract social impacts of  Human capital building projects involuntary resettlement, physical and  Environmental stewardship projects economic displacement and livelihood (Refer to Natural Capital page 101) disturbances, and honour the local culture and cultural heritage. 99 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Social And Relationship Capital FABRICATION AND A special incentive scheme was also The proposed National Centre will play DONATION OF SCHOOL arranged to encourage participation and an integral role in assisting children with to sustain the carpentry and the welding disabilities and help them integrate to DESKS AND CHAIRS Industry. Trainees in return have fabricated the community. In an effort to contribute towards the desks and chairs adhering to strict development of rural schools and the specifications issued by the Ministry of Education. As at 31 March 2019, we BATTICALOA EMERGENCY uplifting of rural education, AEL has been donating school desks and chairs have distributed 1,785 pairs of desks ACCIDENT PROJECT to underprivileged schools in the country and chairs among a selection of 50 schools around the island. Access Engineering contributed to the since 2016/17. The objective behind National Health Development Fund to the project was to improve the learning assist the Project BEAP (Batticaloa environment of rural schools. BLOOD DONATION Emergency Accident Project) which is PROGRAMME a non-profit project initiated under the foundation supporting national trauma With the objective of creating awareness services in Sri Lanka. on the significance of donating blood and to help maintain an adequate supply of While the project BEAP is formed to blood to save the lives of those who are augment Sri Lanka’s regional medical in need, a Blood Donation Camp was services, the Foundation also teaches organised at Kaduwela. and trains surgeons around the island and assists with infrastructure The programme was conducted by the requirements in teaching hospitals. National Blood Transfusion Service and The project was implemented in three we were able to garner many donors from inside and outside the company FUTURE OUTLOOK different phases: and collected a 110 pints of blood at the Phase I: Make better use of the Our efforts to give back to the communities conclusion of the camp. scrap/waste materials disposed that we are operating in and to create from the construction sites. tangible social value will continue while Phase II: Industry advancement through we diligently work towards improving our facilitation of monetary support relationships with customers, business and other support to the trainees partners, and investors. The improvements at Homagama Technical College. to our product portfolio and existing value engineering solutions will lead to customer Phase III: Facilitation of rural education satisfaction, loyalty, and repeat businesses. through provision of required We will also streamline our procurement classroom infrastructure. process which will lead to better procurement practices and improvements Following the project, tons of scrap in quality. We will work towards increasing materials were collected and traded to an our engagement with business partners external party. These funds were directly NATIONAL CENTRE FOR and investors through digital means. transferred to the CSR fund. DISABLED CHILDREN Guided by our core values, we will continue to give back to the community by way ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Simultaneously a Vocational Training According to the latest estimates, 20% of of focused CSR initiatives. With a clear Programme was developed in collaboration Sri Lankan children are born with some perception of the social, economic with Homagama Technical College for the form of disability. needs of the communities, we will purpose of industry advancement through continue to create long-term value facilitation of training and development to Access Engineering contributed to the and drive towards economic, and social rural youth. All material and equipment “Ayati Trust Sri Lanka”, a fund formed by sustainability in the future. were provided for the training programme the faculty of medicine in the university and to the trainees at the Homagama of Kelaniya to build a national centre for Training College. children with disabilities. The Centre is being built on a land provided by the Faculty of Medicine, located at Ragama. 100 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NATURAL CAPITAL As a socially responsible business entity, ENVIRONMENT STEWARDSHIP we are aware of our role of contributing to sustainable development. We have stringent As mentioned in the social and relationship capital, our CSR activities come under systems and processes in place to evaluate several categories. We have included below our CSR activities towards the preservation our environmental performance that meet of the environment. the needs of customer requirements in a competitive landscape while preserving the Tree planting programme environment. Further, we are conscious of the nature of our industry that is fuel Trees also build soil and offer energy-saving shade that reduces global warming and creates intensive and our operations and projects habitat for thousands of different species and help reduce ozone levels in urban areas. related to infrastructure development Intending to mitigate the environmental consequences of its business operations, we have have the potential to significantly affect initiated a programme to plant trees in different location across the country. Tree planting the environment. is a tradition that we have upheld over the years to preserve natural vegetation wherever possible. During the year, close to 2,070 trees were planted under the programme. Thus, we place great importance in reducing our environmental footprint by sustainable construction techniques, proper waste management, prudent resource allocation, energy saving initiatives, and other such measures that contribute to minimising our impact. GRI 307-1 We are happy to report that during the year there were no incidents of non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. The following section provides extensive information on our environmental policies and management, outlining the steps we have taken to reduce usage or emissions of energy, carbon, materials, and water. We place great importance in reducing GRIEVANCE HANDLING our environmental Since we operate in urban and rural settings all over the country, disputes and concerns footprint by sustainable may arise over the environmental impact of our operations and activities. We have a grievance handling mechanism in place to handle grievances through a timely, effective construction techniques, manner. Reported complaints are recorded in the Complaint Register. If serious complaints are recorded, a thorough investigation takes place to determine the nature of the issue and proper waste then the grievance is addressed through a transparent process. We regard complaints as management, prudent opportunities for learning and growth and to improve our sustainability. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 resource allocation, Grievances filed, addressed, and resolved during the period 23 energy saving initiatives, Filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the period — and other such measures Filed during the period and under processing 7 Total 30 that contribute to minimising our impact 101 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural capital OUR ECO-FRIENDLY MEASURES Access Engineering focuses on creating a culture that values the environment ENERGY PRESERVATION  Anticipating and addressing concerns during the design stage which leads to reduction in energy consumption and consequently GHG emission in the long term.  Thermal insulations for roofs to control heating, so that the need for air conditioning is minimised.  Usage of CFL and LED bulbs for lighting and other electric equipment that consume less energy.  Usage of renewable energy (solar) wherever practical.  Avoid oversized electrical equipment.  Procuring energy efficient machinery/equipment.  Providing natural ventilation and lighting whenever possible in construction site offices, rest rooms, and meal rooms.  Dividing the lighting system into several zones with separate switches.  Installing power factor correction capacitors for three phase connection to improve energy efficiency.  Limiting operation time for AC (in selected areas).  Isolating locations (such as meeting rooms) from central AC system.  Usage of solar powered lighting, wherever feasible.  Motivating users to save energy via displaying posters. FUEL CONSUMPTION  Procuring fuel efficient vehicles and machinery.  Annual maintenance and assessment of vehicles and machinery and performing scheduled services on time.  Disposing of or cease operations of aged machinery.  Monitoring fuel consumption against the mileage of the vehicles and machineries, and troubleshoot any deviations.  Monitoring fuel consumption against the production of the plant.  Avoid oversized generators for electricity generation and other fuel-driven equipment. EMISSION ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19  Measuring emissions of generators, vehicles, and other machinery to identify any abnormal compositions in the emission.  Emissions in fuel-driven equipment such as generators are measured and appropriate action such as filter replacement or servicing is done to rectify any anomalies. 102 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural capital PREVENTING POLLUTION  Noise generated during the operation of machinery is assessed and actions are taken appropriately.  High noise generating equipment is isolated or is replaced with equipment that generate a less amount of noise (e.g. sound proof generators).  Using a hydraulic bullet removing machine at the piling workshop to eliminate high noise generation during the conventional method of hammering.  To reduce noise generated from crusher and asphalt noise barriers are made with trees or GI sheets along the boundary of plants. Wherever practical eco-friendly material/methods such as dry coconut leaves, green belts, etc. are used.  Lubricants, oil, and fuel are stored with secondary containment to avoid spillage and hence soil pollution. For larger quantities permanently built secondary tanks are used and for smaller quantities secondary trays are used.  In crusher plants, heavy dust pollutes the air. This is drastically reduced by covering the plant with a material which is wetted using water sprinklers. Further in other projects several methods such as water spraying, vehicle speed limiting is used to minimise air pollution.  Installing a dust collector to the micro-trenching machine which reduces dust spreading during the operation. WATER CONSERVATION/TREATMENT  Waste water is treated and reused at production plants and the workshop wherever possible.  Budgeting water consumption based on project activities for more realistic consumption (construction and day-to-day), and monitor consumption accordingly.  Cement contaminated water generated in the batching plant is sent through a sedimentation process and reused to wash truck mixtures, vehicles, etc.  Re-using water at all our construction sites as much as possible.  Usage of concrete curing agents, so that water consumption for concrete curing is reduced.  Monitoring of water consumption by the Head Office.  Motivating users to save water via posters and spreading awareness. ENVIRONMENT PRESERVATION Reusing materials during construction and production (e.g. de-sander, re-claimer, mivan formwork, etc.). Excavated soil is used for backfilling to minimise the environmental disturbance made to the ecosystem. Use of properly sized equipment. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Placement of project/plant office buildings and other facilities in a way that conserves trees. Tree planting with the main objective being to trade-off carbon footprint due to our operations. Not using materials which are hazardous to environment, such as asbestos, lead content paints, etc. Constructing rock walls to minimise soil erosion. 103 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural capital WASTE DISPOSAL TECHNIQUES  Every site has its own Waste Management Plan addressing controls to minimise the generation of waste and methods of disposal.  Bentonite wastes are disposed as per the CEA/MC recommended methods only in approved locations.  Domestic waste collected onsite are segregated at the time of collection (E.g. iron, glass, steel, paper, polythene, etc.).  Hazardous waste generated at site (burnt oil, oil filters, etc.) are disposed via CEA approved agents for recycle and reusing purposes.  Electronic wastes are collected and disposed via a CEA-approved agent.  Non-hazardous construction and demolishing debris are used for landfills.  Following are collected and sent to CEA approved agents for recycling and reusing purpose:  Waste papers  Barricade tapes  HDPE wastes  Used batteries  Glass wool  Sludge accumulated in the concrete batching plant is used for back filling on public requests after approval from the relevant authorities.  Storage techniques are used to avoid material wastages and material storages are covered.  Construction techniques that minimise wastage are used.  Procurement of quality material at every stage of a project to eliminate wastage due to rejections.  Reinforcement scraps are used to erect chairs in the cafeteria, carts to move materials and buckets to be used for the crane. A DMS (Document Management System) was introduced to reduce paper consumption. OTHER TECHNIQUES Throughout construction, the Company assesses pollution and the possibility of the environment getting polluted. In such situations, water resources/bodies adjacent to the project areas or any other operation of the Company, are identified to avoid potential pollution by changing the method or establishing controls to minimise. Dust controlling techniques such as watering, speed controls for vehicles inside the site, water sprinklers (in the quarry/crusher plants) are used to minimise environmental impact. River sand is replaced by manufactured sand partially or completely in concrete batching plants. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 104 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural capital OPERATIONS WITH ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACT ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES Operation Impact (on local community) Control measures Road  Damages to utility infrastructure  Using equipment to detect underground utilities such as use of ground penetration radar during road works  Taking prompt actions to restore/repair in the event of any damage caused Road/Bridge  Safety hazards of the area  Barricading the working area projects  Adhering to the Traffic Management Plan  Using safety sign boards  Managing traffic  Public inconvenience  Providing advance notice to areas affected on mobility  Determine alternate options for access and parking, if available  Providing controlled access by keeping the traffic moving  Air quality degradation and dust  Watering roads and use of sprinklers at production plants generation  Frequent checking of emissions of generators and other equipment  Vibration and crack propagation  Frequent measuring and monitoring the level of vibration  Limiting the time of operation  Conducting crack surveys and rectifying any errors at the end of the project Piling/  Area nuisance due to noise  Frequent monitoring of noise levels to ensure they are within the allowed range General  Ensuring that construction machinery is fitted with silencers to reduce noise construction  Using soundproof or low noise equipment activities  Limiting the time of operation General  Cultural issues  Appointing a public relationship officer to build relationships with the local community construction and to execute the project with minimal cultural disturbance  Carrying out corporate social responsibility projects in partnership with the local communities Operation Environmental aspects/impact Mitigation strategies Mechanical W  aste oil/burnt oil generation — Water/Land pollution H  anding over to CEA-approved burnt oil handler for reuse/recycle workshop H  azardous waste generation — Water/Land pollution H  anding over to CEA-approved service providers for recycling/reuse Road project T  ree cutting during certain project execution —  Minimising the number of trees to be cut during project design/execution Imbalance of ecology  Conducting tree planting programme D  ust generation — Air quality degradation W  atering Concrete C  ement contaminated water generation — S  imple water treatment (sedimentation) and reusing the water batching plant Water/land pollution ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Crusher plants D  ust generation — Air quality degradation W  ater sprinkling General F  uel/oil leakages and spillages from storages — S  econdary containment for storage tanks construction Water/land pollution activities F  ossil fuel consumption — Natural resource depletion  Monitoring fuel consumptions  Preventive/corrective maintenance of equipment E  missions from motor vehicles —  Emission tests for motor vehicles Air quality degradation  Preventing/corrective maintenance of vehicles N  oise from generators/equipment — Area nuisance S  oundproofing Office E  -waste generation — Heavy metal released to H  anding over to certified recycling agents operations the environment W  aste paper — Natural resource depletion H  anding over to certified recycling agents 105 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural capital ENERGY MANAGEMENT GRI 305-1, 305-2 The construction sector accounts for a Direct and indirect GHG emissions higher percentage of energy-related CO2 Type of emission Type of energy Units consumed Conversion rate Total CO2 emissions, thus we are conscious of our emission (Kg) responsibility to adopt energy-efficient solutions in all our operations. We consider Direct emission Diesel (Litres) 7,258,621 2.74 19,888,622 the management and reduction of energy to Petrol (Litres) 174,309 2.28 397,425 be of utmost priority. Energy management is integrated to all our systems and Kerosene (Litres) 5,140 2.28 11,719 processes and is implemented in our Indirect emission Electricity (KWH) 1,656,335 0.71 1,175,998 operations. The energy consumed by Total emission operations mainly consist of two main (Direct + Indirect) 21,473,764 components; fuel and electricity. Further, a significant portion of the total fuel is consumed at the asphalt plants and the GRI 303-1, 303-3 Central Equipment Division. Refer page 102 for our energy conservation methods. WATER MANAGEMENT We have adopted sustainable practices to manage water in our sites and in our operations GRI 302-1 since water preservation improves wet weather working conditions, reduce clean up costs, Energy consumption and reduce stockpile losses. We have also adopted measures to reuse and recycle water by making optimal use of storm water, reuse of grey and black water, and have integrated water Type of Units Conversion Total energy energy consumed ratio consumption management to our processes which have led to economical and effective strategy (Megajoules) for managing water. Refer page 103 for our water conservation methods. Diesel (ltr.) 7,258,621 38.3 278,005,179 Petrol (ltr.) 174,309 33.6 5,856,787 Kerosene GROUND SURFACE (ltr.) 5,140 37.0 190,180 WATER WATER Electricity (kWh) 1,656,335 3.6 5,962,806 70,467 4,921 290,014,952 (CUBIC METERS) (CUBIC METERS) GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 2018/19 PIPE BORNE WATER BOTTLE Total energy consumption WATER (Megajoules) 290,014,952 Year end number of employees 2,458 77,856 237 (CUBIC METERS) (CUBIC METERS) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Energy intensity measured in terms of energy consumption per employee (Megajoules) 117,988 TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION 2018/19 153,481 (CUBIC METERS) 2,844 (CUBIC METERS) 1.85% WATER RECYCLED PERCENTAGE OF WATER AND REUSED RECYCLED 106 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural capital WASTE MANAGEMENT The operations in the construction industry, tend to generate a lot of waste, and require regular, costly waste disposal. Therefore prudent waste management is integrated to our systems and processes in our effort to contribute to sustainable construction. Through our waste management system underpinned by the three Rs (Reduce, Recycle, and Reuse), waste is segregated at source, stored safely and disposed in the most environmentally-sound way. We also focus on minimising waste wherever possible to manage waste efficiently and cost-effectively. In 2018, we initiated a food waste management programme, which measures the daily food waste (in the Head Office). The amount of waste for the whole month is communicated among the employees with the intention of reducing food waste through awareness. Refer page 104 for our waste disposal techniques. Paper recycling Type of paper Total consumption (kgs) A3 80 gsm 1,796.26 A4 80 gsm 12,054.87 A5 80 gsm 93.24 Total 13,944.37 13,944.37 KG 1,579 KG 27 NUMBERS WASTEPAPER PAPER CONSUMED FULL-GROWN RECYCLED TREES SAVED 2,771 LITRES 6,316 kwh 50,181 LITRES OIL SAVED ELECTRICITY SAVED WATER SAVED 4.737 M 3 315.8 LANDFILL SAVED REDUCTION IN GHG EMISSIONS (KG OF CARBON EMISSION) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 GRI 304-1 BIODIVERSITY The following table outlines locations and size of land owned, leased, managed, in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity: Location/Project Land extent Description of operation Ownership of land Position in Type of operation Biodiversity Listing of protected relation to the value status (if applicable) protected area Vavuniya quarry, 0.4 hectares Production of asphalt Leased Adjacent to Manufacturing Terrestrial Forest Conservation crusher and Department asphalt plant 107 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Natural capital ENVIRONMENT, STATUTORY AND OTHER COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS Legislation Statutory requirement National Environment Act No. 47 of 1980, Obtaining environmental protection license for emission or disposal of waste National Environment Act (Amendment) Provision with respect to the powers, functions and duties of the Authority and Act No. 56 of 1988, National Environment provision for the protection and management of the environment and for the matters Act No. 53 of 2000 and Rules and Regulations connected therewith of the Central Environmental Authority Protection of the environment and quality regulations Compliance with noise control measures Compliance with air quality regulations and standards Compliance for ozone depleting substances Compliance with mobile air emission standards Compliance with vehicular exhaust emission standards/fuel standards and exhaust emission standards for importation of vehicles Mines and Minerals Act No. 33 of 1992 Obtaining of trade license and industrial mining license Coast Conservation Act No. 57 of 1980 Compliance in harbour and marine work projects Marine Pollution Prevention Act No. 59 of 1981 Compliance in harbour and marine work projects Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance 1981 Protecting fauna and flora (Consolidated status up to 2006) Felling of Trees (control) Act No. 9 of 1951 Compliance in activity of felling trees Forest Ordinance Compliance in operating production plants in a forest area Mahaweli Authority Act No. 23 of 1979 Compliance for workstations situated under Mahaweli Authority Municipal Councils Ordinance Compliance when working in municipal council areas Prevention of Mosquito Breeding Compliance with the prevention of mosquito breeding; for the eradication Act No. 11 of 2007 of places of mosquito breeding and for matters connected there with or incidental thereto Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 Compliance when working in Pradeshiya Sabhas Soil Conservation Act (Amendment) Compliance for the enhancement and substance of productive capacity of the soil; No. 24 of 1996 to restore degraded land for the prevention and mitigation of soil erosion; for the conservation of soil resources and protection of land against damage by floods, salinity, alkalinity water logging, brought and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto Antiques Ordinance Compliance when working in archeological department areas State Land Ordinance Compliance when working on land North Western Provincial Environmental Compliance when working in the North Western Province Statute No. 12 of 1990 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 FUTURE OUTLOOK As primarily a construction entity, our operations have an impact on the environment, and it is vital that we engage in responsible, sustainable infrastructure development that will minimise our negative impacts. Our investments in the IT and tech-based construction solutions and moving some of our operations to the digital domain have led to substantial changes. We will also improve upon our tree-planting programme that offsets and reduces our carbon footprint. Our eco-friendly initiatives will expand and continue in the coming years. We will also leverage the use of the latest, cutting-edge construction methodologies to reduce the use of raw materials and natural resources such as water. 108 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-55 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organisation Inner back cover Disclosures 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4 102-3 Location of headquarters Inner back cover 102-4 Location of operations 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form Inner back cover 102-6 Markets served 4, 7 102-7 Scale of the organisation 8 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 82-86 102-9 Supply chain 95-98 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 95-98 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 5 102-12 External initiatives 5 102-13 Membership of associations 98 102-14 Statement from Senior Decision-Maker 10-11 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 80, 126 102-18 Governance structure 124 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 21-28 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 82 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 21, 22 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 21, 22 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 24-28 102-45 Entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 7 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 5 102-47 List of material topics 29-31 102-48 Restatements of information 5 102-49 Changes in reporting 5 102-50 Reporting period 5 102-51 Date of most recent report 5 102-52 Reporting cycle 5 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 5 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 5 102-55 GRI content index 109-112 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 102-56 External assurance 5, 113, 114 109 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. GRI 201: Economic 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 Performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 77 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 74 201-4 Financial assistance received from Government 74 GRI 202: Market 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 Presence 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 82 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 82 GRI 203: Indirect 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 Economic Impacts 103-2 The management approach and its components 30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 38-66 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 38-66 GRI 204: Procurement 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 Practices 103-2 The management approach and its components 30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 97 GRI 205: Anti103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 corruption 103-2 The management approach and its components 30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 81 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 81 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 81 GRI 206: Anti103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 competitive Behaviour 103-2 The management approach and its components 30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 95 GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 103-2 The management approach and its components 30 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 106 302-3 Energy intensity 106 110 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. GRI 303: Water 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 103-2 The management approach and its components 30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 106 303-3 Water recycled and reused 106 GRI 304: Biodiversity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 107 GRI 305: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 106 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 106 GRI 307: Environmental 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 Compliance 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 101 GRI 401: Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 82 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 84 401-3 Parental leave 84 GRI 402: Labour/ 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 Management Relations 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 82 GRI 403: Occupational 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 Health and Safety 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 85 111 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. GRI 404: Training and 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 Education 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 83 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skill and transition assistance programmes 83 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 85 GRI 405: Diversity and 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 Equal Opportunity 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 82, 129 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 82 GRI 406: Non103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 discrimination 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 82 GRI 413: Local 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 Communities 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes 99, 100 GRI 416: Customer 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 Health and Safety 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 87 GRI 419: Socio103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29, 30 economic Compliance 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 99 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 112 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES GRI 102-56 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT TO AEL KPMG Tel : +94 11 542 6426 (Chartered Accountants) Fax : +94 11 244 5872 32A, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, : +94 11 244 6058 P. O. Box 186, Internet : www.kpmg.com/lk Colombo 00300, Sri Lanka. We have been engaged by the Directors of the evidence we have obtained is These responsibilities includes establishing Access Engineering PLC (“the Company”) sufficient and appropriate to provide such internal controls as management to provide reasonable assurance and limited a basis for our conclusions. determines are necessary to enable the assurance in respect of the Sustainability preparation of the Reasonable Assurance Indicators as identified below for the year Sustainability Indicators and the Limited ended 31 March 2019. The Sustainability REASONABLE ASSURANCE Assurance Sustainability Indicators that Indicators are included in the Access SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS are free from material misstatement Engineering PLC’s Integrated Annual Report whether due to fraud or error. for the year ended 31 March 2019 (the In our opinion, the Reasonable Assurance “Report”). Sustainability Indicators, as defined above, Management is responsible for preventing for the year ended 31 March 2019 are, in all and detecting fraud and for identifying The Reasonable Assurance Sustainability material respects, prepared and presented and ensuring that the Company complies Indicators covered by our reasonable in accordance with the Consolidated Set of with laws and regulations applicable to assurance engagement are: Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability its activities. Reporting Standards Guidelines. Assured sustainability Integrated Annual Management is also responsible for indicators Report page ensuring that staff involved with the LIMITED ASSURANCE preparation and presentation of the Financial highlights 8 SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS description and Report are properly Based on the limited assurance procedures trained, information systems are performed and the evidence obtained, as properly updated and that any changes The Limited Assurance Sustainability in reporting encompass all significant Indicators covered by our limited assurance described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the business units. engagement are: Limited Assurance Sustainability Indicators, as defined above, for the year ended Limited assurance Integrated Annual OUR RESPONSIBILITY sustainability indicators Report page 31 March 2019, have not in all material respects, been prepared and presented in Our responsibility is to express a Non-financial highlights 9 accordance with the Consolidated Set of reasonable assurance conclusion on the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Company’s preparation and presentation Information provided Reporting Standards Guidelines. of the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability on the following Indicators and a limited assurance Financial capital 68-77 conclusion on the preparation and MANAGEMENT'S Manufactured capital 78 presentation of the Limited Assurance RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability Indicators included in the Intellectual capital 79-81 Report, as defined above. Human capital 82-86 Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Social and We conducted our assurance engagement Reasonable Assurance Sustainability relationship capital 87-100 in accordance with Sri Lanka Standard on Indicators and the Limited Assurance ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Natural capital 101-108 Assurance Engagements SLSAE 3000: Sustainability Indicators in accordance Assurance Engagements other than with the Consolidated Set of Global Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Reporting Initiative Sustainability Information (SLSAE 3000) issued by OUR CONCLUSIONS Reporting Standards Guidelines. the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. Our conclusion has been formed on the basis of, and is subject to, the matters outlined in this report. We believe that M.R . Mihular F C A P.Y.S. Perera FCA C.P. Jayatilake FCA T.J.S. Rajakarier FCA W.W.J.C. Perera FCA Ms. S. Joseph FCA KPMG, a Sri Lankan partnership and a member firm Ms. S.M.B. Jayasekara ACA W.K.D.C Abeyrathne FCA S.T.D.L. Perera FCA of the KPMG network of independent member firms G.A.U. Karunaratne FCA R.M.D.B. Rajapakse FCA Ms. B.K.D.T.N. Rodrigo FCA R.H. Rajan ACA M.N.M. Shameel ACA Ms. C.T.K.N. Perera ACA affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Principals S.R.I. Perera FCMA(UK), LLB, Attorney-at-Law, H.S. Goonewardene ACA 113 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Assurance Report to AEL We have complied with the independence LIMITED ASSURANCE ON THE The procedures performed in a limited and other ethical requirements of the ASSURED SUSTAINABILITY assurance engagement vary in nature and Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of timing from, and are less in extent than INDICATORS Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. for, a reasonable assurance engagement, Our limited assurance engagement on the and consequently the level of assurance SLSAE 3000 requires that we plan and Limited Assurance Sustainability Indicators obtained in a limited assurance engagement perform the engagement to obtain consisted of making enquiries, primarily is substantially lower than the assurance reasonable assurance about whether of persons responsible for the preparation that would have been obtained had a the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability of the Limited Assurance Sustainability reasonable assurance engagement been Indicators are free from material Indicators, and applying analytical and performed. Accordingly, we do not express misstatement and limited assurance other procedures, as appropriate. These a reasonable assurance conclusion on the about whether the Limited Assurance procedures included: Limited Assurance Sustainability Indicators. Sustainability Indicators are free from interviews with senior management and material misstatement. relevant staff at corporate and selected PURPOSE OF OUR REPORT site level concerning sustainability REASONABLE ASSURANCE strategy and policies for material issues, In accordance with the terms of our OVER REASONABLE and the implementation of these across engagement, this assurance report has the business; been prepared for the Company for ASSURANCE SUSTAINABILITY enquiries of management to gain the purpose of assisting the Directors INDICATORS in determining whether the Company's an understanding of the Company's processes for determining material Reasonable and Limited Assurance The procedures selected in our reasonable issues for the Company's key Sustainability Indicators are prepared assurance engagement depend on our stakeholder groups; and presented in accordance with the judgement, including the assessment Consolidated Set of Global Reporting of the risks of material misstatement of enquiries of relevant staff at corporate Initiative Sustainability Reporting the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability and selected site level responsible for Standards Guidelines and for no other Indicators whether due to fraud or error. the preparation of the Limited purpose or in any other context. Assurance Sustainability Indicators; In making those risk assessments, we enquiries about the design and have considered internal controls relevant RESTRICTION OF USE OF implementation of the systems and to the preparation and presentation of methods used to collect and report OUR REPORT the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability the Limited Assurance Sustainability Indicators in order to design assurance Our report should not be regarded as Indicators, including the aggregation procedures that are appropriate in the suitable to be used or relied on by any party of the reported information; circumstances, but not for the purposes wishing to acquire rights against us other of expressing a conclusion as to the comparing the Limited Assurance than the Company, for any purpose or in effectiveness of the Company's internal Sustainability Indicators to relevant any other context. Any party other than the controls over the preparation and underlying sources on a sample basis Company who obtains access to our report presentation of the Report. to determine whether all the relevant or a copy thereof and chooses to rely on our information has been appropriately report (or any part thereof) will do so at its Our engagement also included assessing included in the Report; own risk. To the fullest extent permitted by the appropriateness of the Reasonable reading the Limited Assurance law, we accept or assume no responsibility Assurance Sustainability Indicators, Sustainability Indicators presented in and deny any liability to any party other ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 the suitability of the criteria, being the the Report to determine whether they than the Company for our work, for this Consolidated Set of Global Reporting are in line with our overall knowledge of, Independent Assurance Report, or for the Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards and experience with, the sustainability conclusions we have reached. Guidelines, used by the Company in performance of the Company; preparing and presenting the Reasonable reading the remainder of the Report Assurance Sustainability Indicators within to determine whether there are any the Report, obtaining an understanding material misstatements of fact or of the compilation of the financial and material inconsistencies based on CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS non-financial information to the sources our understanding obtained as part Colombo from which it was obtained, evaluating of our assurance engagement. the reasonableness of estimates made by 10 July 2019 the Company, and re-computation of the calculations of the Reasonable Assurance Sustainability Indicators. 114 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES STEWARDSHIP ﻿ 116 BOARD OF 120 CORPORATE 124 CORPORATE 164 ENTERPRISE RISK DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT TEAM ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 115 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES BOARD OF DIRECTORS ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Seated (Left to right) Saumaya Dharshana Munasinghe, Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando, Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Perera, Joseph Christopher Joshua Standing (Left to right) Shevantha Harindra Sudharaka Mendis, Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne, Dinesh Weerakkody, Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe, Dilhan Perera, Ranjan John Suriyakumar Gomez 116 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Board of Directors ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 117 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Board of Directors 1/ SUMAL JOSEPH 3/ DALPADORUGE ANTON 5/ SAUMAYA DHARSHANA SANJIVA PERERA ROHANA FERNANDO MUNASINGHE Chairman Executive Director/ Executive Director/ Chief Operating Officer Director — Business Development The Founder Chairman of the Access Group of Companies founded in 1989, he is also Joining the AEL Group in 1998 as an He joined Access International (Private) the Founder Chairman and a shareholder of Engineer based in the Engineering Division, Limited in 1996 and held Executive and AEL. He continues to be the Chairman of all he played a vital role in enabling the division Senior Managerial positions throughout his companies under the umbrella of the Access to become a separate business entity, successful career. He joined AEL in 2006 Group, AEL Group and Sathosa Motors PLC. encompassing the name and persons of and was appointed to the Board of AEL as He is a Fellow Member of the Chartered AEL. Having held Senior Management Director — Business Development. He is Institute of Management Accountants — UK. positions in AEL, he was appointed to also a Director of Access International It is under his vision and leadership that the Board in 2002. In 2007, he was (Private) Limited, Sathosa Motors PLC, the Access Group of Companies has grown appointed as the Director/COO of AEL. SML Frontier Automotive (Private) to be a diversified and successful business He is a Corporate Member of Institution Limited, Access Realties (Private) Limited enterprise, in a span of over three decades. of Engineers Sri Lanka (IESL) and has and Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited. a BSc Degree in Civil Engineering from the University of Peradeniya. He is also a 2/ JOSEPH CHRISTOPHER Director of Access International (Private) 6/ DILHAN PERERA JOSHUA Limited, Eco Friendly Power Developers Non-Executive Director Managing Director (Private) Limited, Access Realties (Private) Limited, Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited, Mr Dilhan Perera is serving in the capacity Harbour Village (Private) Limited, Access One of the founder Directors of the Access of Non-Executive Director of AEL PLC since Projects (Pvt) Ltd. and Sathosa Motors PLC. Group of Companies, he was instrumental December 2013. He is serving as Chief in heading some of the most successful Financial Officer in Affiliated Companies business units within the Group. A founder which are not coming under the Group of 4/ SHEVANTHA HARINDRA shareholder of AEL, he was the Joint Companies of Access Engineering PLC. SUDHARAKA MENDIS Managing Director/CEO of the Company. It was under his leadership that AEL Executive Director/ achieved significant milestones in growth. Director — Business Development 7/ RANJAN JOHN He also functions as the Joint Managing SURIYAKUMAR GOMEZ Director of the AEL Group and Access Having held many executive and Non-Executive Director Group. Companies under his purview management positions within the AEL include Access Realties (Private) Limited, Group, he has functioned within the One of the Founder Directors of the AEL Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited, Harbour Engineering Division since its inception. Group of Companies and has functioned Village (Private) Limited, Access Energy With the genesis of AEL, he became a part as the Joint Managing Director of the Group (Private) Limited, Access Natural Water of that unit and was appointed as Director — since 1997. Companies under his purview (Private) Limited, Eco Friendly Power Business Development in 2002. He is also include Access Holdings (Pvt) Ltd., Developers (Private) Limited and business a Director of Access International (Private) ATSL International (Private) Limited, units of Access International (Private) Limited, SML Frontier Automotive (Private) ATSL Telesoft (Private) Limited, Access Limited. He was also appointed as Limited, Access Realties (Private) Limited, Energy Solutions (Private) Limited and ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Managing Director of Sathosa Motors PLC Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited and business units of Access International with effect from 1 April 2019. Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited. (Private) Limited. 118 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Board of Directors 8/ PROF KULATILLEKE 10/ DINESH WEERAKKODY ARTHANAYAKE MALIK Independent Non-Executive Director KUMAR RANASINGHE Independent Non-Executive Director Mr Dinesh Weerakkody is the Chairman of Hatton National Bank PLC, the Chairman of A member of the AEL Board since 2011, the National Human Resource Development he is a Senior Professor in Civil Engineering Council of Sri Lanka, International Chamber at the University of Moratuwa, and of Commerce and Cornucopia Sri Lanka. a Member of the University Grants He is an Advisor to the Ministry of National Commission and the National Research Policies and Economic Affairs. He was the Council. He is a Chartered Engineer, Chairman of the Government-appointed International Professional Engineer, Committee to review the Banking Sector a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers, and NBFI Consolidation and the Committee Sri Lanka, National Academy of Sciences, appointed to review the budgetary Sri Lanka and Institute of Project Managers. allocation for education. He is a former Prof Ranasinghe is the Chairman of Chairman of the Commercial Bank of Ceylon Sampath Bank PLC, an Independent PLC and the Employees’ Trust Fund Board of Non-Executive Director of Sampath Bank Sri Lanka. He serves in a number of private PLC, Teejay Lanka PLC, United Motors sector Boards including Glaxo SmithKline Lanka PLC and Resus Energy PLC. He is a Consumer Sri Lanka. He is a Council former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Member of the Employers Federation of Moratuwa, a former Fellow of the National Ceylon and the Institute of Directors of University of Singapore and has been a Sri Lanka, a Member of the National Health Non-Executive Director of the Colombo Development Fund of Sri Lanka and a Stock Exchange, Hemas Power PLC and Member of the CIMA Global Asia Pacific Lanka IOC PLC. Industry Experts Panel. 9/ NIROSHAN DAKSHINA GUNARATNE Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the AEL Board in 2011. An Associate Member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants — UK. He possesses over twenty years of experience in the field of finance and accounting and has been at MB Financial Services (Private) Limited, a primary dealer appointed by the CBSL and Jewelknit, a subsidiary of Mast Industries — USA. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 119 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES CORPORATE MANAGEMENT TEAM ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Seated (Left to right) Joseph Christopher Joshua, Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando, Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Perera, Shevantha Harindra Sudharaka Mendis, Saumaya Dharshana Munasinghe Standing (Left to right) Kosala Wickramasinghe, Niroshan Thilakarathne, Nilantha Iddagodage, Palitha Wanigasundara, Dharmasiri Chandrapala, Srimal Fernando, Manoaj Jayahsuriya, Vasantha Manatunge, Thasantha Kumara, Prabashana Kumara 120 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Management Team ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 121 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Management Team 1/ SUMAL JOSEPH 6/ VASANTHA MANATUNGE 9/ SRIMAL FERNANDO SANJIVA PERERA Senior General Manager Senior General Manager Chairman Project Management Division — II V K Manatunge joined the Company in Profile given on page 118. early 2003 and is currently functioning Srimal joined the Company in August 1999 as the Senior General Manager of Access as a civil engineer and was promoted to Engineering. He obtained his Degree in Manager – Engineering in January 2004, 2/ JOSEPH CHRISTOPHER Civil Engineering from the University General Manager in January 2008 and JOSHUA of Moratuwa in 1978 and has been a Senior General Manager in 2017. He holds Corporate Member of the Institution of a Bachelor’s Degree in Civil Engineering Managing Director Engineers Sri Lanka since 1982. He counts from the University of Peradeniya and is over 40 years of experience in the civil a Corporate Member of the Institution of Profile given on page 118. engineering field and has worked in various Engineers Sri Lanka. During the period capacities in the state sector as well as of his service, he was involved with private sector. major projects in many diversified fields 3/ DALPADORUGE ANTON such as Roads and Highways, Bridges, ROHANA FERNANDO Telecommunication, Water and Waste Executive Director/ 7/ DHARMASIRI Water, Piling and Buildings in a senior Chief Operating Officer CHANDRAPALA level management capacity. General Manager — Technical Profile given on page 118. 10/PALITHA WANIGASUNDARA T D D Chandrapala joined the Company General Manager in 2002 and counts over 13 years of 4/ SHEVANTHA HARINDRA Project Management Division — III experience at the Senior Management level SUDHARAKA MENDIS of the Company. He holds a BSc Degree in Executive Director/ Civil Engineering and he is also a Chartered Palitha joined the Company in 2007 as Director — Business Development Civil Engineer. He has over 39 years of Deputy General Manager (Construction) experience in the fields of Irrigation and and currently functions as the General Drainage, Building Construction, Water Manager (Project Management Profile given on page 118. Division — III). He holds a Master of Supply, Roads and Bridges. Science Degree in Civil Engineering (USSR), a Master of Engineering Degree 5/ SAUMAYA DHARSHANA 8/ MANOAJ JAYAHSURIYA in Construction Management (University MUNASINGHE of Moratuwa) and a Master of Business General Manager Executive Director/ Project Management Division — I Administration Degree (Postgraduate Director — Business Development Institute of Management, University of Sri Jayewardenepura). He is a Fellow Member Manoaj joined the Company in March of Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka and Profile given on page 118. 2006. He has over 32 years of experience a Corporate Member of the Institute of in diversified fields such as the Sri Lanka Engineers (Australia). Prior to joining the Navy, operations, apparel manufacturing, Company, he served in the National Water corporate planning and human resources Supply and Drainage Board for 20 years ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 management. He is a Project Management in the capacities of Chief Engineer, Project Professional (PMP) who holds an MBA from Manager, Assistant General Manager and a the Postgraduate Institute of Management Project Director. (PIM) of University of Sri Jayewardenepura, BSc (Hons) from the University of Colombo and a Postgraduate Diploma in Psychology as well as several naval professional qualifications. 122 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Management Team 11/KOSALA WICKRAMASINGHE 13/PRABASHANA KUMARA 15/NILANTHA IDDAGODAGE General Manager Deputy General Manager Deputy General Manager — Finance Planning and Development Project Management Division — II Nilantha joined the Company in 2008 and Kosala joined the Company as a Prabashana joined the Company in presently serves in the capacity of the Project Manager in 2007 and currently December 2006 as an Operations Manager Deputy General Manager — Finance of the functions as the General Manager — Telecom Projects and was promoted Company. He is a Fellow Member (FCA) of (Planning and Development). He holds to Senior Manager – Telecom Projects in The Institute of Chartered Accountants a Bachelor of Science Honors Degree 2010 and as Deputy General Manager of Sri Lanka and an Associate Member of in Civil Engineering from the University in April 2014. He holds a Bachelor of the Association of Accounting Technicians of Moratuwa, Postgraduate Diploma Science Degree in Electrical and Electronics of Sri Lanka. He holds an MBA from the in Structural Engineering from the Engineering from the University of Postgraduate Institute of Management University of Moratuwa and a Master of Peradeniya. He has 19 years of experience (PIM) of University of Sri Jayewardenepura Business Administration Degree (UK). in the fields of Telecommunication and and holds a BSc Estate Management He is also a Corporate Member of the Building Services (M&E) and was involved and Valuation (Special) Degree from the Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka and in several major projects in Sri Lanka and University of Sri Jayewardenepura. a Corporate Member of the Society of overseas in Key Management roles. He has over 13 years of experience Structural Engineers Sri Lanka. He has in the field of Finance and Auditing. over 19 years experience in various disciplines of Civil Engineering including 14/THASANTHA KUMARA He was also appointed to the Board of Structural Engineering designs, contract General Manager Access Projects (Pvt) Ltd. on 1 May 2018. administration and project management Project Management Division — IV in Sri Lanka and overseas. Thasantha joined the Company at the beginning of 2013. He has over 24 years 12/NIROSHAN of experience in the field of Civil THILAKARATHNE Engineering including Roads, Highways General Manager — Commercial and Bridge Engineering and Project Management. He has served in the Niroshan presently serves in the capacity capacity of Resident Engineer, Design of the General Manager — Commercial Engineer, Executive Engineer for the Road after serving in various capacities in the Development Authority for seven years Company over a period of almost 15 years. and in the private sector for 13 years in the Also, he has over six years of experience capacity of Project Manager, Senior Project before joining Access having worked in a Manager and Divisional Coordinator in the professional firm which provides Audit, Roads, Highways and Bridges Division. Tax, Finance and Advisory services. He is He has a BSc (Hons) in Civil Engineering also a Finalist of The Institute of Chartered from the University of Moratuwa and a Accountants of Sri Lanka. Postgraduate Diploma in Highway and Traffic Engineering from the University of Moratuwa. He is also a Corporate Member of the Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 123 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE “Good corporate governance is about ‘intellectual honesty’ and not just sticking to rules and regulations…capital flows towards companies that practice this type of good governance” Mervyn King Leadership Effectiveness Accountability We have a collective responsibility to We continually evaluate the balance of The Board sets the Group’s strategy and risk challenge strategy, performance and skills and experience of the Board and appetite and approves the operating plans accountability to ensure every decision Management Team to ensure we have and targets to deliver this strategy based on complies with high standards of business the right people in place to provide the recommendations of Management. integrity and is in the best interests of the effective leadership. Company’s shareholders. ABOUT ACCESS ENGINEERING SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Built on a sound philosophy, ethics, policies, In AEL, our governance and operating For AEL, sustainability governance is values, accountability and sincerity of model facilitates decision-making the foundation for delivering short-term action, AEL corporate governance ethos efficiently coupled with pragmatic resource financial performance coupled with works within a culture of performance that mobilisation, for productive operating long-term growth prospects. We have emphasises a framework of conformance results. This is thus manifested in the integrated sustainability topics into our and compliance. To us, corporate composition of the Corporate Management business strategy and they form part of governance goes beyond the tenets team, division of powers and duties and our integrated model. This is backed by of conformance and compliance into a the promotion of sound corporate ethics the strong governance structure we have milieu where our business is grown and across the Company. We also consider it our put in place across the Group. nurtured into a sustainable and equitable prime responsibility to disclose unbiased, one, presenting all our stakeholders with fair and accurate information on our a future to grow with us. Maximising governance practices on a timely manner to LEADERSHIP shareholder wealth on a sustainable basis all stakeholders so that they could exercise while safeguarding the rights of multiple sound decision-making. Hence, this report The Chairman stakeholders is a fundamental tenet which serves that purpose in great detail. Chairman of the Company who acts in an has permeated through all levels of our executive capacity is mainly responsible Management and staff, who in turn work The Company’s vision and mission remain for directing the affairs of the Board while on the trusses of truth, trust, principles and guide us throughout our journey and maintaining effective external relationships and honesty to ensure that the end justifies we have also firmly embedded the same and practice of good corporate governance. the means and remain strategically aligned in our future journey, with the Board of The Chairman is responsible for making to the core principles of our corporate Directors and the Executive Management sure that the agenda, minutes of prior governance practice. providing the necessary stewardship to our meetings, Board papers and supplementary team and other stakeholders to achieve our information are circulated among the ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 GRI 102-18 objectives. The Board does not only aim for members in advance giving sufficient time the primary objective of any profitoriented for preparation. He encourages active and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE entity which is the maximisation of the effective participation of all Board members STRUCTURE shareholder wealth along with protecting facilitating productive discussions. The the interests of all internal and external Chairman ensures the proper recording Any administrative or governance structure stakeholders of the Company but also of all matters discussed at the meetings is strong and efficient as long as the same is backed by the overall ethics and the entrenched to provide their insights in the through the Company Secretary. He is also values of the Organisation. In compliant decisions by involving in the designing responsible for making the Board members with the country’s laws and regulations, of strategic initiatives, establishing aware of the importance of creating value we have built our ethical framework for performance objectives and targets to to all stakeholders of the Company. improved transparency and adopted our ensure continuity and sustainability of Chairman’s responsibilities are discussed ethics in our culture itself, so it goes the business. in detail on page 137. beyond mere compliance. 124 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Board of Directors HIGH-LEVEL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND With sustainability in the long run MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE as the ultimate goal, the Board as a Under the Board’s leadership, AEL has put in place a comprehensive management structure whole continues to take ownership of together with clearly defined policies, procedures and limits of delegated authority. Our high effective leadership. The Management level Management and governance structure is summarised in the diagram below: and governance framework, which the Board has implemented to support the Company’s long-term growth objectives is Audit Committee set out on page 124. The Board comprises ten (10) Directors out of whom five (5) are Executive Directors and five (5) are Related Party Transactions Non-Executive Directors. Daily operational Review Committee aspects of the Company are headed by the Managing Director who is supported by the Chaired by Director/Chief Operating Officer (COO). The Niroshan Gunaratne Board comprises three (03) Non-Executive Directors who are also independent in respect of criteria laid down by the regulatory authorities and have no Remuneration Committee interests or relationships in relation to the affairs of the Company. Board Chaired by Dinesh Weerakkody The diverse range of skills and leadership Chaired by experience offered by the Non-Executive Sumal Perera Directors means that they are well-qualified Investment and Subsidiary to scrutinise performance, assess the Performance Monitoring Group’s risk management and control Committee processes, constructively challenge decisions and operations and support the Chaired by Executive Directors. Decisions regarding Prof Malik Kumar Ranasinghe new Board appointments are taken by the Board collectively and the qualifications and experience of Board members are decided Strategic Planning Committee based on the nature of the business of the Company and the value addition the Chaired by member is expected to bring to the Board Sumal Perera and the Company. Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 118 and 119. Composition of the Board is as follows: ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 30% 50% 50% 50% 40% 60% 20% EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 125 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Corporate management of needs faster than most of the competitors EFFECTIVENESS Access Engineering which has been the cornerstone of our competitive advantage. The permeation of Board evaluation With the objective of achieving sustained authority and accountability right down to value creation for the benefit of all the the shop-floor level and the front-line has The Board caries out self-evaluation stakeholders, the Corporate Management freed up the top Management to dwell on of its performance both individually as team of AEL has adhered to the corporate the more strategic and conceptual inputs. well as collectively against economic, governance principles, along with environmental and social targets/goals set maintaining effective structures and Driving a team branded on excellence, at the beginning of each year. Results of processes within the Company. The team, people remain centric to our entire these evaluations are properly minuted for comprising the Managing Director, Chief operational capabilities and engineering future reference. The Executive Directors Operating Officer (COO), Board members competencies. The experience and are required to adhere with the provisions and Senior Management, meet at regular professionalism within our team has of the “Company Policy on Disciplinary intervals to discuss the Management of been the catalyst in integrating our core Management” to avoid any potential business and operating activities. The core competencies into strategic partnerships. conflict of interest. Implementation of the of AEL, project implementation is carried Maintaining a healthy work life balance with said policy is periodically monitored by a out by the Project Management Divisions an environment of superior human resource five-member committee. The Non-Executive wherein General Managers and Deputy development via a comprehensive Quality Directors are required to confirm the General Managers work on plans and Management System and Occupational existence or non-existence of conflicts of targets, matching those to practical time Health and Safety Management System interest in the dated declaration submitted frames and ensuring any shortfalls or inculcate the culture of meritocracy and to the Board. delays are speedily attended to. performance-oriented individuals who make up for an excellent team, driven to achieve Business ethics In exercising the Authority within an ambitious goals. Part of the compensation ethical framework which is continuously We believe that despite the mere of staff including Executive Directors and demanding the compliance to itself, as well profitability motive, an entity should uphold the Corporate Management is performance as best practices in dealing with employees, to its ethics in order for its sustainability in based and the distribution of the same is customers, suppliers and the community the long run. Our code of ethics has been decided by the Board and the Management at large, AEL thrives to optimise its devised with the objective of developing after the evaluation of multiple factors triple-bottom line at the end. and maintaining long-term relationships including but not limited to performance of with all stakeholders while satisfying the the Company and the individual concerned. We have also infused a milieu of increased requirements of our valuable customers. Employees are encouraged to make participation by middle management Thus every employee at AEL including the recommendations to the Board via their to permeate the need for a more new recruits is firmly guided to abide by respective Department Heads. Profiles of responsible, transparent and accountable the following ethics: the Corporate Management are given from administration, which in turn will strengthen pages 122 to 123. the financial discipline of the Company. Our approach to delegation of high authority tied-up with high accountability has given Equality us the freedom to respond to customer Recognising the rights of all stakeholders Carrying out activities with due consideration to their rights GRI 102-16 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Self Regulation Honesty Solving conflicts in a fair and expeditious manner AEL’S Conducting business in a professional manner Meeting all regulatory requirements CODE OF Upholding the principles of fair pay ETHICS Cooperativeness Integrity Upholding a healthy business environment Being transparent about business activities Cooperating with other business and professionals Serving all stakeholders with honest values Discipline Having company interest over self interest Carrying out work in an orderly manner 126 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Internal control The Company adopts a risk assessment Further Company Quality and Environment based approach with regard to its Internal Management Systems are upgraded Internal Controls are considered a audit functions with the objective of and certified to the latest International fundamental and an integral part of maintaining safety, reliability, profitability Standards ISO 9001:2015 and ISO good corporate governance culture at and integrity of the organisation and to 14001:2015 respectively. AEL. The Board of Directors is responsible overlook key operational and regulatory for identifying and managing all risks of deficiencies. Management systems are driven by risk the Company. To this effect, assessment based thinking and interacts with all of the operating effectiveness and any In preparing the Internal Audit Plan activities of the organisation, identify malfunctions and exceptions of the for each financial year, the Company context/needs and expectations of Internal controls is done by the Internal adopts a balanced approach considering interested parties, assess and manage Audit Division of the Company which aims both high-risk areas as well as core risk, satisfy interested parties while at providing a reasonable assurance to organisational processes. Due to the enabling AEL to improve its processes, the Board of Directors and the Corporate increasing complexity of the business reduce environmental impacts, protect the Management that the internal controls environment the Company operates in, workforce and increase the market share. imposed over core organisational processes the more recent Internal Audit Plans are effective enough so as to ensure the have adopted a flexible structure so as In the mean time the Company is achievement of the ultimate objective of to facilitate unforeseeable and ad hoc in the process of upgrading its Health wealth maximisation of the Company and situations. Once prepared, the draft plan and Safety Management System to its shareholders. Internal Audit on is presented to the Corporate Management meet the requirements of the standard processes not only provides the above for review and comments prior to being ISO 45001: 2018. assurance but also presents the Company presented to the Audit Committee for with a systematic, disciplined approach to The Corporate Management of AEL ensures final ratification. evaluate and improve the effectiveness its commitment and provides adequate of risk management/mitigation process, reasons for the effective implementation of Based on a thorough evaluation and internal controls, compliance, legal management systems, while internal audits previous audit findings, the department’s proceedings, customer complaints and are carried out to ensure conformance with key focus areas for the financial year governance activities within the Company the management systems and periodically 2019/20 were identified to be statutory while adding value to its core. It further review for continued improvement. compliance, information technology, assists the Company to meet its obligations enterprise resource planning system, of adhering to the practice of good public complaints, insurance process, Quality Management corporate governance. procurement and financial reporting. System (QMS) The internal control system at AEL is The QMS defines processes which will result embedded in all operative activities within Management systems in quality of products and services instead the Company and is not an extraneous of adopting a reactive approach of detecting At AEL, we have established and exercise which is merely ticking against product and service non-conformance. implemented Quality Environment and a checklist. Hence, the same is able Further, it establishes policies, objectives, Health and Safety Management Systems to respond to emerging risks within which meets the requirements of and outside the Company and includes international standards. procedures for reporting control failures and weaknesses, if prevalent. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Information STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 STAGE 4 Business Risk Ranking the identified Identify auditable Planning internal Identification risk based on areas based on audit for the likelihood and impact ranking financial year Materiality 127 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance processes and procedures in order to This enables us to – employee relations and create an continually improve the effectiveness and Manage and improve our environmental incident free workplace. efficiency of its performance. It ensures – performance (eliminate/reduce negative The ability of AEL to deliver the desired impacts) and increase the efficiency Our health and safety policy product and/or service consistently, of resource utilisation (e.g., reduce Access Engineering PLC, is a leading while meeting relevant interested waste and energy use) infrastructure development solutions parties' needs and expectations; and Comply with environmental laws provider in Sri Lanka, employees, and regulations subcontractors, suppliers, visitors and That the products and services are produced at an optimum cost Improve our standing and reputation general public who use its premises in order with efficient use of the available among staff, clients, partners and to prevent injury and ill health, according resources – materials, human, other stakeholders to applicable health and safety regulations technology and information. Adapt to changing environments (in and safety manual of the Company. operations and/or products and services) In satisfying this commitment, Our quality policy Access Engineering PLC aims to – Our environment policy Strictly comply with applicable legal and Access Engineering PLC is committed to satisfy customer needs and expectations AEL is committed to carry out its other requirements and where possible by providing high quality products and operations to have a minimal impact setting its own higher standards. services with effective, efficient and to the environment as its strategic Provide suitable training, awareness, innovative solutions. direction for the sustainable business. information, instructions and supervision The Company analyses the internal to maintain these standards. The top Management determines the context of the Organisation by and external factors affecting the Encourage communication and strategically analysing and reviewing performance of its EMS. consultation between employees its internal and external factors to The Company identifies and reviews and the Management on health support its strategic direction. the needs and the expectations and safety issues. The Company is committed towards of the interested parties including Continually strive to improve health the identification of relevant interested compliance obligations with regard and safety performance by establishing parties, their needs and expectations to the environment, and establishes clear and measurable objectives and their fulfilment to enhance the communication with the relevant and targets, auditing, reviewing, sustainability of the business. interested parties on environmental monitoring and reporting performance obligations. and recognising those who contribute To meet with the above commitment, positively to its improvement. the Company continually improves its The Environmental Management quality management system whilst System is continually improved by Arrange for the effective planning, reviewing, assessing and setting organisation, control, monitoring adhering to the applicable regulatory targets and objectives for and review of preventative and requirements through cost effective, enhancing its performance. protective measures. profitable, safe and sound environmental friendly operations. Ensure that the health and safety Health and safety policy remains relevant and appropriate to Access Engineering PLC by requiring Environmental Management management system periodic review in line with Management System (EMS) Health and Safety Management System review procedures. in AEL is a systematic approach that has ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 AEL reflects its green consciousness via the establishment and maintenance of the been put in place to minimise the risk of Board subcommittees injury and illness. It involves identifying, Environment Management Systems. This With the objective of further strengthening assessing and controlling risks to workers in enables to eliminate/reduce significant the governance in AEL, the Company has all workplace operations. The core elements environmental impacts caused by the set up following subcommittees: of our Health and Safety Management operations carried out by the organisation. Audit Committee System includes Management involvement This is done by identifying and assessing and commitment, hazard identification and Remuneration Committee environmental impacts, establishing risk assessment, hazard control, training, environmental control measures, Related Party Transactions emergency response, incident reporting formulating and implementing management Review Committee and investigation and communication. programmes to minimise that impact. Investment and Subsidiary Performance The system enables us to protect our workforce, comply with laws and Monitoring Committee regulations, reduce cost, enhance Strategic Planning Committee 128 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance GRI 405-1 Committee and composition Key areas of responsibilities Committee report reference Audit Committee Three (3) Non-Executive Independent Directors Oversight responsibilities for the integrity of Financial Statements, and One (1) Non-Executive Director risk management, business ethics, internal control, internal audit function, compliance, review external auditor’s performance and reporting responsibilities. Page 158 Related Party Transactions Review Committee Three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors Ensuring that all related party transactions of the Company are and one (1) Executive Director. consistent with the regulatory provisions laid down by the Corporate Governance Directions, LKAS 24 and the Listing Rules of the CSE. Page 160 Remuneration Committee Three (3) Non-Executive Independent Directors Setting up the remuneration policy and making recommendations and one (1) Non-Executive Director. to the Board on recruitment, remuneration and performance evaluation Page 161 Investment and Subsidiary Performance Monitoring Committee Five members including three (3) Independent Assessing and monitoring existing and new investments of AEL and Non-Executive Directors and two (2) Executive reporting observations and recommendations to the Board Directors. Page 162 Strategic Planning Committee One (1) Independent Non-Executive Director and Focusing on planning and setting strategic direction to achieve goals and three (3) Executive Directors. objectives of the Company. Page 163 ACCOUNTABILITY Members of the audit committee 2. Ensuring compliance with financial reporting requirements, information Audit committee Niroshan Dakshina Independent requirements of the Companies Act Gunaratne (Chairman) Non-Executive and other relevant finance-related Audit Committee has continued to review regulations and requirements; Director and report to the Board on the Group’s 3. Ascertaining that the Company’s internal financial reporting, internal control Prof Kulatilleke Independent Arthanayake Malik Non-Executive controls and risk management processes and risk management processes and are adequate and meet the Sri Lanka the performance, independence and Kumar Ranasinghe Director Auditing Standards requirements; effectiveness of the External Auditor, Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants. Non-Executive 4. Assessing the independence and This report describes the Committee’s Director performance of the Company’s External Auditor; ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 major areas of focus since their last Suresh Dilan Perera Non-Executive report in financial year 2017/18. Director 5. Making recommendations to the The Committee appointed by the Board of Board pertaining to appointment, Directors comprises three (03) Independent reappointment and removal of External Non-Executive Directors and One (1) The Audit Committee Charter has Auditors and approving remuneration Non-Executive Director of the Board. formalised the authority, responsibilities and terms of engagement of the and specific duties pertaining to the External Auditor. Committee as follows: Audit Committee Report is given 1. Overseeing preparation, presentation on page 158. and adequacy of disclosures in the Financial Statements of the Company, in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards; 129 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Remuneration committee Members of the related party Members of the investment and In order to attract and retain the best transactions review committee: subsidiary performance human capital to sustain operations while monitoring committee: rewarding performance, the Remuneration Niroshan Dakshina Independent Committee is tasked with recommending Gunaratne (Chairman) Non-Executive Prof Kulatilleke Independent the remuneration payable to the Executive Director Arthanakyake Malik Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive Officer Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Kumar Ranasighe Director of the Company and/or equivalent position Non-Executive (Chairman) thereof. This recommendation is made to Director Niroshan Dakshina Independent the Board, which is responsible for the final Prof Kulatilleke Independent Gunaratne Non-Executive determination upon consideration of such Arthanayake Malik Non-Executive Director recommendations. Kumar Ranasinghe Director Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Dalpadoruge Anton Executive Non-Executive Comprising three (3) Independent Rohana Fernando Director/Chief Director Non-Executive Directors and one (1) Operating Officer Joseph Christopher Managing Non-Executive Director of the Board, this Committee is appointed by the Board. Joshua Director Dalpadoruge Anton Executive The purpose of the Committee is to Rohana Fernando Director/Chief Members of the provide independent review, approval and Operating Officer remuneration committee: oversight of all proposed related party transactions in accordance with the Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Related Party Transactions Policy. The The Committee’s mandate includes: (Chairman) Non-Executive Related Party Transactions Review Director Committee Charter has formalised the Assessment and notification of their authority, responsibilities and specific recommendations to the Board on Prof Kulatilleke Independent duties pertaining to the Committee. major new investments in subsidiaries/ Arthanayake Non-Executive associates and capital investments in Malik Kumar Director Related Party Transactions Review the parent company. Ranasinghe Committee Report is given on page 160. Assessment and notification of their Niroshan Dakshina Independent recommendations to the Board on Gunaratne Non-Executive Director Investment and subsidiary divestment of subsidiaries in the performance monitoring parent company. Suresh Dilhan Perera Non-Executive committee Monitoring the budgets of subsidiaries Director and associates and submit their Since the investment decisions and observations and recommendations performance of previous investment to the Board. Remuneration Committee Report is given decisions are essential to be reviewed, on page 161. Review the progress of subsidiary the board subcommittee was set up during companies of AEL. Financial year 2016/17, comprising three Related party transactions independent Non-Executive Directors and Advise the Management on what action two Executive Directors. The purpose of should be taken for any instances of review committee the Committee is to discuss prospective non-compliance noticed in investment ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 The objective of the Related Party investment and performance monitoring of and budgetary monitoring of Transactions Review Committee is to subsidiaries/associates prior to discussion subsidiaries/associates. ensure that the interests of shareholders of the relevant matters at Board meetings. as a whole are taken into account by a Investment and Subsidiary Performance Listed Entity when entering into related Monitoring Committee Report is given on party transactions. The Rules set out in this page 162. Section further provide certain measures to prevent Directors, Chief Executive Officer or substantial shareholders taking advantage of their positions. This Committee comprises three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors and one (1) Executive Director of the Board. 130 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Strategic planning committee Reviewing and forwarding to the Members of the compliance Board strategic plans of subsidiary committee: The Strategic Planning Committee organisations to assure they are assists the Board with its responsibilities aligned with the system’s strategic for the Organisation’s vision, mission and Dalpadoruge Anton Chief Operating direction and goals. strategic direction. The Strategic Planning Rohana Fernando Officer/Executive Reviewing major new programmes (Chairman) Director Committee provides a useful forum for and services. Board members to share views on strategic V K Manatunge Senior General issues. The Committee addresses strategic (Convener) Manager The Committee met regularly to fulfil the issues in detail that require more focused Palitha General Manager above tasks assigned. study prior to bringing a matter to the Wanigasundara (Project full Board. Management Strategic Planning Committee Report is given on page 163. Division III) Members of the strategic Manoaj Jayahsuriya General Manager planning committee: Compliance committee (Project Management Sumal Joseph Chairman The Compliance Committee is appointed Division I) Sanjiva Perera by the Chief Operating Officer (COO) Kosala General Manager and is set-up to further strengthen good Wickramasinghe (Planning and Joseph Christopher Managing governance at the Corporate Management Development) Joshua Director level. This mechanism will bridge the gap Dalpadoruge Anton Executive Niroshan Thilakaratne General Manager between the Senior Management and Rohana Fernando Director/Chief (Commercial) the Board of Directors when important Operating Officer decisions are to be made on operational Prof Kulatilleke Independent issues. The Board oversees the performance The committee’s mandate includes — Arthanayake Malik Non-Executive of the Company against the triple-bottom Kumar Ranasinghe Director line objectives and the Code of Conduct 1. Establish and monitor whether the based on the recommendations made by Organisation’s objectives are met the Compliance Committee via the COO. 2. Evaluate Company policies, formulate Key Responsibilities of the Strategic Regular meetings are conducted to discuss new policies, advise and take the Planning Committee include — the compliance matters and new trends. initiative to revise existing policies Making recommendations to the 3. Ensure that policies are in compliance Beyond the mandatory requirements to Board related to the Organisation’s with laws and regulations set-up the Audit, Remuneration and Related vision, mission strategic initiatives, 4. Ensure that project management, Party Transactions Review Committees, major programmes and services. accounting, procurement, stores and AEL has also set-up Strategic Planning Identify critical strategic issues Committee, Compliance Committee and human resource functions are carried facing the Organisation and assisting in Subsidiary Performance Monitoring out according to established processes analysis of alternative strategic options. Committee voluntarily for the enhanced and procedures Ensuring Management has established transparency and Governance perspective 5. Ensure that control systems are laid an effective strategic planning process and on par with industry practices. down and operated to promote the most with time line targets. Occasionally, where it may be more economic, efficient and effective use of Advising the Board on the expedient to do so, the Board may delegate resources as well as safeguard assets. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 trends in Organisation’s industry, some of its powers to a subcommittee on an market/community, and core ad hoc basis. competencies. Periodically reviewing the vision, mission and strategic plan, and recommending changes to the Board. 131 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance under Section 7.6 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange on Corporate Governance Principal Description Comment/reference Compliance status CSE Listing Rule 7.6 – Contents of Annual Report (i) Names of persons who during the financial year were Directors Board of Directors Complied of the Entity (ii) Principal activities of the Entity and its subsidiaries during the Notes to the Financial Statements Complied year and any changes therein (iii) The names and the number of shares held by the 20 largest Investor Capital Complied holders of voting and non-voting shares and the percentage of such shares held (iv) The Public Holding percentage Investor Capital Complied (v) A statement of each Director’s holding and Chief Executive Investor Capital Complied Officer holding in shares of the Entity at the beginning and end of each financial year (vi) Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk factors of Enterprise Risk Management Complied the Entity (vii) Details of material issues pertaining to employees and During 2018/19 there were no material issues pertaining to industrial relations of the Entity employees and industrial relations of the Entity (viii) Extents, locations, valuations and the number of buildings of Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Complied the Entity’s land holdings and investment properties affairs of the Company (ix) Number of shares representing the Entity’s stated capital on Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Complied the affairs of the Company affairs of the Company (x) A distribution schedule of the number of holders in each class Investor Capital Complied of equity securities, and the percentage of their total holdings (xi) Financial ratios and market price information Investor Capital Complied (xii) Significant changes in the Entity’s or its subsidiaries’ fixed Notes to the Financial Statements Complied assets and the market value of land, if the value differs substantially from the book value. (xiii) Details of funds raised through a public issue, rights issue In 2018/19 no funds were raised through a public issue, and a private placement during the year rights issue or a private placement (xiv) Employee Share Option Schemes and Employee Share The Company does not have any Employee Purchase Schemes Share Option Schemes or Employee Share Purchase Schemes (xv) Disclosures pertaining to Corporate Governance practices in Board of Directors (Refer pages 118 and 119) Complied terms of Rules 7.10.3, 7.10.5 c. and 7.10.6 c. of Section 7 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Compliance with Code of Best Practice on of the Rules Corporate Governance jointly issued by CA Sri Lanka and SEC (Refer pages 134 to 157) Annual Report of the Board of Directors (Refer pages 174 to 179) Notes to the Financial Statements (Refer page 193) Audit Committee Report (Refer page 158) (xvi) Related Party transactions exceeding 10% of the Equity or Related Party Transactions Review Complied 5% of the total assets of the Entity as per Audited Financial Committee Report (Refer page 160) Statements, whichever is lower Notes to the Financial Statements 132 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance under Section 7.10 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange on Corporate Governance Principal Description Comment/reference Compliance status CSE Listing Rule 7.10 – Corporate Governance a. and b. Compliance with Corporate Governance Rules Annual Report of the Board of Directors Complied CSE Listing Rule 7.10.1 – Non-Executive Directors a., b. Composition of the Non-Executive Directors Board of Directors Complied and c. CSE Listing Rule 7.10.2 – Independent Directors a. Composition of the Independent Directors Board of Directors Complied b. Signed and dated declaration of each Compliance with Code of Best Practice on Corporate Complied Independent Director Governance jointly issued by CA Sri Lanka and SEC CSE Listing Rule 7.10.3 – Disclosures Relating to Directors a. and b. Determination of independence or Board of Directors Complied non-independence of each NED Compliance with Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance jointly issued by CA Sri Lanka and SEC c. A brief Résumé of each Director Board of Directors Complied d. Brief Résumé of newly appointed Director/s During 2018/19 no new Director was appointed CSE Listing Rule 7.10.4 – Criteria for Defining “Independence” a. to h. Criteria to meet to be an Independent Director Compliance with Code of Best Practice on Corporate Complied Governance jointly issued by CA Sri Lanka and SEC CSE Listing Rule 7.10.5 – Remuneration Committee a. Composition Corporate Governance Complied b. Functions Corporate Governance Complied c. Disclosures in the Annual Report Annual Report of the Board of Directors on Complied the Affairs of the Company Notes to the Financial Statements Remuneration Committee Report (Refer page 161) CSE Listing Rule 7.10.6 – Audit Committee a. Composition Audit Committee Report Complied b. Functions Audit Committee Report Complied ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 c. Disclosures in the Annual Report Audit Committee Report Complied 133 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance THE COMPANY’S ADHERENCE TO CODE OF BEST PRACTICES ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ISSUED JOINTLY BY THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS OF SRI LANKA AND THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OF SRI LANKA Principle Description Comment Compliance status A Directors A.1 The Board A.1 Every public company should be headed The company is headed by a unitary board comprising of ten Complied by an effective Board, which should direct, members. The primary objective of the Board is to provide necessary lead and control the Company. stewardship, strategic direction, a policy framework and a governance structure in order to achieve the vision of the Company. The Board regularly monitors the performance of the Company against goals and targets set on a periodic basis and discusses the same at Board meetings in great detail. Composition of the Board set out on page 125. All Executive Directors are a part of the company’s Corporate Management Team. The Board consists of professionals from diverse fields such as engineering, accounting, finance, business development, human resources and consultancy, bringing independent judgement and perspectives for the efficient functioning of the Board and discharge of duties. They also sufficiently represent professional, academic and entrepreneurial domains, all of which are necessary for the effective functioning of the Board. Additionally, all members of the Board possess adequate levels of skills, competencies and knowledge in their respective fields of specialisation so as to provide overall strategic direction to the Company. The Board also sets the level of risk appetite of the Company. There are four subcommittees of the Board of which three are mandatory and one is voluntary. These committees ensure the Company’s adherence to best practices of corporate governance in conducting business. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 134 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status A.1.1 The Board should meet regularly. During the year four scheduled Board meetings were conducted, all Complied Board meetings should be held at of which were well planned and informed in advance and all members least once in every quarter of a were eligible to attend. Attendance of members at meetings was as financial year, in order to effectively follows: execute the Board’s responsibilities, DIRECTORS’ ATTENDANCE FOR THE BOARD MEETING while providing information to the Board on a structured and % regular basis. 100 80 60 40 20 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 MR S J S PERERA 6 MR S D MUNASINGHE 2 MR R J S GOMEZ 7 PROF K A M K RANASINGHE 3 MR J C JOSHUA 8 MR N D GUNARATNE 4 MR S H S MENDIS 9 MR S D PERERA 5 MR D A R FERNANDO 10 MR D WEERAKKODY As and when the need arises special Board meetings are also conveyed though no such meeting was held during the year under review. A.1.2 The Board’s role is to provide A brief profile of each member of the Board of Directors and Complied entrepreneurial leadership of the Corporate Management Team is given on pages 118 to 123. company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed. A.1.3 The Board collectively, and Directors The Board collectively and the Directors individually, have recognised Complied individually, must act in accordance with their duty to act in accordance with the prevailing laws of the country. the laws of the country, as applicable to The Board has put in place the Compliance Committee, which is headed the business enterprise. There should by the chief operating officer to ensure compliance with all necessary be a procedure agreed to by the Board rules and regulations applicable to the Company. of Directors, to obtain independent professional advice where necessary, The Board also complies with the sound framework of business at the Company’s expense. practices in place, which further strengthens compliance with existing laws and regulations. In matters of strategic importance ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 to the Company, the Board obtains independent professional advice, if it deems necessary, at the expense of the Company. A.1.4 All Directors should have access to All Directors had access to the services of a professional company Complied the advice and services of the Company secretarial body, which ensured that the Board received information on Secretary, who is responsible to the Board a timely manner for the effective conduct of meetings. The firm also in ensuring that Board procedures are provided the Board with advice on matters relating to compliance with followed and that applicable rules and rules and regulations, proper conduct of meetings and the adoption of regulations are complied with. Any best practices of corporate governance. The firm is also responsible for questions of the removal of the Company the distribution of the Company’s Annual Report to its shareholders. secretary should be a matter for the Board as a whole. 135 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status A.1.5 All Directors should bring independent All Directors are encouraged to bring independent judgement on Complied judgement to bear on issues of strategy, matters relating to strategic direction of the Company, effective performance, resources (including key utilisation of resources, performance and business conduct. appointments) and standards of The vast experience and knowledge they possess in their business conduct. specialised fields ensure the execution of this judgement. Transparency of the judgements is further enhanced with the existence of three Independent Non-Executive Directors who continue to critically evaluate the decisions of the Executive Directors. The Board has put in place a culture of accepting the contribution of each member and all Directors have an equal opportunity to express their views and ideas. The composition of the Board is sufficient enough to ensure balance of power and no Director dominates the conduct of meetings or the Board’s decision-making process. A.1.6 Every Director should dedicate adequate All Directors dedicated an adequate amount of time on matters Complied time and effort to matters of the Board relating to the Company and the Board. Their contribution to the and the Company, to ensure that the Company was evident in the participation at Board meetings, Board duties and responsibilities owed to the subcommittee meetings and in the decisions passed through circular Company are satisfactorily discharged. resolution. Relevant Board Papers, together with supplementary It must be recognised that Directors information, were sent at least a week prior to the Board meetings have to dedicate sufficient time before a so as to give them adequate time to critically review and study the meeting to review Board Papers and call contents. In the event additional information was requested by the for additional information and clarification, Board through the Company Secretary the same was made available at and after a meeting to follow up on issues the earliest in order to enhance the effectiveness of Board decisions. consequent to the meeting. This should be supplemented by a time allocation for familiarisation with business changes, operations, risks and controls. A.1.7 One-third of Directors can call for a One-third of the Directors could request for a resolution to Complied resolution to be presented to the be presented to the Board for the best interest of the Company. Board where they feel it is in best interest to the Company to do so. A.1.8 Every Director should receive appropriate A new Director who is appointed to the Board receives an orientation Complied training when first appointed to the Board of on the operations, risk management, internal control and other areas a company, and subsequently as necessary. from the Managing Director in order to familiarise the new Director Training curricula should encompass both with the Company. general aspects of directorship and matters ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 specific to the particular industry/company Majority of the Independent Non-Executive Directors are members of concerned. A Director must recognise that the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors. Each Director was well aware of there is a need for continuous training and the need to continuously enhance his knowledge and skills so as to an expansion of the knowledge and skills effectively perform his duties as a Director. Knowledge sharing among required to effectively perform his/her members, attending seminars organised by relevant professional duties as a Director. The Board should bodies, participating in industry advancement sessions and policy regularly review and agree the training and making initiatives are some of the methods adopted during the year development needs of the Directors. with respect to training and development. 136 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status A.2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) A.2 There are two key tasks at the top of The Chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of the business Complied every public company — conducting of of the Board, while the executive responsibility for management of the business of the Board, and facilitating the Company’s business is vested with the Managing Director. Hence executive responsibility for management there is a balance of power and authority. The Managing Director is of the company’s business. There should supported by the Director/Chief Operating Officer in managing the be a clear division of responsibilities at the day-to-day affairs of the Company. head of the Company, which will ensure a balance of power and authority, such that Decision-making at the highest level happens by adopting the rule no one individual has unfettered powers of simple majority. No one individual is vested with unfettered of decision. powers of decision-making. A.2.1 A decision to combine the posts of The Chairman is mainly responsible for leading, directing and Complied Chairman and CEO in one person controlling the affairs of the Board including the Board Balance, should be justified and highlighted effective conduct of Board meetings and special meetings of in the Annual Report. the Board. He is also responsible for maintaining effective external relationships. Day-to-day affairs of the Company are headed by the Managing Director who is supported by the Director/Chief Operating Officer (COO). The Managing Director and COO give leadership to the Corporate Management Team who is collectively responsible for the conduct of day-to-day operations. A.3 Chairman’s Role A.3 The Chairman’s role in preserving As the highest member of the organisation, the Chairman is Complied good Corporate Governance is crucial. committed to the practice of good corporate governance. As the head As the person responsible for running at the Board meetings, the Chairman ensures that the Board members the Board, the Chairman should preserve receive adequate information prior to every meeting together with the order and facilitate the effective discharge agenda to enable them to take accurate decisions about the Company, of Board functions. facilitates discussions at the meetings to include the views of all members, encourages participation of all members in the decisionmaking process and ensures accurate recording of proceedings via minutes through the Company Secretary. He is responsible for ensuring that the objectives of the meeting are achieved and adequately discussed among its members. The Chairman is also responsible for the composition and the structure of the Board, representing the views of the company to the public, maintaining relationships with shareholders and ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 overseeing the self-evaluation of Board members performance. A.3.1 The Chairman should conduct Board The Chairman is responsible for making sure that the agenda, Complied proceedings in a proper manner. minutes of prior meetings, Board Papers and supplementary information are circulated among the members in advance, giving sufficient time for preparation. Agenda for each Board meeting is finalised by the Chairman in consultation with the Company Secretary and where necessary, feedback from the other members is taken. 137 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status A.4 Financial Acumen A.4 The Board should ensure the availability A brief profile of each member of the Board of Directors is given Complied within it of those with sufficient financial on pages 118 and 119. acumen and knowledge to offer guidance on matters of finance. A.5 Board Balance A.5 It is preferable for the Board to have a The Board compromises of ten Directors of which five are Executive Complied balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors and five are Non-Executive. This ratio was maintained Directors such that no individual or small throughout the financial year. Composition of the Board is set out group of individuals can dominate the on page 125. Board’s decision-taking. No individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s decision-taking. Non-Executive Directors are not involved in the day-to-day operations of the company, thus ensures independent judgement. Non-Executive Directors are also veterans in their respective fields both academically and professionally thus deemed suitable to hold office. A.5.1 The Board should include Non-Executive 50% of the Board of Directors of the Company operates in a Complied Directors of sufficient calibre and number non-executive capacity and this ratio was maintained throughout for their views to carry significant weight the year. Every Non-Executive Director on the Board has excelled in the Board’s decisions. The Board should in their respective discipline. Thus their contribution to the include at least two Non-Executive Directors decision-making of the Board was noteworthy during the year, both or such number of Non-Executive Directors quantitatively as well as qualitatively. equivalent to one-third of the total number of Directors, whichever is higher. In the event the Chairman and CEO is the same person, Non-Executive Directors should comprise a majority of the Board. A.5.2 Where the constitution of the Board The Board of Directors of the Company comprises five Non-Executive Complied of Directors includes only two Directors out of which three are Independent and this ratio was Non-Executive Directors, both such maintained throughout the year. Composition of the Board is set Non-Executive Directors should be out on page 125. “independent”. In all other instances, two or one-third of Non-Executive Directors appointed to the Board of Directors, whichever is higher should ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 be “independent”. A.5.3 For a Director to be deemed Three Non-Executive Directors on the Board are not involved in Complied “Independent”, such Director should be day-to-day affairs of the Company and they do not have any business independent of management and free of or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise any business or other relationship that of their unfettered and independent judgement. Additionally, each could materially interfere with or could Independent Non-Executive Director submits a written declaration reasonably be perceived to materially of his independence to the Board on an annual basis. This written interfere with the exercise of their annual submission is also considered as a part of their annual unfettered and independent judgement. performance evaluation. Based on the written declaration submitted by the Independent NEDs’ for the financial year 2018/19, they were considered as continuing to be independent. 138 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status A.5.4 Each Non-Executive Director should During the year, each Non-Executive Director submitted a dated Complied submit a signed and dated declaration and signed declaration regarding their independence against the annually of his/her independence or specified criteria set out in the Code. While this declaration fulfilled non-independence against the specified the requirements of Schedule J of this Code, no circumstance rose criteria set out in the specimen in for the determination of independence by the Board outside the Schedule K. criteria set out by the Code. A.5.5 The Board should make a determination Based on the declarations submitted to the Board and other Complied annually as to the independence or information available, the following NEDs’ of the Board were non-independence of each Non-Executive decided to be independent as at the end of the financial year: Director, based on such a declaration D S Weerakkody made of decided criteria and other information available to the Board. Prof K A M K Ranasinghe The Board should determine whether N D Gunaratne the Director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are The Board considered the annual declaration made by relationships or circumstances which are the NEDs’ to be a fair representation of their independence. likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Director’s judgement. The Board should specify the criteria not met and the basis for its determination in the Annual Report, if it determines that a Director is independent notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances which indicate the contrary and should set out in the Annual Report the names of Directors determined to be “Independent”. A.5.6 If an alternate Director is appointed by This is not applicable as there are no Alternate Directors N/A a Non-Executive Director such Alternate in the Company. Director should not be an executive of the Company. If an Alternate Director is appointed by an Independent Director, the person who is appointed also should meet the criteria of independence and the provision on minimum number of independent Directors also should be satisfied. A.5.7 In the event the Chairman and CEO is the This is not applicable as the Chairman of the Company N/A ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 same person, the Board should appoint is not the CEO. one of the independent Non-Executive Directors to be the “Senior Independent Director” (SID) and disclose this appointment in the Annual Report. A.5.8 The Senior Independent Director should Please refer comment under A.5.7. Complied make himself available for confidential discussions with other Directors who may have concerns which they believe have not been properly considered by the Board as a whole and which pertain to significant issues that are detrimental to the Company. 139 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status A.5.9 The Chairman should hold meetings with The Chairman holds meetings with the NEDs’ without the presence Complied the Non-Executive Directors only, without of Executive Directors as and when necessary. During the year one the Executive Directors being present, as such meeting was held. necessary and at least once each year. A.5.10 Where Directors have concerns about During the year, there were no matters of the Company that Complied the matters of the company, which the Board was unable to resolve unanimously. However, in the event cannot be unanimously resolved, they such matter arises, the Company Secretary records same in sufficient should ensure their concerns are detail in the Board minutes. These minutes are circulated among Board recorded in the Board minutes. members prior to the next meeting. A.6 Supply of Information A.6 The Board should be provided with The Board was provided with timely information by way of Complied timely information in a form and of a Management Reports, Proposals and Board Papers during the year. quality appropriate to enable it to The information was made available by the Company Secretary along discharge its duties. with the agenda at least seven days prior to the meeting in order to provide sufficient, time for preparation. In the event, information provided was not sufficient supplementary information was provided on the request of Board members. A.6.1 Management has an obligation to provide Members of the Board (mainly Executive) are provided with Complied the Board with appropriate and timely Management Reports, Proposals and Project Performance Reports information, but information volunteered on a monthly basis, both in a quantitative and qualitative manner. by Management may not be enough in In addition to this, the entire Board is provided with Board Papers and all circumstances and Directors should other relevant information by the Corporate Management. The Board make further inquiries where necessary. is also appraised on areas such as CSR, Risk Management, Corporate The Chairman should ensure all Directors Governance, Human Resources and Legal Compliance by the Corporate are properly briefed on issues arising at Management time to time. In instances where additional information Board meetings. is required the same is requested, from the Corporate Management or the responsible individuals. As and when necessary, the Corporate Management also makes presentations to the Board in order to enable sound decision-making. The Board has free and open access to all Corporate Management members. The Chairman ensured that all Board members were briefed sufficiently on any matter/s arising from the meeting/s. Any Director who was unable to attend a particular Board meeting is briefed on the proceedings before the next meeting by the Chairman and through the ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 minutes of the meeting. A.6.2 In order to facilitate effective conduct of As a norm, all Board Papers are circulated to the Board members 10 Complied meetings, the agenda and papers required working days before hand for them to study the materials and prepare for a Board meeting should be provided to themselves for the meeting and the within two weeks of the meeting Directors at least seven (7) days before the the decisions taken and the discussion points are minute and circulated meeting, and the minutes of the meeting for their review/comments and finalisation. should ordinarily be provided to Directors at least two weeks after the meeting date. 140 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status A.7 Appointments to the Board A.7 There should be a formal and transparent All Board appointments are based on the capacity of the individual Complied procedure for the appointment of new concerned to pass the “fit and proper” test, which in turn is based on Directors to the Board. the qualifications, experience and the value that can be added by the individual to the Board as well as to the Company. Existing Directors are vested with the autonomy to critically evaluate the potential candidate in the above test and a final decision is taken by the Board collectively. A.7.1 The Nomination Committee should be The Company does not have a Nomination Committee in place. Complied established to make recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments. However, the existing Board members function in a manner that Terms of Reference for Nomination is similar to a formally appointed Nomination Committee in Committees are set out in Schedule matters concerning new appointments to the Board. Preliminary discussions were held during the year 2018/19 to established a A. The Chairman and members of the Nominations Committee Nomination Committee should be identified in the Annual Report. A.7.2 The Nomination Committee or in the During the year, the Board critically evaluated the “Quality” of the Complied absence of a Nomination Committee, the Board in terms of their qualifications, experience, independence and Board as a whole should annually assess the value that can be added to the Company to effectively meet the Board composition to ascertain whether demands of the Company. The Board is satisfied with its composition the combined knowledge and experience and the level of qualifications, knowledge and experience it possesses of the Board matches the strategic as a whole in order to meet strategic demands facing the Company. demands facing the Company. The findings of such assessment should be taken into account when new Board appointments are considered and when incumbent Directors come up for re-election. A.7.3 Upon the appointment of a new Director No new Director was appointed to the Board during the year. N/A. to the Board, the Company should However, all new appointments are promptly communicated to No new forthwith disclose to shareholders: the CSE together with a brief résumé containing the member’s Directors expertise, other directorships held and independence for appointed A brief résumé of the Director public dissemination. during the The nature of his expertise in year relevant functional areas The names of companies in which the Director holds directorships or ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 memberships in Board committees and Whether such Director can be considered independent. 141 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status A.8 Re-election A.8 All Directors should be required to Directors are re-elected with the sanction of the shareholders at the Complied submit themselves for re-election at Annual General Meeting of the Company. The Articles of Association regular intervals and at least once in of the Company requires one NED to appear for re-election every every three years. year and as such 2018 saw the re-election of S D Perera who retired by rotation. Generally, Directors who retire are the ones who have held office for the longest period since election and reappointment. Recommendations on the re-election of Directors are given by the Company Secretary and the same is reviewed by the Board. In terms of the Articles of Association of the Company R J S Gomez will retire by rotation and being eligible will offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. A.8.1 Non-Executive Directors should be In terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, one NED is Complied appointed for specified terms subject to required to retire by rotation every year. The re-election of NEDs’ is re-election and to the provisions in the sanctioned by the shareholders at the AGM of the Company. Companies Act relating to the removal of a Director and their reappointment should not be automatic. A.8.2 All Directors including the Chairman of No new Director was appointed to the Board during the year. Complied the Board, should be subject to election However, in the event a new Director is appointed to the Board, by shareholders at the first opportunity he/she will offer himself/herself for election by the shareholders after their appointment, and to re-election at the first opportunity. thereafter at intervals of no more than three years. The names of Directors submitted for election or re-election should be accompanied by a résumé minimally as set out in paragraph A.7.3 above, to enable shareholders to make an informed decision on their election. A.8.3 Resignation A.8.3 In the event of a resignation of a Director Before the formal resignation the Directors explain their reasons N/A. No prior to completion of his appointed term, for the resignation decision and the same is being minute under the resignation the Director should provide a written Board meeting minutes. Also when Directors send their resignation of Directors communication to the Board of his letters, they explain the decision factors in the resignation letter during the reasons for resignation. for the documentary purposes. year ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 142 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status A.9 Appraisal of Board Performance A.9 Boards should periodically appraise Performance of the Board is evaluated from time to time with at least Complied their own performance in order to once a year to ensure that responsibilities are satisfactorily discharged. ensure that Board responsibilities are Appraisal of Board performance is usually coordinated by the Company satisfactorily discharged. Secretary and overseen by the Chairman. A.9.1 The Board should have in place a formal In order to retain the enthusiasm in Company operations overall Complied and rigorous process for annually reviewing the Board members meet the Chairman and conduct face to face the performance of the Board and its discussions on the members anticipated suggestions for the committees and should address any betterment of the Company and the Chairman there address matters that may arise from such review, the performance remarks of the individual Board members that in the discharge of its key responsibilities he has observed during the year. as set out in A.1.2. A.9.2 The Board should also undertake an Members of the Board and Board committees carried out Complied annual self evaluation of its own self-assessments of their performance for the FY 2018/19 against performance and that of its committees. targets set at the beginning of the year. Minutes of the results of these assessments were recorded by the Company Secretary and areas for improvement in the FY 2019/20 were identified. Each individual Director was satisfied of his performance in the FY 2018/19. Over the years, both individual and collective performance appraisal of the Board has facilitated continuous development and improvement. A.9.3 The Board should have a process to When a member’s name is up for re-election the rest of the Board Complied review the participation, contribution members discuss the value addition brought by that particular and engagement of each Director at the member to the Board and the contribution made thereof. And based time of re-election. on the discussion points the decision is made as to re-elect the member or not to. The discussion points are being minuted under the Board meeting minutes. A.9.4 The Board should state how such The performance of the Board has been appraised though a Complied performance evaluations have been formalised process of individual appraisal by enabling each conducted, in the Annual Report. member to self-appraise on an anonymous basis A.10 Disclosure of Information in Respect of Directors A.10 Shareholders should be kept advised of Shareholders are informed as and when necessary about changes to Complied relevant details in respect of Directors. the Board, interest in the shares of the Company and other relevant details through disclosures and financial results released to the CSE for public dissemination. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 A.10.1 The Annual Report of the Company should Please refer the following pages for the information relating to Complied set out the relevant information in relation Directors of the Company. to each Director. Information requirement Page/s Brief profile 118 to 119 Nature of Expertise 118 to 119 Related Party Transaction 246 to 249 Other directorship held 250 Attendance of Board meetings 135 Composition of Board committees 129 Attendance of committee meetings 158 to 163 Remunerations 251 143 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status A.11 Appraisal of Chief Executive Officer A.11 The Board should be required at least Not applicable as the Company doesn’t have a CEO. N/A annually to assess the performance of the CEO. A.11.1 At the commencement of every financial Not applicable as the Company doesn’t have a CEO. N/A year, the Board in consultation with the CEO, should set, in line with the short, medium and long-term objectives of the Company, reasonable financial and non-financial targets that should be met by the CEO during the year. A.11.2 The performance of the CEO should be Not applicable as the Company doesn’t have a CEO. N/A evaluated by the Board at the end of each financial year to ascertain whether the targets set by the Board have been achieved and if not, whether the failure to meet such targets was reasonable in the circumstances. B Directors’ Remuneration B.1 Remuneration Procedure B.1 Companies should establish a formal and Remuneration payable to the Executive Directors of the Company is Complied transparent procedure for developing policy recommended by the Remuneration Committee. on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual Remuneration payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company Directors. No Director should be involved in is recommended by the Board as a whole. No Director is involved in deciding his/her own remuneration. deciding his own remuneration. B.1.1 To avoid potential conflicts of interest, The Remuneration Committee is responsible for recommending Complied the Board of Directors should set up the remuneration payable to Executive Directors. The Committee a Remuneration Committee to make makes recommendations to the Board, which is responsible for the recommendations to the Board, within final determination. agreed terms of reference, on the Company’s framework of remunerating Executive Directors. (These also include Post-employment Benefits as well as Terminal Benefits). ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 B.1.2 Remuneration committees should consist The Remuneration Committee appointed by the Board consisted of Complied exclusively of Non-Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors out of which three were independent. should have a Chairman, who should be appointed by the Board. B.1.3 The Chairman and the members of the Details of the Remuneration Committee are given in page 161 of Complied remuneration committee should be listed this report. in the Annual Report each year. 144 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status B.1.4 The Board as a whole, or where required Remuneration payable to the Non-Executive Directors is decided by Complied by the Articles of Association the the Board as a whole. The Non-Executive Directors are paid a monthly shareholders, should determine the fee for being a member of the Board and its subcommittees. Since the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors are not involved in the day-to-day affairs of including members of the Remuneration the Company they are not entitled to any performance incentives. Committee, within the limits set in the Articles of Association. Where permitted by the Articles, the Board may delegate this responsibility to a subcommittee of the Board, which might include the CEO. B.1.5 The Remuneration Committee should The Remuneration Committee consulted the Chairman and the Complied consult the Chairman and/or CEO about Managing Director in providing recommendations regarding the its proposals relating to the remuneration remuneration of other Executive Directors. The Chairman and the of other Executive Directors and have AEL Managing Director are not remunerated by the Company. to professional advice from within and outside the Company, in discharging their responsibilities. B.2 Level and Make-up of Remuneration B.2 Levels of remuneration of both Executive The remuneration package of both Executive and Non-Executive Complied and Non-Executive Directors should be Directors is based on a variety of factors including their contribution sufficient to attract and retain the Directors to the Company, market rates of remuneration and their expectation. needed to run the Company successfully. The Board is aware of the fact that the level of remuneration should A proportion of Executive Directors’ be sufficient enough to attract and retain Directors of high calibre to remuneration should be structured to direct the Company. link rewards to corporate and individual performance. Portion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors is linked to their performance which is evaluated against targets set and agreed at the beginning of the period. B.2.1 The Remuneration Committee should The Remuneration Committee considers the value addition of Complied provide packages needed to attract, retain Executive Directors and their contribution to the achievement of and motivate Executive Directors of the short and long-term objectives in structuring their remuneration quality requires but should avoid paying packages so as to ensure that nothing is paid more than necessary. more than is necessary for this purpose. B.2.2 Executive Directors’ remuneration should As the remuneration of the key personnel are being decided and Complied be designed to promote the long-term approved by the Board based on the evaluation and recommendation success of the Company. made by the Remuneration Committee in parity with the current ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 market rates and packages provided, the Executive Director’s remuneration also followed by the same process, also providing specific targets in the ED’s TOR which directs the ED in achieving the organisational performance goals in overall. 145 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status B.2.3 The Remuneration Committee should The Committee conducts an analysis of other companies in the N/A judge where to position levels of industry in deciding the levels of remuneration of the Company. remuneration of the Company, relative If the need arises the Company carries out an annual salary survey to other companies. It should be aware in determining the level of remuneration of key positions and what comparable companies are paying their increment. and should take account of relative performance, but should use such comparisons with caution, mindful of the risk that they can result in an increase of remuneration levels with no corresponding improvement in performance. B.2.4 The Remuneration Committee should be Companies within the Group operate in different industry and Complied sensitive to remuneration and employment market sectors where the remuneration and employment conditions conditions elsewhere in the Company or are substantially different to those of the Company. Group of which it is a part, especially when determining the annual salary increases. B.2.5 The performance-related elements of The extent of contribution and value addition towards achieving N/A remuneration of Executive Directors the set targets and objectives of a particular year is the key should be designed and tailored to align determinant in deciding the performance-related element of the their interest with those of the Company remuneration of the Executive Directors. and main stakeholders and to give these Directors appropriate incentives to perform at the highest level. B.2.6 Executive share options should not be Not applicable as there are no Executive share options Complied offered at a discount (i.e., less than market in the Company. price prevailing at the time the exercise price is determined), save as permitted by the Listing Rules of the Stock Exchange. B.2.7 In designing schemes of performance Provisions of Schedule E of the Code were followed in designing N/A related remuneration, Remuneration schemes of performance related remuneration. Committee should follow the provisions set out in Schedule E. B.2.8 The Remuneration Committee should There are no compensation commitments (including pension N/A consider what compensation commitments contributions) in Directors contracts of service. (including pension contributions) their Directors contracts of service, if any, ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 entail in the event of early termination. Remuneration committees should in particular, consider the advantages of providing explicitly for such compensation commitments to apply other than in the case of removal for misconduct, in initial contracts. 146 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status B.2.9 Where the initial contract does not explicitly Not applicable as the Company’s objective is to avoid early Complied provide for compensation commitments, termination by all means. remuneration committees should, within legal constraints tailor their approach in early termination cases to the relevant circumstances. The Board’s aim should be, to avoid rewarding poor performance while dealing fairly with case where departure is not due to poor performance. B.2.10 Levels of remuneration for Non-Executive The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors reflects the degree of Directors should reflect the time responsibilities and the level of time commitment extended by them commitment and responsibilities of their in contributing and adding value to the Company’s decision-making. role, taking in to consideration market The NEDs’ do not have any share options in the Company. practices. Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should not normally include share options. If exceptionally options are granted, shareholder approval should be sought in advance and any shares acquired by exercise of the options should be held until at least one year after the Non-Executive Director leaves the Board. Holding share options could be relevant to the determination of a Non-Executive Director’s independence. B.3 Disclosure of Remuneration B.3 The company’s Annual Report should Compensation paid to Key Management Personnel is given Complied contain a Statement of Remuneration in page 251 of this report. Policy and details of the Board as a whole. Remuneration Committee report is given in the page 161. B.3.1 The Annual Report should set out the Names of the members of the Remuneration Committee and the Complied names of Directors (or persons in the compensation paid to Key Management Personnel are given in Parent Company’s Committee in the case pages 161 and 251 of this Report respectively. of a group company) compromising the Remuneration Committee, contain a Statement of Remuneration Policy and set out the aggregate remuneration paid to ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Executive and Non-Executive Directors. 147 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status C Relations with Shareholders C.1 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and conduct of General Meetings C.1 Board should use the AGM to The Company considers the AGM as the primary tool of Complied communicate with shareholders and should communication with shareholders. The Notice of Meeting inviting encourage their participation. all shareholders is given on page 287 of this Report. All shareholders are free to raise any queries from the Board, on matters relating to the Company at the AGM. The Board encourages an open dialogue with shareholders at the AGM. Usual proposals adopted at the AGM include the Annual Report and the Accounts, reappointment of Directors and Auditors and any other matter that require shareholder approval as per the provisions of the Articles Association of the Company. C.1.1 Companies should arrange for the Notice All related papers and the Notice of Meeting are sent to Complied of the AGM and related papers to be sent the shareholders 15 days before the AGM through to shareholders as determined by statute, the Company Secretary. before the meeting. C.1.2 Companies should propose a separate To receive and consider the Annual Report and Accounts is the Complied resolution at the AGM on each substantially first resolution adopted at every AGM. Further, the Company separate issue and should in particular proposes separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue. propose a resolution at the AGM relating to Hence shareholders are given the opportunity to vote separately on the adoption of the report and accounts. each substantial issue. C.1.3 The Company should ensure that all valid The secretariat and admin teams have strict follow up from the day Complied proxy appointments received for general the Notice of the Meeting along with the Annual Report is sent to the meetings are properly recorded and shareholders. They track the appointed proxies at the time of the counted. For each resolution, where a vote registration of the AGM and the Secretary team do note the casted has been taken on a show of hands, the votes in favour of the passed resolutions accordingly. Company should ensure that the relavent information is given at the meeting and made available as soon as reasonably practicable on a website which is maintained by or on behalf of the company. C.1.4 The Chairman of the Board should Before the AGM date, the Company Board and the respective sub Complied arrange for the Chairmen of the Audit, committees meet and organise how the AGM should process and Remuneration, Nomination and Related run through the possible questions that the Management may face. Party Transactions Review Committees and Accordingly all the Committee heads are prepared in an instance ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 the Senior Independent Director where where a related question is post to answer them. such appointment has been made, to be available to answer questions at the AGM if so requested by the Chairman. 148 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status C.1.5 Adequate notice of all meetings to The Notice of Meeting and related documents is circulated to the Complied shareholders together with the shareholders 15 working days prior to the AGM. summary of the procedure to be adopted by shareholders. Summary of the procedures governing voting at the AGM is provided in the proxy form, which is circulated to shareholders together with the notice of meeting 15 working days prior to the AGM. The Board encourages all shareholders to attend and actively participate in the AGM. The shareholders may raise any queries they have with the Directors. C.2 Communication with Shareholders C.2 The Board should implement effective The AGM, Annual Report and other General Meetings (as and when Complied communication with shareholders. required) are the primary means of communication with shareholders. Additionally, the Company makes disclosures on material and price sensitive matters from time to time to the CSE for dissemination among the public. Similarly the Company’s website www.accessengsl.com is updated with financial and project-related information, corporate disclosures and other press releases for public viewing. C.2.1 There should be a channel to reach all Refer comment given under C.2. Complied. Complied shareholders of the company in order to disseminate timely information. C.2.2 The company should disclose the policy The Company’s policy on information dissemination is based on the Complied and methodology for communication prime need of creating a fair market for the Company’s securities with shareholders. among all market participants. Hence the Company focuses on accurate, timely, relevant and open information dissemination and communication so as to avoid any market malpractice or doubt. C.2.3 The company should disclose how The Company has disclosed the contact information in all their Complied they implement the above policy and publications and always encourage our shareholders to connect with methodology. us. Apart from that in our website we have allocated a separate page indicating Investor Information such as the market price per share C.2.4 The company should disclose the contact The point of contact is given in page 5 of this Report. Complied person for such communication. C.2.5 There should be a process to make all The shareholders are free to correspond with the Board either Complied Directors aware of major issues and directly or through the Company Secretary as they wish. The concerns of shareholders, and this process Directors can also be met by the shareholders on appointment. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 has to be disclosed by the company. The Company Secretary keeps a record of all valid correspondence from the shareholders and directs them to the appropriate Board member who in return would respond as necessary. The Company also has a dedicated investor relations eMail that could be equally utilised by any shareholder to correspond. C.2.6 The company should decide the person Both the Company Secretary as well as members of the Board Complied to contact in relation to shareholder act as contact points in relation to shareholder matters. matters. The relevant person with statutory responsibilities to contact in relation to shareholder matters is the company Secretary or his/her absence should be a member of the Board of Directors. 149 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status C.2.7 The process for responding to Responses for shareholder queries directly sent to individual Complied shareholder matters should be members of the Board are sent by the respective members. formulated by the Board and disclosed. Queries directed to the Company Secretary are responded by the Directors via the Company Secretary. C.3 Major and Material Transactions C.3 Further to complying with the requirements Refer the Related Party Transactions Review Committee report Complied under the Companies Act, Securities and on page 160 and Note 28 of Notes to the Financial Statements. Exchange Commission Law and Colombo Stock Exchange regulations; as applicable, Directors should disclose to shareholders all proposed material transactions, which if entered into, would materially alter/vary the company’s net assets base or in the case of a company with subsidiaries, the consolidated group net asset base. C.3.1 Prior to a company engaging in or Refer the Related Party Transactions Review Committee Report Complied committing to a major related party on page 160 and Note 28 of Notes to the Financial Statements. involving the acquisition, sale or disposition of greater than one-third of the value of the company’s assets or that of a subsidiary which has a material bearing on the company and/or consolidated net assets of the company, or a transaction which has or is likely to have the effect of the company acquiring obligations and liabilities, of greater than one-third of the value of the company’s assets, Directors should disclose to shareholders the purpose and material facts of such transactions and obtain shareholders’ approval by ordinary resolution at an Extraordinary General Meeting, It also applies to transactions which have the purpose or effect of substantially altering the nature of the business carried on by the Company. C.3.2 Public listed companies should in Refer the Related Party Transactions Review Committee Report Complied addition comply with the disclosure on page 160 and Note 28 of Notes to the Financial Statements. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 requirements and shareholder approval by special resolution as required by the rules and regulations of the Securities Exchange Commission and by the Colombo Stock Exchange. D Accountability and Audit D.1 Financial Reporting Complied D.1 The Board should present a balanced The Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Complied and understandable assessment of the Company making the relevant declarations is given on pages 174 to Company’s financial position, performance, 179 of this Report. business model, governance structure, risk management, internal controls and challenges, opportunities and prospects. 150 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status D.1.1 The Board should present an annual report Complied including Financial Statements that is true and fair, balanced and understandable and prepared in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations and any deviation being clearly explained. D.1.2 The Board’s responsibility to present a Audited Financial Statements giving a true and fair view of the Complied balanced and understandable assessment operations of the Company, Interim Financial Statements and other extends to interim and other price-sensitive price sensitive disclosures are made by the Company periodically public reports and reports to regulators, and as and when required in accordance with the applicable rules as well as to information required to be and regulations. presented by statutory requirements. In these aspects the Company complied with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, Registrar of Companies, Department of Inland Revenue and Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and reporting requirements of the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. D.1.3 The Board should, before it approves The Financial statements itself has the respective declaration Complied the company’s Financial Statements for stating that all standards, legal requirements are met with and the a financial period, obtain from its Chief Chief Financial Officer signs the financial statements below that Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer declaration. Apart from that and annual declaration is also signed a declaration that, in their opinion, the by the CFO confirming the same. financial records of the entity have been properly maintained and that the Financial Statements comply with the appropriate accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the financial position and performance of the company and that the system of risk management and internal control was operating effectively. D.1.4 The Directors’ Report, which forms part The Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of Complied of the Annual Report, should contain the Company making the relevant declarations, is given on declarations by the Directors. page 179 of this Report. D.1.5 The Annual Report should contain a “Directors responsibility for Financial Reporting”, Complied statement setting out the responsibilities “Directors’ Statement on Internal Control” and the “Statement of of the Board for the preparation and Auditors” are given on pages 180, 181 and 182 respectively. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 presentation of Financial Statements, together with a Statement by the Auditors about their reporting responsibilities. Further, the Annual Report should contain a Report/Statement on Internal Control. (Refer Schedule L for the contents of the Statement on Internal Control). D.1.6 The Annual Report should contain a “Value creation” is given on page 67 of this Report Complied “Management Discussion and Analysis”. 151 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status D.1.7 In the event the net assets of the company Not applicable as there was no serious loss of capital during the year. N/A fall below 50% of the value of the company’s shareholders’ funds, the Directors shall forthwith summon an Extraordinary General Meeting of the company to notify shareholders of the position and of remedial action being taken. D.1.8 The Board should adequately and The Company has set in place an effective and comprehensive system Complied accurately disclose the related party of internal control for identifying, recording and disclosing related party transactions in its Annual Report. transactions. This system ratified by the Board ensures that there is no conflict of interest when transacting with related parties and that there will be no bias favourable treatment. All related party transactions as defined in Sri Lanka Accounting Standards — LKAS 24 — “Related Party Transactions” are disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. D.2 Risk Management and Internal Controls D.2 The Board is responsible for determining The Company operates with a sound system of internal control within Complied the nature and extent of the principal an integrated risk management framework that is formulated and risks it is willing to take in achieving its ratified by the Board. This system ensures that shareholders interests strategic objectives. The Board should and Company assets are safeguarded. have a process of risk management and a sound system of internal control to The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for ensuring the safeguard shareholders’ investments effective operation of the system of internal controls to achieve and the company’s assets. Broadly, risk objectives of the Company. management and internal control is a process, effected by a company’s Board of Directors and management, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of company’s objectives. D.2.1 The Board should monitor the company’s The Board is responsible for formulating and implementing Complied risk management and internal control appropriate systems of internal control for the Group and in turn systems and, at least annually, carry out assessing its effectiveness. The Group’s internal audit division assists a review of their effectiveness, and report the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee in carrying out the on that review in the annual report. The above task. Any internal control system has its inherent limitations. monitoring and review should cover all The Board is aware of the inherent limitations and has taken material controls, including financial, appropriate steps to minimise same. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 operational and compliance controls. The Directors’ responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control is given in the Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Control on page 181. D.2.2 The Directors should confirm in the The confirmation of the Risk assessment conducted and the Complied annual report that they have carried out principal risks faced by the Company are disclosed in the Enterprise a robust assessment of the principal risks Risk Management report is given on pages 164 to 172 of this facing the company, including those that Annual Report. would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. The Directors should describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated. 152 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status D.2.3 Companies should have an The Company has an Internal Audit Function headed by the Complied internal audit function. “Head of Internal Audit” and overseen by the Audit Committee. D.2.4 The Board should require the Audit Operation and review of internal controls is done by the internal audit Complied Committee to carry out reviews of function as a continuous and on going process including internal the process and effectiveness of risk control over financial reporting. These reports are forwarded to the management and internal controls and Audit Committee for review to ensure that the system of internal to document to the Board and Board takes control and the risk management process are effective. The Board is the responsibility for the disclosures on responsible for making disclosures on internal controls. internal controls. In 2018/19 the Board was satisfied with the effectiveness of the system of internal control in place within the Company. D.2.5 The responsibilities of Directors in Refer page 181 for the “Directors Statement on Internal Controls”. Complied maintaining a sound system of internal control and the contents of the Statement of Internal Control should be in accordance with the Schedule K. D.3 Audit Committee D.3 The Board should establish formal and Accounting policies and financial reporting principles of the Company Complied transparent arrangements for considering are formulated so as to ensure compliance with all applicable how they should select and apply standards, rules and other regulations. At times the guidance of the accounting policies, financial reporting and External Auditors is also sought in this process. internal control principles and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the company’s Auditors. D.3.1 The Audit Committee should be comprised a The Audit Committee comprises three Independent Non-Executive Complied minimum of two Independent Non-Executive Directors and one Non-Executive Director of the Board. The Chairman Directors (in instances where a company of the Committee is an Independent Non-Executive Director. has only two Directors on its Board) or exclusively by Non-Executive Directors, a majority of whom should be independent, whichever is higher. The Chairman of the Committee should be a Non-Executive Director appointed by the Board. D.3.2 The Audit Committee should have a written AEL has developed a Charter for the Audit Committee clearly Complied Terms of Reference, dealing clearly with its defining the objective/Duties of the Committee, each member’s ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 authority and duties. The Audit Committee’s duties and responsibilities and administrative arrangements etc. written Terms of Reference must address the Committee purpose, the duties and responsibilities of the Audit Committee. D.3.3 Disclosures D.3.3 A separate section of the Annual Report The Audit Committee report enhances a descriptive note regarding the Complied should describe the work of the Committee Audit Committee and how they discharge their duties and also show in discharging its responsibilities. how they have allocated their valuable time by participating to the meetings and decision-making. 153 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status D.4 Related Party Transaction Review Committee D.4 The Board should establish a procedure to As a group norm when transacting with Related parties of the Group Complied ensure that the company does not engage the responsible parties stress on the price at which the transaction in transactions with “related parties” in takes place to make sure that neither the buyer nor the seller will a manner that would grant such parties gain extra ordinary gain through the same. “more favourable treatment” than that accorded to third parties in the normal course of business. D.4.1 A related party and related party Company has considered the guidelines provided in the LKAS 24 Complied transactions will be as defined in defining the related parties, in developing the charter for the Related in LKAS 24. Party Transaction Committee. D.4.2 The Board should establish a Related In compliance with the requirements of the voluntary Code of Complied Party Transactions (RPT) Review the Corporate Governance the Related Party Transaction Review Committee consisting exclusively of Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors who are Non-Executive Directors with a minimum also independent. Also the COO/Executive Director attend the of three Non-Executive Directors of whom meetings upon invitation by the Committee. the majority should be independent. Executive Directors may attend by invitation. The Chairman should be an Independent Non-Executive Director appointed by the Board. D.4.3 RPT Review Committee should have written Company has developed a Charter for the Related Party Complied terms of reference dealing clearly with Transaction Review Committee clearly defining the objective/Duties its authority and duties which should be of the Committee, each member’s duties and responsibilities and approved by the Board of Directors. administrative arrangements etc. D.5 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics D.5 Companies must adopt a Code of Business Refer Corporate Governance section on page 124 to 163 of the Complied Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Key Annual Report. Management Personnel and must promptly disclose any waivers of the Code for Directors or others. D.5.1 All companies must disclose whether they Access Group has a Code of Ethics which includes the code of Complied have a Code of Business Conduct and conduct and is circulated to Directors and all employees. The Board Ethics for Directors and Key Management ensures that the Directors and the employees strictly adhere to the ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Personnel and if they have such a Code, Code of Ethics of the Company in their duties so as not to adversely make an affirmative declaration in the affect the brand of access in any manner. The violation of the Code of Annual Report that all Directors and Key Ethics is an offence which is subject to disciplinary action. Management Personnel have declared compliance with such Code and if unable to make that declaration, state why they are unable to do so. Each company may determine its own policies in the formulation of such a Code. 154 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status D.5.2 The company should have a process in The price sensitive transactions relating to Investments are Complied placed to ensure that material and price monitored through the Investment Evaluation and Monitoring sensitive information is promptly identified Committee and through the Audit Committee. Significant matters and reported in accordance with the are informed to the Board for further action. relevant regulations. D.5.3 The company should establish a policy, Refer the report of the Related Party Transaction Review Committee Complied process for monitoring, and disclosure on page 160. of shares purchased by any Director, Key Management Personnel or any other employee involved in financial reporting. D.5.4 The Chairman must affirm in the company’s Refer pages 124 to 163 of this report for Corporate Governance Complied Annual Report that a code of conduct and ethics has been introduced company-wide and the procedure for disseminating, monitoring and compliance with that code. He must also disclose that he is not aware of any violation of any of the provisions of the Code of Business Conduct & Ethics. D.6 Corporate Governance Disclosures D.6 Directors should be required to disclose the This report on the Company’s Compliance with Complied extent to which the Company adheres to the CA Sri Lanka/SEC “Code of Corporate Governance” established principles and practices of good meets this requirement. Corporate Governance. D.6.1 The Directors should include in the Same as D.5. Complied company’s Annual Report, a Corporate Governance Report setting out the manner and extent to which the company has complied with the principles and provisions of this Code. E Institutional Investors E.1 Shareholder Voting E.1 Institutional shareholders have a Board encourages the active participation of Institutional Complied responsibility to make considered use shareholders at the AGM. In addition, Executive Directors meet of their votes and should be encouraged institutional shareholders upon their request to discuss about the to ensure their voting intentions are Company’s past performance and future strategies. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 translated into practice. E.1.1 A listed company should conduct a regular The most structured and continuous dialogue the Company has with Complied and structured dialogue with shareholders the shareholders is the AGM. based on a mutual understanding of objectives. Arising from such dialogue, The Chairman is available to meet shareholders at the end of each AGM the Chairman should ensure the views of and can be met on appointment on other occasions. The Chairman shareholders are communicated to the then communicates the views and concerns of shareholders to the Board as a whole Board as a whole. 155 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status E.2 Evaluation of Governance Disclosure E.2 When evaluating Companies’ governance Institutional investors are encouraged to give due weight to all Complied arrangements, particularly those relating relevant factors drawn to their attention in evaluating Companies’ to Board structure and composition, governance arrangements. institutional investors should be encouraged to give due weight to all relevant factors drawn to their attention. F.1 Investing/Divesting Decisions Individual shareholders, investing directly The Company encourages individual shareholders to carry-out Complied in shares of companies should be adequate analysis or seek independent advice in investing or encouraged to carry out adequate divesting decisions. The Company facilitates this process by providing analysis or seek independent advice information necessary for the same on a timely and unbiased basis. in investing or divesting decisions. This Integrated Report prepared by the Company gives sufficient information to shareholders to carry out their own analysis of the Company and its operations. F.2 Individual shareholders should be The Company encourages individual shareholders to participate in Complied encouraged to participate in General General Meetings and exercise their voting rights. Meetings of companies and exercise their voting rights. G Internet of things and cybersecurity G.1 Process to identify how the external Refer Risk Management on page 168 of this Annual Report Complied IT devices Report could connect to the (Information and Technology Risk). organisation's network G.2 Appointment of a Chief Information The functions of the CISO is carried out by the Manager IT reported to Security Officer (CISO) Senior General Manager. G.3 Allocation of adequate time on the Board Relevant risk are discussed at internal audit report and reported the meeting agenda for discussions on cyber same to Audit Committee. High risk matters referred to the Board for risk management further actions. G.4 Independent periodic review of the Address issues at IRM Annual Audit done by an independent third Complied effectiveness on the cybersecurity risk party and reported issues through Management Letter. management and the scope and the frequency of the review. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 G.5 Cybersecurity process Company adheres to the required level of Cybersecurity Standards. Complied IT department takes necessary precautionary measures to mitigate related risks. G.6 The Board should disclose in the Annual Refer Enterprise Risk Management on page 168 of this Annual Report Complied Report the process to identify and (Information and technology risk). manage cybersecurity risk. 156 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance Principle Description Comment Compliance status H Environment, Society and Governance (ESG) H.1.1 Reporting of ESG Factors. Refer pages 68 to 114 of the Annual Report for Value Creation. Complied H.1.2 Environmental Factors. Refer pages 68 to 114 of the Annual Report for Value Creation. Complied H.1.3 Social Factors. Refer pages 68 to 114 of the Annual Report for Value Creation Complied — Social and Environmental Capital for this requirement. H.1.4 Governance. Refer pages 68 to 114 of the Annual Report for Value Creation Complied — Corporate Governance for this requirement. H.1.5 Board’s role on ESG Factors. Board understands its role and responsibility in ESG reporting and Complied ensure that the Company adheres to the ESG reporting requirements. Statement of Compliance under Section 168 of Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 Principle Description Comment Compliance Status Section 168 — Contents of Annual Report (1) (a) The nature of the business of the Group and the Company together Notes to the Financial Statements Complied with any change thereof during the accounting period. (1) (b) Signed Financial Statements of the Group and the Company for Financial Statements Complied the accounting period completed. (1) (c) Auditor’s Report on the Financial Statements and Independent Auditors’ Report Complied any group Financial Statements (1) (d) Change in accounting policies made during the accounting period. Notes to the Financial Statements Complied (1) (e) Particulars of entries in the interests register made during Annual Report of the Board of Complied the accounting period. Directors (1) (f) Remuneration and other benefits of Directors during the accounting period. Notes to the Financial Statements Complied (1) (g) Total amount of donations made by the Company during the accounting period. Annual Report of the Board of Complied Directors ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 (1) (h) Names of the persons holding office as Directors of the Company as at the Board of Directors Complied end of the accounting period and the names of any persons who ceased to hold office as Directors of the Company during the accounting period. (1) (i) Amounts payable by the Company to the person or firm holding office as Notes to the Financial Statements Complied Auditor of the Company as audit fees and as a separate item, fees payable by the Company for other services provided by that person or firm. (1) (j) Particulars of any relationship (other than that of Auditor) which Annual Report of the Board of Complied the Auditor has with or any interests which the Auditor has in, Directors the Company or any of its subsidiaries. (1) (k) Be signed on behalf of the Board by two Directors of the Company. Financial Statements Complied 157 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information necessary to fulfil its duties, call any member of staff to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee, as and Audit committee of AEL is established when required, and obtain independent legal, accounting or other professional advice, at under the Corporate Governance Rules of Company’s expense, which might be necessary for the fulfilment of its duties. Section 7.10.6 of Colombo Stock Exchange and Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued jointly by The Institute MEETING ATTENDANCE of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and The Committee met on the following occasions to discuss matters relating to the financial the Securities and Exchange Commission of year of which the members’ attendance was as follows: Sri Lanka. During the year Committee has continued to review and report to the Board Name 16 May 6 August 6 November 6 February on the Group’s financial reporting, internal 2018 2018 2018 2019 control and risk management processes and the performance, independence and Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne — Chairman     effectiveness of External Auditors. Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe     ROLE OF THE AUDIT Suresh Dilhan Perera     COMMITTEE Dinesh Weerakkody     The role of the Audit Committee is to oversee the financial reporting system of In addition to the Committee members, The Committee also keeps under review the Company, with a view to safeguarding the meetings were attended by the COO, the impact of any actual or expected the interests of the shareholders and GM — Commercial, DGM — Finance, and changes to accounting standards all other stakeholders. The assurance the Internal Auditor on invitation. The applicable to the Group and provides framework required by the Audit Committee Company Secretaries were also present general oversight in relation to the is provided by complementary contributions at every meeting. financial policies of the Group. from management reports, internal and external audit reports and from risk The Audit Committee reviewed the management reports. TERMS OF REFERENCE quarterly and annual Financial Statements prior to its publication The Audit Committee has its Terms of and the review included: COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Reference, dealing with its authority and duties, which is established for Appropriateness and changes in There were no changes to the composition the purpose of assisting the Board in accounting policies of the Committee as at 31 March 2018. fulfilling their oversight responsibilities Significant estimates and judgements The Committee continued to comprise four that include the integrity of the Financial made by the Management Non-Executive Directors as set out below. Statements, risk management, business Compliance with relevant accounting To ensure compliance with the requirements ethics, internal control, compliance standards and applicable regulatory of the Rule 7.10.6 of Listing Rules of the with legal and regulatory requirements, requirements Colombo Stock Exchange and Code of review of Independent External Auditors’ Best Practice on Corporate Governance performance and the Internal Audit. Impairment of assets issued jointly by The Institute of Chartered Issues arising from the internal audit and Accountants of Sri Lanka and Securities, independent external audit COMPLIANCE ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka, The Group’s/Company’s ability to Committee membership comprises three continue as a going concern (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors Financial reporting and and one (1) Non-Executive Director of the significant judgements Company. The Committee is responsible for reviewing LAWS AND REGULATIONS whether suitable accounting policies have The Audit Committee reviewed the Category Number of been adopted and whether Management reports submitted by the Management Directors has made appropriate estimates and and the Internal Auditors on compliance judgements in the preparation of the with applicable laws and regulations. Independent Financial Statements. As part of its review The Committee is satisfied that laws and Non-Executive Directors 3 the Committee considers the clarity and regulations are duly complied with and Non-Executive Directors 1 completeness of disclosures in the Financial statutory payments have been made on a Statements to assess whether these have timely basis. been set appropriately in the context. 158 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance AUDIT AND ACCOUNTABILITY Independent auditors The Audit Committee reviewed the Internal controls independence and objectivity of the The Committee is satisfied that an Independent External Auditors, Messrs effective system of internal control is in KPMG Sri Lanka, Chartered Accountants. place to provide reasonable assurance The Audit Committee has met with the on safeguarding the Company’s assets External Auditors to review their audit and reliability of Financial Statements. plan and any observations made by them. Effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls is evaluated through The Committee has received a declaration reports provided by the Management, from the External Auditors, confirming Internal Auditors and Independent that they do not have any relationship or External Auditors. interest in the Company or its subsidiaries. The Committee reviewed the non-audit Internal audit services and its impact on the independence of the External Auditors. The Committee is responsible for reviewing the role and effectiveness of the internal The Audit Committee has recommended to audit function by monitoring the results the Board that Messrs KPMG be reappointed of its work and the responses of as the Independent External Auditor and Management to its recommendations. that the reappointment be included in the The Audit Committee meets the Internal agenda of the Annual General Meeting. Auditors on a quarterly basis and reviews their findings in order to identify risks attached to different areas of operation CONCLUSION and effectiveness of internal controls. The Audit Committee is satisfied that the effectiveness of the organisational structure The Committee reviewed and approved the of the Group and of the implementation of 2018/19 internal audit plan and continued Group’s accounting policies and operational to monitor progress against this plan during controls provide reasonable assurance that the year. Results and management actions the affairs of the Group are managed in arising from the reviews undertaken in accordance with Group policies and that 2018/19 were discussed in detail at the Group assets are properly accounted each of the Committee’s meetings. The for and adequately safeguarded. The Head of Internal Audit attended all of the Committee is also satisfied that the Committee’s meetings during 2018 Company and its subsidiaries are able and held discussions with the Committee to continue as a going concern. in the absence of Executive Management. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne Chairman — Audit Committee 10 July 2019 159 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance RELATED PARTY MEETING ATTENDANCE TRANSACTIONS REVIEW The Committee met on the following occasions to discuss matters relating to the financial COMMITTEE REPORT year of which the members’ attendance was as follows: The Related Party Transactions Review Committee is constituted under the Name 16 May 6 August 6 November 6 February 2018 2018 2018 2019 Corporate Governance Rules of the Section 9 of Colombo Stock Exchange Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne — Chairman     and Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued jointly by The Institute Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and Kumar Ranasinghe     the Securities and Exchange Commission Dinesh Weerakkody     of Sri Lanka. The members of the Board Rohana Fernando     of Directors of the Company have been identified as Key Management Personnel, in accordance with the Related Party TERMS OF REFERENCE Establishing guidelines to be followed Transactions Policy. During the year the by Senior Management in the event Committee has continued to review and The Related Party Transactions Review Related Party Transactions are ongoing. report to the Board on the Group’s Committee has Terms of Reference, dealing Thereafter, the Committee, on an annual related party transactions. with its authority and duties. The Terms of basis, shall review and assess ongoing Reference covers aspects relating to relationships and transactions with the matters prescribed in the Listing Rules related party to determine whether they ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Terms are in compliance with the Committee’s of Reference of the Committee include guidelines and that the Related Party The role of the Related Party Transactions the following: Transactions remains appropriate. Review Committee is to ensure that the interests of shareholders as a whole are Review in advance all proposed taken into account by a listed entity when Related Party Transactions of the POLICIES AND PROCEDURES entering into related party transactions. Company except those explicitly exempted by the Code As per the existing practice, all Related Determine whether Related Party Party Transactions must be reported to the COMPOSITION Transactions that are to be entered Audit Committee and referred for approval into by the Company require the by the Committee in accordance with this The composition of the Committee Policy. Such transactions are also disclosed approval of the Board or Shareholders remained unchanged during the year. to stakeholders through the Company’s of the Company. The Committee continued to comprise Financial Statements. In case of frequent/ three (03) Independent Non-Executive Ensure that no Director of the Company repetitive/regular transactions which Directors and the Executive Director/COO shall participate in any discussion of a are in the normal course of business of (01), who were appointed by resolution proposed Related Party Transactions the Company, the Committee may grant at a Board meeting. To ensure compliance for which he or she is a related party, standing pre-‐approval. with the requirements of the Section 9.2.2 unless such a Director is requested to of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock do so by the Committee for the express Exchange and Code of Best Practice on purpose of providing information Corporate Governance issued jointly by concerning the Related Party ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 The Institute of Chartered Accountants Transactions to the Committee. of Sri Lanka and Securities and Exchange To recommend the creation of a Commission of Sri Lanka, The Committee special committee to review and comprised the following members: approve the proposed Related Party Transactions, in the event of any potential conflict of interest. Category Number of Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors 3 Non-Executive Directors/COO 1 160 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance PERFORMANCE REVIEW REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR REPORT The role of the Remuneration Committee is Every year the Related Party Transactions Remuneration Committee was established to set up the remuneration policy for Senior Review Committee must review and to ensure compliance with the requirements Management and making recommendations evaluate its performance and submit the of Section 7.10.5 of the Listing Rules of to the Board on recruitment, remuneration observations to the Board of Directors. the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Code and performance evaluation on Senior All disclosures as per Section 9.3 of of Best Practices on Corporate Governance Management including Executive Directors the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock issued jointly by The Institute of Chartered of the Company. Exchange are given under declaration Accountants of Sri Lanka and Securities of this Report. Details of other Related Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. The focus of the committee is to Party Transactions entered into by the oversee and provide guideline for the Company/Group of Companies during implementation of strategic human the year are disclosed in Note 28 of COMPOSITION resource objectives in keeping with Notes to the Financial Statements. following Terms of Reference (TOR) Composition of the Board-appointed Remuneration Committee is comprised Preparation of the remuneration DECLARATION three (3) Non-Executive Independent framework Directors and One (1) Non-Executive Recommend to the Board on the During the year, there were no Director. There were no changes to the remuneration payable to the Executive non-recurrent or recurrent Related Party composition of the committee during Directors and Senior Management Transactions that exceeded the respective 2018/19. The evaluation of performance of Senior thresholds mentioned in the Rule 9.3.2 Management of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, requiring disclosure in the Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Preparation of performance based Annual Report. (Chairman) Non-Executive remuneration plans including Director performance incentives Prof Kulathilake Independent Making amendments to the Arthanakyake Malik Non-Executive remuneration policy Kumar Ranasinghe Director Niroshan Dakshina Independent The Company’s Remuneration policy Gunaratne Non-Executive aims to attract, motivate and retain Director employees with the appropriate Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne professional, managerial and operational Suresh Dilhan Perera Non-Executive Chairman expertise, necessary to achieve Director Related Party Transactions Review Committee the objectives of the company in a competitive environment. 10 July 2019 Dinesh Weerakkody ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Chairman Remuneration Committee 10 July 2019 161 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance INVESTMENT AND SUBSIDIARY ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE MONITORING COMMITTEE Subcommittee will make their assessment and notify their recommendations to the Board on major new investments in subsidiaries/associates and capital investments in the parent company. PURPOSE Subcommittee will make their assessment and notify their recommendations to the Board The Investment and Subsidiary on divestment of subsidiaries in the parent company. Performance Monitoring Committee was Monitoring the budgets of subsidiaries/associates which are approved by relevant established as a Board subcommittee to responsible person/persons such as the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer or provide the Executive Directors and the the nominated Head of the Business Unit and ratified by the Chairman or Managing Independent Directors with an opportunity Director of AEL. The subcommittee will submit their observations to discuss prospective investments and and recommendations to the Board. performance monitoring of subsidiaries Review the progress of subsidiary companies of Access Engineering PLC and the prior to discussion of relevant matters at progress of their respective subsidiaries Board meetings. Advice the Management on what action should be taken for non-compliances noticed in investment and budgetary monitoring of subsidiaries/associates. COMPOSITION Composition of the Investment and MEETING ATTENDANCE Subsidiary Performance Monitoring During the year 2018/19, the subcommittee members attended meetings as set in the table Committee is comprised three (3) below: Independent Non-Executive Directors and two (2) Executive Directors as Name 9 May 25 July 31 August 26 January 1 February set out below: 2018 2018 2018 2019 2019 Prof Kulathilake Independent Prof Kulathilake Arthanakyake Malik Arthanakyake Malik Non-Executive Kumar Ranasinghe (Chairman)      Kumar Ranasinghe Director Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne      (Chairman) Dinesh Weerakkody      Niroshan Dakshina Independent Gunaratne Non-Executive Joseph Christopher Joshua      Director Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando      Dinesh Weerakkody Independent Non-Executive Director SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES Joseph Christopher Managing Joshua Director During the year, the Committee comprehensively reviewed the new investment/divestment decisions of AEL and monitored budgets of subsidiaries/associates of the Company. Dalpadoruge Anton Executive Committee decisions and discussions of the meetings were recorded and forwarded to the Rohana Fernando Director/Chief Board of Directors of AEL for further action. Operating Officer ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Prof Malik Ranasinghe Chairman — Investment and Subsidiary Performance Monitoring Committee 10 July 2019 162 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Corporate Governance STRATEGIC PLANNING MEETINGS COMMITTEE REPORT The Strategic Planning Committee meets Strategic Planning Committee was as and when necessary at the call of the established to focus on planning and setting Committee Chair at dates and times which strategic directions to achieve goals and are specified in advance. objectives of the Company. During the year the committee has continued to review The Committee met several times during and report to the Board on the Company’s the year to discuss the Company’s strategic strategic direction, trends and issues in direction and its major strategic issues. achieving its goals and objectives. Key Responsibilities of the Strategic Planning Committee: ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE Periodically reviewing the Company’s The role of the Committee is to assist vision, mission, strategic initiatives, the Board with its responsibilities for the major programs and services and making Company’s vision, mission and strategic recommendations to the Board. direction. The Committee complies with the Identifying critical strategic issues best practices in corporate governance. facing the Company and assisting in the analysis of alternative strategic options. COMPOSITION Ensuring that the Management has established an effective strategic planning The Committee comprised three process with time lines and targets. (3) Executive Directors and One (1) Advising the Board on trends in the Non-Executive Independent Director of industry, market/community and core the Board. There were no changes to the competencies. composition of the Committee during Reviewing and forwarding to the Board 2018/19. strategic plans of subsidiary companies to assure that they are aligned with the Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Chairman Company’s strategic direction and goals Perera Reviewing major new programmes and Joseph Christopher Managing services. Joshua Director Dalpadoruge Anton Executive CONCLUSION Rohana Fernando Director/Chief Operating Officer The Strategic Planning Committee is Prof Kulatillake Independent satisfied with the effectiveness of the Arthanayake Malik Non-Executive strategic initiatives taken during the year Kumar Ranasinghe Director and discussed the preventive measures to be taken for issues identified in achieving overall goals and objectives of the Company. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Sumal Perera Chairman — Strategic Planning Committee 10 July 2019 163 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT “As challenges in our operating landscape continue to intensify, the proactive identification and management of risks become all the more vital for ensuring sustainable value creation for all the stakeholders.” AEL’s risk management process continues to evolve to ensure it is reflective of the shape of the business and its operations. The internal audit function has been founded to be fully aligned with the Board and the Board subcommittees to further sharpen the focus on the Group’s internal risk and control environment. The Group recognises that a consistent, agile, and responsive approach to risk management is crucial to the sustainable delivery of its business objectives. BOARD OF The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound risk management framework and internal control system to safeguard the shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets, as well as to discharge its leadership responsibility in identifying principal DIRECTORS risks and ensuring the implementation of an appropriate risk management and internal control system to manage those risks in accordance with corporate governance principles. Responsible for Audit Committee Related Party Transactions Remuneration Committee overseeing the Review Committee development and implementation of policies relevant The Audit Committee represents The objective of the Committee The Remuneration Committee assists to their areas of and assists the Board in fulfilling is to ensure that the interest of the Board to discharge its responsibility scope, identification its oversight responsibility relating shareholders are taken into account by overseeing remuneration policies and of emerging risks to the integrity of the Company’s when entering into related party practices of the Company. Committee’s and for monitoring Financial Statements and the transactions and to enhance main roles are: the ongoing financial reporting process, the corporate transparency and promote To review and make recommendations effectiveness of systems of internal accounting fair transactions between the to the Board in relation to the individual the procedures. and financial controls, the Company, its subsidiaries, and other remuneration levels of Directors BOARD A detailed internal audit function, the annual related parties. The Committee also (Executive and Non-Executive), Group description of independent external audit, the performs the oversight function on Executives, other Executives and relevant committees Company’s compliance with legal behalf of the Board in complying with other persons whose activities in the and regulatory requirements, and the Listing Rules of the Colombo SUBCOMMITTEES is given on pages Committee’s opinion affect the financial 129 to 131. its policies and ethics established by Stock Exchange and with the Code soundness of the Company. the Company. of Best Practices on Related Party To oversee general remuneration Transactions issued by the Securities practices across the Company and and Exchange Commission Sri Lanka. make appropriate recommendations. CORPORATE The Team reviews operating and financial performance of Group Risk Management Group’s operational divisions/subsidiaries in accordance with corporate objectives, strategies, policies, key performance The Audit Committee performs quarterly based risk management assessments through the Internal Audit Reports and findings of the Company and its subsidiaries MANAGEMENT indicators and annual budgets as approved by the Board in order to assure the Board that the Group’s risk management and reviews the internal control processes, and evaluates the adequacy and and internal control system is operating adequately and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control system. The Committee ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 effectively, in all material aspects, based on the risk also seeks the observations of the Independent External Auditors of the Group management and internal control framework of the Group. Board The ultimate responsibility for setting the risk appetite for the Effective Management of risk rests with the Board. Acting within the authority OPERATIONS delegated by the Board, the Strategic Planning Committee and the Audit Committee review specific risk profiles and receives regular reports on risk management, which include the Company’s portfolio trends, policies, standards and soundness of internal controls, infrastructure and regulatory compliance. These Committees are authorised to investigate or seek any information relating to an activity within the Terms of Reference 164 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management To meet the requirements of good corporate governance and other, the Board accepts overall responsibility for risk management and determines the nature and extent of the principal risks to be taken and assesses the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems that are in place to mitigate impacts. Strategic Planning Committee Investment and subsidiary Compliance Committee Performance Monitoring The Committee assists the Board and the Management in fulfilling Committee its oversight responsibilities relating to strategic plans, which identify specific long-term goals and business objectives determined This is a Board Subcommittee set The Compliance Committee assists the Board to be in the Company’s best interest. This includes helping the up to review investment decisions and the Management in overseeing the Board and the Management identify opportunities such as mergers and performance of previous Company’s efforts with respect to and acquisitions, joint ventures, new markets or product lines, investment decisions, comprising operational compliance. This includes: acquisition or disposition of capital assets, equity and debt funding three Independent Non-Executive (i) compliance with the laws and regulations and modifications of existing capital structure, dividend policy, and Directors and two Executive Directors. applicable to the Company’s business; stock offerings, repurchase programmes and etc. Additionally, the The purpose of the Committee is Committee evaluates the progress of execution and effectiveness of (ii) compliance with the Company’s policies and to discuss prospective investments the strategic plan, recommend changes to the plan where necessary procedures, standards of business conduct and performance monitoring of or advisable and evaluate other issues or opportunities. and ethics by employees, officers, directors, subsidiaries/associates prior to and other associates of the Company that discussion of the relevant matters are designed to support lawful and ethical at Board meetings. business conduct by the Company and its employees and promote a culture of compliance and (iii) reviewing the Company’s enterprise risk management and practices. Other Risk Overseeing Components Company’s Quality Management System, which conforms to ISO 9001:2015 is also integrated into Company’s risk management. Similarly Company’s Environmental Management and Health and Safety Management Systems, which are ISO 14001: 2015 and OHSAS 18001: 2007 accredited, too are integrated into Company’s risk management. These systems are implemented in all Business Units across the Company and they help mitigating risks-related to quality, environment, and health and safety. All Business Units are regularly audited by the Management Systems’ internal audit ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 teams whilst being biannually audited by Management Systems External Auditor. Operations Internal Audit Each business unit’s risk management function is led by the The Company adheres to policies, The Company’s Internal Audit Department respective head of the unit, supported by his Senior Executive Team. procedures, quality controls and best focuses on providing an independent oversight practices to ensure that all systems Chief Operating Officer together with the Corporate Management to the Board and the Audit Committee on the and equipment are functional. The considers the operational risks that arise from the execution of processes and controls that help to mitigate consolidated risks and the mitigating the Company’s business including risks of systems and equipment actions are presented to the Strategic major risks. failure, overcapacity situations, inadequate skilled workforce and Planning Committee and the Audit adverse climatic conditions. Committee for review. 165 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management OUR RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Management approach Risk identification Assessment and evaluation Risk identification is the process of determining risks Risk registers, which are standardised across the Group, 02 are used to assess and evaluate risks. All identified risks 01 that could potentially prevent the programme, enterprise or investment from achieving its objectives. It includes are assessed at three levels (high/medium/low) with reference to the likelihood of occurrence and the documenting and communicating the concern. potential impact. Tolerance levels and trigger points are also defined for each identified risk. Monitoring Risk management Risks are monitored at multiple levels in the Organisation Based on the risk scores derived from the risk register, 04 including at functional level, Board subcommittee and the respective functions formulate strategies to curtail Board level. Identified risks, the risk registers, mitigation plans and performance of each identified risk are 03 and mitigate these risk exposures. evaluated at these levels throughout the year. Risk appetite Based on likelihood and severity, risks are categorised into three categories where relevant actions are proposed. Accordingly risks need to be monitored, communicated Understanding risk is at the heart of AEL’s and controlled. These three areas are identified based on the risk tolerance (appetite) decision-making process. limits agreed as given below: An ongoing appraisal of the Group’s risk profile is made by the Board. The level SIGNIFICANT of risk the Group is willing to accept is Plan for Immediate Immediate defined as its risk appetite and has been action action action set in the context of the interaction (Mitigate or (Mitigate or (Mitigate or between risk assessment processes and its transfer) share) share) ability to mitigate and exert control over existing and emerging risks. Risk appetite within any organisation must be dynamic and determined by senior leaders and practitioners to ensure it is embedded in MODERATE Plan for Immediate critical business processes. No action IMPACT action action (Accept or (Mitigate or (Mitigate or avoid) Risk matrix for risk assessment transfer) share) The following risk matrix is developed as a ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 technique for analysing and evaluating risk. This matrix mainly focuses on risk analysis based on qualitative perception. Plan for MINOR No action No action action The likelihood of occurrence of a risk is (Accept) (Accept) (Mitigate or determined based on past experience, transfer) industry and organisational trends and judgement. The severity of a risk is the potential LOW MEDIUM HIGH financial or a non-financial loss/damage to the Organisation. This can also LIKELIHOOD be determined based on experience, discussion, calculation, judgement etc. 166 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Risk rating process The following diagram summarises the risk rating process of AEL: Risk category Identify the activity (Business and operational, Identified risk finance, legal, strategic) Risk rating (Risk assessment matrix) Existing control methods Impact of risk Objectives Risk assessment Minimise risk of not meeting profit The Board and the Audit Committee concluded that the level of risk associated with the expectations. Group’s principal risks is currently consistent with the Group’s overall appetite in relation Comply with the regulatory to these risks. The “heat map” sets out the positioning of our principal risks by impact and requirements probability both before any mitigation measures are taken into account and after the impacts of mitigation measures are taken into account. Maintain a sound system of internal controls to safeguard shareholders’ The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal wealth and Company assets. risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future Ensure faster response to market performance, solvency, or liquidity. opportunities by maintaining a “sufficient” liquidity position at all times Move towards diverse business segments Our principal risks synergised with our core business in order to manage our exposure to cyclical SIGNIFICANT downturns in our core business due to 2 7 8 1 3 4 external factors. 9 10 11 5 6 Continue ourselves to be the preferred employer, successful in motivating, 12 developing, retaining and attracting the best of human capital. Keep pace with the current and new technological developments to safeguard 2 7 8 1 3 4 MODERATE against obsolescence and disruptions to IMPACT our business. 9 10 11 5 6 Achieve cost savings through better 12 management of resources Encourage employees to come up with ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ideas of innovative solutions and new ventures. MINOR LOW MEDIUM HIGH PROBABILITY Risk positioning after mitigation action Risk positioning before mitigation action 167 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Risk Risk description Impact on KPIs Risk mitigation strategies 2017/18 2018/19 Operational risks Delays in project Efficient and effective planning and Unchanged Unchanged 1 are the risk of loss deliverables implementation since the inception Operating resulting from of the project covering the scope Operation cost risks inadequate or failed of the project, management of During 2018, the Group overruns internal processes, resources, time, quality has managed to maintain Unsatisfactory product people and systems, and risk a comprehensive approach performance or from external Conducting frequent progress to operational risk events. Quality not meeting management review meetings for business units specified requirements to monitor work progress and Loss of profits, budgetary controls and accordingly credibility and taking precautionary actions when reputation and where necessary Use of appropriate methodologies Use of advanced technology and new construction techniques to expedite project implementation and reduce cost Training and skills enhancement This risk factor Failure to compete Investment in new technology Unchanged Unchanged 2 involves issues or in the market as a Upgrading of knowledge through Technological concerns associated result of technological training and development, risk with the technologies obsolescence in the In 2018, the Group made industrial visits involved in the processes considerable investments Partnering with foreign principals execution methods Project completion to adopt new technologies and on the job knowledge transfer and operational delays on a par with global technology of the industry practices Negative effect on project value engineering concept of the Company Vision Socio-economic and Loss of social license The severity of the socio-economic Unchanged Increased 3 political factors have to operate as a result and political variables is evaluated Socioa direct impact on of corporate behaviour during the corporate planning economic the operational and against the interests of sessions on an annual basis High construction cost and political investment activities the society. resulting from the Contingency plans are risk of the Company imposition of taxes on The weakening of the incorporated in the corporate plan Rupee adds increased a plethora of imported An overall feasibility study market pressures to the construction material is conducted including business of the Group in conjunction with the socio-economic and political risks, plunging rupee value have Negative impact on in order to prevent any potential resulted in an increase budgetary controls due risk from investing in new ventures in socio-economic and ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 to political uncertainties political risk. The political upheavals experienced during the year 2018/19 also contributed the increase in political risk and retarded the growth of the construction industry. However, the negative impact has been managed through strong strategic planning. 168 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Risk Risk description Impact on KPIs Risk mitigation strategies 2017/18 2018/19 Failure to attract Failure to achieve Recruitment of the best talent pool Unchanged Unchanged 4 and retain Key growth plans as a result in the industry Human Management of failure to attract Conducting periodic performance capital and Personnel could and retain sufficient During 2018/19, the appraisals of staff labour risk lead to a lack of numbers of qualified Company placed a strong Continuous training and necessary expertise and experienced emphasis on retaining development of staff both on-site or lack of continuity employees and/or key talent through and off-site in executing strategy inability to ensure their performance recognition ongoing engagement Adopt market-based and reward schemes, and commitment compensation, including succession planning, appropriate incentive packages leadership and career Improper recruitment resulting in an Giving freedom to employees to development programmes, incompetent workforce meet their senior managers at ensuring that high and inferior product/ any time, in discussing their work quality employees are service offering to related matters retained, despite the clients. The industry highly competitive labour is also prone to a high environment. level of staff/labour turnover Potential harm to Downgrading in CIDA Maintain accreditations: ISO 9001, Unchanged Unchanged 5 the growth of the Accreditation ISO 14001, and OHSAS 18001 Quality, Company, people, Impact on achieving Focused training on health, safety environment, our key assets, and Company is committed to continual growth of the and environment to all employees safety and others involved in continual improvement Company Regular management meetings, health our operations as of the quality performance well as potential Damage to stakeholder evaluating performance and management system Risk relationships identifying improvements damage to the and the environmental environment and Impairing Company Internal audit function to monitor management system. stakeholders reputation the proper implementation of Health performance and safety standards with the support risk status did not change of Safety Officers attached to each during 2018/19 project sites R and D into new techniques in construction which cause less impact to the environment Periodic evaluation of stakeholders (mainly subcontractors and suppliers) on environmental grounds ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 169 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Risk Risk description Impact on KPIs Risk mitigation strategies 2017/18 2018/19 Compliance risk Risk on going concern Conducting periodical assessments Unchanged Unchanged 6 may arise due to the of the Company on the extent of compliance with Compliance failure to abide by the statutory requirements Impact on continuity risk any law or regulatory During 2018/19, Group and growth of the The Management Systems requirements Company operations Team continuously reviews the adopted its risk mitigation applicable to the changes in regulations and takes strategies to maintain a Impairing Company Company. necessary action to ensure that high standard of regulatory reputation the Company is in compliance with compliance Non-compliance Reduction in the regulatory requirements could lead to profitability due to legal fees and penalties Complying with the CSE reporting sanctions by requirements on a weekly, regulatory bodies, monthly, quarterly and annual penalties and basis reputational damage, which could Strictly following the expert advice have a material on issues related to income and adverse effect on other taxation the Company’s operations and financial condition. Increased Total revenue growth Ensuring high standards of quality Increased Increased 7 competition has Underlying operating in finished products Competition the possibility of margin Increasing productivity and risk reducing market During 2018/19, the Underlying earnings efficiency in order to ensure our share and margins prices remain competitive despite Group remained alert per share increasing wage, energy and with regard to ensuring Work won and secured its competitiveness. The transportation costs and probable orders Group has sought to Increasing efficiency through match global standards R and D, investment in new through benchmarking its technology and the adoption of businesses to global best best practices practices and maintaining Diversifying business operations to the highest quality levels in reduce the impact of competition terms of both construction, products and services Probability of loss Negative impact on the Credit risk is maintained by Increased Increased 8 inherent in financing Group’s cost of funding reviewing the creditworthiness of Finance risk methods which may due to the increment in counterparties to transactions on impair the ability to interest rate a case by case basis updated with The Treasury Division, provide an adequate Adverse impact to latest information as it becomes supported by the return the cash flow system available finance functions of the due to increment in Liquidity risk is managed by bank businesses, took steps ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 debtor position facilities and monitoring headroom for the management of financial risks through Unavailability of Interest rate risk in respect of ongoing monitoring of sufficient working surplus cash is managed by making liquidity management capital, negatively deposits with suitable financial strategies affecting the smooth institutions functioning of day-to-day operations of the Group Negative impact on profitability Diminishing Company rating for investors 170 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Risk Risk description Impact on KPIs Risk mitigation strategies 2017/18 2018/19 Reputation risk is the Diminishing Having in place a budgetary Unchanged Unchanged 9 risk that an event qualifications for process and a budgetary control Reputation or incident could bidding mechanism on a monthly basis risk damage the image of to ensure that the Company’s The Group’s policies, Negative effects on the Company total revenue growth performance is in line with its procedures and best targets practices continued to Underlying operating Adopting stringent quality be the foundation of its margin assurance policies with regard uncompromising approach Underlying earnings to ethical and transparent to goods/materials bought from per share business during 2018/19 third parties as well as the inputs, Negative impacts on processes and outputs of own work won and secured products and probable orders Ensuring effective communication with various stakeholders including employees, customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders and the community at large Ensuring compliance with relevant laws and regulations The Code of Ethics of the Company is expected to be followed by all without any exception Breakdowns Impact on regulatory Maintaining a well-established IT Unchanged Unchanged 10 and failures in reporting deadlines of governance structure IT Related information systems SEC and CSE Maintaining a proper “back up” risk and the use of The majority of the Group’s Reduce underlying system in order to overcome data obsolete systems will operating margin due loss IT systems are centralised adversely affect the to cost for time and to ensure uniformity and Implementing a password/access smooth operations of data recovery standardisation across the control policy the Company Group Impairing goodwill of Incorporating necessary validation the Company due to and verification functions at the loss of credibility information entry level Carrying out Application Control Audits Installing a Fire Protection System at the Server Rooms and maintaining centralised UPS Rooms and installing Smoke Detectors for the Server Rooms and UPS Rooms ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 171 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Enterprise Risk Management Risk Risk description Impact on KPIs Risk mitigation strategies 2017/18 2018/19 Material/services Reducing Underlying Developing new products to Unchanged Unchanged 11 price variations and operating margin improve quality and manage costs Procurement their unavailability Inability to meet the Establishing relationships with risk will adversely affect During 2018/19, the completion targets many global and local suppliers for the progress of the raw materials and commodities in Group has managed the business Degrading quality order to reduce over dependency risks associated with standards of work on a single supplier/brand procurement satisfactorily Impact on foreign currency fluctuation Adoption of backward integration strategies Entering into forward contracts for raw material purchases Regular supplier evaluations are conducted to ascertain their financial strength, social and environmental conduct Fraud risk arises due Losing reputation of The Internal Audit Department Unchanged Unchanged 12 to weaknesses in the the Group conducts audits on a regular basis Fraud risk internal controls, in the areas, which are susceptible Decrease in operating which could result in profitability of the to the occurrence of frauds During 2018/19, Group financial losses Group Authority and approval limits are has managed to continue implemented for all the functions with robust internal Impact on the going of the Company, making the controls to mitigate risks concern of the employees accountable for their associated with frauds and Company actions build-up ethical working environment for employees Ensuring appropriate segregation of duties Every key activity is subjected to the scrutiny of another suitably skilled and authorised employee When fraud is detected, immediate remedial action is taken to prevent repetition Employees are encouraged to report any genuine concerns regarding fraud and malpractice Company has implemented whistle blowing policy ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 172 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES FINANCIAL ﻿ REPORTS FINANCIAL CALENDAR Seventh Annual General Meeting 19 September 2018 First Quarter Report 10 August 2018 Second Quarter Report 6 November 2018 Third Quarter Report 6 February 2019 Fourth Quarter Report 28 May 2019 First Interim Dividend for 2018/19 20 December 2018 Second Interim Dividend for 2018/19 18 March 2019 174 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE 180 STATEMENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF DIRECTORS’ ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE RESPONSIBILITY COMPANY 181DIRECTORS’ 182 INDEPENDENT 188 STATEMENT OF STATEMENT AUDITORS’ PROFIT OR LOSS ON INTERNAL REPORT AND OTHER ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CONTROL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 189 STATEMENT 190 STATEMENT OF 191 STATEMENT OF 193 NOTES TO THE OF FINANCIAL CHANGES IN CASH FLOWS FINANCIAL POSITION EQUITY STATEMENTS 173 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY The Directors of Access Engineering PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES OF FINANCIAL RESULTS PLC have pleasure in presenting THE COMPANY AND REVIEW AND APPROPRIATIONS their Annual Report of the Company, OF PERFORMANCE DURING together with the Audited Financial THE YEAR Revenue Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2019. This Revenue generated by the Company Access Engineering PLC manages a Report covers Chairman’s Message, amounted to LKR 19,356 Mn. portfolio of diverse range of business Corporate Governance and Management (2018 – LKR 17,937 Mn.) whilst Group including construction, constructionStructure, Enterprise Risk Management, revenue amounted to LKR 32,277 Mn. related material, property and Sustainability and all other relevant (2018 – LKR 26,056 Mn.). Contribution automobile. Refer Note 1.3 (page 193) information for the year ended to Group revenue, from the different to the Financial Statements for a brief 31 March 2019, in addition to the Audited business sectors is provided in Note 5.1 description of the principal activities of Financial Statements. (page 205) to the Financial Statements. the Company and subsidiaries. The Company’s Board of Directors is Profits and appropriations Other than the disposal of the investment responsible for confirming that the in Horizon Knowledge City Limited – a The profit after tax of the Company was information stated in the Annual Report subsidiary of AEL (99.99%) and Horizon LKR 1,962 Mn. (2018 – LKR 1,908 Mn.), on the Affairs of the Company, contains Holdings (Private) Limited – a joint venture whilst the Group profit attributable to equity the information required in terms of the of AEL, there have been no significant holders of the parent for the year was Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Listing changes in the nature of activities of the LKR 2,150 Mn. (2018 – LKR 2,507 Mn.) Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange and is Company and its subsidiaries during the guided by recommended best practices. financial year under review. Access Engineering PLC 2019 2018 for the year ended LKR’000 LKR’000 GENERAL REVIEW OF THE 31 March Access Engineering PLC was incorporated PERFORMANCE Profit after tax 1,961,595 1,907,931 in terms of the Companies Act No. 17 Other adjustments (244,279) (30,705) Review of the financial and operational of 1982 on 31 July 2001 and was Balance brought performance of the Company and re-registered as per the Companies Act forward from the the Group are described in the joint previous year 8,714,965 7,837,739 No. 07 of 2007 on 6 February 2008 with Statements of Managing Director and PB 200 as the new number assigned to Amount available for Chief Operating Officer and under the appropriation 10,432,281 9,714,965 the Company. Thereafter, the Company review of business operations in pages 12 obtained a listing on the DiriSavi Board 1st interim dividend to 14 segment-wise contribution to Group of LKR 0.25 per share of the Colombo Stock Exchange on revenue, results, assets and liabilities (2018 – LKR 0.50) (250,000) (500,000) 27 March 2012 and changed its name to are provided in Note 4 (page 202) to the 2nd interim dividend Access Engineering PLC on 12 June 2012. Financial Statements. of LKR 0.25 per share The registration number of the Company (2018 – LKR 0.50) (250,000) (500,000) changed to PB 200 PQ. Final dividend FINANCIAL STATEMENTS declared of LKR 0.25 The Company is now listed on the Main per share (2018 – Nil) (250,000) — Board of the Colombo Stock Exchange The Financial Statements of the Group Balance to be carried with effect from 8 January 2013. prepared in line with Sri Lanka Accounting forward next year 9,682,281 8,714,965 Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs), inclusive of ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 * In accordance with LKAS 10, Events after the Reporting The Company also has LKR 5,000 Mn. specific disclosures, duly signed by two Period, the final dividend has not been recognised as a [2018 – LKR 5,000 Mn.]. Rated Senior Directors on behalf of the Board and the liability in the Financial Statements. Unsecured Redeemable Debentures at a par Auditors are included in this Annual Report value of LKR 100.00 which are listed on the and forms part and parcel hereof. Dividends Main Board of the Colombo Stock Exchange. An interim dividend of LKR 0.25 per share Both the Company and the Debentures in was declared on 30 November 2018 and issue have been assigned a Rating of paid on 20 December 2018. “(SL) A+ with a stable outlook” by ICRA Lanka Limited. 174 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY A Second interim dividend of LKR 0.25 per LKR 1,163 Mn. (2018 – LKR 1,590 Mn.) MARKET VALUE OF share was declared on 25 February 2019 respectively and all other related PROPERTIES and paid on 18 March 2019. information and movements have been disclosed in Note 11 (page 215) to the Market value of property, A final dividend of LKR 0.25 per share Financial Statements. was declared on 30 May 2019 and paid plant and equipment on 11 June 2019. Addition to intangible assets of the All land and buildings owned by Group Company and the Group during the year companies were revalued and all amounted LKR 3.39 Mn. (2018 – Nil) and information related to revaluation Reserves LKR 39.9 Mn. (2018 – LKR 12.85 Mn.) is given in Note 11 (page 215) to the The reserves of the Company and respectively. All other related movements Financial Statements. Group as at 31 March 2019 amounted to to intangible assets are disclosed under LKR 10,085 Mn. (2018 – LKR 8,868 Mn.) the Note 13 (page 226) to the Financial and LKR 12,195 Mn. (2018 – LKR 10,793 Mn.) Land holdings Statements. respectively. The movement and The extents, locations and valuations of the composition during the year are given Group’s land holdings are given below: in the Statement of Changes in Equity on page 190. Location Extent Carrying Value A R P of Assets (LKR) Accounting policies The accounting policies adopted in the Access Engineering PLC preparation of Financial Statements of No. 336/1, Low Level Road, Jalthara, Ranala — 3.0 38.40 55,000,000 the Company and the Group are given on No. 267, Dehiwala Road, Maharagama — 3.0 1.00 180,000,000 pages 194 to 276 of the Annual Report. No. 278, Alubogahalanda, Jalthara,Ranala 3.0 3.0 4.86 68,000,000 The Financial Statements of the Company No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralasgamuwa — 2.0 35.00 145,000,000 have been prepared in accordance with Dickowita — Hendala 2.0 3.0 10.18 15,800,000 the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Weliwita — Kaduwela 2.0 — — 48,000,000 (SLFRSs and LKASs) and the policies Divigalahena — Hakmana 10.0 — — 10,000,000 adopted thereof are given on pages 194 to 276. Figures pertaining to the previous Access Realties (Private) Limited period have been re-stated where Nos. 264/5, 266, 268, 278 and necessary to conform to the presentation 278/4, Dr Colvin R De Silva Mawatha for the year under review. (Union Place) and Nos. 116 and 118 Dawson Street, Colombo 2 1.0 — 25.65 4,021,066,399 Donations Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited Total donations made by the Company and Group as at 31 March 2019 amounted to 30 Stories Buildings at No. 278/4, Colombo 2 — — — 6,763,046,610 LKR 1,596,286 (2018 – LKR 892,263) and Sathosa Motors PLC LKR 1,668,400 (2018 – LKR 1,197,513) respectively. Peliyagoda — Leasehold land 2.0 — 23.93 5,133,746 No. 86, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 — 28.70 326,086,000 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Corporate social responsibility Access Projects (Private) Limited The Company continued its corporate social No. 278, Kekulanvila road, Jaltara, Ranala 2.0 1.0 38.38 37,350,000 responsibility initiatives with a range of No. 42 A, Yatawathura, Malagala, Padukka — 3.0 10.00 4,077,241 Programmes, details of which are set out on pages 99 and 100 of the Annual Report. Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited No. 278, Weliwita road, Weliwita 4.0 1.0 4.00 475,200,000 Property, plant and equipment (PPE) and intangible assets The Company’s and Group’s capital expenditure on PPE amounted to LKR 705 Mn. (2018 – LKR 787 Mn.) and 175 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY Investment properties RATIOS AND MARKET Names of Directors Investment properties of business units, PRICES OF DEBENTURES The names of the Directors who held office when significantly occupied by Group as at the end of the accounting period are Ratios and market prices of the listed rated companies, are classified as PPE in the given below and their brief profiles appear senior unsecured redeemable debentures Consolidated Financial Statements in on pages 116 to 119. issued by the Company, as required by the compliance with LKAS 40. Listing Rules are set out in Note 25 to the Financial Statements on page 239. Executive Directors The Group revalued its investment properties in line with the policies Mr S J S Perera – Chairman adopted by the Group and the carrying Mr J C Joshua – Managing Director SHARE INFORMATION value at Company and Group level is Mr D A R Fernando – Chief Operating Officer LKR 415.8 Mn. (2018 – LKR 415.8 Mn.) and Mr S H S Mendis Shareholders Mr S D Munasinghe LKR 10,729 Mn. (2018 – LKR 10,714 Mn.) respectively. All information related to There were 7,226 shareholders registered revaluation of the investment properties as at 31 March 2019 (5,816 shareholders as Non-Executive Directors is provided in Note 12 (page 223) to the at 31 March 2018). The details of distribution Financial Statements. . of shares are given on page 92 of the Mr R J S Gomez Annual Report. Mr S D Perera INVESTMENTS Major shareholders, distribution schedule Independent Non-Executive and other information: Directors A detailed description of the Company’s investment in quoted shares held as at Information on the distribution of Prof K A M K Ranasinghe 31 March 2019, is given in Note 20 shareholding, analysis of shareholders, Mr N D Gunaratne (page 236) to the Financial Statements. market values per share, earnings, Mr D S Weerakkody dividends, net assets per share, twenty In addition, a detailed description of the largest shareholders of the Company, Retirement and re-election Company’s fixed deposits and debentures percentage of shares held by the public as held as at 31 March 2019, are given in of Directors per the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Notes 21 and 16 (pages 236 and 231) to the Exchange are given on pages 92 to 95 In terms of Article 88 (i) of the Articles of Financial Statements. under Investor Capital. Association, Mr R J S Gomez shall retire by rotation and being eligible, is recommended by the Board for re-election at the STATED CAPITAL THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The Stated Capital of the Company is LKR 9,000,000,000.00 representing Directors’ responsibility for Directors of subsidiary companies are financial reporting given on page 286. 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares (2018 – LKR. 9,000,000,000.00 The Directors are responsible for the representing 1,000,000,000 ordinary preparation of Financial Statements Review of the performance shares), as given in Note 23 (page 237) of the Company to reflect a true and of the Board to the Financial Statements. fair view of the state of its affairs. The The performance of the Board has been Directors are of the view that these appraised through a formalised process Financial Statements have been prepared ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 DEBENTURE of individual appraisal by enabling each in conformity with requirements of the member to self-appraise on an anonymous Debenture of the Company is LKR 5,000 Mn. Sri Lanka Accounting Standards basis and it is mentioned in page 143. representing 50,000,000 debentures (SLFRSs/LKASs), the Companies Act (2018 – LKR 5,000 Mn. of 50,000,000 No. 07 of 2007 and the Listing Rules of debentures), as given in Note 25.1 the Colombo Stock Exchange. (page 239) to the Financial Statements. The said Debentures have been assigned a The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility is Rating of “(SL) A+ with a stable outlook” given on page 180. by ICRA Lanka Limited. 176 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY BOARD COMMITTEES Interests register DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS The Company maintains an Interests IN CONTRACTS The Audit Committee, Remuneration Register in terms of the Companies Act Committee, Strategic Planning Committee, Directors’ interests in contracts with the No. 07 of 2007, which is deemed to form Investment Evaluation and Monitoring Company are stated below. The Directors part and parcel of the Annual Report and Committee and the Related Party have no direct or indirect interest in any available for inspection upon request. Transactions Review Committee function other contract or proposed contract with as Board subcommittees, with Directors, the Company. Except for the transactions All related party transactions which who possess the requisite qualifications referred to in Note 28 (page 246) to the encompasses the transactions of Directors and experience. The composition of the Financial Statements, the Company did not who were directly or indirectly interested said committees as at 31 March 2019 is carry out any transaction with any of the in a contract or a related party transaction as follows: Directors. with the Company during the accounting Audit Committee period are recorded in the interests register in due compliance with the applicable rules DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING Mr N D Gunaratne – Chairman and regulations of the relevant regulatory Prof K A M K Ranasinghe authorities. The relevant interests of Directors in the Mr S D Perera shares of the Company as at 31 March 2019 Mr D S Weerakkody The relevant interests of Directors in the and 31 March 2018 are as follows: shares of the Company as at 31 March 2019 Shareholding Shareholding Remuneration Committee as recorded in the interests register are as at as at Mr D S Weerakkody – Chairman given in this Report under Directors’ 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Prof K A M K Ranasinghe shareholding. Mr S J SPerera 250,000,000 250,000,000 Mr N D Gunaratne Mr J C Joshua 101,000,000 100,000,000 Mr S D Perera RELATED PARTY Mr R J S Gomez 75,130,325 75,130,325 TRANSACTIONS Mr D A R Related Party Transactions Fernando 24,000,000 24,000,000 Review Committee The Company’s transactions with related Mr S H S Mendis 24,000,000 24,000,000 parties, given in Note 28 (page 246) to Mr N D Gunaratne – Chairman the Financial Statements, have complied Mr S D Prof K A M K Ranasinghe Munasinghe 24,000,000 24,000,000 with Colombo Stock Exchange Listing Rule Mr D S Weerakkody 9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Mr S D Perera 2,000,000 2,000,000 Mr D A R Fernando Party Transactions under the Securities Prof K A M K Ranasinghe 100 Nil and Exchange Commission Directive issued Investment and under Section 13 (c) of the Securities and Mr N D Gunaratne Nil Nil Subsidiary Performance Exchange Commission Act as declared by Mr D S the Board of Directors. Weerakkody 10,000 10,000 Monitoring Committee Prof K A M K Ranasinghe – Chairman Mr N D Gunaratne DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Mr D S Weerakkody Mr J C Joshua The Directors’ remuneration is disclosed The Board of Directors confirm, that Mr D A R Fernando under Key Management Personnel they are in compliance with Section ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 compensation in Note 28.6 to the Financial 7.10 of the Listing Rules of the CSE. Statements on page 250. The Chairman, the Board of Directors Strategic Planning Committee and the Key Management Staff is Mr S J S Perera – Chairman dedicated towards upholding an effective Mr J C Joshua Corporate Governance Framework in Mr D A R Fernando compliance with the Code of Business Prof K A M K Ranasinghe Conduct, Ethics of the Company and in implementing systems and structures required to ensuring best practices within the Company. 177 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY The Corporate Governance of the Company SUPPLIER POLICY STATUTORY PAYMENTS is reflected in its strong belief in protecting and enhancing stakeholder value in a The Group applies an overall policy of The Directors confirm that to the best sustainable manner, supported by a sound agreeing and clearly communicating terms of their knowledge, all taxes, duties and system of policies and practices. Prudent of payment as part of the commercial levies payable by the Company and its internal controls ensure professionalism, agreements negotiated with suppliers and subsidiaries, all contributions, levies and integrity and commitment of the Board of endeavours to pay for all items properly taxes payable on behalf of, and in respect of Directors, Management and employees. charged in accordance with these agreed employees of the Company and the Group terms. As at 31 March 2019 trade and and all other known statutory dues as were The Corporate Governance Statement on other payables of the Company and due and payable by the Company and the pages 124 to 163 explains the measures Group amounted to LKR 8,529 Mn. Group as at the Statement of Financial adopted by the Company during the year (2018 – LKR 7,219 Mn.) and LKR 12,491 Mn. Position date have been paid or, where of review. (2018 – LKR 10,117 Mn.) respectively. relevant provided for, except as specified Refer trade and other payables in Note 27 in Note 29 (page 251) to the Financial of page 246. Statements covering commitments and SUSTAINABILITY contingencies. The Group strives to integrate principles The Group pursues its business goals of sustainable practices in its value based on a model of stakeholders’ chain through extensive stakeholder CONTINGENT LIABILITIES governance. Finding of the continuous consultations, the findings of which are internal stakeholder engagements have Except as disclosed in Note 29 (page 251) integrated in to work plans. enabled the Group to focus on material to the Financial Statements, there were issues highlighted by other stakeholders no material contingent liabilities as at the such as employees, customers, suppliers ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION reporting date. and the community. These steps have been encapsulated in a Group-wide strategy The Group complies with appropriate focused on sustainable development which environmental laws and regulations to fulfil RISK MANAGEMENT is continuously evolving based on the above the best practices applicable in the country An ongoing process is in place to identify mentioned stakeholder engagements. Refer of operation. After making adequate and manage the risks that are associated Capital Formation and Distribution on pages enquiries from the Management, the with the business and operations of the 68 to 108. Directors are satisfied that the Company Company and the Group on a quarter operates in a manner that minimises the basis. The Directors review this process detrimental effects on the environment and EMPLOYMENT POLICY through the Audit Committee, to identify provides products and services that have a the competence and success of internal beneficial effect on the customers and the The Company’s employment policy controls. communities within, which the Company is totally non-discriminatory which operates. Refer natural capital on pages 101 respects individuals and provides carrier Specific steps taken by the Company in to 108 for more information. opportunities irrespective of the gender, managing the risks are detailed in the race or religion. section on enterprise risk management RESEARCH AND on pages 164 to 172. At Company level as at 31 March 2019 a DEVELOPMENT total of 2,458 persons were in employment (2,670 persons as at 31 March 2018). Refer The Group has an active approach to EVENTS AFTER THE Human Capital on pages 82 to 86 for more REPORTING PERIOD ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 research and development and recognises information. the contribution that it can make to the Except for the matters disclosed in Note 30 Group’s operations. Significant expenditure (page 256) to the Financial Statements, has taken place over the years and there were no material events as at the substantial effort will continue to be made date of the Auditors’ Report, which require to introduce new products and processes adjustment to or disclosure in the Financial and develop existing products and Statements. processes to improve operational efficiency. 178 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY GOING CONCERN ANNUAL REPORT The Financial Statements are prepared The Board of Directors approved the on going concern principles. After making Consolidated Financial Statements on adequate enquires from the Management, 10 July 2019. the Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue its operations in the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING foreseeable future. The Eighth Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 August 2019. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT The Notice of the Annual General Meeting appears on page 287. The Report of the Independent Auditors on the Financial Statements of the Company is This Annual Report is signed for and on given on pages 182 to 187. behalf of the Board of Directors by, AUDITORS Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants S J S Perera served as the Auditors during the year Chairman under review and also provided non audit/ consultancy services. They do not have any interest in the Company other than that of Auditor and provider of tax-related services. A total amount of LKR 3,655,165.00 is J C Joshua payable by the Company to the Auditors for the year under review comprising Managing Director LKR 2,851,000.00 as audit fees and LKR 804,165.00 for non-audit services. (on Note 8 of page 208) P W Corporate Secretarial (Pvt) Ltd. The Auditors have expressed their Secretaries willingness to continue in office. The Audit Committee at a meeting held on 10 July 2019 10 July 2019 recommended that they be Colombo reappointed as Auditors. A resolution to reappoint the Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS To the best of knowledge and belief of the Directors, the Group/Company has not engaged in any activity, which contravenes laws and regulations of the country. 179 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY This statement sets out the responsibility The Company maintains with reasonable of the Board of Directors in relation to accuracy sufficient accounting records the Financial Statements of the Company to disclose the financial position of the and its subsidiaries. Responsibility of Company and the Group; the Auditors in relation to the Financial Financial Statements have been Statements of the Company and its prepared on a going concern basis and subsidiaries is set out in the “Independent they are of the view that sufficient Auditors’ Report” given in pages 182 to 187. resources are available to justify it. The Directors are responsible for the proper Further, the Directors confirm that they recording and maintenance of books of have taken reasonable measures to accounts of all transactions of the Company safeguard the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries under Sections 150 (1), and the Group and in this regard have 151, 152 (1), and 153 of the Companies Act established appropriate systems of internal No. 07 of 2007. control with a view to preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities. Under Section 148, the Directors are The External Auditors were provided with responsible for preparing Financial all information and explanations necessary Statements that give a true and fair view to enable them to form their independent of the state of affairs of the Company and opinion on the Financial Statements. its subsidiaries at the end of each financial year. These statements consist of the Statement of Comprehensive Income giving COMPLIANCE REPORT a true and fair view of the profit or loss of the Company and its subsidiaries for the The Directors confirm that to the best financial year, the Statement of Financial of their knowledge, all taxes, duties and Position giving a true and fair view of the levies payable by the Company and its state of affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries, all contributions, levies subsidiaries as at the end of the financial and taxes payable on behalf of and in year, Statement of Changes in Equity, respect of the employees of the Company Statement of Cash Flows and the Notes and its subsidiaries and all other known thereto. statutory dues as were due and payable by the Company and its subsidiaries as at In preparing these Financial Statements the reporting date have been paid or, where Directors are required to ensure that: relevant, provided for, except as specified in Note 29 to the Financial Statements Appropriate accounting policies have covering commitments and contingencies. been selected and applied in a consistent manner and material departures, if any, By Order of the Board, have been disclosed and explained; Financial Statements are presented in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs), and P W Corporate Secretarial (Pvt) Ltd. reasonable and prudent judgements and Secretaries ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 estimates have been made so that the form and substance of transactions are 10 July 2019 properly reflected; Colombo Financial Statements provide the information required by and otherwise comply with the Companies Act and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange; 180 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL INTRODUCTION Internal Audit Department which is CONFIRMATION STATEMENT headed by the Chief Internal Auditor The following statement fulfils the carries out periodic audits on an ongoing Based on the above processes, the Board requirement to publish the Directors’ basis covering all operational projects/ of Directors confirms that the financial Statement on Internal Control as per units to ensure the effectiveness of the reporting system of the Company has been the Code of Best Practice on Corporate system of internal control. These audits designed to provide reasonable assurance Governance 2017 jointly issued by The are carried out in accordance with the regarding the reliability of financial Institute of Chartered Accountants of Annual Audit Plan approved by the reporting and the preparation of Financial Sri Lanka and the Securities and Exchange Board Audit Committee and findings of Statements for external purposes has been Commission of Sri Lanka. the same are submitted to the Board done in accordance with the Sri Lanka Audit Committee for their review on Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs), a quarterly basis. Additionally special requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITY audits are conducted as and when the of 2007 and Listing Rules of the Colombo need arises and findings of the same are Stock Exchange. The Board of Directors is responsible for the submitted to the Board Audit Committee adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s for their review. system of internal controls. However, such a system is designed to manage the Group’s The Board Audit Committee reviews key exposure areas within an acceptable internal control issues identified S J S Perera risk profile rather than eliminating the risk by the Internal Audit Department, Chairman of failure to achieve the Group’s objectives. regulatory bodies, and the Management, Accordingly, the system of internal controls and evaluates the adequacy and can only provide a reasonable assurance effectiveness of the risk management but not absolute against the material and internal control systems. They also misstatement of Management and financial review the internal audit functions with information and records or against financial particular emphasis on the scope of audits and quality of internal audits. The J C Joshua losses or fraud. The Board has established minutes of the Board Audit Committee Managing Director an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant meetings are tabled at the Board exposures faced by the Company and this meetings of the Company. process includes enhancing the system of In accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting internal controls as and when there are Standards comprising SLFRSs and changes for the business environment or LKASs, processes that are required N D Gunaratne regulatory framework. to comply with requirements of Chairman, Audit Committee recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosures were introduced and 10 July 2019 KEY INTERNAL implemented. Continuous monitoring Colombo CONTROL PROCESSES is in progress to enhance the system’s effectiveness and efficiency. Following features of the system of internal control put in place by the Board provide The comments made by External reasonable assurance regarding the Auditors in connection with the internal reliability of financial reporting. They also control system during the financial year ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of 2017/18 were taken into consideration ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 the system: and appropriate steps have been taken to incorporate them where applicable. Committees appointed by the Board to assist them in ensuring the effectiveness of Company’s daily operations, and to ensure that these daily operations are within the corporate objectives, strategies and annual budget ratified by the Board. 181 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT KPMG Tel : +94 11 542 6426 (Chartered Accountants) Fax : +94 11 244 5872 32A, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, : +94 11 244 6058 P. O. Box 186, Internet : www.kpmg.com/lk Colombo 00300, Sri Lanka. TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF BASIS FOR OPINION ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC We conducted our audit in accordance Report on the Audit of the Financial with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards Statements. (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of OPINION the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group We have audited the Financial Statements in accordance with the Code of Ethics of Access Engineering PLC (“the Company”) issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics), and the Consolidated Financial Statements and we have fulfilled our other ethical of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the responsibilities in accordance with the Group”), which comprise the Statement Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit of Financial Position as at 31 March 2019, evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the Statement of Profit or Loss and and appropriate to provide a basis for Other Comprehensive Income, Statement our opinion. of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the Financial Statements, including a KEY AUDIT MATTERS summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information as set Key audit matters are those matters that, out on pages 188 to 276. in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Company In our opinion, the accompanying Financial Financial Statements and the Consolidated Statements of the Company and the Group Financial Statements of the current give a true and fair view of the financial period. These matters were addressed in position of the Company and the Group the context of our audit of the Company as at 31 March 2019, and of their financial Financial Statements and the Consolidated performance and cash flows for the year Financial Statements as a whole, and then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka in forming our opinion thereon, and we ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Accounting Standards. do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. M.R . Mihular F C A P.Y.S. Perera FCA C.P. Jayatilake FCA T.J.S. Rajakarier FCA W.W.J.C. Perera FCA Ms. S. Joseph FCA KPMG, a Sri Lankan partnership and a member firm Ms. S.M.B. Jayasekara ACA W.K.D.C Abeyrathne FCA S.T.D.L. Perera FCA of the KPMG network of independent member firms G.A.U. Karunaratne FCA R.M.D.B. Rajapakse FCA Ms. B.K.D.T.N. Rodrigo FCA R.H. Rajan FCA M.N.M. Shameel ACA Ms. C.T.K.N. Perera ACA affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity Principals S.R.I. Perera FCMA(UK), LLB, Attorney-at-Law, H.S. Goonewardene ACA 182 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Auditors’ Report RECOGNITION OF REVENUE AND ADOPTION OF AND TRANSITION TO SLFRS 15 Refer Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Risk description Our response The major components of Group’s revenue comprises of revenue Our audit procedures on Construction Revenue included, from construction contracts and sales of new vehicles amounting Comparing the contract revenue recognised for a sample of to LKR 17.6 Bn and LKR 10.8 Bn. respectively for the year ended contracts in progress during the year with certifications from the 31 March 2019. surveyors appointed by the customers or payment applications from the in-house surveyor. Vehicles sales are recognised when the customer has accepted the vehicle which is evidenced by the customers’ signature on Inspecting a sample of project contract agreements with customers the delivery note. Revenue arising from after-sales services is and subcontractors to identify key terms and conditions. recognised when the relevant service is completed and there are no Evaluating the appropriateness of the selection of accounting further performance obligations. policies and management approach over adoption and transition applied for SLFRS 15, including the key accounting estimates and Construction revenue is recognised overtime by reference to the judgements made by the Management based on the requirements Group’s progress toward completing the contracts. Management of the new standards. judgement is required to estimate the total construction costs, variations or claims recognised as contract revenue, and provision Our audit procedures relating to sales of new vehicles included, for liquidated damages that will affect the measure of progress and revenue and profit margins recognised from construction contracts. Obtaining and understanding of and assessing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the Group’s key Further, the Group has adopted SLFRS 15 using the cumulative internal controls over revenue recognition. effect method (without practical expedients) from 1 April 2018. Scrutinising all the revenue invoices raised throughout the Accordingly, the information presented for 2018 has not been reporting period and comparing details of a sample of these restated and continued to be reported under LKAS 18. invoices, which met certain risk-based criteria, with relevant underlying documentation. We identified revenue recognition of the Group as a key audit Inspecting significant manual adjustments to revenue raised during matter because of the revenue recognition is inherently subjective the reporting period, enquiring of management the reasons for and requires significant management judgement and errors in the such adjustments and comparing the details of the adjustment with recognition of revenue could have a material impact on the Group relevant underlying documentation. profit for the year. Assessing whether revenue had been recognised in the appropriate accounting period by comparing a sample of sales transactions around the year end with relevant underlying documents, which included customers’ signed acknowledgement of delivery. Assessing the adequacy of the Financial Statements disclosures ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 required by SLFRS 15. 183 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Auditors’ Report VALUATION OF INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Refer Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Risk description Our response The Group has investment properties amounting to LKR 10.73 Bn. Our audit procedures included, which are measured at fair value in the Statement of Financial Assessing the objectivity, independence, competence and Position. qualifications of the external valuers. Assessing the appropriateness of the valuation techniques used Investment Property are measured at fair value in the Statement of by the external valuers, taking into account the profile of the Financial Position. The Group has engaged independent professional investment properties. valuers with appropriate expertise in valuing properties to determine the fair value of the investment property in accordance Assessing the adequacy of the disclosures in the financial with recognised industry standards. statements, including the description and appropriateness of the inherent degree of subjectivity and key assumptions in the We identified this as a key audit matter because of the significant estimates. estimates such as per perch price and value per square foot involved in assessing the fair value of the investment property. IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT OF GOODWILL AND INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Refer Note 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Risk Description Our response As at 31 March 2019, the goodwill and investment in subsidiaries Our audit procedures included, amounting to LKR 1.18 Bn. and LKR 13.23 Bn. respectively. Obtaining an understanding of Management’s impairment assessment process. Management allocated goodwill to the respective cash-generating Evaluating the reasonableness of the Group’s key assumptions units (“CGU”) and the recoverable amounts of the identified CGUs for its cash flow projection such as discount rates, cost inflation have been determined based on value-in-use calculation. and business growth with reference to the internally and externally derived sources including Group budgetary process and Management performed the impairment assessment for the reasonableness of historical forecasts. subsidiaries with indicators of impairment and determined their recoverable amounts based on value-in-use calculation. Assessing the adequacy of the Group disclosures in the Financial Statements in respect of impairment testing. We have identified the assessment of impairment of Goodwill and impairment of investments in subsidiaries as a key audit matter ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 because impairment assessment process involves significant Management judgement and required the management to make various assumptions in the underlying cash flow forecasts. 184 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Auditors’ Report CARRYING VALUE OF INVENTORIES Refer Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Risk Description Our response The Group has significant levels of inventory amounting to Our audit procedures relating to vehicle inventories included, LKR 6.58 Bn. as at 31 March 2019. Testing the Group Key Control over Inventory Valuation and the identification of slow moving and/or obsolete inventories. There is inherent risks relating to vehicle inventory with the Comparison of inventory levels, by product group, to sales data changes in economic sentiment or consumer preferences and to corroborate whether slow moving and obsolete inventories the introduction of newer models with the latest design and had been appropriately identified and challenge the Group’s technologies by vehicle manufacturers to these different markets categorisation as obsolete or slow moving. could result in inventories on hand no longer being sought after or being sold at a discount below their cost. Assessing whether the inventory provision at the end of the reporting period was determined on a basis consistent with the Estimating future demand for and the related selling prices of Group’s inventory provisioning policy by recalculating the inventory vehicle is inherently subjective and uncertain because it involves write-downs and provisions based on expected selling prices. management estimating the extent of markdown of selling prices necessary to sell the older or slow moving models in the period Our audit procedures relating to other inventories included, subsequent to the reporting date. Understanding and evaluating the design, implementation and Given the level of judgments and estimates involved, there is a risk operating effectiveness of Management’s key internal controls over that carrying value of inventory could be misstated. inventory management including the purchases of inventories, inventory valuation, and cycle counts of inventories and reviews of the status of inventories. Performing recalculations on inventory valuation for selected samples in accordance with the Group’s valuation policy. Obtaining the surveyor’s (In–house) valuation report on the work in progress as at 31 March 2019, and inquired the management over the reasonableness of the valuation performed by the surveyor. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 185 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Auditors’ Report RECOVERABILITY OF TRADE RECEIVABLES INCLUDING TRANSITION TO SLFRS 09 Refer Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Risk Description Our response The Group trade receivables are stated in the financial position at Our audit procedures included, their fair value less any provision for irrecoverable amounts. As On sample basis circularised trade receivables confirmations at 31 March 2019 net of trade receivables were LKR 11.13 Bn. after for construction receivables to verify existence and tested the provisions of LKR 141.44 Mn. reconciliations where discrepancies were identified and testing the subsequent collections for outstanding trade receivables, where There are inherent risks relating to customer’s credit risk profile applicable. which varies due to the size of each customer and the industries Understanding and evaluating the design, implementation and that the customers operate in. The risk is whether the trade operating effectiveness of Management’s key internal controls in receivables are recoverable and determining an appropriate respect of the valuation of trade debtors, which included credit provision for potentially impaired trade receivables requires control procedures and the application of the Group’s doubtful debt significant Management judgement. provisioning policy. Impairment allowances represent management’s best estimate of Assessing, on a sample basis, whether items in the trade debtors’ the losses expected within receivables as at the financial position ageing report were classified within the appropriate ageing bracket date. Management has assessed the receivable balances individually by comparing individual items in the report with underlying based on the age of debts to identify any objective evidence of documentation, which included sales invoices and goods delivery impairment. notes. Challenging the appropriateness of the selection of accounting Given the level of subjectivity nature of significant Management policies based on the requirements of the new standards, our judgements involved and transition adjustments are likely to be business understanding. subject to scrutiny from investors/regulators resulted in impairment Evaluating the appropriateness of the Management approach over of trade receivables being considered as a key audit matter. adoption, transition and practical expedients applied for SLFRS 9. OTHER INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITIES OF Those charged with governance are MANAGEMENT AND THOSE responsible for overseeing the Company’s Management is responsible for the other and the Group’s financial reporting process. CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE information. The other information comprises the information included in the FOR THE FINANCIAL annual report, but does not include the STATEMENTS AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES Financial Statements and our Auditor’s FOR THE AUDIT OF THE Management is responsible for the Report thereon. Our opinion on the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS preparation of Financial Statements that Financial Statements does not cover the give a true and fair view in accordance Our objectives are to obtain reasonable other information and we do not express with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and assurance about whether the Financial any form of assurance conclusion thereon. for such internal control as Management Statements as a whole are free from ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 determines is necessary to enable the material misstatement, whether due to In connection with our audit of the Financial preparation of Financial Statements that are fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s Statements, our responsibility is to read free from material misstatement, whether report that includes our opinion. Reasonable the other information and, in doing so, due to fraud or error. assurance is a high level of assurance, but is consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial not a guarantee that an audit conducted in In preparing the Financial Statements, accordance with SLAuSs will always detect Statements or our knowledge obtained management is responsible for assessing a material misstatement when it exists. in the audit or otherwise appears to be the Group’s ability to continue as a going Misstatements can arise from fraud or error materially misstated. If, based on the work concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters and are considered material if, individually we have performed, we conclude that there related to going concern and using the or in the aggregate, they could reasonably is a material misstatement of this other going concern basis of accounting unless be expected to influence the economic information, we are required to report management either intends to liquidate decisions of users taken on the basis of that fact. We have nothing to report in the Group or to cease operations, or has no these Financial Statements. this regard. realistic alternative but to do so. 186 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Independent Auditors’ Report As part of an audit in accordance with Evaluate the overall presentation, REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND SLAuSs, we exercise professional judgement structure and content of the Financial REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS and maintain professional skepticism Statements, including the disclosures, throughout the audit. We also: and whether the Financial Statements As required by Section 163 (2) of the represent the underlying transactions Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we Identify and assess the risks of and events in a manner that achieves have obtained all the information and material misstatement of the Financial fair presentation. explanations that were required for the Statements, whether due to fraud Obtain sufficient appropriate audit audit and, as far as appears from our or error, design and perform audit evidence regarding the financial examination, proper accounting records procedures responsive to those risks, information of the entities or business have been kept by the Company. and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide activities within the Group to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial CA Sri Lanka membership number of the a basis for our opinion. The risk of not Statements. We are responsible for the engagement partner responsible for signing detecting a material misstatement direction, supervision and performance this Independent Auditor’s Report is 2599. resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may of the group audit. We remain solely involve collusion, forgery, intentional responsible for our audit opinion. omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS Obtain an understanding of internal Colombo, Sri Lanka matters, the planned scope and timing of control relevant to the audit in order the audit and significant audit findings, to design audit procedures that are 10 July 2019 including any significant deficiencies in appropriate in the circumstances, but internal control that we identify during not for the purpose of expressing an our audit. opinion on the effectiveness of the Company and the Group’s internal We also provide those charged with control. governance with a statement that we Evaluate the appropriateness of have complied with ethical requirements accounting policies used and the in accordance with the Code of Ethics reasonableness of accounting estimates regarding independence, and to and related disclosures made by communicate with them all relationships Management. and other matters that may reasonably be Conclude on the appropriateness of thought to bear on our independence, and Management’s use of the going concern where applicable, related safeguards. basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a From the matters communicated with material uncertainty exists related to those charged with governance, we events or conditions that may cast determine those matters that were of most significant doubt on the Group’s ability significance in the audit of the Financial to continue as a going concern. If we Statements of the current period and are ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 conclude that a material uncertainty therefore the key audit matters. We describe exists, we are required to draw attention these matters in our auditors’ report unless in our auditor’s report to the related law or regulation precludes public disclosure disclosures in the Financial Statements about the matter or when, in extremely or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to rare circumstances, we determine that a modify our opinion. Our conclusions are matter should not be communicated in our based on the audit evidence obtained report because the adverse consequences up to the date of our auditor’s report. of doing so would reasonably be expected to However, future events or conditions outweigh the public interest benefits of such may cause the Group to cease to communication. continue as a going concern. 187 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2018 2019 2019 2018 Restated Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Revenue 5.1 32,277,441,194 26,055,590,803 19,356,105,575 17,937,033,665 Cost of sales (27,093,199,821) (21,994,429,511) (16,183,403,341) (15,126,447,918) Gross profit 5,184,241,373 4,061,161,292 3,172,702,234 2,810,585,747 Other income 6.1 481,768,869 2,519,087,363 647,816,174 724,888,499 Administrative expenses (1,852,100,797) (1,893,465,924) (765,960,002) (669,681,707) Other expenses (34,199,999) (63,358,073) (24,951,305) (28,955,917) Operating profit 3,779,709,446 4,623,424,658 3,029,607,101 2,836,836,622 Net finance cost 7.1 (650,889,968) (382,588,880) (484,948,695) (445,810,818) Share of results of equity-accounted investees, net of tax 15.2 (273,936) (9,671,067) — — Profit before tax 8 3,128,545,542 4,231,164,711 2,544,658,406 2,391,025,804 Income tax expense 9.1 (883,188,540) (1,768,468,525) (583,063,290) (483,094,897) Profit for the year 2,245,357,002 2,462,696,186 1,961,595,116 1,907,930,907 Profit attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 2,150,223,368 2,507,213,674 1,961,595,116 1,907,930,907 Non-controlling interest 95,133,634 (44,517,488) — — Profit for the year 2,245,357,002 2,462,696,186 1,961,595,116 1,907,930,907 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of defined benefit liability 26.1 19,092,533 (19,122,325) 15,447,533 (23,988,146) Revaluation of land and buildings 11.1 — 211,524,251 — — Related tax 9.1 (4,608,927) (94,598,099) (4,325,309) (37,793,969) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 14,483,606 97,803,827 11,122,224 (61,782,115) Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 2,259,840,608 2,560,500,013 1,972,717,340 1,846,148,792 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 2,164,068,924 2,604,018,339 1,972,717,340 1,846,148,792 Non-controlling interest 95,771,684 (43,518,326) — — Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 2,259,840,608 2,560,500,013 1,972,717,340 1,846,148,792 Basic earnings per share 10 2.15 2.51 1.96 1.91 Dividend per share 23.3 0.50 1.20 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 188 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Group Company As at 31 March 2018 2019 2019 2018 Restated Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 11 5,198,089,223 5,980,093,102 3,067,938,263 3,270,611,938 Investment properties 12.1 10,729,192,520 10,713,949,513 415,800,000 415,800,000 Investment properties – work in progress 12.3 492,568,921 402,478,308 — — Intangible assets and goodwill 13.1 1,406,234,214 1,400,829,854 47,196,982 52,973,724 Investments in subsidiaries 14 — — 13,230,857,707 13,729,275,147 Equity-accounted investees 15.1 898,019,125 1,191,865,526 855,465,410 1,155,465,410 Non-current financial assets 16 1,420,363,347 1,482,032,531 1,008,933,068 1,007,045,205 20,144,467,350 21,171,248,834 18,626,191,430 19,631,171,424 Current assets Inventories 17.1 6,578,633,179 6,085,842,007 1,440,013,027 1,617,818,301 Trade and other receivables 18.1 13,784,379,147 11,249,413,659 10,101,674,043 8,539,769,405 Amount due from related parties 28.2 126,895,989 199,685,811 409,622,868 236,849,747 Current tax assets 9.3 55,203,106 66,116,571 — 60,699,819 Other current financial assets 19 2,697,690,207 2,195,368,035 2,466,744,153 2,010,995,242 Short-term investments 20 25,769,394 35,560,781 25,769,394 35,560,781 Short-term deposits 21 2,163,147,483 2,041,431,464 475,198,599 279,511,813 Cash and cash equivalents 22 2,485,877,649 1,394,098,390 1,075,663,894 577,006,066 27,917,596,154 23,267,516,718 15,994,685,978 13,358,211,174 Total assets 48,062,063,504 44,438,765,552 34,620,877,408 32,989,382,598 Equity and liabilities Equity Stated capital 23.1 9,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 Revaluation reserve 258,652,205 404,698,445 152,660,185 152,660,185 Retained earnings 11,936,129,031 10,387,913,212 9,932,281,210 8,714,965,150 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 21,194,781,236 19,792,611,657 19,084,941,395 17,867,625,335 Non-controlling interest 32 2,393,297,382 2,299,725,473 — — Total equity 23,588,078,618 22,092,337,130 19,084,941,395 17,867,625,335 Non-current liabilities Government grants 24 5,704,096 5,923,485 — — Loans and borrowings 25 5,097,947,765 5,137,825,136 5,188,152,871 5,188,152,872 Employee benefit liabilities 26 263,326,437 238,920,256 193,452,552 178,275,827 Deferred tax liabilities 9.4 2,165,728,615 2,145,470,679 519,040,038 590,652,004 7,532,706,913 7,528,139,556 5,900,645,461 5,957,080,703 Current liabilities Bank overdraft 22 329,833,689 564,712,154 — — Trade and other payables 27 12,491,096,071 10,116,721,429 8,528,943,819 7,218,909,464 Amount due to related parties 28.3 24,486,763 68,558,191 279,991,521 31,541,539 Loans and borrowings 25 3,637,207,534 3,948,402,215 402,128,177 1,904,960,917 Current tax liabilities 9.3 424,288,511 88,268,191 411,867,608 — Unclaimed dividends 34,365,405 31,626,686 12,359,427 9,264,640 16,941,277,973 14,818,288,866 9,635,290,552 9,164,676,560 Total liabilities 24,473,984,886 22,346,428,422 15,535,936,013 15,121,757,263 Total equity and liabilities 48,062,063,504 44,438,765,552 34,620,877,408 32,989,382,598 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Net asset per share 21.19 19.79 19.08 17.87 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. The Financial Statements have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. N Iddagodage Deputy General Manager – Finance The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Financial Statements. Approved and signed for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Access Engineering PLC. J C Joshua D A R Fernando Managing Director Chief Operating Officer 10 July 2019 Colombo 189 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Attributable to equity holders of the parent Group Stated capital Revaluation Retained Total Non-controlling Total equity reserve earnings interests LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at 1 April 2017 9,000,000,000 249,969,954 9,589,746,941 18,839,716,895 2,711,502,144 21,551,219,039 Prior year adjustment (Note 2.5) (424,314,879) (424,314,879) — (424,314,879) Restated total equity as at 1 April 2017 9,000,000,000 249,969,954 9,165,432,062 18,415,402,016 2,711,502,144 21,126,904,160 Profit for the year (restated) — — 2,507,213,674 2,507,213,674 (44,517,488) 2,462,696,186 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax — 154,728,491 (57,923,826) 96,804,665 999,162 97,803,827 Total comprehensive income for the year — 154,728,491 2,449,289,848 2,604,018,339 (43,518,326) 2,560,500,013 Transactions with owners of the Company — Contributions and distributions Cash dividends — — (1,200,000,000) (1,200,000,000) — (1,200,000,000) Dividend paid to non-controlling interests — — — — (42,654,575) (42,654,575) Changes in ownership interests Acquisition of NCI — Harbour Village (Private) Limited — — (26,808,698) (26,808,698) (425,573,802) (452,382,500) Non-controlling interest of SMLF right issue — — — — 99,970,032 99,970,032 Balance at 31 March 2018 9,000,000,000 404,698,445 10,387,913,212 19,792,611,657 2,299,725,473 22,092,337,130 Impact of adopting SLFRS 9 and SLFRS 15 — — (261,914,765) (261,914,765) (2,184,355) (264,099,120) Restated total equity as at 1 April 2018 9,000,000,000 404,698,445 10,125,998,447 19,530,696,892 2,297,541,118 21,828,238,010 Profit for the year — — 2,150,223,368 2,150,223,368 95,133,634 2,245,357,002 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax — — 13,845,556 13,845,556 638,050 14,483,606 Total comprehensive income for the year — — 2,164,068,924 2,164,068,924 95,771,684 2,259,840,608 Transactions with owners of the Company — Contributions and distributions Cash dividends — — (500,000,000) (500,000,000) — (500,000,000) Changes in ownership interests Disposal of subsidiary — Horizon Knowledge City Limited — (146,046,240) 146,061,660 15,420 (15,420) — Balance at 31 March 2019 9,000,000,000 258,652,205 11,936,129,031 21,194,781,236 2,393,297,382 23,588,078,618 Company Stated Revaluation Retained Total capital reserve earnings LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at 1 April 2017 9,000,000,000 183,737,473 8,037,739,070 17,221,476,543 Profit for the year — — 1,907,930,907 1,907,930,907 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax — (31,077,288) (30,704,827) (61,782,115) Total comprehensive income for the year — (31,077,288) 1,877,226,080 1,846,148,792 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Transactions with owners of the Company — Contributions and distributions Cash dividends — — (1,200,000,000) (1,200,000,000) Balance at 31 March 2018 9,000,000,000 152,660,185 8,714,965,150 17,867,625,335 Impact of adopting SLFRS 9 and SLFRS 15 — — (255,401,280) (255,401,280) Restated total equity as at 1 April 2018 9,000,000,000 152,660,185 8,459,563,870 17,612,224,055 Profit for the year — — 1,961,595,116 1,961,595,116 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax — — 11,122,224 11,122,224 Total comprehensive income for the year — — 1,972,717,340 1,972,717,340 Transactions with owners of the Company — Contributions and distributions Cash dividends — — (500,000,000) (500,000,000) Balance at 31 March 2019 9,000,000,000 152,660,185 9,932,281,210 19,084,941,395 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 190 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Operating activities Profit before tax 3,128,545,542 4,231,164,711 2,544,658,406 2,391,025,804 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows: Depreciation of property plant and equipment 11.1/ 11.2 1,077,028,529 1,023,382,343 873,104,852 851,258,202 Amortisation of intangible assets 13.1 34,591,799 30,361,220 9,169,035 9,218,382 Provisions for employee benefits 26.1 64,266,599 50,516,729 46,824,048 35,142,287 Impairment losses/write-off of trade and other receivables/inventories 70,866,144 130,765,822 22,448,339 6,567,615 Gain on fair value changes of investment properties 12.1 — (2,303,297,521) — — Loss on fair value changes of short-term investments 6.1 9,791,387 490,247 9,791,387 490,247 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6.1 (62,587,664) (27,798,224) (40,038,992) (20,033,264) (Gain)/loss on disposal of subsidiary 6.1 5,977,460 — (140,010,000) — Gain on disposal of equity accounted investees 6.1 (6,427,534) — — — Amortisation of Government grant 24 (219,389) (219,389) — — Share of results of equity-accounted investees, net of tax 15.2 273,936 9,671,067 — — Dividend income 6.1 (1,340,836) (1,486,092) (332,979,009) (560,181,409) Net finance cost 7.1 650,889,968 382,588,880 484,948,695 445,810,818 Operating profit before working capital changes 4,971,655,941 3,526,139,793 3,477,916,761 3,159,298,682 Working capital adjustments: (Increase)/decrease in inventories (531,218,240) (827,298,687) 167,488,183 (643,168,517) Increase in trade and other receivables (2,537,685,709) (2,504,459,891) (1,444,269,783) (1,775,499,492) Increase in other current financial assets (502,322,172) (373,461,742) (455,748,911) (408,019,089) (Increase)/decrease in amounts due from related parties 72,789,822 (91,061,774) (172,773,121) 1,130,298,551 Decrease in trade and other payables 2,000,457,622 2,271,342,719 936,379,932 1,674,612,130 (Increase)/decrease in amounts due to related parties (44,071,428) 1,250,779 248,449,982 (39,038,634) Cash generated from operating activities 3,429,605,836 2,002,451,197 2,757,443,043 3,098,483,631 Interest paid (1,194,682,725) (914,019,607) (744,443,042) (599,432,728) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Income tax paid 9.3 (338,370,025) (444,242,262) (167,987,537) (253,327,198) Gratuity paid 26 (20,767,885) (13,995,161) (16,199,790) (5,547,950) Net cash flows generated from operating activities 1,875,785,201 630,194,167 1,828,812,674 2,240,175,755 191 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11.1/11.2 (1,163,188,146) (1,590,188,328) (704,596,318) (787,457,805) Purchase of intangible assets 13.1 (39,996,158) (12,851,960) (3,392,293) — Purchase of investment properties 12.1 (15,243,007) (6,886,444) — — Purchase of investment properties — work in progress 12.3 (90,090,613) (2,011,061,524) — — Proceeds from sale of Property, plant and equipment 105,658,776 57,816,286 74,204,133 20,594,720 Investment in subsidiary — — (126,572,560) (3,373,427,440) Disposal of joint venture 300,000,000 — 300,000,000 — Proceeds from sales of non-current financial assets 39,850,000 — — — Net cash flows on disposal of subsidiary 762,119,876 — 765,000,000 — (Investments in)/withdrawal from short-term deposits (121,716,019) 880,875,182 (195,686,786) 763,018,269 Dividends received 6.1 1,340,836 1,486,092 332,979,009 560,181,409 Interest received 523,258,061 455,566,774 230,742,709 121,164,348 Net cash flows generated from/(used in) investing activities 301,993,606 (2,225,243,922) 672,677,894 (2,695,926,499) Financing activities Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent (500,000,000) (1,200,000,000) (500,000,000) (1,200,000,000) Dividend paid to non-controlling interests — (42,654,575) — — Acquisition of non-controlling interests — (452,382,500) — (452,382,500) Proceeds from issue of shares to non-controlling interest — 99,970,032 — — Proceeds from borrowings 25.2 11,954,669,609 11,392,330,318 5,011,000,000 4,446,960,917 Repayment of borrowings 25.2 (12,299,674,552) (8,040,907,775) (6,513,832,740) (2,542,000,000) Payment of finance lease liabilities 25.3 (6,116,140) (3,116,300) — — Net cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities (851,121,083) 1,753,239,200 (2,002,832,740) 252,578,417 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,326,657,724 158,189,445 498,657,828 (203,172,327) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 829,386,236 671,196,791 577,006,066 780,178,393 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 22 2,156,043,960 829,386,236 1,075,663,894 577,006,066 Cash and cash equivalent includes bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 The Accounting Policies and Notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 192 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. CORPORATE AND Information about subsidiaries, joint venture and associate GROUP INFORMATION The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group include: This section provides corporate and Name Principal activities Percentage of equity interest group information about Access Engineering PLC, its subsidiaries, 2019 2018 joint venture and associate. Access Realties (Private) Limited Commercial property development for lease and rental 100 100 1.1 Reporting entity Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited Commercial property development Access Engineering PLC (“Company”) is a for lease and rental 100 100 public limited liability company, listed on ARL Elevate (Private) Limited Provision of conference, restaurant the Colombo Stock Exchange, incorporated and support facilities on 31 July 2001 and domiciled in Sri Lanka. for Access Towers 100 100 The Company was re-registered under Sathosa Motors PLC Authorised distributor for ISUZU the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 on brand vehicles in Sri Lanka 84.42 84.42 6 February 2008. The Company’s registered office and the principal place of SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Authorised distributor for Jaguar business are located at “Access Towers”, Limited and Land Rover in Sri Lanka 42.21 42.21 278, Union Place, Colombo 02. Access Projects (Private) Limited Construction and supply of construction related services 1.2 Consolidated Financial and materials 80 80 Statements Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited Property development 100 100 The Consolidated Financial Statements of Access Engineering PLC for the year ended Horizon Knowledge City Limited Property development Nil 99.99 31 March 2019, comprise the Company, its Harbour Village (Private) Limited Residential and commercial subsidiaries, joint venture and associate property development 60.83 60.83 (together referred to as the “Group”). ZPMC Lanka Company Commission, repair and (Private) Limited maintenance of port machinery 30 30 The Financial Statements of all companies Blue Star Realties in the Group have a common financial year (Private) Limited Residential property development 50 50 which ends on 31 March. Access Engineering PLC does not have any identifiable parent Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited Property development Nil 50 of its own. The Company is the ultimate parent of the Group. All the companies are incorporated in Sri Lanka. 1.3 Principal activities and The Horizon Knowledge City Limited, nature of operations subsidiary of AEL (99.99%) and Horizon Access Engineering PLC (AEL) is primarily Holdings (Private) Limited, a joint venture involved in the business of construction of AEL were fully disposed during the year. activities and supply of construction-related There are no other significant changes ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 services and materials. in the nature of the principal business activities of the Company or its subsidiaries during the financial year under review. The business activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are described in more detail in the Group Directory on page 7. 193 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION The Board of Directors acknowledges this 2.4 Functional and presentation responsibility as set out in the “Statement currency 2.1 Statement of compliance of Directors’ Responsibility for Financial Statements” (Refer page 180), “Annual These Consolidated Financial Statements The Financial Statements of the Company are presented in Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR), Report of the Board of Directors” (Refer and those consolidated comprise the which is the Group’s functional and page 174) and in the statement appearing Statement of Financial Position, Statement presentation currency. with the Statement of Financial Position of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive (Refer page 189) of this Annual Report. Income, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows together with the 2.5 Comparative information The Financial Statements for the year Accounting Policies and Notes (the Financial The presentation and classification of the ended 31 March 2019, were approved Statements) which have been prepared Financial Statements of the previous years and authorised for issue by the Board in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting have been amended, where relevant for of directors on 10 July 2019. Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) laid down by better presentation and to be comparable The Institute of Chartered Accountants with those of the current year. of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and with the 2.3 Basis of measurement requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 These Financial Statements have been Prior year adjustments of 2007 and provide appropriate disclosures prepared on the historical cost basis except as required by Listing Rules of Colombo As per the financial reporting ruling issued for the following material items in the Stock Exchange. by the Institute of Chartered Accountants Statement of Financial Position: of Sri Lanka on the application of deferred ● Financial assets and financial liabilities tax for entities enjoying tax holiday period These Financial Statements except for that have been measured at fair value — or tax concessionary rate period, and information on cash flows have been SLFRS 9 (Refer Note 33) clarification obtained by the Management prepared following the accrual basis of accounting. The Group did not adopt any Employee benefit liability recognised of the Company from CA Sri Lanka Financial inappropriate accounting treatments which based on actuarial valuation — LKAS 19 Reporting Standards Implementation on are not in compliance with the requirements (Refer Note 26) Interpretation Task Force on the deferred of SLFRSs and LKASs, regulations governing ● Land and buildings stated at revalued tax provision on revaluation gain of the preparation of Financial Statements. amounts — LKAS 16 (Refer Note 11) investment property during the BOI tax holiday period, if an entity is enjoying a Investment property measured at fair tax exemption period, it shall recognise 2.2 Responsibilities for the value — LKAS 40 (Refer Note 12) deferred tax in their Financial Statements Financial Statements for temporary differences, where reversals The Board of Directors is responsible for of such differences extend beyond the the preparation and presentation of the tax exemption period. However, in the Financial Statements of the Company previous years, Access Realties (Private) and its Subsidiaries as per provisions Limited and Access Realties 2 (Private) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Limited have not estimated deferred tax and the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards liability on the temporary difference of (SLFRSs/LKASs). business assets (buildings). ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 194 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This error has been now corrected retrospectively in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 08 — “Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors”. The effect of the restatements on the Group Consolidated Financial Statements is summarised below: Group Previously Adjustment Restated reported amount amount LKR LKR LKR Statement of profit or loss for the year ended 31 March 2018 Profit before tax 4,231,164,711 — 4,231,164,711 Income tax expense (1,204,849,540) (563,618,985) (1,768,468,525) Profit for the year 3,026,315,171 (563,618,985) 2,462,696,186 Profit attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 3,070,832,659 (563,618,985) 2,507,213,674 Non-controlling interest (44,517,488) — (44,517,488) 3,026,315,171 (563,618,985) 2,462,696,186 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation (19,122,325) — (19,122,325) Revaluation of land and buildings 211,524,251 — 211,524,251 Related tax (94,598,099) — (94,598,099) Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 97,803,827 — 97,803,827 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 3,124,118,998 (563,618,985) 2,560,500,013 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 3,167,637,324 (563,618,985) 2,604,018,339 Non-controlling interest (43,518,326) — (43,518,326) Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 3,124,118,998 (563,618,985) 2,560,500,013 Basic earning per share 3.07 (0.56) 2.51 Group Previously Adjustment Restated reported amount amount LKR LKR LKR Statement of financial position Deferred tax liabilities Balance as at 1 April 2017 284,042,411 424,314,879 708,357,290 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Balance as at 1 April 2018 1,157,536,815 987,933,864 2,145,470,679 Retained earnings Balance as at 1 April 2017 9,589,746,941 (424,314,879) 9,165,432,062 Balance as at 1 April 2018 11,375,847,076 (987,933,864) 10,387,913,212 Net assets per share As at 1 April 2017 18.84 (0.42) 18.42 As at 1 April 2018 20.78 (0.99) 19.79 There is no impact on the total operating, investing or financing cash flows for the year ended 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2018 on above adjustment. 195 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.6 Significant accounting Management considered the following Impairment of financial assets: judgements, estimates and items, where significant judgements, key assumption underlying estimates and assumptions have been used recoverable amount (Note 33) assumptions in preparing these Financial Statements. Income Tax (current tax and The preparation of the Group’s Consolidated deferred tax) (Note 9) Financial Statements requires Management to make judgements, estimates and Going concern Recognition and measurement of assumptions that affect the reported The Management has made an assessment provisions and contingencies: key amounts of revenues, expenses, assets of its ability to continue as a going concern assumption about the likelihood and and liabilities, and the accompanying and is satisfied that it has the resources to magnitude of an outflow of resources disclosures, and the disclosure of continue in business for the foreseeable (Note 29) contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about future. Furthermore, Management is these assumptions and estimates could not aware of any material uncertainties 2.7 Summary of significant result in outcomes that require a material related to events or conditions that accounting policies adjustment to the carrying amount of assets may cast significant doubt upon the or liabilities affected in future periods. Group’s/Company’s ability to continue as Summary of significant accounting policies a going concern. Therefore, the Financial have been disclosed along with the relevant In the process of applying the Group’s Statements continue to be prepared on a individual notes in the subsequent pages. accounting policies, Management has going concern basis. made various judgements. Those which Those accounting policies presented with Management has assessed to have the Information about assumptions and each note, have been applied consistently most significant effect on the amounts estimation uncertainties that have a by the Group, except for the changes of the recognised in the Consolidated Financial significant risk of resulting in a material Accounting Policies due to the adoption of Statements have been discussed in the adjustment to the carrying amounts of SLFRS 9 and SLFRS 15. individual Notes of the related Financial assets and liabilities within the year Statement line items. ending 31 March 2019 is included in the Following accounting policies which have following notes: been applied consistently by the Group, The key assumptions concerning the are considered to be significant but are not Revenue recognition (Note 5) covered in any other sections. future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that Revaluation of property, plant and have a significant risk of causing a material equipment (Note 11) 2.7.1 Basis of consolidation adjustment to the carrying amounts of Fair value of the investment property The Consolidated Financial Statements assets and liabilities within the next financial (Note 12) comprise the Financial Statements of the year, are also described in the individual Impairment of non-financial assets: Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 March Notes of the related Financial Statement key assumption underlying 2019. Control is achieved when the Group is line items below. The Group based its recoverable amount (Note 13) exposed, or has rights, to variable returns assumptions and estimates on parameters Measurement of defined benefit from its involvement with the investee available when the Consolidated Financial obligation: key actuarial assumptions and has the ability to affect those returns Statements were prepared. Existing (Note 26) through its power over the investee. circumstances and assumptions about Specifically, the Group controls an investee future developments, however, may change Measurement of ECL allowance for if, and only if, the Group has: due to market changes or circumstances trade receivables (Note 33) arising that are beyond the control of the Fair value measurement of financial Power over the investee. (i.e., existing Group. Such changes are reflected in the instruments (Note 33) rights that give it the current ability ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 assumptions when they occur. to direct the relevant activities of the investee). Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee. The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns. 196 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Generally, there is a presumption that a If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, 2.7.3 Borrowing costs majority of voting rights results in control. it derecognises the related assets (including Borrowing costs directly attributable to the To support this presumption and when goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling interest acquisition, construction or production of the Group has less than a majority of the and other components of equity, while an asset that necessarily takes a substantial voting or similar rights of an investee, any resultant gain or loss is recognised in period of time to get ready for its intended the Group considers all relevant facts and profit or loss. Any investment retained is use or sale are capitalised as part of the circumstances in assessing whether it has recognised at fair value. cost of the asset. All other borrowing power over an investee, including: costs are expensed in the period in which The contractual arrangement(s) with 2.7.2 Current versus non-current they occur. Borrowing costs consist of the other vote holders of the investee. classification interest and other costs that an entity Rights arising from other contractual incurs in connection with the borrowing The Group presents assets and liabilities arrangements. of funds. Capitalisation of borrowing costs in the Statement of Financial Position based ceases when substantially all the activities The Group’s voting rights and potential on current/non-current classification. necessary to prepare the qualifying assets voting rights. An asset is current when it is: for its intended use are completed. ● Expected to be realised or intended The Group re-assesses whether or to sold or consumed in the normal not it controls an investee if facts and 2.7.4 Foreign currency operating cycle circumstances indicate that there are transactions changes to one or more of the three Held primarily for the purpose of trading elements of control. Consolidation of a ● Expected to be realised within twelve Transactions and balances subsidiary begins when the Group obtains months after the reporting period Transactions in foreign currencies are control over the subsidiary and ceases when Or translated into the respective functional the Group loses control of the subsidiary. Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted currencies of Group companies at the Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of from being exchanged or used to settle a exchange rates at the dates of the a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during liability for at least twelve months after transactions. the year are included in the consolidated the reporting period. Financial Statements from the date the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated Group gains control until the date the All other assets are classified as in foreign currencies are retranslated into Group ceases to control the subsidiary. non-current. the functional currencies at the exchange rate at the reporting date. Non-monetary Profit or loss and each component of A liability is current when — assets and liabilities that are measured OCI are attributed to the equity holders at fair value in foreign currency are of the parent of the Group and to the It is expected to be settled in the translated in to the functional currency non-controlling interests, even if this normal operating cycle at the exchange rate when fair value results in the non-controlling interests It is held primarily for the purpose was determined. Non-monitory items having a deficit balance. When necessary, of trading that are measured based on historical adjustments are made to the Financial ● It is due to be settled within twelve cost in a foreign currency are translated Statements of subsidiaries to bring their months after the reporting period at the exchange rate at the date of the accounting policies into line with the Group’s Or transaction. Foreign currency differences accounting policies. All intra-group assets are generally recognised in profit or loss. ● There is no unconditional right to and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and defer the settlement of the liability cash flows relating to transactions between 2.7.5 Impairment of ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 for at least twelve months after the members of the Group are eliminated in reporting period. non-financial assets full on consolidation. A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, The Group assesses at each reporting The Group classifies all other liabilities as without a loss of control, is accounted date whether there is an indication that non-current. Deferred tax liabilities are for as an equity transaction. an asset may be impaired. If any indication classified as non-current liabilities. exists, the Company estimates the asset’s 197 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable determined, net of depreciation, had no SLFRS 15 — “Revenue from amount is the higher of an asset’s or impairment loss been recognised for contracts with customers” cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value the asset in prior years. Such reversal less costs to sell and its value in use and is is recognised in the Statement of Profit SLFRS 15 supersedes LKAS 11 — determined for an individual asset, unless or Loss unless the asset is carried at a “Construction Contracts”, LKAS 18 — the asset does not generate cash inflows revalued amount, in which case the “Revenue and related interpretations” that are largely independent of those reversal is treated as a revaluation increase. and it applies, with limited exceptions, to from other assets or groups of assets. all revenue arising from contracts with Where the carrying amount of an asset or customers. SLFRS 15 establishes a five-step 2.7.6 Statement of cash flows model to account for revenue arising from CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written The Statement of Cash Flows has been contracts with customers and requires down to its recoverable amount. prepared using the “indirect method” in that revenue be recognised at an amount accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting that reflects the consideration to which an In assessing value in use, the estimated Standard — LKAS 7 — “Statement of Cash entity expects to be entitled in exchange future cash flows are discounted to their Flows”. Cash and cash equivalent comprise for transferring goods or services to a present value using a pre-tax discount rate cash in hand, cash at bank and short-term customer. that reflects current market assessments investments that are readily convertible to of the time value of money and the risks known amounts of cash and subject to an SLFRS 15 requires entities to exercise specific to the asset. In determining fair insignificant risk of change in value. judgement, taking into consideration all of value less costs to sell, recent market the relevant facts and circumstances when transactions are taken into account, if Interest received and dividends received applying each step of the model to contracts available. If no such transactions can be are classified as investing cash flows, while with their customers. The standard also identified, an appropriate valuation model dividend paid is classified as financing cash specifies the accounting for the incremental is used. These calculations are corroborated flows and interest paid is classified under costs of obtaining a contract and the costs by valuation multiples, quoted share prices the operating cash flows for the purpose of directly related to fulfilling a contract. In for publicly traded subsidiaries or other presentation of Statement of Cash Flows. addition, the standard requires relevant available fair value indicators. disclosures. Cash and cash equivalent includes bank Impairment losses are recognised in overdrafts that are repayable on demand The Group adopted SLFRS 15 using the the Statement of Profit or Loss in those and form on integral part of the Group’s modified retrospective method of adoption expense categories consistent with the cash management. with the date of initial application of function of the impaired asset, except 1 April 2018. for a property previously revalued where 2.8 Changes in accounting the revaluation was taken to other The cumulative effect of initially applying policies and disclosures SLFRS 15 is recognised at the date of initial comprehensive income. In this case, the impairment is also recognised in other New and amended standards application as an adjustment to the opening comprehensive income up to the amount and interpretations balance of retained earnings. Therefore, the of any previous revaluation. comparative was not restated and continues The Group applied SLFRS 15 — “Revenue” to be reported under LKAS 11, LKAS 18 and from contract with customers and SLFRS 9 related interpretations. For assets excluding goodwill, an — “Financial instruments” for the first assessment is made at each reporting time which are effective for the annual date as to whether there is any indication reporting periods beginning on or after that previously recognised impairment 1 January 2018. The nature and effect losses may no longer exist or may have ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 of changes as a result of adoption of decreased. If such indication exists, these new accounting standards are the Company estimates the asset’s or described below: cash-generating unit’s recoverable amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is Several other amendments and reversed only if there has been a change interpretations apply for the first time in in the assumptions used to determine 2018, but do not have an impact on the the asset’s recoverable amount since the Consolidated Financial Statements of the last impairment loss was recognised. The Group. The Group has not early adopted reversal is limited so that the carrying any standards, interpretations or amount of the asset does not exceed amendments that have been issued, its recoverable amount, nor exceed the but are not yet effective. carrying amount that would have been 198 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table summarises the impact of transaction to SLFRS 15 on retained earnings and non-controlling interest as at 1 April 2018. Impact of adopting SLFRS 15 as at 1 April 2018 Group Company Retained earning Existence of significant financing component in construction-related contracts 215,651,061 215,651,061 Existence of cost and revenue component of preliminary activities in construction-related contracts 27,385,676 22,050,720 243,036,737 237,701,781 Non-controlling interest Existence of cost and revenue component of preliminary activities in construction-related contracts 1,333,739 — Impact as at 1 April 2018 244,370,476 237,701,781 The following tables summarises the impact of adopting SLFRS 15 on Groups’/Company’s Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Statement of Financial Position as at 31 March 2019: Impact on the consolidated statement of profit or loss Group Company Amount as per Impact from Amount as per Amount as per Impact from Amount as per previous standard adopting SLFRS 15 SLFRS 15 previous standard adopting SLFRS 15 SLFRS 15 LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Revenue 32,220,673,842 56,767,352 32,277,441,194 19,296,297,246 59,808,329 19,356,105,575 Cost of sales (27,085,516,332) (7,683,489) (27,093,199,821) (16,171,679,582) (11,723,759) (16,183,403,341) Gross profit 5,135,157,510 49,083,863 5,184,241,373 3,124,617,664 48,084,570 3,172,702,234 Finance cost (1,186,547,114) (333,648,760) (1,520,195,874) (745,315,918) (333,648,760) (1,078,964,678) Finance income 508,904,282 360,401,624 869,305,906 233,614,359 360,401,624 594,015,983 Profit before tax 3,052,708,815 75,836,727 3,128,545,542 2,469,820,972 74,837,434 2,544,658,406 Impact on the consolidated financial position Group Company Amount as per Impact from Amount as per Amount as per Impact from Amount as per previous standard adopting SLFRS 15 SLFRS 15 previous standard adopting SLFRS 15 SLFRS 15 LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Trade and other receivables 13,622,272,312 162,106,835 13,784,379,147 9,948,470,387 153,203,656 10,101,674,043 Total assets 47,899,956,669 162,106,835 48,062,063,504 34,467,673,752 153,203,656 34,620,877,408 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Total equity 23,756,612,367 (168,533,749) 23,588,078,618 19,247,805,742 (162,864,347) 19,084,941,395 Trade and payables 12,160,455,486 330,640,585 12,491,096,071 8,212,875,815 316,068,004 8,528,943,819 Total equity and liabilities 47,899,956,669 162,106,835 48,062,063,504 34,467,673,752 153,203,656 34,620,877,408 199 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SLFRS 9 — “Financial Instruments” SLFRS 9 — “Financial Instruments” replaces LKAS 39 — “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement” for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, bringing together all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments: classification and measurement; and hedge accounting. The Group applied SLFRS 9 prospectively, with an initial application date 1 April 2018. The Group has not restated the comparative information, which continues to be reported under LKAS 39. Differences arising from the adoption of SLFRS 9 have been recognised directly in retained earnings and other components of equity. The following table summarises the changes to the classification of Group financial assets and financial liabilities as at 1 April 2018. Financial statement line item Classification under LKAS 39 Classification under SLFRS 9 Financial assets Corporate debt securities Held to maturity Financial instruments at amortised cost Trade and other receivables Loans and receivables Financial instruments at amortised cost Amount due from related parties Loans and receivables Financial instruments at amortised cost Other current financial assets Loans and receivables Financial instruments at amortised cost Equity securities Fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments recognised through profit or loss Short-term deposits Loans and receivables Financial instruments at amortised cost Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables Financial instruments at amortised cost Financial liabilities Unsecured bond issue Other financial liability Other financial liability Bank overdraft Other financial liability Other financial liability Interest-bearing borrowings Other financial liability Other financial liability Trade and other payable Other financial liability Other financial liability Amount due to related parties Other financial liability Other financial liability More details on classification and measurement of above financial instruments are described in Note 33. The following table summarises the impact of transaction to SLFRS 9 on retained earnings as at 1 April 2018. Impact of adopting SLFRS 9 as at 1 April 2018 Group Company Retained earning Recognition of expected credit loss under SLFRS 9 26,326,774 24,582,637 Recognition of the impact on deferred tax under SLFRS 9 (7,448,747) (6,883,138) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Impact as at 1 April 2018 18,878,028 17,699,499 Non-controlling interest Recognition of expected credit loss under SLFRS 9 1,201,209 — Recognition of the impact on deferred tax under SLFRS 9 (350,592) — Impact as at 1 April 2018 850,616 — Total Impact as at 1 April 2018 19,728,644 17,699,499 200 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table summarises the impact of adopting SLFRS 9 on Groups’/Company’s Statement of Profit or Loss and Statement of Financial Position as at 31 March 2019: Impact on the consolidated statement of profit or loss Group Company Amount as per Impact from Amount as per Amount as per Impact from Amount as per previous standard adopting SLFRS 9 SLFRS 9 previous standard adopting SLFRS 9 SLFRS 9 LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Administrative expenses (1,827,349,590) (24,751,207) (1,852,100,797) (748,710,751) (17,249,251) (765,960,002) Income tax expense (888,262,914) 5,074,374 (883,188,540) (587,893,080) 4,829,790 (583,063,290) Profit for the year 2,265,033,835 (19,676,833) 2,245,357,002 1,974,014,577 (12,419,461) 1,961,595,116 Impact on the consolidated financial position Group Company Amount as per Impact from Amount as per Amount as per Impact from Amount as per previous standard adopting SLFRS 9 SLFRS 9 previous standard adopting SLFRS 9 SLFRS 9 LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Trade and other receivables 13,809,080,750 (24,701,603) 13,784,379,147 10,118,923,294 (17,249,251) 10,101,674,043 Amount due from related parties 126,945,593 (49,604) 126,895,989 409,622,868 — 409,622,868 Total assets 48,086,814,711 (24,751,207) 48,062,063,504 34,638,126,659 (17,249,251) 34,620,877,408 Total equity 23,607,755,451 (19,676,833) 23,588,078,618 19,097,360,856 (12,419,461) 19,084,941,395 Deferred tax liabilities 2,170,802,989 (5,074,374) 2,165,728,615 523,869,828 (4,829,790) 519,040,038 Total equity and liabilities 48,086,814,711 (24,751,207) 48,062,063,504 34,638,126,659 (17,249,251) 34,620,877,408 3. SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING SLFRS 16 sets out the principles for the STANDARDS (SLFRS/LKASs) recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases and requires ISSUED BUT NOT YET lessees to account for all leases under a EFFECTIVE single on-balance sheet model similar to the accounting for finance leases under The standards and interpretations that are LKAS 17. This standard is effective for issued but not yet effective up to the date annual periods beginning on or after of issuance of the Company/Group Financial 1 January 2019. Early application is Statements are disclosed below. The permitted, but not before an entity applies ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Group intends to adopt these standards, if SLFRS 15. A lessee can choose to apply the applicable, when they become effective. standard using either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach. (a) SLFRS 16 — “Leases” SLFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 — “Leases”, The Group is currently assessing the IFRIC — 4 Determining whether an potential impact on its Financial Statements Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC — 15 resulting from the application of SLFRS 16. Operating Leases-Incentives and SIC — 27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. 201 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4. SEGMENT INFORMATION Accounting policy Segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged either in providing related products or services (business segment), or in providing products or services within a particular economic environment (Geographical Segment), which is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of the Segments. The Group’s Primary Format for segmental reporting is based on Business Segments. The Business Segments are determined based on the Group’s Management and internal reporting structure. The activities of the Group are located mainly in Sri Lanka. Consequently, the economic environment in which the Group operated is not subject to risks and rewards that are significantly different on a geographical basis. Hence disclosure by geographical region is not provided. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. The Board of Directors monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and is measured consistently with profit or loss in the Consolidated Financial Statements. As such for Management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has four operating Business Segments as follows: Business segment Operations Construction Process of constructing buildings and other infrastructures Construction-Related Production and supply of construction related material such as asphalt product, quarry products, crusher products, Materials ready-mix concrete and other construction material Property Development of high rise buildings and manage the same or otherwise leasing, renting out or sale in whole or in part Automobile Importing and distribution or sale of three branded motor vehicles, spare parts and operate of workshops 4.1 Business segment For the year ended 31 March 2019 Construction ConstructionProperty Automobile Adjustments and Group total related material eliminations LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Revenue External customers 17,656,309,121 3,049,723,377 772,864,116 10,798,544,580 — 32,277,441,194 Inter-segment 478,188,355 1,390,177,802 73,501,364 327,215,398 (2,269,082,919) — Total revenue 18,134,497,476 4,439,901,179 846,365,480 11,125,759,978 (2,269,082,919) 32,277,441,194 Segment operating profit 2,711,897,839 463,324,067 570,098,166 594,583,985 (560,194,611) 3,779,709,446 Net finance income/(cost) (532,113,632) — 180,064,841 (298,841,177) — (650,889,968) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Share of results of equityaccounted investees, net of tax (Note 15.2 ) — — — — (273,936) (273,936) Income tax expense (583,063,290) — (172,410,277) (119,484,842) (8,230,131) (883,188,540) Segment profit 1,596,720,917 463,324,067 577,752,730 176,257,966 (568,698,678) 2,245,357,002 Capital expenditure 716,087,352 17,065,290 187,716,633 427,157,654 (39,509,005) 1,308,517,924 Depreciation and amortisation 758,404,816 156,344,265 41,691,596 137,740,526 17,439,125 1,111,620,328 As at 31 March 2019 Segment assets 34,608,139,636 1,843,581,942 17,873,371,580 7,013,712,416 (13,276,742,070) 48,062,063,504 Segment liabilities 16,290,063,874 787,983,121 3,237,135,553 4,966,109,943 (807,307,605) 24,473,984,886 202 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 March 2018 Construction ConstructionProperty Automobile Adjustments and Group total related material restated eliminations restated LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Revenue External customers 14,782,024,192 2,608,487,087 496,717,441 8,168,362,083 — 26,055,590,803 Inter-segment 1,963,445,725 1,211,541,003 57,908,843 8,535,450 (3,241,431,021) — Total revenue 16,745,469,917 3,820,028,090 554,626,284 8,176,897,533 (3,241,431,021) 26,055,590,803 Segment operating profit 1,896,582,544 352,026,399 2,571,130,522 635,497,744 (831,812,551) 4,623,424,658 Net finance income/(cost) (507,008,069) — 229,619,179 (105,199,990) — (382,588,880) Share of results of equity-accounted investees, net of tax (Note 15.2) — — — — (9,671,067) (9,671,067) Income tax expense (466,088,583) — (1,210,877,437) (43,843,024) (47,659,481) (1,768,468,525) Segment profit 923,485,892 352,026,399 1,589,872,264 486,454,730 (889,143,099) 2,462,696,186 Capital expenditure 496,677,275 296,645,259 2,275,896,064 551,769,658 — 3,620,988,256 Depreciation and amortisation 758,368,097 141,796,297 12,621,961 123,865,377 17,091,831 1,053,743,563 As at 31 March 2018 Segment assets 32,625,264,466 1,968,314,299 17,654,686,394 5,381,964,100 (13,191,463,707) 44,438,765,552 Segment liabilities 15,775,750,995 755,413,393 2,611,613,190 3,509,950,022 (306,299,178) 22,346,428,422 NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION. 5. REVENUE Accounting policy Revenue represents the amounts derived from the sale of goods and provision of services, which fall within the Group’s ordinary activities net of trade discounts and turnover-related taxes. Accounting policy applicable from 1 April 2018 Revenue recognition The Group has initially applied SLFRS 15 from 1 April 2018 for the first time in these Financial Statements, which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of the goods or services is transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Timing of transferring the goods ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 and services to the customer is determined based on judgements taking into the consideration of the nature of the goods and services that offers to the customers. The following specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognition of revenue: Sale of goods The revenue recognition occurs at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer, generally, on delivery of the goods. Sales are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties (e.g. Sales taxes) and variable consideration (e.g. discounts and rebates). Rendering of services Revenue from rendering of services is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss when each performance obligations are satisfied by transferring promised service to the customer. 203 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Construction contracts Revenue from construction-related contracts is recognised upon satisfaction of a performance obligation agreed in the contract. At contract inception, the Group determines whether it satisfies the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. The revenue recognition occurs at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer. For each performance obligation satisfied over time, the Group recognises the revenue over time by measuring the progress towards complete satisfaction of that performance obligation. The progress is assessed based on surveys of work performed. When the outcome of construction contract can not be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable. Rental income Rental income arising from operating lease on investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term and incurred in revenue in the Statement of Profit or Loss due to its operating nature. Accounting policy applicable prior to 1 April 2018 Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue and associated costs incurred or to be incurred can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is received. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, taking into account contractually defined terms of payment, and excluding tax or duty. The specific recognition criteria described below must also be met before revenue is recognised. Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably, there is no continuing Management involvement with the goods and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. Revenue is measured net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates. Rendering of services Revenue for services rendered is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss once all significant performance obligations have been completed. Construction contracts Contract revenue includes the initial amount agreed in the contract plus any variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments, to the extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue and can be measured reliably. If the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, then contract revenue is recognised in profit or loss in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract. The stage of completion is assessed with reference to surveys of work performed. Otherwise, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable. Contract expenses are recognised as incurred unless they create an asset related to future contract activity. An expected loss on a contract is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Rental Income ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Rental income arising from operating leases on investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms and included in revenue in the statement of profit or loss due to its operating nature. Agency commissions and hiring income If the group acts in the capacity of an agent rather than as the principal in a transaction, then the revenue recognised is the net amount of commission made by the Group. Sales tax Expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax, except: When the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as applicable. When receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included. 204 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Statement of Financial Position. 5.1 Revenue Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Roads and highways construction 7,714,437,252 2,979,494,492 7,714,437,252 2,979,494,492 Water and drainage construction 1,943,306,411 1,276,854,180 1,943,306,411 1,276,854,180 Bridge construction 313,975,166 1,754,410,689 313,975,166 1,754,410,689 Building and other construction 7,688,431,841 8,677,458,328 6,280,505,777 9,213,110,637 Sale of construction-related material 2,928,948,071 2,574,220,914 2,967,881,616 2,581,555,329 Hiring income 104,194,304 70,730,643 111,559,900 74,266,305 Fabrication income 12,739,453 57,342,033 12,739,453 57,342,033 Design income — — 11,700,000 — Vehicle sales and after sales services 10,798,544,580 8,168,362,083 — — Rental income 772,065,156 495,154,491 — — Service charges 798,960 1,562,950 — — 32,277,441,194 26,055,590,803 19,356,105,575 17,937,033,665 5.2 Contract balances Contract assets Contract assets are entity’s right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has transferred to a customer, when that right is conditioned on some criteria other than the passage of time. Upon satisfaction of the conditions, the amounts recognised as contract assets are reclassified to trade receivables. The contract assets primarily relate to the Group’s right to consideration for work completed but not billed at the reporting date. Contract liability The contract liabilities are entity’s obligation to transfer goods and services to a customer for which the entity has received consideration (or the amount is due) from the customer. The contract liabilities primarily relate to the advance consideration received from customers for goods or services provided, for which revenue is recognised over the time. 6. OTHER INCOME Accounting policy Income earned in other sources, which are not directly related to the ordinary course of business are recognised as other income. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 The following specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognising income: Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment The gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the carrying amount of the property, plant and equipment at the time of disposal and the proceeds from disposal net of expenses incurred in disposal. Dividends Income is recognised when the Group’s/Company’s right to receive the payment is established. 205 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.1 Other income Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Dividend income 1,340,836 1,486,092 332,979,009 560,181,409 Rent income 8,516,397 4,183,125 17,808,107 14,601,225 Loss on fair value changes in short-term investments (9,791,387) (490,247) (9,791,387) (490,247) Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 62,587,664 27,798,224 40,038,992 20,033,264 Foreign exchange gain 102,097,953 92,690,487 72,554,983 92,727,969 Sundry income 79,791,131 68,837,712 54,216,470 37,834,879 Restaurant and membership income 236,776,201 21,284,449 — — Gain/(Loss) on disposal of subsidiary (5,977,460) — 140,010,000 — Gain on disposal of equity-accounted investees 6,427,534 — — — Gain on fair value changes of investment property 12.1 — 2,303,297,521 — — 481,768,869 2,519,087,363 647,816,174 724,888,499 7. NET FINANCE INCOME/(COST) Accounting policy Interest income Interest income is recorded using the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial instruments or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. Interest income is included in net finance income in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 206 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.1 Net Finance Income/(Cost) Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Finance income Interest income on fixed deposits 177,435,834 262,508,086 35,328,834 37,079,301 Interest income on repurchase agreements 17,610,244 3,047,848 403,846 3,047,848 Interest income on debenture 158,371,447 145,267,285 100,087,412 98,200,000 Other interest income 40,365,952 19,749,738 18,620,849 15,294,761 393,783,477 430,572,957 154,440,941 153,621,910 Interest income on retention receivable 109,521,475 94,490,121 73,574,088 66,613,838 Interest income on staff loan 5,599,330 6,367,649 5,599,330 6,367,649 Interest income on contract liability 360,401,624 — 360,401,624 — Total finance income 869,305,906 531,430,727 594,015,983 226,603,397 Finance cost Interest on finance leases (1,201,143) (4,568,483) — — Interest on bank overdraft (92,658,929) (77,274,191) (236,983) (347,178) Interest on debenture (494,636,902) (494,636,902) (512,505,934) (512,505,934) Interest on bank loan (482,929,335) (236,682,261) (150,948,624) (86,579,616) Interest expense on related party loan — — (2,450,959) — (1,071,426,309) (813,161,837) (666,142,500) (599,432,728) Un-winding of prepaid retention receivable expenses (109,521,475) (94,490,121) (73,574,088) (66,613,838) Un-winding of prepaid staff loan expenses (5,599,330) (6,367,649) (5,599,330) (6,367,649) Un-winding of significant financing component (333,648,760) — (333,648,760) — Total finance cost (1,520,195,874) (914,019,607) (1,078,964,678) (672,414,215) Net finance cost (650,889,968) (382,588,880) (484,948,695) (445,810,818) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 207 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8. PROFIT BEFORE TAX Accounting policy Expenditure recognition Expenses are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss on the basis of a direct association between the cost incurred and the earning of specific items of income. All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and in maintaining the property, plant and equipment in a state of efficiency has been charged to the Statement of Profit or Loss. For the purpose of presentation of Statement of Profit or Loss, the Directors are of the opinion that “function of expenses” method presents fairly the elements of the enterprise’s performance; hence such presentation method is adopted. Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including following: Auditors’ remuneration — Statutory audit and related services 7,414,500 6,339,000 2,851,000 2,640,000 Auditors’ remuneration — Non-audit services 2,416,193 2,721,345 804,165 1,582,979 Loss on fair value changes in short-term investments 6.1 9,791,387 490,247 9,791,387 490,247 Write-off/Provision for impairment of trade receivables 30,148,714 24,214,217 17,282,129 6,567,615 Provision for/(reversal of) impairment of retention receivables 2,290,362 51,925,874 (5,150,881) — Provision for/write-off of inventories* 38,427,068 54,625,731 10,317,091 — Donations 1,668,400 1,197,513 1,596,286 892,263 CSR expense 13,504,671 13,511,400 12,563,806 12,626,624 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11.1,11.2 1,077,028,529 1,023,382,343 873,104,852 851,258,202 Amortisation of intangible assets 13.1 34,591,799 30,361,220 9,169,035 9,218,382 Staff expenses Defined benefit plan costs — Gratuity 26.1 64,266,599 50,516,729 46,824,048 35,142,287 Defined contribution plan costs — EPF 140,721,208 136,191,663 98,723,499 96,816,490 Defined contribution plan costs — ETF 35,180,300 34,047,916 24,680,873 24,204,121 Directors’ emoluments and fees 28.6 77,550,367 85,288,391 44,445,500 43,790,000 Staff cost 2,691,980,233 2,503,923,094 2,180,228,531 2,064,823,123 Performance incentives 134,711,986 111,155,049 125,896,896 111,155,049 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 *This includes the loss of inventories due to misappropriation, amounting to LKR 38,044,016/(2017/18 — LKR 87,550,588/-) net of advance received from customers, in Sathosa Motors PLC. Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 Number of employees 3,047 3,212 2,458 2,670 208 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9. INCOME TAX Accounting policy Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in OCI. Current tax Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years. The amount of current tax payable or receivable is the best estimate of the tax amount expected to be paid or received that reflects uncertainty related to income taxes, if any. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Current tax also includes any tax arising from dividends. Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if certain criteria are met. Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate. Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for: Temporary differences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss; Temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and Taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be used. Future taxable profits are determined based on the reversal of relevant taxable temporary differences. If the amount of taxable temporary differences is insufficient to recognise a deferred tax asset in full, then future taxable profits, adjusted for reversal of existing temporary differences, are considered, based on the business plans for individual subsidiaries in the Group. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised; such reductions are reversed when the probability of future taxable profits improves. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be used. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. For this purpose, the carrying amount of investment properties measured at fair value is presumed to be recovered through sale and the Group has not rebutted this presumption. Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in Other Comprehensive Income or directly in equity. The Group offsets deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to setoff current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or recovered. 209 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Significant judgements relating to deferred taxes Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits, together with future tax planning strategies. 9.1 The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2019 and 2018 are: Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2018 2019 2019 2018 Restated Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Consolidated statement of profit or loss Current income tax: Current income tax charge 9.2 757,966,350 424,367,145 640,686,224 185,931,897 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year 9.3 44,978,082 1,586,090 11,431,203 (181,321) Deferred tax: Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 9.4 80,244,108 1,342,515,290 (69,054,137) 297,344,321 Income tax expense reported in the Statement of Profit or Loss 883,188,540 1,768,468,525 583,063,290 483,094,897 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income Deferred tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income during in the year: Net loss on actuarial gains and losses 4,608,927 6,725,051 4,325,309 6,716,681 Net gain on revaluation of lands and buildings — 87,873,048 — 31,077,288 Deferred tax charged to Other Comprehensive Income 9.4 4,608,927 94,598,099 4,325,309 37,793,969 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 210 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9.2 Reconciliation between accounting profit and current tax expense Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Accounting profit before tax 3,128,545,542 4,231,164,711 2,544,658,406 2,391,025,804 Aggregate non-deductible expenses 1,588,023,198 1,727,814,605 615,664,714 949,252,980 Aggregate allowable items (1,359,212,945) (2,358,394,211) (539,179,026) (843,463,012) Tax losses set-off against the current taxable income (62,601,718) — — — Total statutory income 3,294,754,077 3,600,585,105 2,621,144,094 2,496,815,772 Exempted income (368,959,193) (1,184,956,319) (332,979,009) (991,840,488) Taxable income 2,925,794,884 2,415,628,786 2,288,165,085 1,504,975,284 Taxable income at 2% 267,255,189 246,950,821 — — Taxable income at 12% — 1,471,632,388 — 1,471,632,388 Taxable income at 28% 2,658,539,695 697,045,577 2,288,165,085 33,342,896 2,925,794,884 2,415,628,786 2,288,165,085 1,504,975,284 Tax @ 2% 5,345,104 4,939,016 — — Tax @ 12% — 176,595,887 — 176,595,887 Tax @ 28% 744,391,115 195,172,761 640,686,224 9,336,010 Dividend tax 8,230,131 47,659,481 — — Current income tax charge 757,966,350 424,367,145 640,686,224 185,931,897 9.3 Current tax liabilities/(assets) Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 22,151,620 59,996,915 (60,699,819) 11,502,620 Disposal of subsidiary (345,173) — — — Provision made during the year 757,966,350 424,367,145 640,686,224 185,931,897 Adjustment for the prior year 44,978,082 1,586,090 11,431,203 (181,321) Payments made during the year (338,370,025) (444,242,262) (167,987,537) (253,327,198) Notional tax — (404,492) — (304,785) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 WHT recoverable (117,295,449) (19,151,776) (11,562,463) (4,321,032) Balance at the end of the year 369,085,405 22,151,620 411,867,608 (60,699,819) Made up as follows Current tax assets (55,203,106) (66,116,571) — (60,699,819) Current tax liabilities 424,288,511 88,268,191 411,867,608 — 369,085,405 22,151,620 411,867,608 (60,699,819) 211 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9.4 Deferred tax liabilities Group Company As at 31 March 2018 2019 2019 2018 Restated LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the Year 2,145,470,679 708,357,290 590,652,004 255,513,714 Disposal of subsidiary (56,795,760) — — — Expense for the year recognised in profit or loss 80,244,108 1,342,515,290 (69,054,137) 297,344,321 Expense for the year recognised in OCI 4,608,927 94,598,099 4,325,309 37,793,969 Adjustment for expected creditl loss — recognised in equity (7,799,339) — (6,883,138) — Balance at the end of the year 2,165,728,615 2,145,470,679 519,040,038 590,652,004 9.5 Deferred tax provision as at the year end is made up as follows: As at 31 March 2018 2019 Restated Temporary Tax effect on Temporary Tax effect on difference temporary difference difference temporary difference LKR LKR LKR LKR Group Accelerate depreciation for tax purpose 2,079,912,540 582,375,511 2,483,188,752 695,292,851 Revaluation of land and building to fair value 6,020,088,239 1,685,624,705 5,502,391,044 1,540,669,492 Provision for impairment of trade receivables (117,196,717) (32,815,081) (36,774,899) (10,296,972) Provision for inventories (8,933,871) (2,501,484) — — Defined benefit obligation (239,125,131) (66,955,036) (219,862,079) (61,561,382) Tax loss set off — — — (18,633,310) 7,734,745,060 2,165,728,615 7,728,942,818 2,145,470,679 Company Accelerate depreciation for tax purpose 1,929,926,322 540,379,370 2,092,078,410 585,781,955 Revaluation of land and building to fair value 230,291,707 64,481,678 232,443,762 65,084,253 Provision for impairment of trade receivables (113,051,056) (31,654,296) (36,774,899) (10,296,972) Defined benefit obligation (193,452,552) (54,166,714) (178,275,827) (49,917,232) 1,853,714,421 519,040,038 2,109,471,446 590,652,004 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 212 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9.6 Applicable rates of income tax Company As per the provision of new Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments there to, the Company is liable for income tax at the rate of 28% for taxable income, commencing from the year of assessment 2018/19. Deferred tax rate is 28%. Further, the Company has recognised deferred tax liability on business assets (land) at 28% amounting to LKR 31,077,288/as at 31 March 2019 Subsidiaries Access Realties (Private) Limited As per the agreement entered into with the Board of Investment (BOI) of Sri Lanka, under Section 17 of the BOI Act No. 04 of 1978, the Company is exempted from Income Tax for the period of seven (07) years from the year of assessment in which the enterprise commences to make profit in relation to the transaction in that year or any year of assessment not later than five (05) years reckoned from the date of its operations whichever year is earlier. Accordingly, the seven (07) years Income Tax exemption period has commenced on 1 April 2003. In accordance with the agreement entered into with the BOI of Sri Lanka the Company is liable for Income Tax at 2% on its revenue for next fifteen (15) years immediately following the seven (07) years Tax exemption period. On that basis, the revenue arising from the business shall be taxed at 2% during the concessionary period covering 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2025. However, the Company is liable to pay income tax at 28% on other income. As per the provision of new Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company has recognised deferred tax liability on business assets (land and building) at 28% because the Management is under the impression that the asset will not be disposed prior to the expiration of BOI concessionary rate period. Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited As per the agreement entered into with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka under Section 17 (A) of Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012, the Company shall qualify for a tax exemption period of twelve (12) years subject to the condition that over of LKR 2,500 Mn. is made in the project within a period of three (03) years from the date of 4 April 2013. Further insertion of New Section under 48 D of Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act 09 to 2015, if the approval of Board of Investment was granted prior to 31 October 2014 and the Company which invested in such undertaking is unable to complete the required investment prior to 1 April 2015 and to commence commercial operations prior to 1 April 2016 due to practical reasons depending on the nature of the business, such period shall be extended up to 1 April 2018. The aforesaid tax exemption period shall be reckoned from the year in which the Enterprise commences to make profits or any year of Assessment not later than two (2) years reckoned from the date of commencement of commercial operations whichever year is earlier as determined by Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. However, the Company is liable to pay income tax at 28% on Other Income. As Per the provision of new Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company has recognised deferred tax liability ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 on business assets ( Building) at 28% because the Management is under the impression that the asset will not be disposed prior to the expiration of BOI concessionary rate period. 213 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ARL Elevate (Private) Limited In accordance with the provision in the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for income tax at 28% . Deferred tax asset has not been recognised in the Financial Statements as at 31 March 2019 because the Board of Directors of ARL Elevate (Private) Limited is of the opinion that the deferred tax asset would not be crystalised in the foreseeable future. Sathosa Motors PLC and its subsidiary In accordance with the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for income tax at 28% on its taxable profit. Deferred tax rate is 28%. Access Projects (Private) Limited Under the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for income tax at the rate of 28% on its taxable profit. Deferred Tax Asset amounting to LKR 119,302,521/has not been recognised for the deductible temporary differences as the Management is of the opinion that the reversal of the taxable asset will not be crystallised in the foreseeable future. (as at 31 March 2018 — LKR 122,192,932/-) Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited In accordance with the provisions in the new Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 and amendments thereto, the Company is liable for income tax at 28% on its taxable profit. No provision has been made on deferred tax. Harbour Village (Private) Limited The Company has entered into an agreement with BOI for ten (10) years tax holiday period during the year ended 31 March 2017, and the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 relating to the imposition, payment and recovery of income tax in respect of the profits and income of the enterprise shall not apply to the profits and income of the enterprise for the year ended 31 March 2019. For the above purpose the year of assessment shall be commencing from the year of assessment in which the enterprise commences to make a profit or any year of assessment not later than two years reckoned from the date of commencement of commercial operations or production whichever is earlier. Other income is taxable at a rate of 28%. Deferred tax liability on business assets has been recognised as at reporting date at a rate of 28%, because the Management is under the impression that the asset will not be disposed prior to the expiration of BOI exemption period. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 214 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10. EARNINGS PER SHARE Accounting policy Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Access Engineering PLC by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2018 2019 2019 2018 Re-stated Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent (LKR) 2,150,223,368 2,507,213,674 1,961,595,116 1,907,930,907 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 Basic earnings per share (LKR) 2.15 2.51 1.96 1.91 During the year the Company has not issued ordinary shares and no dilution of earnings per share. There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements. 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Accounting policy Property, plant and equipment are tangible items that are held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, for rental to others, or for administrative purpose and are expected to be used during more than one period. The Group applies the requirements of LKAS 16 in accounting of property, plant and equipment. Recognition and measurement Property, plant and equipment are recognised if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured. Items of property, plant and equipment including construction in progress are stated at cost/revaluation less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 215 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Owned assets An item of property, plant and equipment that qualifies for recognition as an asset is initially measured at its cost. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and subsequent cost. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the working condition for its intended use. This also includes the cost of dismantling and removing the items and restoring in the site on which they are located and borrowing costs on qualifying assets. Property, plant and equipment transferred from customers are initially measured at fair value at the date on which control is obtained. Purchased software that is integrated to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of equipment. When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted as separate items (major component) of property, plant and equipment. Leased assets Leases of property, plant and equipment that transfer to the Group substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. The leased assets are measured initially at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the assets are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to that asset. Assets held under other leases are classified as operating leases and are not recognised in the Group’s Statement of Financial Position. Subsequent costs The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Company and its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of day-to-day repair and maintenance are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss as incurred. The carrying value of property plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Derecognition An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the Statement of Profit or Loss when the asset is derecognised. Gains are not classified as revenue. Revaluation A revaluation surplus is recorded in Other Comprehensive Income and credited to the asset revaluation surplus in equity. However, to the extent that it reverses a revaluation deficit of the same asset previously recognised in profit or loss, in which case the increase is recognised in profit and loss. A revaluation deficit is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss, except to the extent that it offsets an existing surplus on the same asset recognised in the asset revaluation surplus. Upon disposal, any revaluation surplus relating to the particular asset being sold is transferred to retained earnings. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Revaluation is performed on freehold land and building by professionally qualified valuers using the open market value at least once in every three years or when there is a substantial difference between the fair value and the carrying amount, to ensure that the fair value does not differ materially from its carrying amount. 216 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Depreciation Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of item of property, plant and equipment. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use whereas depreciation of an asset ceases at the earlier of the date that the asset is classified as held for sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale) and the date that the asset is derecognised. Depreciation is not charged on freehold land and capital work in progress. The estimated useful lives are as follows: Asset category Useful life (years) Freehold building 10-50 Leasehold building 5-10 Improvements to leasehold property 5-10 Plant and machinery 3-10 Motor vehicles 4-10 Office equipment 3-10 Furniture and fittings 3-10 Tools 3-8 Other construction equipment 5 The residual value, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. Capital work in progress Capital expenses incurred during the year which are not completed as at the reporting date are shown as capital work in progress, whilst the capital assets which have been completed during the year and available to use have been transferred to property, plant and equipment. Reclassification to investment property When the use of a property changes from owner-occupied to investment property, the property is remeasured to fair value and reclassified accordingly. Any gain arising on this remeasurement is recognised in profit or loss to the extent that it reverses a previous impairment loss on the specific property, with any remaining gain recognised in OCI and presented in the revaluation reserve. Any loss is recognised in profit or loss. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 217 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reconciliation of beginning and ending balances by classes of assets 11.1 Group Freehold Land Building Plant and Motor Office machinery vehicles equipment LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Cost or valuation Balance at 1 April 2017 1,132,551,451 978,644,458 4,452,739,136 793,733,883 384,895,943 Additions 326,836,000 71,072,082 490,704,608 101,677,093 56,376,051 Transfer to investment property (195,800,000) — — — — Disposals/derecognition — — (37,617,565) (51,277,643) (4,414,640) Revaluation adjustment 202,842,000 8,682,251 — — — Balance at 31 March 2018 1,466,429,451 1,058,398,791 4,905,826,179 844,133,333 436,857,354 Additions — 54,049,942 253,231,115 443,977,674 34,876,309 Transfers — 28,240,567 10,114,734 6,353,214 — Disposals/derecognition — — (86,547,918) (83,070,384) (1,052,501) Disposal of subsidiary (765,000,000) — — — (158,800) Balance at 31 March 2019 701,429,451 1,140,689,300 5,082,624,110 1,211,393,837 470,522,362 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2017 — 142,226,495 1,979,861,651 492,732,492 279,446,870 Depreciation charge for the year — 62,375,905 540,705,591 106,269,064 52,898,608 Disposals/derecognition — — (37,328,163) (34,634,733) (4,388,567) Balance at 31 March 2018 — 204,602,400 2,483,239,079 564,366,823 327,956,911 Depreciation charge for the year — 68,808,284 562,697,534 120,384,565 55,622,535 Transfers — — 5,351,073 4,157,241 — Disposals/derecognition — — (74,106,203) (60,761,417) (944,518) Balance at 31 March 2019 — 273,410,684 2,977,181,483 628,147,212 382,634,928 Carrying value At 31 March 2019 701,429,451 867,278,616 2,105,442,627 583,246,625 87,887,434 At 31 March 2018 1,466,429,451 853,796,391 2,422,587,100 279,766,510 108,900,443 Group property, plant and equipment with a cost of LKR 1,781.30 Mn. (2018 — LKR 1,230.59 Mn.) have been fully-depreciated and continue to be in use by the Group. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 There were no capitalised borrowing costs related to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment during the year 2018/19. (2017/18 — Nil). Assets under construction Capital work in progress includes, construction cost incurred to build new workshop at 25/11, New Nuge Road, Peliyagoda and construction of Bodyshop at No. 156, Divulapitiya, Raththanapitiya, Boralasgamuwa. Property, plant and equipment pledged as security Property pledged as securities against loans and borrowings are described in Note 25.4. 218 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Freehold Leasehold Furniture and Tools Other construction Motor Capital work in Total fittings equipment vehicles progress LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR 203,847,452 654,843,844 300,746,449 24,353,214 51,900,667 8,978,256,497 132,733,707 188,660,226 143,453,290 — 78,675,271 1,590,188,328 — — — — — (195,800,000) (912,780) (16,859,690) — — (12,626,039) (123,708,357) — — — — — 211,524,251 335,668,379 826,644,380 444,199,739 24,353,214 117,949,899 10,460,460,719 34,701,620 55,181,193 45,797,268 — 241,373,025 1,163,188,146 (1,753,171) (8,361,563) — (6,353,214) (28,240,567) — (1,387,560) (9,793,417) — (18,000,000) — (199,851,780) — — — — (59,933,583) (825,092,383) 367,229,268 863,670,593 489,997,007 — 271,148,774 10,598,704,702 141,321,670 358,071,657 146,107,493 10,907,241 — 3,550,675,569 28,132,641 163,948,882 64,551,652 4,500,000 — 1,023,382,343 (905,981) (16,432,851) — — — (93,690,295) 168,548,330 505,587,688 210,659,145 15,407,241 — 4,480,367,617 41,156,148 158,126,367 70,233,096 — — 1,077,028,529 (177,419) (5,173,654) — (4,157,241) — — (1,174,185) (8,544,344) — (11,250,000) — (156,780,667) 208,352,874 649,996,057 280,892,241 — — 5,400,615,479 158,876,394 213,674,536 209,104,766 — 271,148,774 5,198,089,223 167,120,049 321,056,692 233,540,594 8,945,973 117,949,899 5,980,093,102 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 219 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.2 Company Freehold Land Building Plant and Motor Office machinery vehicles equipment LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Cost or valuation Balance at 1 April 2017 376,800,000 67,000,000 4,203,687,284 624,352,184 267,160,551 Additions — — 461,334,745 35,903,029 40,435,866 Transfer to investment properties (195,800,000) — — — — Disposals/derecognition — — (36,778,944) (5,950,000) (1,112,974) Balance at 31 March 2018 181,000,000 67,000,000 4,628,243,085 654,305,213 306,483,443 Additions — 30,428,432 193,995,927 369,711,774 15,810,751 Disposals/derecognition — — (82,264,353) (77,302,205) (917,001) Balance at 31 March 2019 181,000,000 97,428,432 4,739,974,659 946,714,782 321,377,193 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2017 — 18,356 1,877,213,546 385,538,852 208,691,588 Depreciation charge for the year — 6,700,000 503,125,899 73,531,901 36,226,686 Disposals/derecognition — — (36,671,842) (5,949,997) (1,088,807) Balance at 31 March 2018 — 6,718,356 2,343,667,603 453,120,756 243,829,467 Depreciation charge for the year — 7,131,823 524,102,170 82,275,420 36,970,830 Disposals/derecognition — — (71,970,887) (54,993,238) (816,741) Balance at 31 March 2019 — 13,850,179 2,795,798,886 480,402,938 279,983,556 Carrying value At 31 March 2019 181,000,000 83,578,253 1,944,175,773 466,311,844 41,393,637 At 31 March 2018 181,000,000 60,281,644 2,284,575,482 201,184,457 62,653,976 Company property, plant and equipment with a cost of LKR 1,571.33 Mn. (2018 — LKR 1,038.47 Mn.) have been fully depreciated and continue to be in use by the Company. Transfer to investment property On 1 April 2017, land located at No. 267, Dehiwala Road, Maharagama and land located at Dickowita, Hendala were transferred from property, plant and equipment to investment property. It was no longer used by the Company and decided for the capital appreciation. (Note 12.1) Property, plant and equipment pledged as security As at reporting date property, plant and equipment have not been pledged by the Company as securities against facilities obtained ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 from banks. 220 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Freehold Furniture and Tools Other construction Total fittings equipment LKR LKR LKR LKR 114,873,220 649,752,113 300,746,449 6,604,371,801 14,989,665 91,341,210 143,453,290 787,457,805 — — — (195,800,000) (190,905) (16,859,690) — (60,892,513) 129,671,980 724,233,633 444,199,739 7,135,137,093 2,642,493 46,209,673 45,797,268 704,596,318 (859,929) (9,793,417) — (171,136,905) 131,454,544 760,649,889 489,997,007 7,668,596,506 102,443,249 353,584,926 146,107,493 3,073,598,010 7,919,072 159,202,992 64,551,652 851,258,202 (187,560) (16,432,851) — (60,331,057) 110,174,761 496,355,067 210,659,145 3,864,525,155 9,815,183 142,576,330 70,233,096 873,104,852 (646,554) (8,544,344) — (136,971,764) 119,343,390 630,387,053 280,892,241 4,600,658,243 12,111,154 130,262,836 209,104,766 3,067,938,263 19,497,219 227,878,566 233,540,594 3,270,611,938 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 221 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.3 Revaluation of land and building Company The freehold land and buildings of the Company were revalued as at 31 March 2017 by Mr K T D Tissera — FIV (Sri Lanka), FRICS (Eng) an independent professional valuer on an open market value for existing use basis. Subsidiaries The freehold land and buildings of Access Projects (Private) Limited were revalued as at 31 March 2017 by Mr K T D Tissera — FIV (Sri Lanka), FRICS (Eng.) an independent professional valuer on a depreciated replacement cost basis for buildings and market value basis for land as at the date of revaluation. Details of Group’s land and building stated at valuation are indicated below: Significant unobservable input Location Extent Building Method of Estimated price Estimated price Correlation to square valuation per perch per square feet Fair Value feet LKR LKR Access Engineering PLC Land depicted at No. 336/1, Low Level Road, Jalthara, Ranala 3 R and 38.4 P 9,070 Open market value basis 350,000 750 — 1,500 Positive Land depicted at No. 278, Alubogahalanda, Jalthara, Ranala 3 A 3 R and 4.86 P 35,100 Open market value basis 85,000 — 125,000 1,000 — 1,750 Positive Land depicted at Weliwita, Kaduwela 2A — Open market value basis 150,000 — Positive Access Projects (Private) Limited Land depicted at No. 278, Depreciated replacement Kekulanvila Road, cost basis for buildings and Jalthara, Ranala 2 A 1 R and 38.38 P 43,942 market value basis for land 75,000 — 100,000 1,000 — 2,500 Positive Summary description of valuation methodologies Open market value method (OMV) Open market value method uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets, liabilities or a group of assets and liabilities such as business. Depreciated replacement cost method Depreciated replacement cost method uses the current cost of reproduction or replacement of an asset less deductions for physical deterioration and all relevant forms of obsolescence and optimisation. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 222 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Land carried at cost (fair value) Location Extent Acquisition date Access Engineering PLC Land depicted at Divigalahena, Hakmana. 10 A 31 July 2016 Sathosa Motors PLC Land depicted at No. 86, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 28.70 P 17 May 2017 Access Projects (Private) Limited Land depicted at No. 42 A, Yatawathura, Malagala, Padukka. 3 R and 10 P 30 June 2016 The carrying amount of revalued land and buildings if they were carried at cost less depreciation and impairment, would be as follows: Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Cost 222,942,181 785,100,181 80,032,686 80,032,686 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (40,419,561) (37,716,552) (10,023,000) (9,622,080) Net carrying amount 182,522,620 747,383,629 70,009,686 70,410,606 12. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Accounting policy Investment property is property held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, used in the production of supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. Recognition and measurement Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at fair value, which reflects market conditions at the reporting date. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values of investment properties are included in profit or loss in the period in which they arise, including the corresponding tax effect. Fair values are determined based on valuation performed by an accredited external independent valuer applying a valuation model recommended by the International Valuation Standards Committee. Derecognition Investment properties are derecognised either when they have been disposed of or when they are permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected from their disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised in profit or loss in the period of derecognition. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Transfers are made to (or from) investment property only when there is a change in use. For a transfer from investment property to owner occupied property, the deemed cost for subsequent accounting is the fair value at the date of change in use. If owner-occupied property becomes an investment property, the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the policy stated under property, plant and equipment up to the date of change in use. 223 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Where Group companies occupy a significant portion of the investment property of a subsidiary, such investment properties are treated as property, plant and equipment in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accounted using Group accounting policy for property, plant and equipment. The Group has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment properties and no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment properties or for repairs, maintenance and enhancements. 12.1 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures of the investment properties Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 10,713,949,513 3,288,619,125 415,800,000 220,000,000 Additions (subsequent expenditure) 15,243,007 6,886,444 — — Transfer from property, plant and equipment 11.1/ 11.2 — 195,800,000 — 195,800,000 Transfer from investment properties work in progress — 4,919,346,423 — — Gain on fair value changes — 2,303,297,521 — — Balance at the end of the year 10,729,192,520 10,713,949,513 415,800,000 415,800,000 Rental income derived from investment properties 941,430,170 590,589,815 11,459,910 10,418,100 Direct operating expenses (including repair and maintenance) generating rental income 84,759,832 101,246,562 — — 12.2 Location, extent and valuation of investment properties Company Fair value of the Property was ascertained by independent valuation carried out by Mr K T D Tissera, FIV (Sri Lanka), FRICS (Eng.) an independent professional valuer, on an open market value for existing use basis as at 31 March 2019. Accordingly, the fair value of the property has not been materially changed with the carrying value of the property as at 31 March 2019 and accordingly fair value has not been adjusted to the Financial Statements. Subsidiaries Fair value of the property was ascertained by independent valuation carried out by Mr K T D Tissera, FIV (Sri Lanka), FRICS (Eng.) an independent professional valuer, on an open market value for existing use basis as at 31 March 2019. Accordingly, the fair value of the property has not been materially changed with the carrying value of the property as at 31 March 2019 and accordingly fair value has not been adjusted to the Financial Statements. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 224 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Description of valuation techniques used and key inputs to valuation of investment properties: Significant unobservable input Location Extent Freehold building Estimated price Estimated price Correlation to square fee per perch per square feet fair value LKR LKR Access Engineering PLC Land depicted at No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralasgamuwa* 2 R and 35 P 12,784 1,250,000 6.000 Positive Land depicted at No. 267, Dehiwala Road, Maharagama 3 R and 1 P — 1,500,000 — Positive Land depicted at Dickowita, Hendala. 2 A 3 R and 10.18 P — 35,000 — Positive Access Realties (Private) Limited Land depicted at No. 264/5, 266, 268, 278 and 278/4 Dr. Colvin R De Silva Mawatha (Union Place) and No. 116 and 118 Dawson Street, Colombo 2 1 A and 25.65 P 216,718 9,000,000 — 10,000,000 10,000 Positive Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited 30 Storey Building at No. 116 and 118 Dawson Street, Colombo 2 — 404,554 9,000,000 16,000 Positive Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited Land depicted at No. 278, Weliwita Road, Weliwita 4 A 1 R and 4 P — 650,000 — 800,000 — Positive *Property located at No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralasgamuwa is secured on overdraft facility obtained for the value of LKR 125 Mn. by the Company (Note 22). Summary description of valuation methodologies can be found in Property, plant and equipment Note 11.3. 12.3 Investment properties — Work in progress Group As at 31 March 2019 2018 LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 402,478,308 3,310,763,207 Additions 90,090,613 2,011,061,524 Transfer to investment properties — (4,919,346,423) Balance at the end of the year 492,568,921 402,478,308 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Investment properties work in progress consists the development at No. 250, Srimath Ramanathan Mawatha, Kotahena, Colombo 15 by Harbour Village (Private) Limited. 225 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL Accounting policy Recognition and measurement Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Research and Expenditure on research activities is recognised in profit or loss as incurred. development Development expenditure is capitalised only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the asset. Otherwise, it is recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, development expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Other intangible Other intangible assets are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives are measured at cost less accumulated assets amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embedded in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure, including expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands, is recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Useful economic lives, amortisation and impairment The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss in the expense category that is consistent with the function of the intangible assets. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. Leasehold right ­— Land Leasehold property comprises land use rights and is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease in accordance with the pattern of benefits expected to be derived from the lease. Leasehold property is tested for impairment annually and is written-down where applicable. The impairment loss if any is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Software All computer software cost incurred, which are not internally related to associate hardware, which can be clearly identified, reliably measured ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 and its probable that they will lead to future economic benefits, are included in the Statement of Financial Position under the category of intangible assets and is amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful life. The estimated useful lives are as follows: Asset category Useful lives Enterprise resource planning system 5-10 years Other software 3-5 years 226 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Derecognition An intangible asset is derecognised upon disposal or losses when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss when the asset is derecognised. 13.1 Reconciliation of beginning and ending balances by classes of assets Group Company Leasehold right Software Goodwill Total Software Total LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Cost/revaluation At 1 April 2017 210,000,000 103,117,311 1,179,598,942 1,492,716,253 93,093,482 93,093,482 Additions 4,500,000 8,351,960 — 12,851,960 — — At 31 March 2018 214,500,000 111,469,271 1,179,598,942 1,505,568,213 93,093,482 93,093,482 Additions — 39,996,158 — 39,996,158 3,392,293 3,392,293 At 31 March 2019 214,500,000 151,465,429 1,179,598,942 1,545,564,371 96,485,775 96,485,775 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2017 38,184,374 36,192,765 — 74,377,139 30,901,376 30,901,376 Amortisation 17,447,887 12,913,333 — 30,361,220 9,218,382 9,218,382 At 31 March 2018 55,632,261 49,106,098 — 104,738,359 40,119,758 40,119,758 Amortisation 18,121,345 16,470,454 — 34,591,799 9,169,035 9,169,035 At 31 March 2019 73,753,606 65,576,552 — 139,330,158 49,288,793 49,288,793 Carrying value At 31 March 2019 140,746,395 85,888,877 1,179,598,942 1,406,234,214 47,196,982 47,196,982 At 31 March 2018 158,867,739 62,363,173 1,179,598,942 1,400,829,854 52,973,724 52,973,724 Leasehold right comprises of the leasehold land of the Sathosa Motors PLC and prepaid lease payment of SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited. Leasehold Land relates to the property persistently known and called “SATHOSA MOTORS WORKSHOP” is located at No. 25/11, New Nuge Road, Peliyagoda acquired by Sathosa Motors PLC on a 99 years lease commencing from 1987. The total gross area of the land is 343.93 perches. The leasehold right has been revalued by an independent valuer Mr R T K Sirisena — an independent professional valuer. Valuation has been done based on the demand and supply factors, current evidence of values, improvements and infrastructures etc. as at 31 March 2012. The estimated useful life of Leasehold right as at 31 March 2019 is sixty-seven years (remaining lease period). SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited recognised prepaid lease payments in respect of Welisara workshop premises which has been ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 subleased by Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited. Remaining lease period as at 31 March 2019 is two years. Software balance in intangible assets mainly consists of the SAP Enterprise Resource Planning system software and SAP user license acquired by the Company. 227 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Accounting policy Investments in subsidiaries are initially recognised at cost in the Financial Statements of the Company. Any transaction cost relating to acquisition of investment in subsidiaries are immediately recognised in Profit or Loss. Following initial recognition, investment in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. The net assets of each subsidiary are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the recoverable amount of the investment is estimated and the impairment loss is recognised to the extent of its net assets loss. Company Number of shares Effective holding 2019 2018 % LKR LKR Sathosa Motors PLC 5,093,745 84.42 1,196,572,767 1,196,572,767 Access Realties (Private) Limited* 199,922,532 100 7,996,901,280 7,870,328,720 Access Projects (Private) Limited 16,000,000 80 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited 29,000,000 100 290,000,000 290,000,000 Horizon Knowledge City Limited** — — — 624,990,000 Harbour Village (Private) Limited 174,970,574 60.83 2,747,383,660 2,747,383,660 13,230,857,707 13,729,275,147 * Company has invested LKR 126,572,560/in Access Realties (Private) Limited during the current financial year (Note 31.1). ** Company has disposed the investment in Horizon Knowledge City Limited during the current financial year (Note 31.2). Accounting estimate – provision for impairment An impairment assessment was carried out as at 31 March 2019 and it was concluded that net realisable value of all the investments included under unquoted investments exceed its carrying value. 15. EQUITY-ACCOUNTED INVESTEES Accounting policy The Group's interests in equity-accounted investees comprise interest in Associate and Joint Ventures. An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies. A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The considerations made in determining significant influence or joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 over subsidiaries. The Group’s investments in its associate and joint venture are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment separately. 228 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Statement of Profit or Loss reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of those investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the Statement of Changes in Equity. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture. The Financial Statements of the associate or joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment in its associate or joint venture. At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired. If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss as “Share of profit of equity accounted investees” in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or joint control over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or joint control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss. 15.1 Carrying amount of interest in equity-accounted investees Group Company Number of Effective 2019 2018 2019 2018 shares Holding LKR LKR LKR LKR % Investment in Joint Ventures Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited* — — — 295,428,288 — 300,000,000 Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited 80,300,000 50 774,424,848 799,924,734 800,000,000 800,000,000 774,424,848 1,095,353,022 800,000,000 1,100,000,000 Investment in an Associate ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited 5,546,544 30 123,594,277 96,512,504 55,465,410 55,465,410 898,019,125 1,191,865,526 855,465,410 1,155,465,410 15.2 Group’s share of total comprehensive income For the year ended 31 March 2019 2018 LKR LKR Joint ventures (27,355,709) (20,745,090) Associate ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 27,081,773 11,074,023 (273,936) (9,671,067) * During the year Group has disposed the investment in Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited for a cash consideration of LKR 300 Mn. The net gain on disposal of joint venture is recognised in the Statement of Profit or loss during the financial year. 15.3 Investment in joint ventures The Group has invested on 30 May 2016, 50% interest in Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited, a joint venture involved in the business of residential property development. The Group’s interest in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. 229 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Summarised financial information of the joint ventures, based on its SLFRS Financial Statements, and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in the Consolidated Financial Statements are set out below: Horizon Holdings Blue Star Realties Total (Private) Limited (Private) Limited 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Non-current assets — 7,579,259 16,717,522 19,933,119 16,717,522 27,512,378 Current assets — 596,874,106 3,199,255,213 1,965,409,790 3,199,255,213 2,562,283,896 Non-current liabilities — (240,000,000) (139,808,447) (23,119,795) (139,808,447) (263,119,795) Current liabilities — (4,067,343) (1,586,944,757) (422,003,810) (1,586,944,757) (426,071,153) Net assets (100%) — 360,386,022 1,489,219,531 1,540,219,304 1,489,219,531 1,900,605,326 Group’s share of net assets (50%) — 180,193,011 744,609,766 770,109,652 744,609,766 950,302,663 Goodwill 115,235,277 29,815,082 29,815,082 29,815,082 145,050,359 Carrying amount of interest in joint venture — 295,428,288 774,424,848 799,924,734 774,424,848 1,095,353,022 Revenue — — — — — — Depreciation and amortisation (44,208) (132,616) — — (44,208) (132,616) Interest expense (1,992,369) (8,156) (674,494) (1,058,645) (2,666,863) (1,066,801) Income tax reversal/(expense) 1,442,400 731,818 (2,540,887) (12,934,226) (1,098,487) (12,202,408) Profit/(loss) and total comprehensive income (100%) (3,711,643) (2,129,973) (50,999,773) (35,177,124) (54,711,416) (37,307,097) Profit/(loss) and total comprehensive income (50%) (1,855,822) (1,064,987) (25,499,887) (17,588,562) (27,355,709) (18,653,549) Elimination of unrealised profit on downstream sales — — — (2,091,541) — (2,091,541) Group’s share of total comprehensive income (1,855,822) (1,064,987) (25,499,887) (19,680,103) (27,355,709) (20,745,090) There were no dividends received from the joint ventures during 2018/19 (2017/18 – Nil). The joint venture had no material contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 March 2019 or as at 31 March 2018. 15.4 Investment in an Associate The Group has a 30% interest in ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited, which has entered into a contract with Colombo International Container Terminal to service and maintain the Container Handling Equipment supplied by Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries Company Limited of China (known as ZPMC). ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 The Group’s interest in ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited is accounted for using the equity method in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 230 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Summarised financial information of the associate, based on its SLFRS Financial Statements, and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in the Consolidated Financial Statements are set out below: 2019 2018 LKR LKR Non-current assets 3,334,191 3,755,385 Current assets 680,787,562 529,137,281 Non-current liabilities (2,820,481) (1,835,737) Current liabilities (269,967,050) (209,853,579) Net assets (100%) 411,334,222 321,203,350 Group’s share of net assets (30%) 123,594,277 96,512,504 Carrying amount of interest in associate 123,594,277 96,512,504 Revenue 641,005,164 655,589,737 Total comprehensive income (100%) 90,130,872 36,855,465 Group’s share of total comprehensive income (30%) 27,081,773 11,074,023 Dividends received by the Group — (1,109,308) The associate had no material contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 March 2019 or as at 31 March 2018. 16. NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS Accounting policy This consists investment in quoted debentures which have been designated as financial assets at amortised cost and measured at amortised cost using EIR method and are subject to impairment. Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Investments in debentures National Development Bank PLC 775,598,826 812,478,615 564,353,479 562,747,945 Hatton National Bank PLC 534,320,123 556,663,297 334,135,191 334,027,397 People's Leasing & Finance PLC — 2,620,756 — — Sampath Bank PLC 110,444,398 110,269,863 110,444,398 110,269,863 1,420,363,347 1,482,032,531 1,008,933,068 1,007,045,205 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 231 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17. INVENTORIES Accounting policy Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net realisable value, after making due allowance for obsolete and slow moving items. The cost of inventories is comprised of all costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition, excluding borrowing cost. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Inventory movement is reviewed at the end of reporting period by an expert to assess the recoverability of inventory and the items that are identified as irrecoverable are written off during the year. Work in progress Contractual costs incurred for future work are recognised as an asset when it is probable that they will be recovered and such costs are classified as work in progress. Goods in transit Goods in transit are recognised at purchase cost. 17.1 Inventories Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Inventories 3,247,868,811 2,918,075,167 1,047,971,776 955,291,329 Work in progress 3,239,510,879 3,004,860,549 391,275,251 662,386,181 Goods in transit 143,858,583 225,445,424 766,000 140,791 Less: Provision for inventories (Note 17.1.1) (52,605,094) (62,539,133) — — 6,578,633,179 6,085,842,007 1,440,013,027 1,617,818,301 17.1.1 Movement in provision for inventories Group As at 31 March 2019 2018 LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 62,539,133 7,913,402 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Provision for/(reversal of) inventory provision (9,934,039) 54,625,731 Balance at the end of the year 52,605,094 62,539,133 None of the inventories are pledged as securities for facilities obtained by the Group or Company from banks as at 31 March 2019 (as at 31 March 2018 — Nil). 232 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Accounting policy Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. Other financial nature receivables are recognised as other receivables. If collection is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method less any provision for impairment. Provision for impairment of receivables From 1 April 2018, the Group applies the simplified approach in measuring expected credit losses (ECL) allowance which is recommended by SLFRS 9 on making impairment of trade receivables. ECLs are probability-weighted estimate of credit losses. It has not resulted in a material change in loss allowance compared with previous policy. The allowance is provided by considering evidence of impairment for receivables of both individual and collective level. Receivables are individually assessed for impairment by considering objective evidence such as experiencing a significant financial difficulty or default in payment by customer. Debtors that are not specifically impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment. In assessing collective impairment, the Group uses historical information on the probability of default, the timing of recoveries, the amount of loss incurred and makes an adjustment if current and forward looking economic and credit conditions are likely to be greater or lesser than suggested historical trends. 18.1 Trade and other receivables Group Company As at 31 March Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Trade receivables 18.2 11,134,597,403 9,323,745,501 8,743,200,936 7,490,671,978 Other receivables 18.3 625,149,803 555,845,034 149,968,140 199,299,467 Advance and prepayments 18.4 1,862,525,106 1,369,823,124 1,055,301,311 849,797,960 Contract assets 162,106,835 — 153,203,656 — 13,784,379,147 11,249,413,659 10,101,674,043 8,539,769,405 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 233 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR 18.2 Trade receivables Trade receivables 11,276,042,127 9,412,964,395 8,856,251,992 7,561,891,146 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (Note 18.2.1) (141,444,724) (89,218,894) (113,051,056) (71,219,168) 11,134,597,403 9,323,745,501 8,743,200,936 7,490,671,978 18.2.1 Movement in Provision for impairment of trade receivables Balance at the beginning of the year 89,218,894 83,696,141 71,219,168 70,814,807 Impact of adopting SLFRS 9 27,524,227 — 24,582,637 — Provision for impairment of trade receivables 24,701,603 5,522,753 17,249,251 404,361 Balance at the end of the year 141,444,724 89,218,894 113,051,056 71,219,168 18.3 Other receivables Interest receivables 46,751,268 40,081,743 17,310,459 16,326,672 Margin on bond 94,428,836 89,773,275 94,428,836 89,773,275 Other tax receivables 227,194,484 222,010,054 9,477,407 93,116,124 Others 256,775,215 203,979,962 28,751,438 83,396 625,149,803 555,845,034 149,968,140 199,299,467 18.4 Advances and prepayments Deposits and prepayments 100,683,652 85,548,340 53,862,954 53,298,619 Advances 1,675,342,588 1,203,016,738 951,751,235 736,512,211 Refundable deposit 86,498,866 81,258,046 49,687,122 59,987,130 1,862,525,106 1,369,823,124 1,055,301,311 849,797,960 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 234 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19. OTHER CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS Accounting policy This mainly comprise retention receivable and staff loans which have been designated as financial assets at amortised cost and measured at amortised cost using EIR method and are subject to impairment. Group Company As at 31 March Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Retention receivable 19.1 2,272,742,317 1,771,621,788 2,044,588,378 1,634,959,632 Staff loans 65,264,342 49,976,846 62,472,227 46,698,735 Prepaid retention receivable expenses 352,321,246 366,510,423 352,321,246 322,077,897 Prepaid staff loan expenses 7,362,302 7,258,978 7,362,302 7,258,978 Total other current financial assets 2,697,690,207 2,195,368,035 2,466,744,153 2,010,995,242 19.1 Retention receivable Group Company As at 31 March Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Retention receivable 2,337,197,492 1,833,786,601 2,049,676,436 1,645,198,571 Less: Provision for impairment of retention receivable 19.1.1 (64,455,175) (62,164,813) (5,088,058) (10,238,939) 2,272,742,317 1,771,621,788 2,044,588,378 1,634,959,632 19.1.1 Movement in provision for impairment of retention receivable Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 62,164,813 10,238,939 10,238,939 10,238,939 Provision for/(reversal of) impairment of retention receivables 2,290,362 51,925,874 (5,150,881) — Balance at the end of the year 64,455,175 62,164,813 5,088,058 10,238,939 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 235 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20. SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS Accounting policy Investment in equity securities have been designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Loss on fair value changes of the investments have been charged to the profit or loss. Cost Market value As at 31 March Number of 2019 2018 2019 2018 shares LKR LKR LKR LKR Group/Company Quoted investments Nation Lanka Finance PLC 12,300 453,009 453,009 7,380 12,300 Lanka Indian Oil Corporation PLC 36,600 1,035,414 1,035,414 636,840 1,101,660 Touchwood Investments PLC 21,600 414,108 414,108 — — Horana Plantations PLC 7,500 538,464 538,464 127,500 165,000 The Colombo Fort Land & Building Company PLC 5,000 499,533 499,533 67,500 96,000 Namunukula Plantations PLC 3,300 527,231 527,231 211,200 289,410 Richard Pieris & Co. PLC 50,000 798,848 798,848 460,000 640,000 Free Lanka Capital Holdings PLC 15,600 78,000 78,000 53,040 56,160 People's Merchant PLC 100 1,976 1,976 920 1,100 CIC Holdings PLC 204,000 23,517,007 23,517,007 7,853,983 12,015,583 Softlogic Holdings PLC 208,500 6,110,307 6,110,307 3,336,000 5,129,100 Vallibel One PLC 123,300 3,210,050 3,210,050 1,763,190 2,786,580 Central Investments & Finance PLC 1,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 — — People’s Leasing Company PLC 839,400 15,109,200 15,109,200 11,247,960 13,262,520 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 39 — — 3,849 5,296 Tess Agro Company PLC 80 — — 32 72 Total 62,293,147 62,293,147 25,769,394 35,560,781 21. SHORT-TERM DEPOSITS Accounting policy Investments in fixed deposits have been designated as financial assets at amortised cost and measured at amortised cost using EIR method and are subject to impairment. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Fixed deposits 2,163,147,483 2,041,431,464 475,198,599 279,511,813 2,163,147,483 2,041,431,464 475,198,599 279,511,813 236 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Accounting policy Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand, demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments, readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purpose of Statement of Cash Flow, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand and deposits in banks net of outstanding bank overdrafts. Investments with short maturities i.e. three months or less from the date of acquisition are also treated as cash equivalents. Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Cash at bank 1,969,574,144 1,337,558,095 953,906,395 550,559,611 Cash in hand 27,137,726 31,467,872 21,757,499 26,446,455 Investment in repos 489,165,779 25,072,423 100,000,000 — 2,485,877,649 1,394,098,390 1,075,663,894 577,006,066 Bank overdraft (329,833,689) (564,712,154) — — Cash and cash equivalent for the purpose of Statement of Cash Flows 2,156,043,960 829,386,236 1,075,663,894 577,006,066 Company Property located at No. 117, Dehiwala Road, Boralesgamuwa is secured on overdraft facility obtained for the value of LKR 125 Mn. (Note 12.2). Group The Bank overdraft (Commercial Bank) of the Access Projects (Private) Limited are secured by the corporate guarantee issued by Access Engineering PLC (parent Company) for LKR 250 Mn. 23. CAPITAL AND RESERVES 23.1 Stated capital 2019 2018 Number of shares Value of shares Number of shares Value of shares LKR LKR Issued and fully paid At the beginning of the year 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 At the end of the year 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per individual present at meetings of the shareholders or one vote per share in case of a poll. 237 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.2 Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve consist of the revaluation of property, plant and equipment, and revaluation of investment properties immediately before reclassified from property, plant and equipment. 23.3 Dividends The following dividends were declared and paid by the Company for the year: Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 LKR LKR Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend* — 200,000,000 Interim dividend 250,000,000 500,000,000 Second interim dividend 250,000,000 500,000,000 Total dividends 500,000,000 1,200,000,000 Dividend per share 0.50 1.20 *Dividend paid out of previous year’s profits. 24. GOVERNMENT GRANT Accounting policy Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income on a systematic basis over the periods that the related costs, for which it is intended to compensate, are expensed. When the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as income in equal amounts over the expected useful life of the related asset. Group As at 31 March 2019 2018 LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 5,923,485 6,142,874 Amortisation (219,389) (219,389) Balance at the end of the year 5,704,096 5,923,485 The above represents a Government grant received by Sathosa Motors PLC, for the construction of work shop at Peliyagoda and is amortised over a period of fifty (50) years. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 238 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25. LOANS AND BORROWINGS Accounting policy Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequently they are measured at amortised cost. Group Company As at 31 March Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Current portion of loans and borrowings Term loan 25.2 3,637,207,534 3,946,136,743 402,128,177 1,904,960,917 Finance lease obligation 25.3 — 2,265,472 — — 3,637,207,534 3,948,402,215 402,128,177 1,904,960,917 Non-current portion of loans and borrowings Debentures 25.1 5,007,311,765 5,007,262,734 5,188,152,871 5,188,152,872 Term loan 25.2 90,636,000 126,711,734 — — Finance lease obligation 25.3 — 3,850,668 — — 5,097,947,765 5,137,825,136 5,188,152,871 5,188,152,872 25.1 Debentures Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 4,825,670,000 4,825,670,000 5,000,000,000 5,000,000,000 Debentures issued during the year — — — — Balance at the end of the year 4,825,670,000 4,825,670,000 5,000,000,000 5,000,000,000 Interest payable 181,641,765 181,592,734 188,152,871 188,152,872 Carrying value as at the end of the year 5,007,311,765 5,007,262,734 5,188,152,871 5,188,152,872 On 18 November 2015 Company issued fifty million (50,000,000) rated senior unsecured redeemable debentures to the value of Rupees five billion (LKR 5,000,000,000). These debentures are listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange. Sathosa Motors PLC has invested 1,743,300 No’s of type 01 five years tenor debentures issued by the Company, amounting to LKR 174,330,000. Carrying value of above debentures has been eliminated at the Group level. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 239 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Details regarding the listed debentures are as follows: Instrument type Value in Proportion Interest frequency Coupon rate Effective annual IROCGS* as at LKR % % yield % reporting date % Type 1-5 years tenor 4,998,410,000 99.97 Semi-Annually 10.25 10.51 10.93 Type 2-6 years tenor 1,030,000 0.02 Semi-Annually 10.45 10.72 11.03 Type 3-7 years tenor 20,000 0.00 Semi-Annually 10.72 11.01 11.06 Type 4-8 years tenor 540,000 0.01 Semi-Annually 10.95 11.25 11.09 Total 5,000,000,000 *Interest rate of comparable Government securities. The listed debentures were not traded since issuing date. Therefore, highest traded price, lowest traded price, last traded price for the year ended 31 March 2019 and yield to maturity of trade were not available. Debt security-related ratios Company For the year ended/as at 31 March 2019 2018 Debt to equity ratio (%) 0.29 0.40 Quick assets ratio (%) 1.51 1.3 Interest cover (%) 4.78 4.99 Utilisation of funds raised via debenture issue is as follows: Objective Construction of Access Tower II at Urban Regeneration Project – Design and Construction of Union Place, Colombo 2 941 Housing Units at Henamulla, Colombo 15 Amount allocated from proceeds in LKR (Mn.) (A) 2,586 2,414 Amount utilised in LKR (Mn.) (B) 2,586 2,414 % Utilisation against allocation (B/A) 100% 100% 25.2 Term loan Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 4,072,848,477 721,425,934 1,904,960,917 — Obtained during the year 11,954,669,609 11,392,330,318 5,011,000,000 4,446,960,917 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Repayment during the year (12,299,674,552) (8,040,907,775) (6,513,832,740) (2,542,000,000) Balance at the end of the year 3,727,843,534 4,072,848,477 402,128,177 1,904,960,917 Loan payable within one year 3,637,207,534 3,946,136,743 402,128,177 1,904,960,917 Loan payable after one year 90,636,000 126,711,734 — — 3,727,843,534 4,072,848,477 402,128,177 1,904,960,917 240 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.3 Finance lease obligation Group As at 31 March 2019 2018 LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 6,116,140 10,054,096 Repayments during the year (6,116,140) (3,116,300) — 6,937,796 Less: Interest in suspense — (821,656) Balance at the end of the year — 6,116,140 Payable within one year — 2,265,472 Payable after one year — 3,850,668 — 6,116,140 25.4 Analysis of loans and borrowings 2019 2018 Company name Lending Nature of Interest rate and security Maturity Loan value institution the facility LKR Mn. LKR Mn. LKR Mn. Company Access Seylan Bank Bank loan AWPLR 12 months 150 150.96 — Engineering PLC Limited unsecured Bank loan AWPLR 12 months 250 251.17 — unsecured Cargills Bank Bank loan AWPLR + 0.5% 12 months 100.16 — 100.16 Limited unsecured Bank loan AWPLR + 0.5% 12 months 60.1 — 60.10 unsecured Bank loan AWPLR + 0.5% 12 months 50.08 — 50.08 unsecured Bank loan AWPLR + 0.5% 12 months 40.06 — 40.06 unsecured Bank loan AWPLR + 0.85% 12 months 100.16 — 100.16 unsecured Bank loan AWPLR + 0.85% 12 months 75.12 — 75.12 unsecured Bank loan AWPLR + 0.85% 12 months 50.08 — 50.08 unsecured ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Commercial Bank Bank loan 11.75% (renew monthly) 12 months 451 — 451 of Ceylon PLC unsecured Bank loan 11.75% (renew monthly) 12 months 150.5 — 150.50 unsecured Bank loan 11.80% (renew monthly) 12 months 75.11 — 75.11 unsecured Bank loan AWPLR + 0.7% 12 months 75.73 — 75.73 unsecured Bank loan 11.75% (renew monthly) 12 months 100.32 — 100.32 unsecured Bank loan 11.75% (renew monthly) 12 months 501.46 — 501.46 unsecured Bank loan 11.80% (renew monthly) 12 months 75.08 — 75.08 unsecured 241 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2019 2018 Company name Lending Nature of Interest rate and security Maturity Loan value institution the facility LKR Mn. LKR Mn. LKR Mn. Group Access Projects Commercial Bank Bank loan 11.75% fixed rate 54 months 9.5 — 1.19 (Private) Limited of Ceylon PLC Personal guarantee Mr Sumal Perera Bank loan AWPLR + 2.00% 36 months 4 0.22 1.56 Guarantee land situated at No. 42 A, Yatawathura, Malagala, Padukka Bank loan AWPLR + 2.0% 36 months 40 — 9.61 Guarantee of land situated at No. 278, Kekunavila Road, Jalthara, Ranala Bank loan AWPLR + 2.0% 48 months 28 11.68 18.67 Guarantee of form work system Bank loan AWPLR + 2.0% 48 months 14 6.41 9.91 Guarantee of aluminium profile machine Sathosa Commercial Bank Revolving Market rate over AWPLR 1 month 1,070 1,070 278.82 Motors PLC of Ceylon PLC short-term Unsecured loans Import Market rate over AWPLR 1 month 329 328.79 343.93 loan Unsecured Hatton National Revolving AWPLR + 1% 3 months 240 — 222 Bank PLC short-term Unsecured loans Import AWPLR + 1% 1 month 354 353.79 — loan Unsecured Bank of Ceylon Revolving AWPLR + 0.5% 1 month 500 500 240 short-term Unsecured loans National Revolving Market rate over AWPLR 3 months 300 300 — Development short-term Unsecured Bank loans SML Frontier National Short-term 16% fixed rate 3 months 200 193.24 200 Automotive Development loan Corporate guarantee from (Private) Limited Bank Sathosa Motors PLC Hatton National Bank loan AWPLR+2% (renew monthly) 84 months 200 97.33 122.69 Bank PLC Corporate guarantee from Sathosa Motors PLC ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Letter of AWPLR+2% 3 months 550 — 519.51 credit and Corporate guarantee from temporary Sathosa Motors PLC over draft facilities Short-term AWPLR + 2% 4 months 550 464.25 200 loan Corporate guarantee from Sathosa Motors PLC 242 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Accounting policy Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are expected as the related service is provided. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. Defined contribution plans – Employees’ Provident Fund and Employees’ Trust Fund A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays a fixed contribution to a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. All employees who are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund Contributions and Employees’ Trust Fund Contributions are covered by relevant contributions funds in line with the relevant statutes. Employer’s contributions to the defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense in profit or loss when incurred. Defined benefit plans The liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of defined benefit plan is the present value of defined benefit obligation at the reporting date. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using Projected Unit Credit (PUC) method as recommended by LKAS 19 – “Employee Benefits”. Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, are recognised immediately in the Statement of Financial Position with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through OCI in the period in which they occur. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods. The Group recognises the changes in the defined benefit liability attributable to the service costs (current service costs and any past service costs) and interest expense in the profit or loss. Key assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation are given in Note 26.2. Defined benefit plan liability has not been externally funded by the Company as well as subsidiaries of the Group. However, according to the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability for gratuity payment to an employee arises only after the completion of five years of continued service. The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for the net defined benefit liability: Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year 238,920,256 183,276,363 178,275,827 124,693,344 Current service cost 38,015,162 30,246,565 27,213,707 20,179,086 Interest cost 26,251,437 20,270,164 19,610,341 14,963,201 Actuarial (gains)/losses (19,092,533) 19,122,325 (15,447,533) 23,988,146 284,094,322 252,915,417 209,652,342 183,823,777 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Less: Payments made during the year (20,767,885) (13,995,161) (16,199,790) (5,547,950) Balance at the end of the year 263,326,437 238,920,256 193,452,552 178,275,827 243 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.1 Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Current service cost 38,015,162 30,246,565 27,213,707 20,179,086 Interest cost 26,251,437 20,270,164 19,610,341 14,963,201 Expense recognised in Statement of Profit or Loss 64,266,599 50,516,729 46,824,048 35,142,287 Actuarial (gains)/losses recognised in other comprehensive income (19,092,533) 19,122,325 (15,447,533) 23,988,146 Total provision for the year 45,174,066 69,639,054 31,376,515 59,130,433 26.2 Key assumptions and quantitative sensitivity analysis The cost of the defined benefit plan are determined using actuarial valuations and it involves making various assumptions. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases, staff turn over and retirement age (mortality in service). Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. The key assumptions and their sensitivity analyses are discussed further below: 26.3 Company An independent actuarial valuation of the retirement benefit obligation was carried out as at 31 March 2019 by professional actuaries – Messrs K A Pandit, Professional Consultants and Actuaries. The valuation method used by the Actuaries to value the Retirement Benefit Obligation is the “Projected Unit Credit Method”. The method recommended by the LKAS 19 – “Employee Benefits”. The Principal assumptions used in determining the cost of employee benefits were: 2019 2018 Discount rate (%) 12 11 Expected annual average salary increment rate (%) 8.50 8.50 Staff turnover factor (%) 2 2 Retirement age (years) 55 Years 55 Years ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 244 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.4 Group a. Sathosa Motors PLC An actuarial valuation of the provision for employee benefits was carried out as at 31 March 2019 by Actuarial and Management Consultants (Private) Limited. The valuation method used by the Actuaries to value the Employee Benefit Obligation is the “Projected Unit Credit Method”. The method recommended by the LKAS 19 – “Employee Benefits”. b. Other Subsidiaries Employee benefit liabilities of other subsidiaries have been calculated applying the “Projected Unit Credit Method” recommended by LKAS 19 – “Employee Benefits”. The principal assumptions used in determining the employee benefits obligation were: 2019 2018 Discount rate (%) 11-12 10-12 Expected annual average salary increment rate (%) 10-11 10-11 Staff turnover factor (%) 5-30 5-40 Retirement age (years) 55 years 55 years 26.5 Sensitivity of assumptions used A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 March is, as shown below: Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Effect on the defined benefit obligation liability Increase by one percentage point in discount rate (17,812,879) (18,470,131) (15,666,877) (15,873,640) Decrease by one percentage point in discount rate 20,450,660 21,323,226 18,118,424 18,511,348 Increase by one percentage point in salary increment rate 21,703,698 22,160,143 18,564,411 18,785,674 Decrease by one percentage point in salary increment rate (19,197,400) (19,573,400) (16,275,423) (16,351,468) The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The sensitivity analyses are based on a change in a significant assumption, keeping all other assumptions constant. The sensitivity analyses may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another. 26.6 Future expected contributions to the defined benefit plans The following payments are expected contributions to the employee benefit obligation in future years: ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Company 2019 2018 LKR LKR Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period) 24,015,934 21,160,958 Between 1 and 2 years 6,804,533 6,364,302 Between 3 and 5 years 34,741,703 35,651,938 Beyond 5 years 115,291,126 191,257,138 Total expected payments 180,853,296 254,434,336 245 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Accounting policy Trade payables are the aggregate amount of obligation to suppliers for goods delivered to or services consumed by the Group in the ordinary course of business. Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if they are payable within one year or less. Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Trade and other payables are normally none-interest-bearing liabilities. Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Trade creditors 4,347,999,090 3,923,970,185 3,469,940,107 3,331,035,416 Other tax payable 67,145,069 27,772,415 — — Accrued expenses 1,317,694,016 807,170,500 450,941,804 389,110,458 Mobilisation advance 4,042,630,803 3,335,139,882 3,753,883,196 3,060,166,937 Advances received 1,683,071,460 1,479,945,418 99,368,623 162,494,213 Retention payable 550,367,734 394,243,346 438,742,086 276,102,440 Security deposit 151,547,315 148,479,683 — — Contract liability 330,640,584 — 316,068,003 — 12,491,096,071 10,116,721,429 8,528,943,819 7,218,909,464 28. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURE 28.1 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s — length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and interest free and settlement occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables. For the year ended 31 March 2019, the Group has recorded LKR 53,360 as impairment of receivables relating to amounts due from related parties (2017/18 — Nil). Disclosure as per the requirement of the Colombo Stock Exchange Listing Rule Section 9.3.2 and the Code of Best Practice on Related Party Transactions, under the Securities and Exchange Commission Directives issued under Section 13 (C) of the Securities and Exchange Commission Act, is on page 160 – Related Party Transactions Review Committee Report. The following tables provide the amount receivable from/to and summary of the transactions entered with related parties for the relevant financial years. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 246 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.2 Amounts due from related parties Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Access International (Private) Limited 36,823,772 105,092,353 30,865,432 88,922,255 Access Civimech (Private) Limited 59,164,293 25,274,071 58,852,293 22,092,606 Access International Projects (Private) Limited 10,816,410 58,717,396 10,347,602 56,767,915 Access Industrial Systems (Private) Limited 13,201 43,327 13,201 43,327 Sathosa Motors PLC — — 80,271,363 21,846,521 Harbour Village (Private) Limited — — 158,538,693 4,109,150 Access Projects (Private) Limited — — 70,734,284 10,618,337 SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited — — — 19,994,500 ARL Elevate (Private) Limited — — — 2,400,000 Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited — 10,055,136 — 10,055,136 Access Real Estate (Private) Limited 18,000 105,319 — — Access Lifestyle (Private) Limited 995,286 249,258 — — ZPMC Lanka (Private) Limited 82,913 80,024 — — Access Transport & Services (Private) Limited 18,638,000 — — — Access Residencies (Private) Limited 85,474 — — — Access Solar (Private) Limited 312,000 — — — Access Natural Water (Private) Limited — 68,927 — — 126,949,349 199,685,811 409,622,868 236,849,747 Less: Provision for impairment (53,360) — — — 126,895,989 199,685,811 409,622,868 236,849,747 28.2.1 Movement in Provision for impairment of amounts due from related parties Group As at 31 March 2019 2018 LKR LKR Balance at the beginning of the year — — Impact of adopting SLFRS 9 3,756 — Provision for impairment of amounts due from related parties 49,604 — ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Balance at the end of the year 53,360 — 247 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.3 Amounts due to related parties Group Company As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Access International (Private) Limited 7,477,059 30,381,482 5,159,821 1,042,715 Access Natural Water (Private) Limited 582,114 391,478 268,939 307,175 Access International Projects (Private) Limited 1,780,196 15,318,865 843,268 828,000 Reprographics (Private) Limited 410,598 239,802 410,598 110,944 SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited — — 10,500,000 348,585 Access Projects (Private) Limited — — 13,607,369 20,987,416 Sathosa Motors PLC — — 18,967 4,835,000 Access Realties (Private) Limited — — 248,607,559 1,496,704 CRDS Development (Private) Limited 575,000 — 575,000 — ARL Elevate (Private) Limited — — — 345,000 Access Industrial Systems (Private) Limited — 1,475,294 — 1,240,000 Access Civimech (Private) Limited 452,678 692,678 — — Access Energy Solutions (Private) Limited 9,021,931 13,630,049 — — Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited — 983 — — Access Solar (Private) Limited 3,614,913 5,949,913 — — Access Lifestyle (Private) Limited 278,907 120,000 — — Access Transport & Services (Private) Limited 293,367 — — — Access Real Estate (Private) Limited — 237,647 — — Access Residencies (Private) Limited — 120,000 — — 24,486,763 68,558,191 279,991,521 31,541,539 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 248 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.4 Transactions with related parties The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties: Group Company For the year ended 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Subsidiaries Sales of goods/rendering of services — — 549,200,749 2,230,872,825 Purchases of goods/receiving of services — — (447,228,654) (621,126,229) Dividend received — — 331,638,173 557,696,431 Loan received — — 245,000,000 — Interest paid — — (17,869,032) (17,869,032) Investment in shares/acquisition of MI — (452,382,500) (126,572,560) (3,825,809,940) Equity accounted investees Sales of goods/rendering of services 5,903,895 231,816,420 867,143 228,599,978 Dividend received — 998,378 — 998,378 Other related party companies Sales of goods/rendering of services 583,152,313 203,613,857 340,835,079 124,474,961 Purchases of goods/receiving of services (379,103,698) (576,904,921) (133,762,957) (408,687,204) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 249 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.5 Directorships held by Directors in other group of companies Company name Company (AEL) S J S Perera J C Joshua R J S Gomez S D Perera D A R Fernando S H S Mendis S D Munasinghe Subsidiaries Access Realties (Private) Limited        Access Realties 2 (Private) Limited       A R L Elevate (Private) Limited       Sathosa Motors PLC       SML Frontier Automotive (Private) limited    Access Projects (Private) Limited   Harbour Village (Private) Limited    Associate ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) Limited   Joint venture Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited   Other related party companies Access International (Private) Limited        Access Natural Water (Private) Limited     Access Civimech (Private) Limited   Access Energy Solutions (Private) Limited    Access Industrial Systems (Private) Limited   Access Solar (Private) Limited   Access International Projects (Private) Limited   Access Real Estate (Private) Limited   Access Residencies (Private) Limited   CRDS Development (Private) Limited  Reprographics (Private) Limited   Access Lifestyle (Private) Limited   28.6 Transactions, arrangements and agreements involving key management personnel (KMPs) and their close family members (CFM) According to LKAS 24 – “Related Party Disclosures”, Key Management Personnel (KMPs) are those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity. Accordingly Board of Directors (including Executive and Non-Executive ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Directors) have been classified as Key Management Personnel of the Group. Close Family Members (CFM) of the KMP are those family members who may be expected to influence, or be influenced by, that KMPs in their dealing with the entity. They may includes: (a) The KMP’s domestic partner and children; (b) Children of the KMP’s domestic partner; and (c) Dependants of the KMP or the KMP’s domestic partner CFM are related parties to the entity. There were no transactions with CFM during the year. 250 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A. Directors’ loans No loans have been given to the Directors of the Company. B. Compensation paid to the key management personnel of the Group Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Short-term employee benefits 8 77,550,367 85,288,391 44,445,500 43,790,000 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 77,550,367 85,288,391 44,445,500 43,790,000 The amounts disclosed in the table are the amounts recognised as an expense during the reporting period related to Key Management Personnel. 29. PROVISIONS, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Accounting policy Provisions are recognised when the Group/Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. When the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to provision is presented in Income Statement net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. Provisions are calculated based on the historical experience and the specific terms in the individual cases. The Group arrives at an estimate on the basis of an evaluation of the most likely outcome. All known provisions have been accounted for in preparing the Financial Statements. Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations where the transfer of economic benefit is not probable or cannot be readily measured. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the Statement of Financial Position but disclosed as a Note to the Financial Statements unless the outflow of resources is remote. Contingent assets are disclosed, where inflow of economic benefit is probable. Currently the Group/Company is involved in pending litigations and claims arising out of the normal conduct of the business. The Group/Company does not expect the pending litigations and claims, individually and in aggregate, to have a material impact on Group’s ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Financial Position, operating profit or cash flow in addition to amounts accrued as provision for legal disputes. 251 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The commitments and contingent liability of the Group and the Company as at 31 March 2019, relates to the following: 29.1 Disclosure — Company 29.1.1 Legal claim contingency 29.1.1.1 Legal cases filed against the Company Case No. CHC706/10/MR The case of money recovery by GTB Colombo Corporation (Private ) Limited against three defendants, namely, 1st defendant: Asia Pacific Golf Course Limited; 2nd defendant: Access Engineering PLC and 3rd defendant; Urban Development Authority. The claim is made amounting to LKR 17,691,919.68/together with interest against the three defendants jointly and/or severally in the High Court of Western Province for non-payment of material supplied and invoiced by the plaintiff to the 1st defendant. Access Engineering PLC is contesting the case, since the material purportedly supplied by the plaintiff was not received by the 2nd defendant and not invoiced to the 2nd defendant. This matter is fixed for further trial on 4 November 2019. Case No. DMR930/2017 The case of money recovery by Nilmini Shiroma Bombuwala against three defendant namely, 1st defendant: Ceylon Tea Services PLC; 2nd defendant: Delma Properties (Private) Limited, 3rd defendant: Access Engineering PLC. The claim is made amounting LKR 75,000,000/to recover damages caused due to the constructions of the three defendants. This matter is fixed for trial on 30 July 2019. Case No. DLM136/2018 The case of money recovery by N I C Fernando against the defendant namely, Access Engineering PLC. The claim LKR 17,500,000/with legal cost is made against the defendant seeking an injunction to prevent the defendant from constructing the building fully described in the schedule of the plaint and further seeking an interim injunction, enjoining order as well as to claim the said sum with legal cost of the case. This matter is fixed to be called on 29 July 2019 for answer final. 29.1.1.2 Legal cases filed by the Company Case No. B506/14 The accused has been charged for fraudulently en-cashing a cheque for LKR 3,600,000/of Access Engineering PLC and Company has filed a case against Bank of Ceylon, Union Place branch. Case No. HC228/14 The case of money recovery by Access Engineering PLC against defendant namely Allianz Insurance Lanka Limited. The claim LKR 48,000,000/is made against defendant for the rejection of claims made under contractors “All risk insurance policy” bearing policy number CAR/12658. This matter was fixed for 22 October 2019 for further trial. Case No. 17373/M The case of money recovery by Access Engineering PLC against defendant namely Tharanga Metal and their Director. The claim LKR 3,930,069 together with interest is made against defendant for the claim of renting out the equipment. This matter was fixed for further trial on 10 December 2019. Case No. 12362/19 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 The Accused has been charged for fraudulently drawing cheques with the knowledge of that there are no monies in account for sum of LKR 1,500,000/to Access Engineering PLC. The cheques that have been issued fraudulently have not been honored by the Bank of Ceylon and returned to the plaintiff in the event of encasing the same. The claim of LKR 1,500,000/is made against three defendant namely 1st defendant: City Constructions Developers (Private) Ltd; 2nd defendant: I D Wijerathne; 3rd defendant: R S P Gunawardena. This case is fixed for order on 18 July 2019. 252 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Case No. 12363/19 The Accused has been charged for fraudulently drawing cheques with the knowledge of that there are no money in account for sum of LKR 763,744.04 to Access Engineering PLC. The cheques that have been issued fraudulently have not been honoured by the Bank of Ceylon and returned to the plaintiff in the event of encasing the same. The claim of LKR 763,744.04 is made against three defendant namely 1st defendant: City Constructions Developers (Private) Ltd; 2nd defendant: I D Wijerathne; 3rd defendant: R S P Gunawardena. This case is fixed for order on 18 July 2019. Case No. 12364/19 The Accused has been charged for fraudulently drawing cheques with the knowledge of that there are no funds in account for sum of LKR 1,360,853.04 to Access Engineering PLC. The cheques that have been issued fraudulently have not been honoured by the Bank of Ceylon and returned to the plaintiff in the event of encasing the same. The claim of LKR 1,360,853/is made against three defendant namely 1st defendant: City Constructions Developers (Private) Ltd; 2nd defendant: I D Wijerathne; 3rd defendant: R S P Gunawardena. This case is fixed for order on 18 July 2019. Case No. CHC/44/2019/MR The case of money recovery by Access Engineering PLC against defendant namely 1st defendant: SEAH Networks Company Limited and 2nd defendant: Samhee Construction Company Limited. The claim of LKR 68,704,733.89 on account of work completed and LKR 9,096,941.49 on account of finance charges up to 30 September 2018 together with the legal interest on aggregate of the above cases from 1 October 2018 is made against defendants. This case is re-fixed for summons returnable on the defendants. 29.1.2 Guarantees Bank guarantees issued by the banks on behalf of the Company are as follows: Bank Amount LKR Nations Trust Bank PLC 458,850,580 Hatton National Bank PLC 3,508,150,000 Sampath Bank PLC 126,330,000 Bank of Ceylon 381,870,023 Peoples Bank 2,003,218,605 Union Bank of Colombo PLC 32,229,049 National Development Bank PLC 712,519,861 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 238,070,165 Cargills Bank Limited 725,857,251 Seylan Bank PLC 605,057,687 8,792,153,221 Corporate Guarantees issued by the Company on behalf of Access Projects (Private) Limited for banking facilities is LKR 250 Mn. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 29.1.3 Tax assessments PAYE tax assessment received for the year of assessment 2011/12 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised PAYE Tax Assessment to the Company for the year of assessment 2011/12, assessing shares gifted by three shareholders of the Company at that time to the employees of the company and to external parties, to pay PAYE tax of LKR 634,686,195/plus penalty of LKR 317,343,097/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. The appeal was determined in favour of the Department of Inland Revenue by CGIR and Company has filed valid appeal to Tax Appeal Commission (TAC) against the CGIR determination. 253 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income tax assessment received for year of assessment 2012/13 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment on Income Tax for the year of assessment 2012/13, assessing the tax exemption claimed under Section 17A (2) (C) and qualifying payment claimed under Section 34 (2) (S) of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 for same investment, to pay Income tax LKR 152,394,432/plus penalty of LKR 76,197,216/-. The company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. The appeal was determined in favour of the Department of Inland Revenue by CGIR and Company has filed valid appeal to Tax Appeal Commission (TAC) against the CGIR determination. Income tax assessment received for year of assessment 2013/14 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment on Income Tax for the year of assessment 2013/14, assessing the tax exemption claimed under section 17A (2) (C) and qualifying payment claimed under section 34 (2) (S) of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 for same investment, to pay Income tax LKR 218,211,187/plus penalty of LKR 109,105,593/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. The appeal was determined in favour of the Department of Inland Revenue by CGIR and Company has filed valid appeal to Tax Appeal Commission (TAC) against the CGIR determination. Income tax assessment received for the year of assessment 2014/15 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of Income Tax for the year of Assessment 2014/15, assessing the tax exemption claimed under Section 17A (2) (C) and qualifying payment claimed under Section 34 (2) (S) of Inland Revenue Act No. 1 0 of 2006 for same investment, to pay income tax LKR 155,973,209/plus penalty of LKR 74,867,140/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Income tax assessment received for the year of assessment 2015/16 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of Income Tax for the year of assessment 2015/16, assessing the tax exemption claimed under Section 17A (2) (C) of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 to pay income tax LKR 211,677,432/plus penalty of LKR 117,309,929/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Income tax assessment received for the year of assessment 2015/16 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of Income Tax for the year of assessment 2015/16, assessing the withholding tax deducted from interest income to pay income tax LKR 21,074,263/plus penalty of LKR 56,889,361/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Income tax assessment received for the year of assessment 2016/17 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of Income Tax for the year of assessment 2016/17, assessing the tax exemption claimed under Section 17A (2) (c) of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 to pay income tax LKR 204,153,022/plus penalty of LKR 102,076,511/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. Income tax assessment received for the year of assessment 2016/17 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of Income Tax for the year of Assessment 2016/17, assessing the dividend declared by the Company is not sufficient and withholding tax deducted from interest income to pay income tax LKR 71,415,071/plus penalty of LKR 41,001,658/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Value added tax assessment received for the taxable period 1 December 2016 To 31 December 2016 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised an assessment of value added tax for the taxable period 1.12.2016 to 31.12.2016, assessing tax credit notes when calculating the output tax to pay value added tax LKR 2,504,622/plus penalty of LKR 1,177,172/-. The Company has filed valid appeal against this assessment. 254 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.2 Disclosure — Group Sathosa Motors PLC Tax assessments NBT assessments 2009/10 and 2010/11 Revenue authorities are of the view 2/3rd disallowance is applicable for NBT paid on imports. However the Company is claiming the position that 2/3rd disallowance is applicable for NBT paid quarterly only. Assessment No. 01 The Company has been issued an assessment for Nation Building Tax for the year of assessment 2009/10 for sum of LKR 7,350,762/and LKR 3,675,381/as penalty thereon. The Company submitted an appeal against the above assessment and the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue made a determination affirming the said assessment at the conclusion of the appeal hearing. The Company appealed to the Tax Appeals Commission and Tax Appeals Commission also confirmed the determination of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. The Company, thereafter appealed against the said decision of the Tax Appeals Commission to the Court of Appeal and the Court of Appeal affirmed the decision of the Tax appeal Commission. The Company finally appealed to the Supreme Court and the case is before the Supreme Court. Assessment No. 02 The Company has been issued an assessment for Nation Building Tax for the year of assessment 2010/11 for sum of LKR 7,790,377/and LKR 3,895,189/as penalty thereon. The Company submitted an appeal against the above assessments and the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue made a determination affirming the said assessments at the conclusion of the appeal hearing. The Company appealed to the Tax Appeals Commission and Tax Appeals Commission also confirmed the determination of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. The Company, thereafter appealed against the said decision of the Tax Appeals Commission to the Court of Appeal and the case is pending before the Court of Appeal. However, the Company decided to make a provision in full for these assessments during current financial year. Corporate Guarantee Corporate guarantee issued by Sathosa Motors PLC on behalf of SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited is LKR 1,077.30 Mn. as at the reporting date for the purpose of working capital requirement. Access Projects (Private) Limited Guarantees Bank guarantees issued by the banks to Access Projects (Private) Limited’s customers are as follows; Bank Letter of credit/import documents Performance bid Total against acceptance facility retention bonds LKR LKR LKR ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 557,511,047 891,906,073 1,449,417,120 255 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD There have been no material events after the reporting date except for the following that would require adjustments to or disclosure in the Financial Statements: 30.1 Company Final dividend Pursuant to the resolution adopted on 21 May 2019, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the payment of a final dividend of twenty-five cents (0.25 cents) per share amounting to LKR 250,000,000/for the year ended 31 March 2019. As required by Section 56 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors has confirmed that the Company satisfies the solvency test in accordance with Section 57 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, and has obtained a certificate from Auditors, prior to declaring a final dividend which was paid on 11 June 2019. In accordance with the LKAS 10 — Events after the reporting period, the final dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the Financial Statements as at 31 March 2019. Disposal of subsidiaries Company intends to dispose its investment in Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited during the year 2019/20. 30.2 Subsidiaries Sathosa Motors PLC The Company purchased 13,003,900 shares, per share price being LKR 15.38 of SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited, through rights issue for a consideration of LKR 199,999,982/on 22 April 2019. 31. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, which is measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree. For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in administrative expenses. When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree. Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is valued at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent consideration classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of SLFRS 9 — “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”, ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 is measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss in accordance with SLFRS 9. Other contingent consideration that is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 is measured at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. 256 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Goodwill is initially measured at cost (being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests and any previous interest held over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed). If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group reassesses whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date. If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquire are assigned to those units. Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit (CGU) and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash generating unit retained. A contingent liability recognised in a business combination is initially measured at its fair value. Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of the amount that would be recognised in accordance with the requirements for provisions in LKAS 37 — “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets” or the amount initially recognised less (when appropriate) cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with the requirements for revenue recognition. 31.1 Investment in subsidiary — 2018/19 Access Realties (Private) Limited Access Engineering PLC further invested LKR 126,572,560/in Access Realties (Private) Limited in 2018/19, a fully-owned subsidiary of AEL involving the commercial property development for lease and rental. 31.2 Disposal of subsidiary 2018/19 The group disposed its investment in Horizon Knowledge City Limited during the financial year 2018/19. The fair value of assets and liabilities thus disposed are as follows: LKR Property, plant and equipment 765,158,800 Capital work-in-progress 59,933,584 Trade and other receivables 222,798 Trade and other payables (75,930) Related party payable (983) Income tax payable (345,173) Deferred tax liabilities (56,795,760) Cash and cash equivalents 2,880,124 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Total identifiable net assets disposed 770,977,460 Loss on disposal (5,977,460) Cash and cash equivalents (2,880,124) Net cash proceeds from sale of subsidiary 762,119,876 257 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Non-controlling interest is measured at their proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition. The total profit and loss for the year of the Company and its subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Comprehensive Income with the proportion of profit and loss after taxation pertaining to Non-controlling shareholders of subsidiaries being deducted as “Non-Controlling Interest”. All assets and liabilities of the Company and of its subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The interest of Non-controlling shareholders of subsidiaries in the fair value of net assets of the Group is indicated separately in the Consolidated Statement of Financial position under the heading “Non-controlling interests”. Changes in the Group’s interest in subsidiary that do not result in loss of controls are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners. Adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary. No adjustments are made to goodwill and no gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Ownership interest held by Non-Controlling Interest (NCI) Principal place of business Operating segment 2019 2018 % % Access Projects (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Construction 20 20 Sathosa Motors PLC Sri Lanka Automobile 15.58 15.58 Horizon Knowledge City Limited* Sri Lanka Property development Nil 0.002 Harbour Village (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Property development 39.17 39.17 * The group disposed its investment in Horizon Knowledge City Limited during the financial year 2018/19. The following table summaries the information relating to each of the Group’s subsidiaries that has Non-controlling interest, before any intra-group elimination. For the year ended 31 March 2019 Access Projects Sathosa Horizon Knowledge Harbour Village Total (Private) Limited Motors PLC City Limited (Private) Limited LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Non-current assets 216,848,552 1,911,286,831 — 509,825,510 2,637,960,893 Current assets 1,612,845,761 5,102,425,588 — 5,172,470,684 11,887,742,033 Non-current liability (29,130,166) (154,933,136) — (46,478,710) (230,542,012) Current liability (1,511,830,960) (4,811,176,802) — (1,215,999,648) (7,539,007,410) Net asset 288,733,187 2,047,602,481 — 4,419,817,836 6,756,153,504 Net asset attributable to non-controlling interest 57,746,637 604,308,099 — 1,731,242,646 2,393,297,382 Revenue 1,886,397,426 11,125,759,978 — 13,012,157,404 Profit/(loss) for the year 98,449,868 176,257,965 (906,326) 37,008,936 310,810,443 Other comprehensive income 2,162,972 1,301,159 — 7,073 3,471,204 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Total comprehensive income 100,612,840 177,559,124 (906,326) 37,016,009 314,281,647 Profit/(loss) attributable to non-controlling interest 19,689,974 60,947,278 (18) 14,496,400 95,133,634 OCI attributable to non-controlling interest 432,594 202,685 — 2,771 638,050 Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest 20,122,568 61,149,963 (18) 14,499,171 95,771,684 Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 491,452,680 (564,612,392) — (233,243,704) (306,403,416) Cash flows from/(used in) investment activities (105,648,149) (272,287,558) — 304,064,555 (73,871,152) Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities (28,746,340) 1,180,457,998 — — 1,151,711,658 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 357,058,191 343,558,048 — 70,820,851 771,437,090 Dividend paid to non-controlling interest during the year — — — — — 258 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 March 2018 Access Projects Sathosa Horizon Knowledge Harbour Village Total (Private) Limited Motors PLC City Limited (Private) Limited LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Non-current assets 232,863,471 1,685,552,322 805,281,510 406,689,890 3,130,387,193 Current assets 1,371,332,696 3,696,411,779 23,651,982 4,713,784,482 9,805,180,939 Non-current liabilities (41,215,436) (173,321,383) (56,795,760) (45,938,527) (317,271,106) Current liabilities (1,368,191,689) (3,336,570,216) (253,948) (691,734,020) (5,396,749,873) Net assets 194,789,042 1,872,072,502 771,883,784 4,382,801,825 7,221,547,153 Net assets attributable to non-controlling interest 38,957,808 544,008,752 15,438 1,716,743,475 2,299,725,473 Revenue 1,982,897,549 8,176,897,533 — — 10,159,795,082 Profit for the year (632,418,615) 384,272,769 41,958 53,638,814 (194,465,074) Other comprehensive income 5,169,384 195,267 146,046,240 (173,740) 151,237,151 Total comprehensive income (627,249,231) 384,468,036 146,088,198 53,465,074 (43,227,923) Profit allocated to non-controlling interest (126,483,723) 60,955,911 1 21,010,323 (44,517,488) OCI attributable to non-controlling interest 1,033,877 30,418 2,920 (68,053) 999,162 Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest (125,449,846) 60,986,329 2,921 20,942,270 (43,518,326) Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities (218,169,429) (626,243,811) (1,024,726) 355,560,961 (489,877,005) Cash flows from/(used in) investment activities 16,960,448 (390,202,338) 4,275,333 237,034,879 (131,931,678) Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities (53,144,300) 1,054,395,747 (200,000) — 1,001,051,447 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (254,353,281) 37,949,598 3,050,607 592,595,840 379,242,764 Dividend paid to non-controlling interest during the year 360,000 42,294,570 5 — 42,654,575 33. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets within the scope of SLFRS 9 are classified as amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI), and fair value through profit or loss. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics and the Group’s business model for managing them. With the exception of trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient, the Group initially measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs. Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under SLFRS 15. 259 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policy Applicable from 1 April 2018 Classification and measurement In order for a financial asset to be classified and measured at amortised cost or fair value through OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are “solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI)” on the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed at an instrument level. The Group’s business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows. The business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both. Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Subsequent measurement For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in to four categories based on the entity’s business model and the cash flow characteristics: (a) financial assets at amortised cost; (b) financial assets at fair value through OCI with recycling of cumulative gains and losses (debt instruments); (c) Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition (equity instruments); (d) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets at amortised cost The Group measures financial assets at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met: (a) the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and (b) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest (EIR) method and are subject to impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired. The Group’s financial assets at amortised cost includes trade receivables, short-term deposits, corporate debt securities and other current financial assets. Financial assets at fair value through OCI (debt instruments) The Group measures financial assets at fair value through OCI if both of the following conditions are met: (a) the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective of both holding to collect contractual cash flows and selling; and (b) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. For debt instruments at fair value through OCI, interest income, foreign exchange revaluation and impairment losses or reversals are ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss and computed in the same manner as for financial assets measured at amortised cost. The remaining fair value changes are recognised in OCI. Upon derecognition, the cumulative fair value change recognised in OCI is recycled to profit or loss. 260 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI (equity instruments) Upon initial recognition, the Group can elect to classify irrevocably its equity investments as equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI when they meet the definition of equity under LKAS 32 — “Financial Instruments: Presentation” and are not held for trading. The classification is determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. Gains and losses on these financial assets are never recycled to profit or loss. Dividends are recognised as other income in the Statement of Profit or Loss when the right of payment has been established, except when the Group benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI. Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are not subject to impairment assessment. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets mandatorily required to be measured at fair value. Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments. Financial assets with cash flows that are not solely payments of principal and interest are classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the business model. Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments to be classified at amortised cost or fair value through OCI, as described above, debt instruments may be designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition if doing so eliminates, or significantly reduces, an accounting mismatch. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value with net changes in the fair value recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. This category includes listed equity investments which the Group had not irrevocably elected to classify at fair value through OCI. Dividends on listed equity investments are also recognised as other income in the Statement of Profit or Loss when the right of payment has been established. Derecognition A financial asset (or, where applicable, apart of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e., removed from the Group’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position) when: The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a “pass-through” arrangement; and either (a) the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset; or (b) the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if, and to what extent, it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement. In that case, the Group also recognises an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the Group has retained. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 261 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Impairment of financial assets The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs) for all debt instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss. ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective interest rate. The expected cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms. ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from default events that are possible within the next 12-month (a 12-month ECL). For those credit exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss allowance is required for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of the timing of the default (a lifetime ECL). For trade receivables and contract assets, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs. Therefore, the Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment. For debt instruments at fair value through OCI, the Group applies the low credit risk simplification. At every reporting date, the Group evaluates whether the debt instrument is considered to have low credit risk using all reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. In making that evaluation, the Group reassesses the internal credit rating of the debt instrument. The Group’s debt instruments at fair value through OCI comprise solely of quoted bonds that are graded in the top investment category (Very Good and Good) by the Good Credit Rating Agency and, therefore, are considered to be low credit risk investments. It is the Group’s policy to measure ECLs on such instruments on a 12-month basis. However, when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since origination, the allowance will be based on the lifetime ECL. The Group uses the ratings from the Good Credit Rating Agency both to determine whether the debt instrument has significantly increased in credit risk and to estimate ECLs. Aside from this note, other disclosures relating to impairment of financial assets (trade receivables) are included in Note 18. Accounting Policy Applicable prior to 1 April 2018 Recognition Prior to 1 April 2018, financial assets are classified in to one of following four categories: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Loans and receivables Held-to-maturity investments AFS financial assets ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 262 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Initial and subsequent measurement Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method, less impairment. Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment. The EIR amortisation is included as finance income in the Statement of Profit or Loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. AFS financial assets AFS financial assets are measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and credited to the AFS reserve until the investment is derecognised, at which time, the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in other operating income, or the investment is determined to be impaired, when the cumulative loss is reclassified from the AFS reserve to the Statement of Profit or Loss in finance costs. Interest earned whilst holding AFS financial assets is reported as interest income using the EIR method. Impairment of financial assets At each reporting date group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. An impairment exists if one or more events that have occurred since the initial recognition of the asset (an incurred ”loss event”), has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the Group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors are experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation and observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults. For the impairment loss of financial assets carried at amortised cost, the Group first assesses whether impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be, recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. The amount of any impairment loss identified is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not yet been incurred). The present value of the estimated future cash flows is discounted at the financial asset’s original EIR. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 263 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs. The Group financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdraft. Accounting policy applicable from 1 April 2018 Classification and measurement The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss incurred financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by SLFRS 9. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments. Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss are designated at the initial date of recognition, and only if the criteria in SLFRS 9 are satisfied. The Group has not designated any financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss. Loans and borrowings After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance costs in the Statement of Profit or Loss. This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 264 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Accounting policy applicable prior to 1 April 2018 Recognition Prior to 1 April 2018, financial liabilities are classified in to one of following two categories: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Other financial liabilities Initial and subsequent measurement Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss. Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position if there is a current enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 265 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33.1 Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9 — Group Financial instruments recognised Financial instruments at through profit or loss amortised cost As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Financial assets Equity securities 25,769,394 35,560,781 Trade and other receivables 13,456,501,011 10,941,855,265 Amounts due from related parties 126,895,989 199,685,811 Other current financial assets 2,697,690,207 2,195,368,035 Short-term deposits 2,163,147,483 2,041,431,464 Cash and cash equivalent 2,485,877,649 1,394,098,390 Corporate debt securities 1,420,363,347 1,482,032,531 Financial liabilities Unsecured bond issue Bank over draft Interest-bearing borrowings Trade payable Amount due to related parties Total 25,769,394 35,560,781 22,350,475,686 18,254,471,496 33.2 Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with SLFRS 9 — Company Financial instruments recognised Financial instruments at through profit or loss amortised cost As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Financial assets Equity securities 25,769,394 35,560,781 Trade and other receivables 9,885,130,026 8,393,354,662 Amounts due from related parties 409,622,868 236,849,747 Other current financial assets 2,466,744,153 2,010,995,242 Short-term deposits 475,198,599 279,511,813 Cash and cash equivalent 1,075,663,894 577,006,066 Corporate debt securities 1,008,933,068 1,007,045,205 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Financial liabilities Unsecured bond issue Interest-bearing borrowings Trade payable Amount due to related parties Total 25,769,394 35,560,781 15,321,292,608 12,504,762,735 266 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Total Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR 25,769,394 35,560,781 13,456,501,011 10,941,855,265 126,895,989 199,685,811 2,697,690,207 2,195,368,035 2,163,147,483 2,041,431,464 2,485,877,649 1,394,098,390 1,420,363,347 1,482,032,531 — — 5,007,311,765 5,007,262,734 — — 329,833,689 564,712,154 — — 3,727,843,534 4,078,964,617 — — 8,448,465,268 6,781,581,547 — — 24,486,763 68,558,191 22,376,245,080 18,290,032,277 17,537,941,019 16,501,079,243 Total Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR 25,769,394 35,560,781 9,885,130,026 8,393,354,662 409,622,868 236,849,747 2,466,744,153 2,010,995,242 475,198,599 279,511,813 1,075,663,894 577,006,066 1,008,933,068 1,007,045,205 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 — — 5,188,152,871 5,188,152,872 — — 402,128,177 1,904,960,917 — — 705,109,424 4,158,742,527 — — 279,991,521 31,541,539 15,347,062,002 12,540,323,516 6,575,381,993 11,283,397,855 267 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT AND RELATED FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES 34.1 Fair value measurement Fair-value related disclosures for financial instruments and non-financial assets that are measured at fair value or where fair values are disclosed in this note. Accounting policy Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability Or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 — Inputs that are quoted market prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the Financial Statements at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. Involvement of external valuers is decided upon annually by the Management. Selection criteria include market knowledge, reputation, independence and whether professional standards are maintained. The Management decides, after discussions with the Group’s external valuers, which valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 At each reporting date, the Management analyses the movements in the values of assets and liabilities which are required to be remeasured or reassessed as per the Group’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the Management verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents. The Management, in conjunction with the Group’s external valuers, also compares the change in the fair value of each asset and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change is reasonable. For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy, as explained above. 268 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34.2 Fair value hierarchy The following table shows fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s assets, liabilities. It does not includes fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. 34.2.1 Fair value hierarchy — Group Fair value hierarchy Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Financial assets Equity securities 33.1 25,769,394 35,560,781 — — — — 25,769,394 35,560,781 Non-financial assets Land and building 11.1 — — — — 1,842,118,751 2,524,828,242 1,842,118,751 2,524,828,242 Investment properties 12.1 — — — — 10,729,192,520 10,713,949,513 10,729,192,520 10,713,949,513 34.2.2 Fair value hierarchy — Company Fair value hierarchy Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Financial assets Equity securities 33.2 25,769,394 35,560,781 — — — — 25,769,394 35,560,781 Non-financial assets Land and building 11.2 — — — — 238,000,000 248,000,000 238,000,000 248,000,000 Investment properties 12.1 — — — — 415,800,000 415,800,000 415,800,000 415,800,000 35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES, AND POLICIES 35.1 Introduction Financial risk management is the practice of economic value in a firm by using financial instrument, manage exposure to risk face by Group. The Group’s principal financial assets include trade and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that derive directly from its operations. The major financial liabilities used by a group including debt securities, loans and barrowings, and trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial investments is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide guarantees to support its operations. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 35.2 Risk management framework The Company’s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Board of Directors has established group risk management policies to identify analyse the risk faced by the Group and set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risk and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly, and aim to develop a disciplinary constructive control environment, in which all employees understand their roles and obligations through training, management standards and procedures. 269 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group Audit Committee oversees how Management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risk faced by the Group. The Group Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the result of which are reported to the Audit Committee. The Committee reports regularly to the Board of Directors on its activities. The Group is exposed to key financial risks include credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk. The Board of Directors reviews, verifies, agree the policies for managing each type of risk which are summarised below. 35.3 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments. 35.3.1 Trade receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to Group’s established polices procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk management. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. However, Management also considers the factors that may influence the credit risk of its customer based including default risk associate with the industry and country in which customers operate. Each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness, reviews external ratings, if they are available Financial Statements, credit agency information, industry information, and in some cases bank references. Each business unit monitor the customers’ financial standing (financial insolvency) and outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored. An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date using simplified approach to measure expected credit losses. The calculation reflects the probabilityweighted outcome, the time value of money and reasonable and supportable information that is available at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forecast economic conditions and ECL is a significant estimate. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes in circumstances and of forecast economic conditions. The Group’s historical credit loss experience and forecast of economic conditions may also not be representative of customer’s actual default in the future. The minimum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets disclosed in Note 33. The Group evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in several industries and operate in largely independent markets and material payments being backed by guarantees and enters contractual agreements with client before starting the operations. As at 31 March, the aging analysis of trade receivables that were not impaired was as follows: Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Neither past due nor impaired 4,218,930,556 5,065,627,802 4,165,871,003 4,012,992,627 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Past due but not impaired <30 days 2,662,376,615 894,939,112 1,609,521,610 693,258,320 30-60 days 829,482,039 646,448,066 430,993,119 495,457,796 61-90 days 350,023,068 285,196,327 191,191,827 231,774,493 91-120 days 1,026,593,311 267,710,528 726,209,888 65,969,995 >120 days 2,047,191,814 2,163,823,666 1,619,413,489 1,991,218,747 Total 11,134,597,403 9,323,745,501 8,743,200,936 7,490,671,978 Provision for impairment of trade receivables (Note 18.2.1) 141,444,724 89,218,894 113,051,056 71,219,168 Gross carrying value 11,276,042,127 9,412,964,395 8,856,251,992 7,561,891,146 270 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35.3.2 Short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institution is managed by the Group’s treasury management in accordance with the Group’s policy. Treasury management established ”investment policies” in place, funds invest with high liquidity and high level of safety. The funds may invest in investments grade assets with a rating award by rating agencies or awarded internally by the fund management company. The Group held short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents as at 31 March 2019 which represents its maximum credit exposure on these assets. Impairment on cash and cash equivalents has been measured on a 12-month expected loss basis and reflects the short maturities of the exposures. The Group considers that its cash and cash equivalents have low credit risk based on the external credit ratings of the counterparties. The Group uses a similar approach for assessment of ECLs for cash and cash equivalents to those used for debt securities. Cash and cash equivalents has not been materially impaired. As at 31 March 2019 — 99%, (2018 — 99%) of the favourable balances of bank and financial institution were rated “A” or better for the Group: 2019 2018 Fitch rating — Group LKR % LKR % AA+ 1,434,914,931 31 832,985,374 25 AA 195,199,557 4 18,645,580 1 AA2,849,011,339 61 2,407,973,699 71 A+ 23,467,644 1 45,593,267 1 A 117,293,018 3 73,331,518 2 A1,435,572 0 — 0 BB+ 25,302 0 460,121 0 BB 309,083 0 — 0 Not rating 230,960 0 — 0 Total 4,621,887,406 100 3,378,989,559 100 As at 31 March 2019 — 99% (2018 — 99%) of the favourable balances of bank and financial institution were rated “A” or better for the Company. 2019 2018 Fitch rating – Company LKR % LKR % AA+ 1,225,607,274 80 705,844,297 85 AA 72,448,962 6 3,683,271 1 AA99,004,204 6 10,057,963 1 A+ 16,117,064 1 36,694,254 4 A 113,926,573 7 73,331,518 9 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 A1,435,572 0 — 0 BB+ 25,302 0 460,121 0 BB 309,083 0 — 0 Not rating 230,960 0 — 0 Total 1,529,104,994 100 830,071,424 100 The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the Statement of Financial Position at 31 March 2019 and 2018 is the carrying amounts as illustrated in Note 33. 271 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35.3.3 Corporate debt securities As at 31 March 2019 – 100% (2018 — 100%) were guaranteed by a banking institution with a rating of “A” or better for the Group. 2019 2018 Fitch rating – Group LKR % LKR % AA200,184,932 14 2,620,756 0 A+ 545,380,538 38 556,663,297 38 A 674,797,877 48 922,748,478 62 1,420,363,347 100 1,482,032,531 100 As at 31 March 2019 – 100% (2018 — 100%) guaranteed by a banking institution with a rating of “A” or better for the Company. 2019 2018 Fitch rating – Company LKR % LKR % A+ 334,135,191 33 334,027,397 33 A 674,797,877 67 673,017,808 67 1,008,933,068 100 1,007,045,205 100 35.4 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using a liquidity planning tools. The Group’s approach of managing liquidity risk is to ensure as far as possible that it will always have sufficient liquidities meets its liability when due, and maintaining the balance between financial assets and liabilities and forecasting cash flows from operating activities under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damages to the Group’s reputation. The mixed approach combines elements of the cash flow matching approach and the liquid assets approach. The business units attempt to match cash outflows in each time bucket against a combination of contractual cash inflows plus other inflows that can be generated through the sale of assets, repurchase agreement or other secured borrowing. The Group aims to maintain the level of its cash and cash equivalents and other highly marketable debt instruments at an amount in excess of expected cash flows on financial liabilities. To measure and mitigate liquidity risk, the Company closely monitors its net operating cash flow, forecasting and maintaining a level of cash and cash equivalents and secured committed funding facilities from financial institutions. Excessive risk concentration Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political, or other conditions. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Group’s performance to developments affecting a particular industry. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risk, the Group’s policies and procedures include specific guidelines to focus on the maintenance of a diversified portfolio. Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled and managed accordingly. 272 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Maturity analysis The table below summarises, the maturity profile of Group’s/Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2019 based on contractual undiscounted payments: Carrying On demand 6 months 6-12 More than amount or less months 1 year LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Non-derivative financial liabilities — Group Bank overdrafts 329,833,689 — 329,833,689 — — Trade and other payables 12,491,096,071 — 8,008,375,022 3,787,275,284 695,445,764 Amounts due to related parties 24,486,763 — 24,486,763 — — Interest-bearing borrowings 8,735,155,299 — 3,631,957,534 5,250,000 5,097,947,765 Income tax payables 424,288,511 — 424,288,511 — — Unclaimed dividend 34,365,405 34,365,405 — — — Carrying On demand 6 months 6-12 More than amount or less months 1 year LKR LKR LKR LKR LKR Non-derivative financial liabilities — Company Trade and other payables 8,528,943,819 — 4,775,060,623 3,753,883,196 — Amounts due to related parties 279,991,521 — 279,991,521 — — Interest-bearing borrowings 5,590,281,048 — 402,128,177 — 5,188,152,871 Income tax payables 411,867,608 — 411,867,608 — — Unclaimed dividend 12,359,427 12,359,427 — — — 35.5 Market risk Market risk is the risk that fair value of future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market price. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return. All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Group Management. Market risk comprises the following types of risk: (I) Interest rate risk (II) Currency risk (III) Commodity price risk (IV) Equity price risk ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, deposits, debt, equity and derivative financial instruments. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in the market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes market interest rates relates primarily to the Group long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates. 273 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group manages its interest rate risk by having a balanced portfolio of fixed and variable rate financial instruments. Group treasury designed capital structure guidelines for each project at the planning stage and thereby maintains optimised level of gearing in the Group. The Group manage its interest rate risk by monitoring and managing cash flows negotiating favourable rates on borrowings and deposits including and maintaining on appropriate combination of fixed and floating rate risk. Group Company Capital structure as at 31 March 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note LKR LKR LKR LKR Loans and borrowings 25 8,735,155,299 9,086,227,351 5,590,281,048 7,093,113,789 Bank overdraft 22 329,833,689 564,712,154 — — Total borrowings 9,064,988,988 9,650,939,505 5,590,281,048 7,093,113,789 Equity 23,588,078,618 22,092,337,130 19,084,941,395 17,867,625,335 Debt/Equity (%) 38.43 43.68 29.29 39.70 At the reporting date, the interest rate profile of the Group’s/Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments were: Group Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 LKR LKR LKR LKR Fixed rate instruments Financial assets 4,072,676,609 3,548,536,418 1,584,131,667 1,286,557,018 Financial liabilities 6,182,155,299 5,014,568,874 5,188,152,871 5,188,152,872 Variable rate instruments Financial liabilities 2,882,833,689 4,636,370,631 402,128,177 1,904,960,917 Currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group exposes to the foreign currency risk on purchases, foreign operations that are denominated in a foreign currencies. These currencies primarily are the Euro, US Dollars (USD), Pound (GBP) and Djiboutian Franc. The Group hedges its exposure to fluctuations on the translation of its foreign operations by forward contracts and matching sales and purchases to same currency. The Group’s Treasury management closely monitors the exchange rate fluctuations and advices Management regular basis. Exposure to currency risk The summary quantitative data about the Group’s exposure to currency risk as reported to the Management of the Group is as follows: ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 2019 2018 EUR USD GBP DJF SGD JPY THB EUR USD GBP DJF SGD JPY Trade and other receivables 367,621 4,578,844 39,369 — — — — 1,893,089 3,374,740 — — — — Cash at bank 664,432 4,030,007 23,628 128,050 — — — 1,335,165 976,095 87,470 4,372,286 — — Trade and other payables (30,773) (1,343,819) (618,221) — (8,599) (56,427,200) (7,648,824) (230,627) (880,821) (167,037) — (12,900) (206,336,470) Net statement of financial position exposure 1,001,280 7,265,032 (555,224) 128,050 (8,599) (56,427,200) (7,648,824) 2,997,627 3,470,014 (79,567) 4,372,286 (12,900) (206,336,470) 274 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The summary quantitative data about the Company's exposure to currency risk as reported to the Management of the Company is as follows: 2019 2018 EUR USD GBP DJF SGD EUR USD GBP DJF SGD Trade and other receivables 367,621 4,578,844 39,369 — — 1,893,089 3,374,740 — — — Cash at bank 664,432 1,851,674 23,628 128,050 — 1,335,165 976,095 87,470 4,372,286 — Trade and other payables (30,773) (1,168,248) — (8,599) (230,627) (861,855) — — (12,900) Net statement of financial position exposure 1,001,280 5,262,270 62,997 128,050 (8,599) 2,997,627 3,488,980 87,470 4,372,286 (12,900) The following significant exchange rates were applicable during the year 2018/19: Company/Group Year end spot rate 2019 2018 LKR LKR EUR 197.80 195.17 USD 176.13 157.49 GBP 230.16 222.58 DJF 0.99 0.83 SGD 129.93 120.80 JPY 1.59 1.49 THB 5.54 4.98 Sensitivity analysis A reasonably possible strengthening (weakening) of the Euro, US Dollars (USD), Pound (GBP) and Djiboutian Franc against all other currencies as at 31 March would have affected the measurement of the financial instruments denominated in the foreign currency and affected equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other receivables in particular interest rates remains constant and ignores. Group 2019 2018 Strengthening Weakening Strengthening Weakening LKR LKR LKR LKR EUR (10% movement) 19,805,594 (19,805,594) 58,505,076 (58,505,076) ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 USD (10% movement) 127,959,005 (127,959,005) 54,652,610 (54,652,610) GBP (10% movement) (12,778,919) 12,778,919 (1,720,228) 1,720,228 DJF (10% movement) 12,677 (12,677) 362,463 (362,463) SGD (10% movement) (111,720) 111,720 (155,826) 155,826 JPY (10% movement) (8,970,232) 8,970,232 30,197,342 (30,197,342) THB (10% movement) (4,237,143) 4,237,143 — — 275 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company 2019 2018 Strengthening Weakening Strengthening Weakening LKR LKR LKR LKR EUR (10% movement) 19,805,594 (19,805,594) 58,505,076 (58,505,076) USD (10% movement) 92,684,358 (92,684,358) 54,948,434 (54,948,434) GBP (10% movement) 1,449,926 (1,449,926) 1,946,898 (1,946,898) DJF (10% movement) 12,677 (12,677) 362,463 (362,463) SGD (10% movement) (111,720) 111,720 (155,826) 155,826 Equity price risk The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to market price arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities. The Treasury management monitors the mix of debt and equity securities in investment portfolio based on market indicators and manage risk through diversification of portfolio. Reports on the equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s Senior management on a regular basis. The Group’s Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity investment decisions. 35.6 Capital management Capital management is financial strategy aimed ensuring maximum efficiency in a company’s cash flow. The Group’s objective of capital management is to maintain strong financial position healthy capital ratios in order to safeguard the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to maximise shareholder value. Capital consists of share capital, reserves, retained earnings and non-controlling interests of the Group. The Group’s Management and Board of Directors monitor the return on capital and dividends to ordinary shareholders. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in the light of changes in economic conditions. In order to achieve this overall objective, the Group’s capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure requirements. Breaches in meeting the financial covenants would permit the bank to immediately call loans and borrowings. There have been no breaches of the financial covenants of any interest-bearing loans and borrowing in the current period. No changes were made in the objectives, policies, or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31 March 2019 and 2018. 35.7 Distribution made and proposed The Company recognises a liability to make cash or non-cash distributions to equity holders of the parent when the distribution is authorised and the distribution is no longer at the discretion of the Company. A corresponding amount is recognised directly in equity. Non-cash distributions are measured at the fair value of the assets to be distributed with fair value remeasurement recognised directly in equity. Upon distribution of non-cash assets, any difference between the carrying amount of the liability and the carrying amount of the assets distributed is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Distribution made and proposed are disclosed in Note 23.3. 276 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES ANNEXES ﻿ 278OPERATING STRUCTURE 279 EIGHT YEAR 280 OUR STORY 282 AWARDS AND SUMMARY ACCOLADES 284 286 287 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ABBREVIATIONS DIRECTORS OF NOTICE OF SUBSIDIARY MEETING COMPANIES AND ASSOCIATES 277 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES OPERATING STRUCTURE Construction Projects PMD 1 Asphalt Production Unit I Aggregate Production Unit I Construction Projects Piling Unit PMD 11 Fabrication Unit Scaffolding Unit Concrete Production Unit Construction Projects PMD 111 Construction Projects PMD 1V HR Planning and Recruitment HRD CORPORATE MANAGEMENT HR Department Personal Administration CSR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Employee Grievances Tendering Business Business Promotion Development Investor Relations Subsidiary Management Finance Commercial Finance and Financial Reporting and Compliance Procurement Commercial Budget Treasury and Working Capital Management Department Revenue Tax Planning and Compliance Payments Fixed Assets Financial Audits Internal Audit Technical Audits Department Systems Audits ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Design Office Corporate Project Project Monitoring Management Systems Audits Office IT Services/ Premises Management 278 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES EIGHT YEAR SUMMARY 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Highlights Revenue LKR Mn. 32,277 26,056 20,448 17,625 16,514 16,373 13,900 7,320 Gross profit LKR Mn. 5,184 4,061 4,732 3,977 3,815 4,186 3,061 2,121 EBITDA LKR Mn. 4,891 5,677 4,300 3,748 3,322 3,771 2,883 2,159 EBIT LKR Mn. 4,173 5,044 3,381 2,900 2,653 3,180 2,433 1,931 Net finance income/cost LKR Mn. (651) (383) 150 95 110 136 239 102 Profit after tax LKR Mn. 2,245 2,463 2,746 2,551 2,424 2,902 2,412 1,737 Profit attributable to equity holders LKR Mn. 2,150 2,507 2,708 2,465 2,346 2,833 2,376 1,733 Statement of Financial Position Highlights Property, plant and equipment LKR Mn. 5,198 5,980 5,428 4,791 4,222 3,787 3,741 2,672 Total non-current assets LKR Mn. 20,144 21,171 16,074 12,357 9,155 7,349 7,579 6,641 Cash and cash equivalent LKR Mn. 2,486 1,394 950 504 1,918 1,521 703 1,641 Short-term deposits LKR Mn. 2,163 2,041 2,922 6,792 1,048 1,140 1,371 883 Total assets LKR Mn. 48,062 44,439 36,046 30,343 22,328 20,204 16,642 14,284 Stated capital LKR Mn. 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 Retained earnings LKR Mn. 11,936 10,388 9,590 8,362 7,169 5,815 3,486 1,670 Equity attributable to equity holders LKR Mn. 21,195 19,793 18,840 17,462 16,269 14,916 12,486 10,670 Loans and borrowings LKR Mn. 8,735 9,086 5,737 5,846 350 65 8 13 Total non-current liabilities LKR Mn. 7,533 7,528 5,680 5,603 514 359 259 174 Statement of Cash Flow Highlights Cash flows from operating activities LKR Mn. 1,876 630 1,994 3,168 3,218 1,608 1,301 638 Cash flows from investing activities LKR Mn. 302 (2,226) (1,327) (9,251) (2,337) (341) (1,721) (3,332) Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities LKR Mn. (851) 1,753 (87) 4,532 (737) (459) (513) 4,116 Key Financial Ratios EPS LKR 2.15 2.51 2.71 2.47 2.35 2.83 2.38 1.83 DPS LKR 0.50 1.20 1.50 0.75 1.00 0.50 0.50 0.27 Net assets per share LKR 21.19 19.79 18.84 17.46 16.27 14.92 12.49 10.67 Dividend payout % 23.25 47.86 55.39 30.36 43 18 21 15 ROE % 9.52 11.15 12.7 14.1 14.4 19 19.0 16.2 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ROCE % 11.69 14.83 12.3 12.3 15.4 20.5 18.9 17.5 Gearing % 41.21 43.70 30.5 34.8 2.1 0.4 0.1 0.1 Current ratio Times 1.65 1.57 2.3 2.7 2.6 2.8 2.4 2.3 Quick ratio Times 1.26 1.16 1.7 2.3 2.1 2.3 1.9 1.8 Price per share LKR 13 20.50 23.8 20.8 19.2 22.5 19.7 26.7 Investor Highlights Total number of shareholders 7,226 5,816 6,119 5,757 4,610 2,196 2,153 1,838 Percentage of public holding 41.93 42.31 39.59 37.92 37.92 35.53 36.52 36.52 Value of shares traded LKR Mn. 1,637 2,729 3,625 4,570 14,900 2,148 1,265 45 Number of trades No. 24,276 10,750 25,709 36,018 49,154 10,229 13,535 975 279 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES OUR STORY 2011 To cater to the growing demand for infrastructure development following the end of a three decade long civil war and build sufficient capacity for expansion AEL ISO 14001 REGISTERED issued 180 million ordinary shares raising LKR 4.5 Bn. in a private placement. For the first time in the corporate history of Sri Lanka the founder shareholders gifted DNV Certification RV LKR 3 Bn. worth of ordinary shares among over 1,000 of its dedicated employees. AEL 2009 became the first construction company in Sri Lanka to become a part of the world’s AEL developed its Environment largest corporate sustainability initiative, Management System (EMS) in conformity 2010 the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). to the requirements of ISO 14001:2004 Integrating its operations backward to manage the significant environmental AEL was accredited by the Institution AEL ventured into the production of impacts caused by its construction of Engineers Sri Lanka (IESL) as an construction related material such as operations. institution for training of engineers for asphalt, ready mix concrete, crusher professional charter. products and quarry operations. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 2001 2004 AEL was incorporated as a public limited AEL was awarded the highest accreditation 2008 liability company by the three founder in many fields of civil engineering by shareholders Sumal Perera, Christopher the Institute of Construction Training Access Realties (Private) Limited, which Joshua and Ranjan Gomez with the prime and Development (ICTAD) which is the is the owner and the managing agent of objective of carrying out civil engineering governing body of the industry and Access Tower, a 12-story modern A-Grade projects and was accredited as a Major developed its Quality Management System office complex in the Central Business Specialist Contractor by the National (QMS) in conformity to the requirements of District of Colombo became a subsidiary Construction Association of Sri Lanka ISO 9001:2004 to continuously improve of AEL. (NCASL). the effectiveness and efficiency of its performance. 280 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Our Story 2018 2015 For the second consecutive year AEL was Establishing its footprint in the African selected to the category of “Ten Best Continent AEL opened its East Africa Corporate Citizens in the Country” by the Branch in the Republic of Djibouti. AEL’s Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. joint venture, ZPMC Lanka extended its operations into overseas ports. Diversifying its operations into the promising real estate sector AEL invested in 50%, 100% and 92% of the issued share capital of Horizon Holdings (Private) Limited, Horizon Holdings 2017 Ventures (Private) Limited and Horizon 2016 Knowledge City Limited securing a land bank of over 20 acres in the education and AEL invested in 9.83% issued share AEL invested in 50% issued share capital of information technology zone of Malabe. capital of Harbour Village (Private) Blue Star Realties (Private) Limited Taking advantage of the low interest rate Limited [former Hotel 10 (Private) [former Blue Star Constructions (Private) regime that prevailed AEL raised LKR 5 Bn. Limited] for the construction of 997 Limited] for the construction of 242 luxury in the debt market through an initial public condominium apartment units in downtown condominium apartment units in Rajagiriya. offering of debentures on the CSE. Colombo. The newly built Access Tower II SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited commenced commercial operations adding was appointed the sole distributor for approximately 200,000 sq. ft. of A-Grade Jaguar vehicle in Sri Lanka. office space. 2013 Further, extending its presence in the automobile sector AEL invested in a 50% 2012 stake in SML Frontier Automotive (Private) Limited, who is the authorised distributor Following the successful private placement for Land Rover and Range Rover vehicles ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 AEL became a public quoted company through Sathosa Motors PLC. AEL entered 2014 on the Main Board of the Colombo Stock into a 30% joint venture with Shanghai Exchange (CSE) through an Initial Public Zhenhua Heavy Industries Company Limited AEL became the first construction company Offering of 20 million ordinary shares (ZPMC) of China, the world’s largest port in Sri Lanka to integrate business operations raising LKR 500 Mn. Diversifying its machinery manufacturer to commission, through an Enterprise Resource Planning operations to the automobile sector, repair and maintain container handling Platform and commenced construction AEL acquired 60% of the issued capital equipment in Sri Lanka and overseas work on Access Tower II through its 100% of Sathosa Motors PLC, the authorised through ZPMC Lanka Company (Private) owned indirect subsidiary Access Realties distributor for Isuzu vehicles. AEL was Limited. AEL commenced operations in its 2 (Private) Limited. AEL acquired 80% of awarded its largest piling project to date first overseas project in Papua New Guinea issued share capital of Access Projects amounting to over LKR 3 Bn. in to carryout specialised engineering work. (Private) Limited an industry leader in the Northern Section of the Outer interior and aluminium works. Circular Highway. 281 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES AWARDS AND ACCOLADES NATIONAL AWARDS FOR THE ENGINEERING EXCELLENCE AWARDS — 2018 (Excellence in Engineering Merit Award for Construction Organisation – Large Scale) Awarded by Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka NATIONAL AWARD FOR CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE FOR THE YEAR 2018 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 (Labugama and Kalatuwawa Water Design and Construction of Kapparatota On shore Portion of the works of Treatment Plant) for Water Supply Sector Jetty, Waligama. Valued between Ganemulla Flyover. Valued between Value exceeding LKR 1,000 Mn. LKR 100 Mn. and LKR 500 Mn. LKR 100 Mn. and LKR 500 Mn. Awarded by CIDA Awarded by CIDA Awarded by CIDA 282 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Awards and Accolades Best Corporate Citizen National Green Sustainability Award — 2018 Awards 2018 (Construction Sector (Ten Best Corporate Citizens) (Merit Award — Vehicle servicing Center) Award — Winner) Awarded by The Ceylon by Central Environmental Authority Awarded by The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Chamber of Commerce Annual Report Awards 2018 ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 (Corporate Social Responsibility (Construction Companies – Gold) Reporting Award – Silver) Awarded by the Institute of Awarded by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) (CA Sri Lanka) 283 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES ABBREVIATIONS Short form Definition Short form Definition Short form Definition ABC Aggregate Base Course DJF Djobouti Franc IAS International Accounting ACA Associate Member of DLP Defect Liability Period Standards Chartered Accountants DPS Dividend Per Share ICC International Chamber of ADB Asian Development Bank Commerce E WASTE Electronic Waste AEL Access Engineering PLC ICRA Indian Credit Rating Agency EBIT Earnings Before AFS Available for Sale Interest and Taxes IESL Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka AGM Annual General Meeting EBITDA Earning Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and IFRIC International Financial APL Access Projects Amortisation Reporting Interpretations (Private) Limited Committee ARL Access Realties EBT Earnings Before Tax IIRC International Integrated (Private) Limited ECLS Expected Credit Losses Reporting Council ASPI All Share Price Index ED Executive Director IMF International Monetary Fund AWPLR Average Weighted Prime EIR Effective Interest Rate IOC Lanka Indian Oil Company Lending Rate EMS Environment Management IROCGS Interest Rate of Comparable BEAP Batticaloa Emergency System Government Securities accident Project EPF Employees’ Provident Fund ISO International Organisation for Bn Billion EPL Environmental Protection Standardization BOI Board of Investment License IT Information Technology BSc Bachelor of Science EPS Earnings Per Share JICA Japan International CA Chartered Accountants ERP Enterprise Resource Planning Corporation Agency CBSL Central Bank of Sri Lanka ESG Environmental, Social and JPY Japanese Yen CEA Central Environmental Governance JV Joint Venture Authority ETF Employees’ Trust Fund KMP Key Management Personnel CEO Chief Executive Officer ETR Effective Interest Rate KPI Key Performance Indicator CEP Central Expressway Project EUR Euro KWH Kilowatt Hour CFL Compact Fluorescent Light FCMA Fellow of the Chartered LC Letter of Credit CFM Close Family Members Institute of Management Accountants LCB Licensed Commercial Banks CFO Chief Financial Officer FRICS Fellow – Royal Institution of LED Light Emitting Diodes CGIR Commissioner General of Chartered Surveyors LKAS Sri Lanka Accounting Inland Revenue FTTH Fiber to the Home Standards CGU Cash Generating Unit FY Financial Year LKR Sri Lankan Rupee CHEC China Harbour Engineering GBP United Kingdom LTD Limited Company Ltd Pound Sterling LTIFR Lost Time Injury CICT Colombo International GDP Gross Domestic Product Frequency Rate Container Terminals GHG Greenhouse Gas M&E Mechanical and Engineering ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CIDA Construction Industry Development Authority GM General Manager MBA Master of Business Administration CIMA Chartered Institute of GoSL Government of Sri Lanka Management Accountants MD Managing Director GRI Global Reporting Initiative CISO Chief Information MICE Modular Integrated HDD Horizontal Directional Drilling Security Officer Communication Environment HDPE High Density Polyethylene COO Chief Operating Officer Mn Million HR Human Resources CSE Colombo Stock Exchange MSAN Multi Service Access Node HRIS Human Resource CSR Corporate Social N/A Not Applicable Information System Responsibility NBFI Non-Bank Financial Institution HSMS Health and Safety DGM Deputy General Manager Management System NBT Nation Building Tax DI Ductile Iron HTML Hyper text Markup Language NCI Non-Controlling Interest 284 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES Abbreviations Short form Definition Short form Definition NED Non-Executive Director SLTNTEC Sri Lanka Institute of NP Net Profit Nanotechnology OCI Other Comprehensive Income SML Sathosa Motors PLC OHSAS Occupational Health and SMLF SML Frontier Automotive Safety Assessment Series (Private) Limited PAT Profit After Tax SOP Standard Operating Procedure PAYE Pay As You Earn SPPI Solely Payments of Principal and Interest PIM Postgraduate Institute of Management TAC Tax Appeal Commission PLC Public Liability Company THB Thai Bhat PMD Project Management Division TNA Training Needs Analysis PMP Project Management TOR Term of Reference Professional TPH Tons per Hour PoS Point of Sales UDA Urban Development Authority PPE Property Plant and UGC University Grand Commission Equipment/Personnel UK United Kingdom Protective Equipment UN United Nations PPP Public and Private Partnership UNGC United Nations PUC Projected Unit Credit Global Compact PVT Private UPS Uninterruptible Power Supply QMS Quality Management System US United States R&D Research and Development USA United States of America RDA Road Development Authority USD United States Dollar ROA Return on Assets USSR Union of Soviet ROCE Return on Capital Employed Socialist Republics ROE Return on Equity VAT Value Added Tax RPT Related Party Transactions WECS Wind Energy S & P SL Standard and Poors Conversion System 20 Sri Lanka 20 WEF With Effect From SAP Systems Applications and YOY Year on Year Products in Data Processing ZPMC Zhenhua Heavy Industries SEC Securities and Exchange Company Limited Commission of Sri Lanka SGD Singpore Dollar SGT Super Gain Tax ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 SIC Standard Interpretations Committee SID Senior Independent Director SL Sri Lanka SLAuS Sri Lanka Auditing Standards SLFRS Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards SLSAE Sri Lanka Standard on Assurance Engagements SLT Sri Lanka Telecom SLTC Sri Lanka Technological Campus 285 THIS IS ACCESS ENGINEERING OUR STRATEGY VALUE CREATION STEWARDSHIP FINANCIAL REPORTS ANNEXES DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES AND ASSOCIATES Company Name Name of Director Sathosa Motors PLC S J S Perera J C Joshua T D Gunasekara (Resigned w.e.f. 31 March 2019) E S Coorey D A R Fernando S D Munasinghe S H S Mendis (Resigned w.e.f. 31 March 2019) W A C O Wijesinghe R S Dahanayake M M N De Silva Access Realties (Private) Limited S J S Perera J C Joshua R J S Gomez D A R Fernando S H S Mendis S D Munasinghe S D Perera Access Projects (Private) Limited S J S Perera D D S Ferdinando D A R Fernando I N Pushpa Kumar Horizon Holdings Ventures (Private) Limited D A U Priyasaman M Dharmapriya R M R K Wickramasinghe V K Manatunge Harbour Village (Private) Limited M Ahmad S J S Perera J C Joshua D A R Fernando Zhong Yuan Zeng Nanhai ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Zhang Xiaoqiang 286 NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Eighth Annual General Meeting of Access Engineering PLC will be held at the Auditorium of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, No. 30A, Malalasekara Mawatha, Colombo 07 on Friday, 9 August 2019 at 3.00pm and the business to be brought before the Meeting will be: 1. To receive and consider the Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the affairs of the Company and the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 and the Report of the Auditors thereon. 2. To re-elect as a Director Mr R J S Gomez who retires by rotation in terms of Article 88 (i) of the Articles of Association of the Company. 3. To authorise the Directors to determine donations for the ensuing year. 4. To reappoint Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. By Order of the Board Access Engineering PLC Sgd. P W CORPORATE SECRETARIAL (PVT) LTD. Director/Secretaries 10 July 2019 Colombo Notes: 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote instead of him/her. 2. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. 3. A Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. 4. The completed form of Proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company, No. 278, Union Place, Colombo 2, not less than thirty-six (36) hours before the time fixed for the commencement of the Meeting. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 287 FORM OF PROXY I/We the undersigned ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….……………………………… NIC No …………………………………………………… of ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….……………………………………………… being a member/s* of Access Engineering PLC hereby appoint: ……………………………………………………….………………………………………………………………… of …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… or failing him/her. Mr Sumal Joseph Sanjiva Perera of Colombo or failing him* Mr Joseph Christopher Joshua of Colombo or failing him* Mr Ranjan John Suriyakumar Gomez of Colombo or failing him* Mr Shevantha Harindra Sudhakara Mendis of Colombo or failing him* Mr Dalpadoruge Anton Rohana Fernando of Colombo or failing him* Mr Saumaya Darshana Munasinghe of Colombo or failing him* Prof Kulatilleke Arthanayake Malik Kumar Ranasinghe of Colombo or failing him* Mr Niroshan Dakshina Gunaratne of Colombo or failing him* Mr Suresh Dilhan Perera of Colombo or failing him* Mr Dinesh Stephan Weerakkody of Colombo as my/our* Proxy to vote as indicated hereunder for me/us* and on my/our* behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on Friday, 9 August 2019 and at every poll which may be taken in consequence of the aforesaid Meeting and at any adjournment thereof: For Against Resolution 1 To re-elect Mr R J S Gomez who retires in terms of Article No. 88 (i) of the Articles of Association of the Company, as a Director Resolution 2 To authorise the Directors to determine donations for the ensuing year Resolution 3 To reappoint Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants as Auditors of the Company and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. In witness my/our* hand’s this ………………………………………………………… day of ………………………………………………………… Two Thousand and Nineteen. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 …………………………………………… Signature of Shareholder/s * Please delete the inappropriate words. Instructions as to completion appear on the reverse. Form of proxy INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION 1. This Form of Proxy must be deposited at No. 278, Union Place, Colombo 02 not less than thirty-six (36) hours before the time fixed for the Meeting. 2. In perfecting the Form of Proxy please ensure that all details are legible. 3. If you wish to appoint a person other than a Director of the Company as your Proxy, please insert the relevant details in the space provided. 4. Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided, how your Proxy is to vote on the resolution. If no indication is given, the Proxy in his discretion will vote as he thinks fit. 5. In the case of a company/corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal, which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 6. In the case of a Proxy signed by an Attorney, the Power of Attorney must be deposited at The Secretaries’ Office (i.e. P W Corporate Secretarial (Pvt) Ltd., 3/17, Kynsey Road, Colombo 8) for registration. 7. In the case of joint holders the Form of Proxy must be signed by the first holder. ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CORPORATE INFORMATION NAME OF COMPANY AUDIT COMMITTEE BANKERS Access Engineering PLC N D Gunaratne — Chairman Bank of Ceylon Prof K A M K Ranasinghe Nations Trust Bank PLC D S Weerakkody Sampath Bank PLC REGISTERED OFFICE S D Perera Hatton National Bank PLC Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC Access Engineering PLC People’s Bank Access Towers REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DFCC Bank PLC 278, Union Place, Colombo 02 National Development Bank PLC Sri Lanka. D S Weerakkody — Chairman Union Bank of Colombo PLC Tel: +94 11 760 6606 Prof K A M K Ranasinghe Seylan Bank PLC Fax: +94 11 760 6605 N D Gunaratne Cargills Bank Limited Web: www.accessengsl.com S D Perera CAC International Bank E-mail: investor.relations@accessengsl.com International Commercial Bank RELATED PARTY LEGAL FORM TRANSACTIONS REVIEW SECRETARIES COMMITTEE A public limited liability company P W Corporate Secretarial (Pvt) Ltd. incorporated in Sri Lanka on 31 July 2001 N D Gunaratne — Chairman 3/17, Kynsey Road, under the Companies Act No. 17 of 1982 Prof K A M K Ranasinghe Colombo 08, and re-registered under the Companies D S Weerakkody Sri Lanka. Act No. 07 of 2007 on 6 February 2008. D A R Fernando Tel: +94 11 464 0360 Fax: +94 11 474 0588 Ordinary voting shares are listed on the Main Board of the Colombo Stock Exchange. SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTMENT AND SUBSIDIARY AUDITORS Rated Senior Unsecured Redeemable PERFORMANCE MONITORING Debentures are listed on the Colombo Messrs KPMG Stock Exchange Prof K A M K Ranasinghe — Chairman Chartered Accountants J C Joshua 32A, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, D A R Fernando Colombo 03, COMPANY REGISTRATION N D Gunaratne Sri Lanka. NUMBER D S Weerakkody Tel: +94 11 242 6426 Fax: +94 11 244 5872 PB 200 PQ STRATEGIC PLANNING BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEE S J S Perera — Chairman S J S Perera J C Joshua J C Joshua D A R Fernando D A R Fernando Prof K A M K Ranasinghe S H S Mendis S D Munasinghe R J S Gomez Prof K A M K Ranasinghe N D Gunaratne S D Perera D S Weerakkody ACCESS ENGINEERING PLC Access Towers 278, Union Place, Colombo 02 Sri Lanka Phone: +94 11 7606606 Fax: +94 11 7606605 investor.relations@accessengsl.com www.accessengsl.com
