COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2018 KONKAN RAILWAY CORPORATION LIMITED (A Government of India Undertaking) Corporate Identity Number : U35201MH1990GOI223738 AT A GLANCE Registered : Belapur Bhavan, Plot No.6 & Corporate Office Sector 11, CBD Belapur Navi Mumbai 400 614 Maharashtra, INDIA Tel: +91-22-27572015 Fax: +91-22-27572420 E-mail: general@krcl.co.in COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2018 A CUSTOMER IS THE MOST IMPORTANT VISITOR OF OUR PREMISES Vision  To become a world class surface transport company and infrastructure solution provider. Mission  To develop safe, eco-friendly and cost effective railway transport infrastructure for growth and prosperity of the Nation in general and Konkan Region in particular, ensuring financial & environmental sustainability.  To promote and encourage best practices in the construction and maintenance thereof to achieve “Total Customer Satisfaction”.  To ensure growth and professional excellence of our employees. Objectives Train Operations:  To provide safe, punctual and affordable passenger and freight transportation to maximize user satisfaction. Infrastructure Projects: To leverage our talent and experience towards achieving excellence in timely delivery of challenging infrastructure projects of world class standard. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2018 01 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Our Human Rights Statement, through our ‘Mission’ articulates our values and informs how we conduct our business. Guided by our values, we support universal human rights for our employees and in the communities where we operate. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) believes that companies can play a positive role in contributing to safeguard human rights, their protection and promotion. Our principles prohibit child labour, forced labour and discriminatory behaviour as well as recognize the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We continued to inform and educate our employees about our commitment to the society and social accountability. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. is committed to the displaced people, who have lost their land for the Project. One member from each project affected family is being provided job as per their eligibility and suitability through Selection Criteria. Further, the policy is relaxed in the case of reserved community (Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes) so that now there is no restriction of number of candidates per family in reserved categories. 2811 land losers have been recruited in KRCL against various posts till December 2018. The Hon’ble Minister of Railways laid the Foundation Stone for the `410 Cr Rolling Stock Component Factory Project at Lotte, Chiplun, Maharashtra on 3rd December 2016, a Central Railway Project, being executed by KRCL. The factory work is expected to be fully commissioned by the end of 2020 and will generate employment in the Konkan Region. Indian Cuisine has a unique taste and various cooking styles. It reflects a perfect blend of various cultures and ages. Just like Indian culture, food in India has also been influenced by various civilizations, which have contributed their share in its overall development and the present form. To promote the local product & food items, Konkan Railway have allotted dedicated stalls for local and ethnic Food stalls at various stations to the Local Self Help Groups. This also goes a long way in generating self employment. There is no discrimination on the grounds of sex, religion, place of origin etc. in the Organization as all employees are treated equally. In the year 2012, Konkan Railway Credit Co-operative Society (KRCCS) was formed with the sole purpose of providing loans with lesser documentation and procedure within a short span of time to Konkan Railway Staff at lower interest rates as compared to other Financial Institutions. This Society also encourages the members to adopt the habit of saving through specialized scheme designed for betterment of their future. The Central Railway Employees Co-operative Credit Society has also been permitted to operate in KRCL jurisdiction to extend financial support to the employees of Konkan Railway Corporation Limited. This Society has been looking after the welfare of Railway Employees for more than 100 years. Konkan Railway Staff Welfare Fund registered as a Trust has been extending various welfare activities to its employees. This Trust, in addition to other welfare activities, also distributes Scholarships and Awards to children of Konkan Railway Employees for their meritorious performance during the Academic Year. Konkan Railway Welfare Organization has also been formed. This Organization is registered with Charity Commissioner. It has been established to provide housing facilities at affordable rates to the employees. Every year ` 1000/is being paid to all the employees as a Birthday Gift. KRCL has implemented Voluntary Retirement Scheme and has also liberalized the Medical Policy for the benefit of its Employees. Post Retirement Medical facility is also being provided by Konkan Railway. KRCL has implemented 7th Central Pay Commission Pay Scales has been implemented w.e.f 01/01/2016. 3rd Pay Revision for IDA scale Executives has also been implemented w.e.f 01/01/2017. In the year 2018, KRCL has implemented facility of House Building advance for its Employees. 02 To make sure that the Organization is not complicit in Human Rights Abuses. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. ensures strict adherence to labour laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. It ensures prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers to uphold human rights, for which there is a well established Grievance Redressal Machinery. The Grievance Cell no. is 09004470444. Grievances are also being received through e-mail ID i.e. grievance@krcl.co.in In addition to this, CMD/KRCL regularly conducts HR/Staff Contact Programs at different locations to hear the problems of the employees. Konkan Railway, in principle and in action, places highest importance towards Human Rights and ensures that at no point these rights are abused. Such rights are not only ensured in the regular employment but are also ensured in contractual employment and other works as well. The Organization exercises strict vigil in this regard and there is no Child Labour in Konkan Railway. For the works being carried out by the contractors, it is ensured that appropriate steps are taken by the Contractors for safety and welfare of the workers. A Woman Officer is specifically nominated for dealing with cases of sexual harassment to the Working Women in KRCL. Women's in Public Sector (WIPS) Cell also exists for empowering & encouraging the leadership quality amongst Women Employees working in KRCL. Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Konkan Railway respects human rights of all persons including offenders arrested by them. During the year 2018, RPF Personnel did a commendable job in detecting and tracing out 62 run away / missing children. They were handed over safely to their parents / Child Help Line. 03 Business should uphold the Freedom of Association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Employees of Konkan Railway Corporation Limited have a freedom to join trade unions. The trade union is recognized by the management on the basis of secret ballot election process conducted under the aegis of Ministry of Labour, Govt of India. The duration of the recognition is for a period of two years. Last Secret Ballot process was conducted in the month of January 2018. The Management maintains contact with labour and resolves disputes and differences through Permanent Negotiating Machinery (PNM). Besides the Management and Union have regular meetings as per need. The community privileges of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST) & Other Backward Classes (OBC) have also been taken care of in KRCL as per the guidelines of the Government of India. For officers of Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., an association called Konkan Railway Executives Association has been formed to look after the interest of the officers also. Participation of employees has been ensured in staff welfare activities viz., Medical Camps, Cultural Competitions, Sports, etc. Women’s Day is being celebrated every year. All the erstwhile group 'D' Staff are being given in-house Computer training. The Children of the Employees of KRCL are also being counseled with regard to Career Guidance for their future development. 04 Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. There is no forced or compulsory labour as all staff are governed by Railway Servants (Hours of Work & Period of Rest) Rules, 2005. Officials from the enforcing authority inspect the establishment regularly and no incidence of forced or compulsory labour has been reported in KRCL till date. Wherever employment of contract labour in noncore areas are made, it is ensured that they have been paid the minimum wages, provident fund and all other statutory requirements. 05 The effective abolition of child labour. KRCL ensures strict adherence to the Child Labour (Prohibition & Regulation) Act, 1986. KRCL has prescribed the minimum age limit for employment as 18 years. No person below this age has been employed in KRCL. Our contractors and vendors are required to scrupulously follow the laws/rules and regulations in respect of engagement of Child Labour. This is addressed and ensured through our contract agreements and regular and surprise inspection by KRCL and enforcing authorities. 06 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. KRCL does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, creed, colour, gender, religion or region. We firmly believe in inclusivity and strongly oppose discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion etc. at work place. However, as per policy and fulfilling its social obligation for those who have lost their lands in construction of the KRCL Project, preference is given to such landlosers for employment in certain categories. We also follow the guidelines issued by the Govt. of India for recruitment of persons belonging to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes. In Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. there are 242 Executives and 5108 NonExecutives. Out of which there are 21 Female Executives and 412 Female NonExecutives. There is no discrimination in terms of employment, place of posting, nature of work, duty hours, training, promotions, emoluments etc. Total No. of employees as on 31.12.2018 Male Female No. 5350 4917 433 % 91.90% 8.09% KRCL does not tolerate any kind of behaviour that is threatening, abusive, exploitative or sexually coercive, including gestures, language and physical contact at the workplace. Our system is well equipped to deal with such situations, as we have a very well defined and laid out process in our Standing Orders. As per the guidelines laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, the Corporation has appointed a Special Counsellor and also constituted an Internal Complaints Committee with participation of an External Member at the Corporate Office and for each Region to address any such grievances related to Sexual harassment of Women at Workplace. Also, the Liaisoning Officers for Scheduled Caste & Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes have been nominated to monitor the privileges and implementation of various provisions of the Government Orders like Reservation Rules, Promotions etc and also to redress the grievances. Exhibiting compassion, medically decategorized and persons with disability staff cases are being dealt with for ensuring suitable posting. Educational allowance of ` 2000/is being given to Executives & Non-Executives of KRCL who are having children with some deficiency like autism, attention deficit, hearing impairment etc. Konkan Railway in collaboration with Maharashtra, Goa & Karnataka Tourism has decided to train the local Taxi and Rickshaw drivers, for growth of tourist business and to promote employment and hospitality business in Konkan region. This training is being imparted free of cost. The Training Department on Konkan Railway Corporation Limited is also imparting training in soft skills to youth of the region under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at Ramakrishna Hegde Skills Development Centre, Udupi in Karnataka State and every year about 700 youths are trained thereby enhancing their skills and employability prospects. Apart from the above, Literacy Program has been launched in 2018 for the erstwhile Group 'D' staff of Konkan Railway Corporation Limited who either could not undergo formal education or had to drop out in early primary classes. A Computer Skill Programme has also been conducted for such staff to make them computer literate in order to boost their self confidence. 07 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Right from the construction phase of Konkan Railway Project, a policy decision was taken to adopt measures for safeguarding environment. Afforestation was done in a big way throughout the Konkan Railway route. Boulder Netting and Geo-safety works have been carried out on a large scale throughout Konkan Railway route to strengthen the cuttings and to protect the environment. Railway Coach Washing is a very water intensive activity and KRCL has designed and fabricated a mechanized Coach Washing Plant at Madgaon Coach Care Centre, which uses minimum water. Also, an environment friendly water recycling plant and an Effluent Treatment Plant have been installed for more reduction in water requirement. One such plant has also been successfully commissioned by Konkan Railway at Kolkata Metro. Surveys for feasibility studies for installing the Plant in other Zonal Railways have been conducted with positive results. Efforts have also been made to explore further reduction in overall cost with different workable options to make this product more valuable and as a result, two designs of coach washing plants have been developed. Furthermore, offering this service on Build, Own, Operate (BOO) model has also been planned. Konkan Railway Automated Train Examination System (KRATES) is a Way Side Equipment (WSE) fully conceptualized and designed by a team of Konkan Railway to detect various defects in rolling stocks of moving trains which pass through it and provide an immediate alert to avoid unplanned detachments and also fatal accidents. This system, first of its kind, developed in-house using indigenous sources, is a lowcost robust technology alternative to systems being used in developed countries, and has been customized to meet the requirements of Indian Railways. The ATES system has already been installed at Ratnagiri and Verna in KRCL. The results produced so far have been encouraging and three more units have now been commissioned recently at Nagpur in Central Railway and Surat/Udhna in Western Railway Rain Water Harvesting is being ensured in a big way at various places of Konkan Railway. The use of plastic in all operational areas has been abolished. Eco-friendly shelters for passengers have been erected at all stations on Konkan Railway route. Efforts are made to go towards a less paper usage. Taking this ahead, a decision has been taken to reduce individual printers by replacing them with Network Printers. Corporation has formulated an Energy Policy, which guides all our endeavours and initiatives in the direction of conservation of energy and environment. 100% LED lights coverage has been provided at all KRCL stations. LED Tunnel lights which provide soothing white light, better signal visibility inside tunnels and reduce fatigue of workmen, have now replaced the over-aged yellow sodium vapour lights provided earlier. Total 78 Km tunnel length covering 66 tunnels have been provided with such LED lights. Roll On Roll Off (RO-RO) services has been introduced in Konkan Railway since the year 1999 in which loaded trucks are transported by trains from one end to the other end which results in saving fuel and reduction of pollution caused by road traffic and also leads to safe transportation of trucks. This service besides contributing to significant savings on fuel also reduces wear and tear of trucks’ tyres and parts, with least pollution and high safety. This service is unique to KRCL. Konkan Railways’ novel experiment initiated on 26.01.1999 with `Roll-on Roll-off’ of trucks over BRN wagons has been a resounding success. Introduction of Roll On Roll Off services has been a WIN-WIN situation for Railways, Road Transporters as well as to the Nation. One to two hours of terminal detention coupled with 100% loaded traffic in both directions has resulted in better financial returns for Railways. During 2018, 34650 numbers of Trucks were transported through Roll On – Roll Off (RO-RO) and about 40 Lakh Litres of diesel was saved. The total saving of fuel from the start of this service has been approximately 925 Lakh Litres. This has also helped to control environmental pollution to a considerable extent. 08 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Protection of environment is a core value as well as the motto of the organization. For conservation energy, in a First in the country, KRCL has developed and provided ‘Intelligent Lighting System’ for stations, platforms and circulating area lighting, which is need based, computerized, and user friendly system for switching ON/OFF of lights. It is linked with movement of trains on real time basis. The System operates automatically without any human intervention and thus provides most energy efficient solution for station area lighting. Further, for conservation of electrical energy, passive infra red occupancy sensors have been provided in the officers’ chambers which automatically switch OFF the lights and air conditioners when the chambers are left unoccupied for more than a pre set duration. This saves significant amount of wastage of electrical energy. In the year 2017-18, Corporation earned an incentive reward of `24.04 Lakh from State Electricity Board for maintaining higher power factor. Promotion of Clean & Green Energy: Continuing our endeavours to promote use of clean energy, Corporation has installed 350 KWp ON grid connected Solar Park at Ratnagiri. The plant is capable of catering to full power requirement of Ratnagiri Station during day time. We also intend to inject surplus power to the grid as soon as “net metering” system is implemented by the State Government. Besides, Hybrid (Wind + Solar) System at Level Crossings (LC) gate No.17& 32 (950 W each) and Vinhere station (7.5 KW) provided at Ratnagiri region. Continuing our initiatives to promote usage of clean energy, roof top solar panels of 25 KWp capacity each at Chiplun, Kankavali & Kudal, 20 KWp capacity at Sawantwadi & Karmali, 7 KWp at Thivim & Udupi and 2 KWp capacity each at Khed, Chiplun & Kankavali stations have been installed. Solar Water Heaters have been provided at most of the Rest Houses, Training Institutions, Running Rooms and Holiday Home (total cap. 11500 Litres per day). Also, Solar Panels have been provided for staircase lighting at major staff colonies. This though is a baby step towards gradually increasing reliance on non conventional energy sources to conserve the environment. In a first of its kind on Railways, Coach Roof Top Solar Power Panels using 3.5 KWp retrofittable flexible solar panel on one sleeper coach along with 6 KWp retrofittable fixed solar panel have been installed on another sleeper coach on Konkan Kanya/ Mandovi rakes. Further, a roof top Solar Power Grid integrated plant of 180 KWp is proposed to be installed at Madgaon Railway station on its platform shelters (Island Platform) under MPLAD Scheme of Hon'ble MP(LS), South Goa. Madgaon station currently has a sanctioned load of approximately 200 KVA power from 11 KV feeder with an average annual consumption of 8.4 lakhs units. The proposed Solar Power Grid integrated plant of 180 Kwp will generate around 2.53 lakhs units per annum which is expected to take care at-least I/3rd of annual consumption of Madgaon Station. This plant is expected to save approximately 4.88 Crores with 57 Lakhs units generated in 25 years. KRCL has implemented Eprocurement and EAuction systems which have improved the efficiency and transparency in public dealing. It has also reduced use of paper in day-to-day working substantially. KRCL has system of disposal of unserviceable material by way of E-auction which has generated revenue to the tune of `4.5 Cr. approximately per annum, in addition to keeping the environment clean. Electrification of KR Route: Railway Electrification work of Konkan Railway route having its jurisdiction from Roha to Thokur spanning the States of Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka on a length of 970 track km (740 route kilometers) is in progress. At present the work of OHE foundation, mast erection, construction of TSS & SS/SSP, power supply arrangements, Transmission lines and extension of relay rooms are in progress. Work is in full swing. Target for the completion of entire work is December 2020. Planting of Vetiver Grass has been done on a large scale on cutting slopes to prevent erosion and it is proving quite effective in arresting the soil erosion. In addition, every monsoon KRCL has taken up plantation of various local species saplings along the railway boundary. KRCL has planted 1,11,311 nos. in the year 2017-2018. 09 Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. The mission statement of Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. is to evolve into an economic, eco-friendly and cost effective catalyst for growth and prosperity. To achieve this mission statement, Konkan Railway has adopted cutting edge technologies which are eco-friendly and promotes sustainable growth involving less maintenance. Konkan Railway is the first Railway to provide Bio-Toilets at its stations. Bio-toilet is an innovative technology for disposal of human waste in eco-friendly manner. This technology of Bio-Toilet is developed by Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO), Ministry of Defence. As on date, KRCL has provided Bio-toilets at Eleven Stations on KR route viz. Khed, Chiplun, Kankavli, Sawantwadi Road, Kudal, Karmali, Madgaon, Karwar, Mookambika Road Byndoor, Murdeshwar and Surathkal. KRCL has also taken a decision to provide as many bio-toilets at all Stations. In addition, Bio-Toilets are also being installed in Passenger trains being maintained by Konkan Railway. So far 155 passenger coaches have been fitted with 508 numbers of Bio-Toilets. The necessary arrangements for their maintenance like training of employees and executives, procurement of consumables, tools and plants have also been made. It is expected that all coaches maintained by KRCL will be fitted with BioToilets by June 2019. The use of Auxiliary Power Units (APUs) in locomotives is being monitored for saving fuel during halts of trains. The shutting down of locomotives while not in use has resulted in saving of 450560 litres of HSD oil during 2017-18 which is equivalent to approximately `2.65 Cr. A JPO has been signed by Mechanical and Traffic Department of KRCL to take intensive efforts towards shutting down locomotives to save fuel. Efforts are also being made for use of non toxic, organic solutions for pest control and cleaning of coaches. Some initiatives in this regard have been taken on experimental basis. Organic Waste Converter technology is yet another technology used by Konkan Railway, which is an environment friendly alternative to traditional means of waste disposal like landfill dumping etc. The Organic Waste Converter (OWC) is a waste composting machine which converts all types of biodegradable waste (including kitchen waste, garden waste, waste food) into manure that can be used for maintaining the plants and gardens. Konkan Railway has provided four numbers of OWC machines, viz at Konkan Rail Vihar Colony, Nerul/Mumbai, Ratnagiri Station, Madgaon Station and at Karwar Station. 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. • By implementing the JRAP, Java based ERP, E-Office, Financial and commercial transactions are fully computerized on a network. Therefore, the working is transparent and least susceptible to fraud. • KRCL has also implemented the provisions of Right to Information Act 2005. • All tenders are put up on Website to ensure transparency in action. Indian Railway E-Procurement System (IREPS) has been fully adopted in KRCL for procurement of Stores items. Also all Works tenders are processed through e-tendering system under IREPS web site of Indian Railways. • For eliminating corruption, KRCL has a lean but devoted and motivated Vigilance department which keeps watchful eyes on the functioning of the organization by conducting regular preventive checks to ensure that the employees while discharging their duties maintain high integrity and honesty. Lot of emphasis is given on Preventive Vigilance and educating the employees bringing out the areas of common mistakes, with the aim of reducing irregularities likely to be committed by the employees in their day to day functioning. • Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) is the Nodal Officer for filing complaints regarding corruption and the contact numbers of Vigilance Department are displayed in the Konkan Railway Time Table and also in the Website of Konkan Railway.  To encourage the participation of employees as well as the public in our fight against corruption, an android based mobile app named as ‘KR Ceetee’ has been developed and made available in the Organization’s website and in Google Play Store.
