VALUE NO.1 ENERGY & CHEMICAL PARTNER GS Caltex 2018 Sustainability Report GS Caltex 2018 Sustainability Report VALUE NO.1 ENERGY & CHEMICAL PARTNER Contents For your convenience, this report has links on the table of contents and specific content, so you can quickly find relevant information. Corporate Overview 2018 Highlight Management System Sustainability Activities Appendix CEO Message 04 Investments for New Growth 14 GS Caltex Vision and 26 Environment 36 Financial Data 72 GS Caltex SHEQ 90 Corporate Overview 06 Making a Safe Workplace 16 GSC Way Customers 42 ESG Data and Performance 73 Management Policy Business Model 08 Reducing GHG by 18 Corporate Governance 27 Employees 48 Selection of Material Topics 82 GHG Assurance Statement 91 Business Areas 10 Cookstoves Sustainable Management 28 Partners 56 GS Caltex Stakeholder Policy 84 Third Party Assurance 92 Creating Culture Space 20 System Statement Local Community 59 GS Caltex Code of Ethics 85 UN SDGs 22 Stakeholder Engagement 29 GRI Standards Index 94 Shareholders & Investors 66 GS Caltex Human Rights 86 Risk Management 30 Policy UN Global Compact 97 Ethics Management and 32 Code of Conduct for 87 Major Memberships for 98 Fair Trade GS Caltex Partners Sustainability GS Caltex Tax Policy 90 Major Donated 98 Organizations About This Report Through this sustainability report by GS Caltex, we share insights into our business plan and the progress we have made towards Reporting Guidelines achieving the highest levels of sustainability in terms of economic, environmental, and social value creation with our stakeholders. This is The GS Caltex 2018 Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with the Core Option of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standards our 14th sustainability report since 2006. and designed to incorporate stakeholder feedback, in compliance with AA1000SES. The content of this report has been internally reviewed by GRI-certified professionals and third party. There are no significant changes in terms of its scope, boundaries, and measuring Reporting Period processes from the previous report. This report covers our sustainability performance from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018. For the key factors of quantitative performance, the results of the past three years (from 2016 to 2018) are shared for comparative analysis while newly disclosed quantitative Report Assurance and qualitative performances are indicated separately. Some of the highlights of the first half of 2019 are included in this report to ensure This report has been assured by DNV GL, a third-party assurance institution, in terms of the objectivity and accuracy of the contents and their timely disclosure. data. The assurance statements can be found in the appendix to the report. Scope of Report For more information about GS Caltex, Corporate Social Responsibility Team The scope of this report encompasses the GS Caltex headquarters and major business operations including the facility at Yeosu Complex. please visit our website at www.gscaltex.com or contact us 02-2005-1614 / news@gscaltex.com A certain part of the data was derived from the terminal, lubricant plant, gasoline stations, LPG stations and affiliated companies. Any parts that require special attention are indicated accordingly. GS Caltex 04 05 Corporate Overview 2018 Sustainability Report CEO Message CEO Message Dear valued stakeholders, With your continued interest and support, we have made significant progress in our business performance each year while working towards a brighter future. Last year we decided to make large investments in the olefin production facilities (MFC : Mixed Feed Cracker) to expand our petrochemical business portfolio. We have been working hard to achieve a successful completion of the project this year. GS Caltex is making diversified efforts to drive sustainable growth and take our CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) to the next level. In 2017, we implemented a corporate-wide ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) management system, and starting from 2018, we established various policies and processes to lay the foundations for internalizing CSR initiatives. Meanwhile, we established the Code of Conduct for our partners to expand CSR in the supply chain and promote shared growth and cooperation. We are also pursuing various CSR activities that are aligned with the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) proposed by the UN to solve global issues and protect our environment. As part of this commitment, we distributed Cookstove, a high-efficiency cooking appliance, to Myanmar to promote people’s health and preserve forests in developing countries. We plan to expand these campaigns around the world. At the same time, we are dedicated to promoting shared growth with local communities by using local services, purchasing materials locally to the extent possible and engaging in various CSR programs. Our CSR activities represent our commitment to gain society’s trust and maintain a sustainable business. GS Caltex will continue to fulfill our corporate responsibility and make improvements to remain true to our principles of safety, protection of the environment, and compliance. Through this 14th Sustainability Report, we are pleased to share the various CSR activities that enhance our value and fulfill our social responsibilities. We hope this report will help us maintain close communication with our employees, customers, shareholders, partners and local communities. We sincerely appreciate your continued interest and support. Thank you. President & CEO Saehong Hur GS Caltex 06 07 Corporate Overview 2018 Sustainability Report Corporate Overview Since its establishment in 1967 as Korea’s first private oil refinery business, GS Caltex Overseas Network Corporate has set new standards in the domestic petroleum industry and played a critical role (As of May 2019) Overview in developing oil and petroleum products as Korea’s major export items. Through continuous investments and research in petroleum and petrochemical businesses, we are taking major steps toward becoming a leading energy enterprise in the global market. Corporate Profile (As of December 2018) GS Caltex Russia Representative Office GS Caltex London Branch GS Caltex China Co., Ltd Name of Date of Overseas No. of Areas of GS Caltex Czech, s.r.o. Address GS Caltex Shanghai Branch Company Incorporation Offices (branches) Employees Business GS Caltex (Langfang) Plastics Co., Ltd GS Caltex (Suzhou) Plastics Co., Ltd GS Caltex Tokyo Branch GS Caltex (Suzhou) Trading Co., Ltd GS Tower, 508, China, Czech, India, Petroleum, GS Caltex Corporation May 19, 1967 Nonhyeon-ro, Singapore, Mexico, 3,212 Petrochemicals, Gangnam-gu, Seoul London, etc. Base Oil & Lubricants GS Caltex Abu Dhabi Branch GS Caltex India Private Ltd. GS Caltex Vietnam Representative Office GS Caltex Mexico S.de R.L.de C.V. GS Caltex Singapore Pte. Ltd. Organization (As of May 2019) Supply & Retail Trading Marketing Yeosu Corporate Complex Sustainability Report Directly to CEO Petrochemicals President & CEO Corporate Legal Business Corporate Audit Human Resources Lubricants MFC Business Project Corporate Finance Planning GS Caltex 08 09 Corporate Overview 2018 Sustainability Report Business Model At GS Caltex, we are committed to creating values for our stakeholders throughout the Business entire business process. Model (As of 2018) Supply Value Creation Human Total Compensation for Employees KRW 389.1 Billion 3,212 employees Resources KRW 62.8 Billion Low-interest Loan Program for Partners Material 272.4 Million barrels of crude oil (Loan Limit : KRW 200 Billion) Resources (272,390,252 Bbls) Investment in Social Contribution KRW 14.9 Billion GS Energy 50% Consolidated Operating Profits KRW 1,234.2 Billion Equity Chevron (Overseas) Holdings Ltd. 40% Structure Consolidated Net Profits KRW 703.5 Billion Chevron Global Energy Inc. 10% Investment Investment in Facilities KRW 639.0 Billion Investment in Environmental Protection KRW 56.1 Billion Investment in R&D KRW 51.5 Billion Production Sales 800,000 Lubricant Production 9,000 Gasoline Stations 2,510 gasoline stations Sales KRW 36,363.0 Billion Refining Capacity barrels/day Capacity barrels/day LPG Stations 400 LPG stations Value of Export KRW 26,072.7 Billion Aromatic Production 2,800,000 PP Compound 300,000 Domestic Market Share 24.5% Export Ratio 71.7% Capacity tons/year Production Capacity tons/year 11.42 Million Base Oil Production 26,000 Membership Subscribers membership subscribers Capacity barrels/day GS Caltex 10 11 Corporate Overview 2018 Sustainability Report Business Areas The business areas of GS Caltex consist mainly of petroleum, petrochemicals, and Business Areas lubricants. Through continuous diversification of our overseas market, we created Gasoline Station in Northern Port of Incheon Metropolitan City more than 70% of our revenue through exports in 2018. Petroleum Aromatic Base Oil Lubricants Polymers PP Production PP Compound Capacity No.3 Heavy Oil Lubricant Production Production Refining Capacity Aromatic (tons/year) Upgrading Facility 2,800,000 Capacity Capacity (tons/year) (barrels/day) Production 26,000 180,000 Capacity (barrels/day) 300,000 800,000 Upgrading (tons/year) 9,000 Propylene Ratio Production Base Oil Production Capacity 34.3% Capacity (tons/year) (barrels/day) 476,000 Marine GS Caltex supplies petroleum products Our aromatic production facilities were Our base oil production started in As a leading producer in the market, Our polypropylene production facilities were Shipment to the domestic market through 2,510 built in 1990 with an annual capacity of November 2007 when we completed GS Caltex is recognized for its superior completed in 1988 with an annual production gasoline stations and 400 LPG stations 200,000 tons of paraxylene and a half construction of a BOP (Base Oil Plant) with quality and technological expertise. Our capacity of 120,000 tons. The current nationwide. Simultaneously, we export to million tons of aromatic products for fulla daily capacity of 16,000 barrels. Since product portfolio ranges from automobiles production capacity is about 180,000 tons a the overseas market. With a daily refining scale production. We are continuing our then, we increased our capacity to 23,000 and industrials to ships and special oils, year. We have an annual production capacity capacity of 800,000 barrels, we produce investment in production facilities and barrels per day in 2010, followed by a including more than 200 product types of 476,000 tons of propylene, which is used high-quality petroleum products using optimization of processes in the aromatic further increase to 26,000 barrels through with Kixx engine oil as our flagship brand. for polypropylene, thanks to our No.1 Heavy state-of-the-art production facilities sector. Our current production capacity additional improvement in our production oil upgrading facility (RFCC : Residue Fluidized including heavy oil upgrading facilities and stands at 2.8 million tons a year including facilities. The use of lubricants in the domestic Catalytic Cracking Unit) developed in 1995 and desulfurization facilities. 1.35 million tons of paraxylene, 0.93 market has been stagnant with little No.4 Heavy oil upgrading facility (VGOFCC : million tons of benzene, 0.17 million In Asia, including China, demand for or no growth, even as product quality Vacuum Gas Oil Fluidized Catalytic Cracking Unit) In 2019, we expect issues such as tons of toluene, and 0.35 million tons of lubricants is expected to increase along h a s i m p rove d ow i n g to st r i n g e n t developed in 2013. stagnant global economy, trade wars, mixed-xyplen. with economic growth, particularly highenvironmental regulations and demand Central Technology and Brexit to influence the demand for quality lubricant products such as Group II from facility manufacturers. Also, price has Our facilities in Korea, China, and the R&D Center petroleum. Meanwhile, the petroleum In the aromatic market, margins have and Group III lubricants thanks to growing been fluctuating substantially according Czech Republic produce PP compound, industry is working on manufacturing been declining over the past five years requests on environmental impact and to the change in the economy, driven which are used for high-value added eco-friendly products to prepare for due to the continued operation of new fuel efficiency. As a major supplier of by factors such as supply surpassing products such as automobiles and environmental regulations including the production facilities in Asia and concern base oil in Asia, we are strengthening our demand and competition becoming fierce electronics. Their annual production global regulations on sulfur content in is growing due to the mass investments leadership position in the market. in the domestic and international markets. capacity is 280,000 tons. In March 2017, ship’s fuel oil. by China. In response, we are working In order to overcome these challenges, a new plant with an annual capacity of on the development of new markets we focus on improving the product mix, 20,000 tons was completed in Mexico. At GS Caltex, we have consolidated the while looking into aromatic downstream developing cost-saving recipes, and foundations for oil supply by diversifying businesses to retain our margins. attracting new customer. The most critical risk factor in the petroour suppliers and purchasing crude oil not chemical industry, where commodity is a only from the Middle East but from the driving force, is the fact that profitability can U.S. as well. Additionally, we have gained be subject to external factors such as oil Global Lubricants a competitive advantage by operating the prices. In this regard, our polymer business Logistics Center largest heavy oil upgrading facilities in has optimized a portfolio that can distribute South Korea. risks through vertical integration between upstream and downstream, from propylene (resource) to polypropylene (intermediate goods) and composite resins (end goods). GS Caltex 2018 Sustainability Report 01 GS Caltex 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 Investments for Making a Safe Reducing GHG by Creating UN SDGs New Growth Workplace Cookstoves Culture Space Highlight GS Caltex 14 15 2018 Highlight 2018 Sustainability Report Investments for New Growth No.4 Heavy Oil Upgrading Facility MFC Project Background GS Caltex pursues solid growth by identifying new growth engines as along with strengthening competitiveness of existing businesses. In particular, we are starting Launch construction in Schedule 2019, start operations in olefin operations that record high growth in the petrochemicals sector and can easily be 2021 expanded to the downstream market. In this initial phase, we are making investments by building an MFC (Mixed Feed Cracker), an olefin production facility. We plan to establish a Investment KRW 2.75 trillion balanced portfolio that creates stable profits based on successful MFC investments. Production Ethylene : Capacity 700,000 tons per year Investments Ethylene, the main olefin product, is used as the base ingredient for so many industries that it is called the rice of the petrochemicals industry. In particular, polyethylene, one of the downstream Polyethylene : 500,000 tons per year for New products of ethylene, is utilized for daily plastic products such as plastic bags, containers, and Job Creation 2 million employees Growth disposable goods after processing and cutting. Given the versatile application of polyethylene, we expect the largest volume and growth in demand out of all olefin products worldwide. during construction phase (man-days) 500 employees after In the polyethylene market, GS Caltex plans to first enter the HDPE (High Density PE) operations (240 direct employment, market. HDPE is relatively large in market size and relates to our existing operations 260 indirect employment) (polypropylene), so we expect entry into new markets to be relatively easy. In addition, ethylene prices are low in relation to price of the aromatics that GS Caltex produces, Expected KRW 400 million per year making it possible for us to enter the rapidly growing, high-value downstream products Profit (operating profit) market through development of a secure portfolio. Differentiated Competitiveness GS Caltex expects that the MFC has high compatibility as it can utilize the off-gas, LPG, naphtha and other materials. By-products from MFC such as hydrogen (H2) and C5 can also be used in existing plants, and investment costs can also be reduced by utilizing partial facilities and tanks in existing plants. We expect that MFC will secure outstanding cost competitiveness and a competitive advantage over other petrochemicals companies through synergy with existing facilities. GS Caltex anticipates additional profits by expanding operations into the olefin market, other than the existing aromatics market, through MFC. In the future, we expect to acquire even stronger competitiveness in petrochemicals as well as oil by entering various high-value-added downstream markets. Changing production volumes of OPEC, increased conflict in the Middle PE (Poly Ethylene) 1 Hydrogen Ethylene East, development of shale oil in the U.S., and intensifying competition in Why is this Off-gas from (C2) External Sales the market with business expansions are having unpredictable impact on 2 important? our business practice. The global market is more competitive and volatile FCC Production Propylene (C3) [Competitiveness of MFC at GS Caltex] LPG (C3/C4) than ever with an increase of refineries and exports in China, Asia, and the Existing 3 1 ‌Obtains by-products that used to be Naphtha MFC Middle East. As a result, our earnings are fluctuating significantly. To achieve production C4 Mix. purchased from outside sources 2 ‌Can use off-gas as a basic supply sustainable growth, we have to strengthen our internal competencies while 1 C5 ingredient proactively responding to this changing environment. Intermediate Processed Pygas 3 ‌Possible to identify naphtha optimized to Fuel Oil (PFO) MFC, ensures supply and price stability GS Caltex 16 17 2018 Highlight 2018 Sustainability Report Making a Safe Workplace Fire Drill at Yeosu Complex Identify and Disseminate Outstanding Cases of Safety GS Caltex expanded the scope of the existing Safe Environment Contest, which was 1) ‌Composed of departments related to safety, health, based on units of teams, worksites, and partners until 2017, to Excellent Cases of logistics and purchasing Safety from the second quarter of 2018, to identify and reward individuals, groups and organizations that conduct safety activities regularly. The reward system works on a quarterly basis. We assess these recommended or identified cases through the Excellent Safety Selection Committee1) for final selection to award them and share those cases Selection Status of Excellent Cases of Safety within the entire company. 2Q 3Q 4Q Classification 2018 2018 2018 The targets of excellent cases of safety are cases worthy of sharing with the entire Individual 2 2 2 Making a Safe company. These are instances of performance improved by improving safety systems, GS Caltex Group 2 2 1 Team 2 Workplace enhancing safety facilities, efforts to prepare for emergencies and responses to emergency. Excellent cases are communicated within and outside the company to raise safety Partner / Individual 1 2 Group 1 awareness. The PSM 12 Factors Training video which was selected as an excellent case, is Subsidiary Team 4 1 playing an important role in promoting safety awareness. Discovering excellent safety cases will continue to serve as the foundation to raise safety awareness at GS Caltex. Awards for Outstanding Cases of Safety at 51st Anniversary Ceremony Efforts to Internalize Safety Many companies are focusing their attention on safety and health that are recognized as requirements to sustainable business operations. Owing Why is this At GS Caltex, we established a SHE Information System in July, 2018 for the systematic to the growing social interest in accidents that occur at production sites, management and communication of SHE (Safety, Health, Environment) data. The SHE important? businesses are adopting stronger measures to protect workers such as Information System creates a database from SHE-related information, and analyzes strengthening the boundary of laws and increasing the responsibility of it to identify areas that need improvement. The system is utilized to strictly improve contractors. At GS Caltex, we will focus on our Safety and Health actions weaknesses by providing periodical alarms and encouragement on all necessary items to more actively in line with these changes in the environment. be managed such as assessment and accident inspection. In addition, we actively promote the internalization of safety through the SHE Information System through methods such as various dashboards provided by the system to assess status of major areas. GS Caltex 18 19 2018 Highlight 2018 Sustainability Report Reducing GHG by Cookstoves Explaining How to Use the Cookstove Cookstove Project in Connection with SDGs According to German Watch, a private research institution in Germany, Myanmar is the Explaining Cookstove to locals at Ayeyarwady, 2nd most vulnerable country to climate change. The country is exposed to abnormal Myanmar climates where droughts and floods occur repetitively and the citizens are continually exposed to adverse conditions due to extreme air pollution. Cooking conditions are especially poor in Myanmar. Households in Myanmar use firewood to cook. Trees are cut down to make firewood, which in turn damages the forests and causes soil erosion, causing an overall negative impact on the environment. In addition, firewood emits harmful substances that damage the respiratory health of Reducing GHG residents when it burnt. by Cookstoves GS Caltex provided 50,000 high-efficiency Cookstoves to Ayeyarwady Region of Myanmar Cookstoves from 2018 to fulfill our social responsibility within the environment domain. The provided Cookstoves improve air circulation unlike the existing cooking tools to enhance combustion efficiency, and use insulation material to improve heat transmission. In addition, ashes do not fall into the heat source, and hence soot and smoke are reduced. Through the GS Caltex Cookstove Distribution Project, we anticipate various positive effects in relation to the UN’s SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) by not only improving the quality of life for people of Myanmar but also facilitating forestry conservation and reduction of GHG by 50,000 tons (annually). Win-win Cookstove Project The Cookstove Project from GS Caltex improves citizens’ health and the environment of developing nations. In addition, the volume of GHG emissions reduced through the project is recognized in Korea as carbon credit, which is a CSR activity beneficial for all. Furthermore, the project contributes actively in the pursuit of Goal 71) and Goal 132) out of the SDGs that the UN proposed as means to solve various world issues. 1) ‌Goal 7 : 2) ‌Goal 13 : Affordable and Clean Energy Climate Action We plan to expand the scope of this project and distribute Cookstoves to Malawi and Zambia in Africa in 2019. In accordance with the Paris Climate Agreement, countries all around the world including Korea are obligated to reduce GHG emissions. Korea also Myanmar Residents Environment Conservation Company Why is this established a national goal to reduce GHG emissions by 536 million tons (37% important? reduction against 2030 BAU). Response to climate change is growing in importance Shortened cooking time to Protects forests where trees as it not only affects companies economically but it is also a dimension of improve the household labor Can transfer to domestic were used as firewood environment counterbalance carbon credit* social responsibility. Now, companies must comply with social responsibility * Carbon ‌ credit where the company’s beyond environmental regulations by taking preemptive action and also efforts to reduce GHG emissions Protects residents’ health Reduces 50,000 tons of GHG outside worksites is recognized and pursue new business opportunities in doing so. against harmful substances emissions per year transferred (Equivalent to planting 7.5 million in smoke and ashes pine trees per year) GS Caltex 20 21 2018 Highlight 2018 Sustainability Report Creating Culture Space Yeulmaru 2019 New Year’s Music Concert New Landmark, GS Caltex Yeulmaru Yeulmaru Operational Performance Yeulmaru is a landmark launched for the Yeosu World Expo that was held in May 2012, and is (Cumulative from May 2012 to Dec 2018) an integrated cultural space built by GS Caltex with more than KRW 110 billion in investments Total 722,488 users since 2006. The name Yeulmaru alludes to a space full of the rolling waves of culture and art where people can relax as if they were lying on the floor of a traditional house. It is a local 1,002 Concerts infrastructure creation project by GS Caltex Foundation (established in 2006) where a corporation, 517,786 Attendees local government, and communities collaborated to fulfill a CSR project. 74 Exhibitions Creating Social Value through Culture Space 197,771Visitors Creating The Grand Theater, which maximizes performance effects through excellent audio, 1,003 Educational Events 6,931Participants Culture Space stage, and lighting facilities, is ideal to host original performances including classical, musical, ballet, opera, and plays. The short distance between the stage and audience allows visitors to enjoy the concert vividly from any seat. The Small Theater is a halfmoon shaped stage where directors can transform styles to their liking while audiences Assessment of Contribution to (Unit : %) can breathe in and feel the performance. Yeulmaru is equipped with various forms of Local Culture and Arts exhibitions halls taking the culture and art experience in Yeosu to the next level. 84.8 82.5 Yeulmaru changed the cultural landscape for regional areas that used to lack opportunities for arts experience by featuring a wide variety of genres including classical, opera, musical, concert, ballet, and plays to extend opportunities for people to enjoy cultural and art content. In the past, residents had to travel to Gwangju or Seoul to attend quality concerts and exhibitions. Now, Yeosu has gained a reputation as a leading spot General public Culture and arts that has used officials that accessed for arts and culture, enhancing the cultural pride of the local residents. Yeulmaru Yeulmaru Creation of Jangdo Park, the Island of Art Survey Summary Term 1 November to 18 December 2018 We undertook the Jangdo Development Project, the 2nd phase of the Yeulmaru Project; construction started in 2017 and the space was launched in May 2019. Covering Target 1037 Yeulmaru website members (general public) and 113 culture and 94,843㎡, Jangdo will serve as an Island of Art through the participation of artists and arts officials citizens. In addition, the Jangdo Bridge is designed to submerge underwater twice Method Online survey through a day aided by the change in tide, to present a mystical atmosphere as if walking on questionnaire water when the tide is high, maximizing the attraction of the island. As the Jangdo Surveying WiseIn Company Development Project is finalized, Yeulmaru will become richer in contents so that it can Institution continue as a landmark of arts and culture in the Southern Coast. All around the world, companies are creating social value as well as economic value. To be sustainable, companies must not only pursue economic Why is this Business Caseㅣ2018 Yeulmaru Concerts, Exhibitions and Academy Events development but be leaders in solving the social and environmental issues important? our society is facing to rise up to the expectations of society at large. Hence, Every year, Yeulmaru moves the audience with classical concerts. In 2018, it held the Kyung-wha Chung and Seong-jin Cho Duo Concert and set a record of selling out just 2 minutes after tickets were made available to public. In the first half of 2018, large-scale concerts such as companies must recognize their roles to practice social responsibility, pursue Gwanhwamun Love Song and Chicago also had tickets selling out completely. At the end of the year, The Nutcracker by the Korean National Ballet, harmonious growth with local communities, and secure the company’s Finding Family, a musical in the small theater, and Yeulmaru Christmas Concert were held to enthusiastic responses from the audiences. development in a sustainable manner. In addition, the Life Photography Exhibition that introduced photographs from LIFE Magazine, the symbol of 20th century photojournalism, also generated passionate response. Within the Life Exhibition, Yeulmaru also prepared a Special Exhibit commemorating the 70th year of the YeosuSuncheon 10.19 Incident, thereby presenting a unique exhibition style that enhanced the exhibition standards of the Yeosu region. GS Caltex 22 23 2018 Highlight 2018 Sustainability Report UN SDGs UN SDGs The UN announced Sustainable Development Goals to form consensus with the global community and provide a direction for practicing together for sustainable development and growth. GS Caltex is in agreement with the principles and goals of SDGs, and works to contribute to solving various global issues through strong support and initiative. GS Caltex recognizes that companies can achieve sustainable growth only based on the sustainable growth To do so, the CEO has signed an agreement to publicize our determination toward pursuing SDGs. Accordingly, we have set 9 goals that of society. To do so, we will pursue responsible business operations based on the trust of stakeholders, and we will work to accomplish. We will work with stakeholders including suppliers, customers, and society to conduct diverse activities that create value for our customers and society. can contribute to the goals. Furthermore, we plan to strengthen our capabilities to incorporate feedback from experts on more goals that we can contribute to and expand our scope of action. 1 No Poverty + 2 Zero Hunger 4 Quality Education 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities Goal Improve the quality of life and nutrition Goal Provide educational support so that children Goal Create and maintain jobs to contribute to the Goal Communicate with stakeholders where our for isolated neighbors through employee and teenagers can grow happily and realize development of economy and society worksites are located, reflect their feedback in volunteer work their potential our business activities and support contributions C‌• onduct MFC Projects for the development of the local community Activities • Operate ‌ Free Meal Distribution Program for Activities • Conduct ‌ Maum Talk Talk Program Activities low-income seniors ‌Operate educational programs for children and • Support suppliers Activities O‌• perate Yeulmaru in Yeosu • Provide meals for job seekers teenagers ‌Support new startups • S ‌• trengthen the Extra Credit Policy for • ‌Provide daily necessities, organize an ‌Develop academy-industry connected curriculums Safety campaigns recruiting Yeosu citizens employee volunteer team D •‌ evelop local small and medium enterprises 5 Gender Equality 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 12 Responsible Consumption and 13 Climate Action Production Goal Support female employees in developing Goal Distribute clean energy technology to Goal Reduce use of resources in all stages of Goal Invest efforts to reduce GHG emissions in all their full capabilities by pursuing gender contribute to the environment and work to business operations and enhance recycling to stages of business operations equality in business operations promote sustainable energy create a sustainable value chain Activities Run activities to reduce GHG emissions Activities • Pursue ‌ gender equality in business operations Activities ‌ • Manufacture products to standards that are Activities ‌ • Energy management activities • Provide ‌ Cookstoves to developing nations including recruitment, assessment, stricter than legal specifications • ‌Optimize use of resources compensation and promotion ‌Provide Cookstoves to developing nations I‌•ncrease recycling of wastes ‌Run female leadership development programs • Strict management of pollutants discharge GS Caltex 2018 Sustainability Report 02 GS Caltex 2018 Sustainability Report Management GS Caltex Vision Corporate Sustainability Stakeholder Risk Ethics and GSC Way Governance Management Engagement Management Management System and Fair Trade System GS Caltex 26 27 Management System 2018 Sustainability Report GS Caltex Vision and GSC Way Corporate Governance GS Caltex Vision and GSC Way Corporate Governance In January 2014, we unveiled our new vision for the future, ‘Value No. 1 Energy & Chemical Partner’. To this end, we defined and Composition of the BOD BOD Management & Prevention of Conflict of Interest implemented the Shared Value the ‘GSC Way’. The GS Caltex Board of Directors is comprised of executives from As our Board members are executives from different companies, GS Caltex Vision GSC Way GS and Chevron. The executives selected to the Board of Directors their compensation schemes follow the internal policies of their are required to have high levels of professional expertise and respective company, and no additional compensation is granted risk management skills. As of May 2019, there are three internal for their Board-related activities. The Board resolutions require directors and seven non-standing directors. They are appointed an affirmative vote of more than two-thirds of all registered each year at the General Meeting of Shareholders based on their directors, as stated in the Articles of Incorporation. In order to Vision Statement professional qualifications in accordance with the internal policies. guarantee the independent operation of the BOD and prevent Our mission is to deliver quality products and services by possible conflicts of interest, any Board members who have a developing the potential of energy and chemical resources. Composition of the BOD (As of May 2019) special interest in the agenda will be prohibited from voting with We are committed to increasing our capacity to generate regard to that particular issue. Classification Name Job Title environmentally responsible and innovative new values. Inside Jin-Soo Huh Chairman As a global energy and chemical company, we are Directors GS Caltex Corporation The Board Support Office provides support to the directors on passionate about growing with our partners and Saehong Hur President & CEO all matters related to the Board, including preparation of the helping the world move forward. GS Caltex Corporation agenda for Board meetings, through proactive communication Hyung Kuk Kim President, Yeosu Complex & MFC Project and cooperation with related divisions. Board members are GS Caltex Corporation provided with meeting materials at least one week before the Strengthen Vision and Practice the GSC Way NonTaik Keun Jung Vice Chairman & CEO actual meeting to ensure enough time to review the agendas. standing GS Holdings Corporation Directors Nine Board meetings were held in 2018 to review and approve At GS Caltex, we discuss with our management and employees Yongsoo Huh President & CEO GS Energy Corporation key agendas such as the 2019 Business Plans, investment in how to implement the GSC Way in relation to our vision, and Brant T. Fish President, Chevron Downstream & the MFC Project, long-term LNG purchasing and terminal use carve the way forward based on their recommendations. Corporate Values Chemicals, International Products contracts, and approval of investing shares in Green Car. By sharing cases of the GSC Way, we disseminate how TrustㅣFulfill one’s role, and trust and respect one another Navin K. Mahajan Vice President & Treasurer, organizational values and core conducts are implemented so that Chevron Corporation FlexibilityㅣWelcome diversity with an open mind and behavior Operation of Committees in Support of the BOD all our employees can practice the GSC Way in performing their J. David Payne Vice President, Chevron Technology, ChallengeㅣSet high goals and pursue them aggressively Projects & Services, Corporate HES responsibilities. With the GSC Way as our foundation, we select Excellenceㅣ‌Strive for excellence in individual and organizational GS Caltex operates separate committees including the and award those who displayed excellent performance and set an William L. Stone CEO, Singapore Refining Company performance Accountability Committee, Audit Committee (apart from the example for others in the previous year. In 2018, 33 employees William J. Miner Country Chairman, Chevron Korea Audit Committee under the commercial code), and LNG Procurement were selected based on their performances. Core Behaviors Management Committee within the BOD. The members of each ProactiveㅣThink ahead and be the first to act committee provide support based on their responsibilities and Excellent Employee Awards at GS Caltex’ 51st Anniversary Celebration Ownership Structure (Unit : %, thousand shares) Collaborationㅣ‌Strategically utilize internal and external roles to ensure the reliable and transparent operation of the BOD. resources and capabilities 50 PerformanceㅣDrivenDeliver tangible results GS Energy Roles of the Board Committees Shares Classification Composition Role GSC Way Charter 13,000 Accountability 3 members Review and discussion of Based on our corporate values of Trust, Flexibility, Challenge and Committee governance-related issues Chevron Global Energy Inc. Excellence, we will : Shares • Think ahead and be the first to act Ownership Audit Committee 4 members Review and discussion of Structure 10 2,600 • Strategically utilize internal and external resources and capabilities compliance program and • Deliver tangilble results major audit issues Chevron (Overseas) Holdings Ltd. We will achieve our vision through the GSC Way Shares LNG Procurement 2 members Review and discussion of 40 Management Committee LNG-related issues 10,400 GS Caltex 28 29 Management System 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainability Management System Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Management System Stakeholder Engagement GS Caltex Stakeholder Policy We manage economic, social, and environmental aspects of CSR Committee Stakeholder Policy Stakeholder Communication Channel our business to pursue sustainable growth in a rapidly changing background on global business. Since establishing the four CSR With the CEO as chairman, GS Caltex holds CSR committee GS Caltex pursues sustainability initiatives based on stakeholder GS Caltex classifies entities that are directly and indirectly strategies and convening the first CSR Committee meeting in 2010, meetings on a regular basis. Since its first meeting in 2010, the communication that we systemized in 2019 to establish a affected by our business activities as stakeholders. This includes we have systematically operated a sustainability management system committee has been holding regular meetings to discuss and stakeholder policy. We will communicate transparently with local communities, customers, employees, partners, government based on risk management and the fulfillment of social responsibilities. make decisions on CSR issues. stakeholders in each business sector based on our policy, and & relevant authorities, shareholders & investors. We operate reflect their opinions in our decision-making. Our stakeholder communication channels by stakeholder as shown below. We Establishing an ESG Database (Environmental, Social, Governance) In the 21st CSR Committee Meeting held in January 2019, we policy gives high importance to communication principles such as manage detected issues based on the level of stakeholder impact discussed the progress we had made towards improving our ESG responsibility, transparency, and equality, and includes definition and business relevance. Governments all over the world are choosing to make CSR a legal practices in 2018 and presented our improvement plans for 2019, as of stakeholders, scope of policy application, communication requirement for businesses in their jurisdiction. For example, the Indian well as our Maum Talk Talk, our main social contribution campaign. principle, and management process on stakeholders. Government introduced legislation to make corporate CSR activities mandatory in 2014 and the EU made it legally mandatory to disclose GS Caltex holds a variety of committee meetings in relation to Corporate ESG for entities that have more than 500 employees from sustainability management, including the CSR Committee, in order Stakeholder Classification and Major Channels of Communication 2018. In Korea, the Stewardship code was adopted as of July 2018 and to strengthen our sustainability management system on a corporatethe importance of non-financial disclosure is growing. wide level. Each committee undertakes the following activities. Stakeholder Communication Channel Communication Issue At GS Caltex, we established an ESG database in 2017 as an Status of the Sustainability Management Committee integrated ESG initiative that encompasses everything from policies to performance evaluation in response to the increasing need for CSR programs, discussions, briefing sessions Environment protection activities, contribution to local CSR Committee CCM Committee on issues communities, job creation, CSR and business operations evaluation and management of CSR performance. The GS Caltex Development of CSR strategy Decision-making on Local Community and identification of key areas consumer-oriented strategies ESG Database is managed by analyzing global ESG standards such of performance, decisionand their implementation as GRI Standards, DJSI, UNGC, ISO 26000, and IPIECA, as well as making on resource inputs benchmarking advanced corporations and conducting media research. Response to customer requests/feedback, protect Corporate Compliance HR Committee Customer service center, social networks, website personal information, setting prices, marketing, product Committee Discussion and decisionquality, customer safety, network and future environment Customers The GS Caltex ESG Database consists of 56 index titles, 166 Discussion of key issues under making on key issues of HR the Voluntary Compliance operation and management requirements, and 849 types of data in categories under the Program Environment, Society, and Governance fields. The 849 types of Company newsletter, internal bulletin board, surveys, Collective agreements and various negotiations, Information Security Committee Risk Management Committee data are further divided into CSR global standards, management collective bargaining, joint labor-management compensation, development of talent, protection of Corporate-wide discussion and Providing guidelines and system (principle, strategy, governance), and qualitative and quantitative conference human rights, occupational safety and health decision-making on information review of risk management Employees security and policies performance data. In 2018, Human Rights Management and Enhancement of Partner CSR, Compliance to Tax Payment Requirements, Safety & Environment Fair Trade Review Committee and Strengthening of Safety, Health, Environment and Quality Committee Internal reviewing body to Mutual growth, occupational safety and health, Discussions, web-portal for partners, surveys were selected as key areas for enhancing performance, and a Decision-making on SHE ensure fair and transparent change in government policy, fair trade policies and strategies business practices Partners management system was implemented for these areas. Mutual Growth Committee Strategic Investment Adjustment Committee Response to Stakeholder Requirements for ESG Data Discussion and implementation of mutual growth-related Selection of optimum corporatePublic hearings, discussions, seminars, newsletters, Government policy, tax compliance, policies wide investment (proposal) and local government websites trends by industry, trends by local government decision-making on prioritization Government & GS Caltex conducts ESG assessment that external parties require, Relevant Authorities to maintain a reliable supply network. We not only conduct ESG Occupational Safety & Health Brand Committee assessment demanded by individual domestic and international Committee Discussion and decision-making companies, but participate in regular assessment provided by Reviewing and resolving of key on the brand management of Business information, investment, safety and health issues for GS Caltex Business reports, disclosure ESG expertise organizations, as this serves as an opportunity to employees protect shareholders’ interests Shareholders & assess the ESG level at GS Caltex. Investors GS Caltex 30 31 Management System 2018 Sustainability Report Risk Management Risk Management Risk Management Governance Risk Management and Financial Stability Non-financial Risk Management Management of Emerging Risks In response to the changing business environment, we have GS Caltex has a risk management system to cope with changes As the demand for sustainable practices has grown, so has the Crude Oil & Petroleum Price Fluctuations organized the following risk management teams : RM Team, in the market prices of crude oil and petroleum products. Oil importance of social and environmental issues. The CSR Team RM Strategy Team, and Cost Accounting Team, to monitor and refineries run the risk of corporate’s loss and cash flows changing, coordinates with other teams to manage non-financial risk, while analyze risks, and report the results. due to changes in the prices of crude oil and petroleum products. executive officers attend CSR Committee meetings to review • Crude ‌ Oil prices are highly sensitive to In order to control and manage the risk properly, the hedging corporate-wide sustainability issues, activities, and performance. geopolitical and economic uncertainties, including inter-state trade disputes. GS Caltex holds a Risk Management Committee meeting system is established based on the crude oil and petroleum Overview ‌ The price of petroleum products are also comprised of the CEO and executive officers on a quarterly product markets by deriving and overlooking the market. Based on the ESG database built in 2017, we took a more subject to various external factors such basis. Through these meetings, we review major risks and plan proactive approach in dealing with possible non-financial risks as supply-demand and fluctuations in mitigation strategies. In response to the increasing volatility of the business and in the business field through strengthening human rights inventory. industrial environment, we focus on maintaining financial stability. management, improving CSR levels of our suppliers, compliance Risk Management Teams We have maintained our borrowing at a safe level based on stable with tax obligations, and reinforcing conformance with safety, cash flow, and secured sufficient credit lines1) to finance and health, environment, and quality requirements in 2018. In 2019, Classification Key Activities maintain strong risk management. we will strengthen our stakeholder communication procedure and RM Management ・• Report on issues and current agenda through daily introduce more in-depth improvements to enhance the level of (RM Team, RM Strategy monitoring of the market Team) ・‌Analyze market and price, conduct risk assessment, 1) Credit exposure set by bank in advance for a certain term CSR in our suppliers based on our improvement activities in 2018. ‌ • Crude Oil and petroleum product prices Impact on propose and implement derivatives trading have a major effect on production cost Business and sales. Tax Compliance GS Caltex Tax Policy Cost Accounting ・•‌Monitor and report internal risk management Credit Rating Trend Team activities and compliance Category S&P Moody’s Korea Korea NICE As an exemplary tax-compliant company, GS Caltex will comply Ratings Investors Investors with the social responsibilities as a corporation through diligent and Service Service transparent tax payments as well as refusing to generate profits 2017 BBB Baa2 AA+ AA+ AA+ (P) (P) (Stable) (Stable) (Stable) through tax havens that has been a current global issue. We put this Risk Management Committee Profile 2018 BBB+ Baa1 AA+ AA+ AA+ determination into establishing the GS Caltex Tax Policy in 2018. (S) (S) (Stable) (Stable) (Stable) • We‌ use derivatives such as futures and Classification Key Activities options to hedge the risks of volatile Chairman CEO In addition, GS Caltex was awarded the KRW 400 billion National Tax Activities oil and product prices while organizing Prize at the 53rd Tax Payer Day hosted by the Ministry of Economy quarterly Risk Management Committee meetings as part of our risk management. Committee General Manager of : Yeosu Complex, Supply Risk Management Governance and Finance. This was in recognition of breaking through the KRW Members & Trading, Petrochemicals Business, Corporate 400 billion limit of reported corporate tax payments from the good Planning, Finance, Singapore Region Board of Directors performance in 2017. GS Caltex was also awarded the KRW 300 RM Division Board Members Head of : Aromatics Business, Crude Oil Trading, billion Tax Prize in 2006 on reverted corporate tax from 2004. Treasury Risk Management Committee Cost Accounting Team DataㅣTax Payment Secretary/ Head of Accounting / Cost Accounting Team, Secretariat Head of Risk Management / RM Strategy Team Yeosu Supply & Corporate Petrochemicals Activities Provide guidelines on risk management and review Complex Trading Planning performance Frequency of 4 times a year (quarterly basis) meetings Overseas Finance Offices GS Caltex 32 33 Management System 2018 Sustainability Report Ethics Management and Fair Trade At GS Caltex, we have established a Fair Trade Affairs Team in Ethics Management and Fair Trade Ethics Management Website http://ethics.gscaltex.com charge of communication with organizations and consultation Ethics Management 02-2005-6011 for business units within our company. The team ensures Reporting Line ethics@gscaltex.com compliance with laws (e.g Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act, the Sexual Harassment 02-2005-6012 Ethics Management The CCO holds quarterly Compliance Management Committee Reporting Line meetoo@gscaltex.com Fair Trade Practices Act for Subcontractors and the Fair Supplier-Vendor Trade meetings or discussions targeting the UCO to deliberate on Practices Act.). compliance issues and regularly review compliance activities by Ethics Management each business division. Additionally, we sent 5,855 letters so Compliance Review Principles Fair Trade Compliance Activities System GS Caltex Code of Ethics far to our customers and partners to encourage them pursue GS Caltex strictly manages whistle-blower and reported contents as ethical management. confidential information. When we receive complaints, charges of The Internal Trade1) Review Committee was organized to ensure corruption, appeals, or other items, relevant departments review the GS Caltex operates our ethics management system based on the fair practice in internal business relations. The Committee reviews report and notify the reporter of the results. Code of Ethics established in 1994 and the Compliance Program Raising Awareness of an Ethical Management compliance with applicable laws (e.g. Fair Trade Act, Commercial Act, Items subject to reporting include all activities that violate the GS implemented in 2001. In particular, in order to practice ethics Culture Caltex Ethics Policy and cause negative influence on sound business Tax Act, etc.) and keeps our business departments informed of DataㅣEthical Management Training management on a corporate-wide scale, we have appointed a activities, including : unfair work processing (negligence, etc.); violation compliance issues to enable them to take the necessary followof the principles of fair trade; providing or demanding valuable goods compliance officer and established a reporting system under the GS Caltex is working to raise awareness of ethical management up measures based on the results. or entertainment in circumstances where such exchanges can have CEO’s compliance policy. Our ethical management activities are culture among our employees and other stakeholders. All our an influence on a business decision; unfair trade with shareholders (joint investment or monetary loans, etc.) : violation of human rights (between reported through the Audit Committee under the BOD twice a year. employees are obliged to train under the CCP (Corporate Compliance The Subcontractor Review Committee has been established clients, partners and employees); and sexual harassment. Program) and submit the Pledge of Compliance every year to to ensure fair business dealings with subcontractors. The Implementation of Compliance Management reaffirm their commitment to ethical practice. The CCP consists Committee reviews compliance with the Fair Trade Practices Act DataㅣFair Practice Issue of subjects essential to day-to-day business such as ethical for Subcontractors before dealing with small and medium-sized In order to implement compliance management in a consistent principles, fair trade, and prevention of sexual harassment, Fair Trade companies. manner, we have established CCO (Corporate Compliance Officer) information security, and CCM (Consumer Centered Management). and UCO (Unit Compliance Officer) positions at each division and These programs are also implemented at our subsidiaries At GS Caltex, we organize mandatory employee training on subsidiary. Individual compliance activities are reported to the BOD worldwide. We strengthened the program in 2018 by establishing Consultative Bodies and Organizations for Fair Trade an annual basis to ensure that employees have a proper while we encourage oversight and compliance at our business new training for prevent sexual harassment. We updated and understanding of fair business practices. We also provide offline sites by organizing the Compliance Management Committee led improved detailed contents by reflecting regulatory changes and At GS Caltex, we have formed a fair trade organization comprised training programs for new employees as well as those with job by CCO and UCO on an annual basis. new systems. of executives and employees to ensure consistent compliance. experience, and conduct occasional training programs tailored to We also monitor regulatory changes to adapt in a timely manner. the needs of each business department all year long. Every year, GS Caltex organizes corporate-wide compliance programs Also, GS Caltex raises awareness of ethical practices by targeting all our employees. In 2018, we provided offline ethical organizing ethics campaigns for our employees. As part of our The Fair Trade Review Committee was organized to review 1) ‌Internal trade made with company of special relationships, such as affiliates management training for employees that engage in numerous sales ethical compliance program, we send out CEO’s messages to compliance with the laws and regulations prior to undertaking any activities to ensure full compliance with the GS Caltex Code of Ethics. our employees before traditional holidays to remind them of the business practices. Under the Committee, there are the Internal importance of ethical compliance. CEO’s messages are also sent Trade Review Committee, which reviews relations with businesses Compliance Management Organization and Report System to raise awareness on factors that cause social issues such as such as affiliates with which we have a special relationship; and driving under the influence of alcohol or sexual harassment. the Subcontractor Review Committee, which reviews business CEO BOD relations with small and medium-sized companies. Appointment of CCO Ethics Management Reporting System Corporate Corporate Compliance Officer Compliance Officer (Legal Team) (CCO) GS Caltex operates a reporting system for ethics management. We post our ethics management initiatives and the full Code of Ethics Business CaseㅣStrengthening Compliance Reward / Compliance Reporting on our Ethics Management website, while providing specialized Punishment Management counseling service for inquiries and ethical dilemmas that GS Caltex recognizes the importance of strengthened compliance in accordance with changes in the domestic and global environment and has Committee Committee continuously reviewed its compliance system. In 2019, we worked to establish a better compliance system by reassessing areas including fair employees and stakeholders may face in the course of business. In trade, anti-corruption and sanctions. These continued efforts for improvement raise not only employee awareness of compliance but also minimize Unit Compliance addition, we have established an anonymous ethics management Each Unit Officer (UCO) *Including Head of Unit risk in core fields of risk. CCOs of subsidiaries reporting line to make it easy for our employees and stakeholders Training & Dissemination Appointment of UCO to report any violations and corrupt/unfair practices. 03 GS Caltex 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainability Environment Customers Employees Partners Local Shareholders Community & Investors Activities GS Caltex 36 37 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Environment We also take a proactive approach to government policies on GHG and energy in Improving Energy Efficiency in the Worksites agreement with the Convention on Climate Change by taking part in GS Caltex’ carbon At GS Caltex, we take a proactive approach in Environment trade scheme and operating a system to monitor energy use. In view of the growing demand for reduction of GHG emissions worldwide, we keep track of GHG emissions at dealing with climate change and improving energy efficiency at our business sites. More than 77 energy-saving activities were carried out in 2018. the Yeosu Complex on a monthly basis and focus our resources on identifying activities of reduction and developing the expertise of our human resources. Activities Energy Costs Reduction Reduction We will collaborate with external energy experts in the future and benchmark the Improved Response to Climate Change newest domestic and overseas technologies to evaluate energy consuming facilities at efficiency of heat exchangers in the 193.7 TJ KRW 2.74 billion our plants. In addition, we will continue to find items to improve on in daily operations, CDU process and invest in midto long-term energy reduction. Furthermore, we will not miss Adjusted the Preemptive GHG Management ratio of material opportunities to reduce energy consumption and implement timely measures to optimize KRW 2.35 and steam in 161.3 TJ our energy monitoring system. billion the hydrogen GS Caltex conducts preemptive analysis on the impact of GHG emissions to establish appropriate production response strategies. We implemented climate change strategies through environmental analysis Minimized in line with the national GHG reduction roadmap and our business strategies, to forecast the midoxygen to long-term trend in GHG emissions volume. We also established an internal GHG emissions Environmental Pollution Management combustion in 128.6 TJ KRW 1.89 billion the hydrogen monitoring process for proactive response to climate change. production Reduction of Air Pollution Furthermore, we conduct an economic evaluation in reviewing every new investment to reflect the impact of GHG emissions on the environment and our value chain at a Given the social demands to improve air quality, we take various initiatives to reduce corporate-wide level. This allows us to plan our strategy to deal with the new climate DataㅣAir Pollutants emission of air pollutants. In order to ensure compliance with the emissions limit on regime and seek new business opportunities. We also engage in initiatives such as the heating boilers and to reduce particulate matters, sulfur oxides, and nitrogen oxides, we High Efficiency Cookstove Project that improves health and conserves the environment introduced clean fuel such as LNG. In addition, we have replaced the low NOx (nitrogen leading to a higher quality of life for citizens in developing countries. We are also working DataㅣGHG oxide) burner in our heating boilers with the high-efficiency ultra-low NOx burner to to respond to climate change by cutting GHG emissions. reduce the emission of nitrogen oxides. Furthermore, we are investing a great deal of effort in building facilities such as NOx reductor to minimize the emission of NOx. We Energy Management have established plans to invest KRW 2.5 billion to add more NOx reductors by 2019. At GS Caltex, we have developed a midto long-term roadmap to respond to the In case of our RFCC (Residue Fluidized Catalytic Cracking Unit), the Yeosu Complex plans to changing business environment and strengthen our competitive advantages through invest approximately KRW 51.7 billion in the RFCC process by the first half of 2019 to energy saving and efficiency programs as part of our energy management activities. replace the existing DeSOx facilities with Wet Gas Scrubbers. This is expected to help RFCC reduce the annual emission of sulfur oxides from about 5,000 tons to about 300 Our employees, including managers, share their ideas to save energy and strive to incorporate tons. Meanwhile, our Yeosu Complex is using reduction facilities such as electrical innovative technologies in our business operation through external consultations and collector, scrubber, RTO (Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer) and VRU (Vapor Recovery Unit) to reduce benchmarking. In addition, we take a midto long-term, macroeconomic approach in investment the emission of air pollutants. for energy-saving projects. Thanks to these efforts, we were able to reduce our energy cost by DataㅣEnergy KRW 26 billion in 2018. We are committed to achieving the goal we set each year. CleanSYS is installed on the chimneys at Yeosu Complex to automatically measure emissions, so we can collect data and identify the types of pollutants we need to focus on. Since 2017, we have converted the system from analogue to digital for “ ” We ask GS Caltex to continuously reflect various environment-related opinions. more systematic and improved monitoring. We will continue to invest in air quality improvement facilities and increase the amount of clean energy for reducing air pollution. Recently, particulate matter and marine pollution have been highlighted as important issues. In response, we must pay particular attention to environmental and safety measures. In this regard, we anticipate that GS Caltex conducts strict management and inspection utilizing its environment-related facilities as much as it can. We must especially reduce pollution through live monitoring and stronger internal surveillance. We hope GS Caltex will continuously reflect various opinions on the environment in its environmental policies through active exchange with local communities and NGOs. Korea Green Foundation Director Taeyong Jung GS Caltex 38 39 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Environment Water Risk Management Management of Hazardous Material Dataㅣ‌Water Resource and GS Caltex recognizes shortage of water resources as a potential environmental risk, and At GS Caltex, we monitor the consumption of hazardous chemicals on a daily basis through Dataㅣ‌Consumption of Water Pollutants takes initiatives to manage this risk. The daily industrial water usage in Yeosu Complex the SHE System and make sure that any new chemical substances introduced in our work Hazardous Chemicals is 54,000 tons and the maximum daily usage in summer season reaches 64,000 tons. process are subjected to the preliminary review system of the chemical substance portal We expect that our daily usage will record 96,000 tons by 2021 with additional water use and investment request review system. By setting our own emission reduction targets, from revamping existing facilities and our MFC project. we are committed to reducing the leakage of benzene, toluene, and xylene through the stable operation of marine VRU (Vapor Recovery Unit), installation of aromatic tank VRU, and We intend to proactively respond to not only internal changes but external circumstances strengthening of LDAR (Leak Detection and Repair) management. that are causing difficulties in stable water supply including decrease of reservoir storage from heat waves, hike in demand for water in the Yeosu Complex and request for water GS Caltex provides training programs on a regular basis to strengthen capabilities for cuts. GS Caltex is working to find reliable alternatives other than Korea Water Resources response to toxic chemical spills and the prevention of damage. In 2013, the Joint Corporation (K-Water) to provide industrial water. Accident Prevention Agreement was signed with companies in the Yeosu Industrial Complex to establish emergency response measures and organize joint training for To achieve this, GS Caltex has collaborated with external water treatment companies response to chemical accidents. As a representative of the 2nd Group of the Yeosu to conduct pilot tests in order to stimulate recycling of wastewater since 2018. As Industrial Complex, we hold a seminar for the exchange of information on a quarterly wastewater from petroleum and chemicals plants contain a high mineral content and basis and joint training once every six months from 2016. fluctuate in water quality, we plan to conduct pilot tests for approximately 3 months in advance to sufficiently review the operation of facilities. After that, we plan to install a In addition, we have reinforced our preparation for hazardous chemical spills by improving reliable treatment system to have enough water for production facilities. our protective gear and chemical substances for managing emergencies around each hazardous chemical storage facility. We also conduct inspection of our contractors that In addition, we plan to reuse reclaimed water and rainwater for our operations through handle hazardous chemical substances on a regular basis and offer training programs for which we will not only secure additional water but also increase the recycling rate their managers as part of our prevention measures. of water resources. Other than recycling, we are reviewing ways to reduce existing industrial water use. Compliance with Government Policies Category Related Activities and Plans Reduction of Water Pollution Chemicals Control Act 1. Planned of evaluation external impact/hazard control 2. Undertook TF activities for improving facilities under the Chemicals Control Act (by 2019) GS Caltex applies stricter-than-legal standards to treat wastewater generated in our Rate of Wastewater Recycling 3. Distributed personal protective gear under the new regulations worksites before discharge. We also manage wastewater produced during our production 4. Established the procedure of reporting tools and inspecting facilities process on a daily basis through our monitoring system for wastewater sources. We 5. Installed facilities for emergency cleaning and to prevent solid catalysts from scattering 17.7% reuse wastewater produced during the process for the de-alkalization facilities. Since 6. Replaced harmful chemical substance warning signs 7. Conducted regular inspection on the hazardous chemical substance facilities 2018, we have reused the wastewater in our kerosene and diesel refinery and improved 8. Established a system to monitor the training program on hazardous chemical substance the total recycling rate to 17.7%. Act on the Registration and Evaluation, 1. Built a chemicals control system (improved the purchase process, etc.) Dataㅣ‌Water Resource and etc. of Chemical Substances 2. Registered chemical substances Water Pollutants Clean Air Conservation Act 1. ‌Upgraded the facilities to improve their efficiency (e.g. replacement of NOx reductors and catalysts in the SOx elimination process) 2. Introduction of clean fuel (LNG) 3. Upgraded/replaced heating boilers (minimized the emission of NOx) 4. Upgraded existing facilities and installed new ones 5. Response to the Special Act on reducing particulate matter 6. Entered into voluntary agreements to respond to high levels of particulate matter Act on Integrated Management of 1. Analyzed the environmental impact of pollutants on air Environmental Pollution Facilities 2. Establish ‌ an optimum environment management system to minimize pollutants generated in overall operations (by 2022) 3. Complete compliance with environmental permits (by 2022) GS Caltex 40 41 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Environment Waste Materials Management Protected Areas Around Worksites and Relevant Activities At GS Caltex, we diversify our efforts to manage waste materials. We report the Category Contents Note Related Activities DataㅣWaste Material production of waste materials by worksite on a monthly basis to minimize waste Water 1 Water Source Protected Area 8.8km from the worksite ・‌Applied internal generation and ensure that each type of waste material is stored separately. Source is located in Mipyeong-dong, standards on water Protected Yeosu discharge. These Area internal standards Furthermore, we a digitized waste system and an identification system to raise are stricter than legal standards. Rate of Waste Recycling awareness among our employees and partners. To improve the recyclability of waste materials, we work on the development of technologies and look for collectors while Wildlife There are 4 wildlife protected 6.8km from the worksite ・‌Activities to 67.3% recycling tank sludge, waste oil, catalyst, synthetic resin, wood, and food for various Protected Area areas in Yeosu. The closest one is located in 190-1, Jungconserve marine life resources uses. As a result, our rate of waste recycling was recorded at 67.3% as of 2018. heung-dong (Activities to release Eggs of fish/shellfish) Prevention of Soil Contamination Nature Park Odong Island, located in the ・‌Hallyeohaesang National eastern part of the Yeosu Park : 6.5km from the Peninsula, is part of the Hallyworksite Dataㅣ‌Inspection of Soil As part of our commitment for the conservation of the soil environment, we have eohaesang National Park and ・‌‌Dadohaehaesang Contamination the sea front and certain areas National Park : 29km signed a voluntary agreement with the Ministry of Environment (Initial agreement : year of Dolsaneup are designated from the worksite 2002 to 2012, secondary agreement : year 2013 to 2023). Accordingly, the Yeosu Complex as part of Dadohaehaesang National Park relocated their underground oil pipes to the ground level to prevent the fundamental contamination of soil and groundwater. In a dimension of voluntary conservation, we Air Gwangyang Bay Area has been ・‌Activities to reduce also installed monitoring systems at every part of the complex to surveil contamination Protected designated as an Air Protected air pollution of underground water. Area Area in accordance with the ‘Designation of Air Protected Area, Ministry of Environment #1999-191’ Protection of the Eco-system Low Sulfur The sulfur content must be ・‌Activities to reduce We recognize the importance of protecting biodiversity, and manage the biodiversity Oil Supply 0.3% or less in fuel oil in air pollution around our business sites in cooperation with the government and local community. and Use accordance with Article 10-2 Area of the Enforcement Decree of There is no eco-system protection zone or habitat of any endangered species at our the Clean Air Conservation Act, business sites. In 2018, there was no hazardous chemical spill that affected biodiversity. ‘Scope of Low Sulfur Oil Supply and Use Facilities’ Status of Voluntary Environmental Management Agreements Designated There are 12 designated island 15.8km from the worksite ・‌Protection of Island Area areas in Yeosu. The one closest Eco-system Agreements Terms of Agreement Activities is the Gadeok Island. Voluntary Agreement 2014~ Reduction of GHG emissions in industry sectors against BAU by 2020 2020 to achieve the national GHG target against BAU by Special Located in the Special Controlled 2020 Controlled Area in the Gwangyang Bay Area Voluntary Agreement for 2013~ Prevention of soil contamination by oil spills, Soil Preservation 2023 voluntary inspection and restoration Chemical Safety 2013~ Establishment of an emergency response plan Association for Small, for the prevention and management of chemical Medium and Large accidents Companies Business CaseㅣEfforts to Upgrade Worksite Safety System for the Environmental Protection (Formerly known as ‘Joint Agreement for Emergency Response to Chemical Accident’) In July 2018, during unloading of fuel to a land-based fuel tank owned by GS Caltex in Changwon, the fuel overflowed from the tank onto the ground and into a nearby stream due to malfunction in the alarm system and other causes. In April 2019, GS Caltex and its three employees were imposed of fines. GS Caltex continues to be committed to improving its safety management system by carrying out the worksite risks evaluation, precision safety inspection, and facilities reinforcement. GS Caltex 42 43 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Customers Enhance Customer Convenience through Gasoline Stations GS Caltex aims to expand the consumers’ experience of the brand and facilitate Customers participation through its mobile-based communication platform Smart Gas. Smart Gas provides information and benefits through GS&POINT application when a consumer fills up with gasoline. In addition, we launched HomePick in 2018, a gasoline station-based parcel service. In View more View more Customer Satisfaction 2019, we are preparing QBoo, a smart storage service utilizing gasoline stations. We are information on HomePick information on QBoo working with SK Energy to provide these services with the ultimate goal of expanding 홈픽관련 홈픽 관련내용 내용더더 보기àà 큐부 보기 큐부관련 관련내용내용더더 보기 보기àà customer convenience. Consumer-Centered Management Providing Various Promotional Events As a result of our efforts to create values and achieve the highest level of customer 1) ‌Consumer Centered Management : A certification system for consumer-centered business operation satisfaction, we became the first company in the industry to receive CCM1) certification and improvement, evaluated by the Korea Consumer GS&POINT, a membership program launched by GS Group, provides membership 2) ‌Customer Service Center, call 1544-5151 or visit in 2010 and maintain the certification for 5 consecutive years (2012, 2014, 2016, and 2018). kixx.co.kr benefits like travel, sports, and cultural experiences for a happy family life. In 2018, We provide consultation services through our Customer Service Center2), an integrated we further enhanced our communication channels through several promotional events channel established to promptly handle customer complaints and inquiries and provide (100% Win Guarantee Lucky Draw, etc.) by providing various benefits for more than 100,000 consultation services. We also invest in fostering professional service representatives customers. In addition, GS Caltex communicates with customers through dedicated and improving the call service infrastructure. Based on these efforts, we are able to pages of GS&POINT on social network platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, and handle customer complaints more expeditiously and enhance customer satisfaction of YouTube, and has been continuously developing diverse programs. the complaint-handling process. A large-scale year-round online event, I am your Cinema, has contributed to Dataㅣ‌Customer Satisfaction Customer complaints collected through the CSC are analyzed and used to induce differentiation of our brand since it was launched in 2006 as part of our marketing Performance improvements and prevent recurrence. In order to protect the personal data of our program. We also provide a unique and entertaining value by adding fun to filling customers, we acquired the PIMS (Personal Information Management System) certification for up through the Lucky Receipt Event, one of our biggest annual promotions to show the first time in the industry in 2013, and have maintained the certification status until appreciation to our valued customers. 2019. Development of Eco-friendly Products At GS Caltex, we operate a Star Service Team to provide professional service training in order to improve the customer satisfaction. Providing on-site service training for At GS Caltex, we continue to develop energy efficient eco-friendly products as part of over two decades since its establishment in 1997, the Star Service Team also serves Environment label certified for GS Caltex’ our support for low-carbon energy policies. Our gasoline, diesel, and kerosene products use in accordance with the Environmental as a VOC (Voice of Customer) channel delivering inputs from on-site workers to relevant boast superior quality thanks to our cutting-edge refining process. Technology and Industry Support Act departments. This has contributed to our achievement of reaching the first place in the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) in the gasoline station category for ten In addition, we continuously work to minimize generation of pollutants and use consecutive years. of resources through optimizing the entire product life cycle from production and consumption to wastage. Our kerosene is especially highly purified and eco-friendly with less emissions of harmful gases as it is produced by an advanced refinery process. “ ” I hope GS Caltex continues to respond proactively to the changing environment to It produces less petroleum odor and helps promote a comfortable environment. It was become a brand that the customer seeks consistently. certified by the Ministry of Environment for its eco-friendly attributes as the sulfur content is less than 30ppm, which is approximately 30% of the legal limit. I’ve been running a GS Caltex gasoline station for almost 20 years. GS Caltex invests various efforts to enhance customer satisfaction, and the Star Service Team, in particular, provides abundant support in communicating with customers on-site. Strict quality control from the headquarters has strengthened the brand into one that consumers could depend on and trust. We hope that GS Caltex not only improves on brand advertising and drives Smart Gas service but also responds proactively to the changing environment to become a brand that consumers consistently seek. Taeri Gas Station CEO Kibyung Kim GS Caltex 44 45 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Customers Compliance with Domestic and International Chemicals Regulations for About Kixx Quality Service Vehicles Safety At GS Caltex, we implement Europe’s EU-REACH1) regulations under a proactive and 1) ‌Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of CHemicals systematic plan. Since preregistration in 2008, we have completed registration of all Equipped with systems that can detect defective and illegal petroleum products, the vehicles perform on-site sampling Purpose chemical exports exceeding 1 ton in EU-REACH. Through this, our customers in Europe and quality inspections at GS Caltex stations. and those who export our chemical products to Europe can use our chemical supplies with confidence. In addition to the EU-REACH, we are committed to strict compliance with domestic and overseas systems for registration and evaluation of chemical substances. Inspections carried out at Operation select gasoline stations, Onsite quality Output process and Follow-up (send the samples to Process or emergency inspection analysis guidance the lab if required) Importance of Quality Control performed Factors to Evaluate Quality Specifications Item Details Example When it comes to petroleum products, quality control is crucial as it has a significant Safety Items that affect the Flash impact on safety, environment, and performance. At GS Caltex, we strictly manage our safety of handling point Vehicle• ‌Gasoline analysis : FT-NIR (Fourier Transform-Near Infrared Spectrometer) product standards so that our products are safe for consumers to handle, come with mounted • ‌Detection of kerosene in diesel : Colorimeter, UV Spectrometer Environment Items that influence Sulfur minimal environmental impact, and help automobiles achieve maximum performance. Equipment • Detection of water content and sediment : Moisture detection reagents, centrifugal separator the environment content (air, water, etc.) Quality Control System Performance Items that affect Octane performance of the value used equipment Petroleum products must be managed in conformance with strict standards from production to storage to prevent any decline in quality and thereby be able to offer high Metropolitan Area Teams A, B (2 vehicles) Seoul Metropolitan Area, Gangwon-do quality to consumers. Our products are subject to quality standards that are stricter than the legal requirements. For instance, our Yeosu Complex has been certified by ISO9001 (Quality Management System), and quality inspection is carried out on incoming and longDaejeon Team (1 vehicle) Chungcheong district term storage products in addition to those being shipped out. We also maintain quality assurance in the distribution process, which is our customer contact Busan Team (1 vehicle) Gyeongsang district point. Quality issues can result in suspension of sales or loss to consumers when the return process is not carried out properly. Since 2007, we have been operating Kixx Quality Service Gwangju Team (1 vehicle) Jeolla district Vehicle, the first in the industry to carry out quality testing of gasoline stations nationwide. We also ensure prompt response to complaints and emergency situations. In addition, we have been operating a LPG Quality Service Vehicle since 2013 and maintaining the highest quality standards to ensure full compliance with legal requirements and to prevent any violations at LPG stations when the legal quality standard changes. Complex Terminal Gasoline Station/Customers Quality Control Activities GS Caltex creates quality-control leaflets and distributes them to gasoline stations DataㅣQuality Inspections nation-wide so that our service station partners can maintain products at the highest quality in the distribution process. In addition, we conduct year-round water checks to prevent potential influx of water from cracks in our tanks and pipes, which we mandate ・ ‌More stringent quality control ・ ‌Quality inspection before ・ ‌Operation of Kixx Quality our partners to register in our e-partner system. Furthermore, we create advertising than legal requirements receipt Service Vehicles material every year on how to manage diesel in the winter season and distribute it to ・• ‌Quality inspection before ・ ‌Quality • inspection for products shipment in long-term storage individual and industry customers so that our end-customers can use our products without issues. GS Caltex 46 47 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Customers Information Security Organization and Management of Information Security Internal Security Measures Certification Symbol for the Information Security Management System At GS Caltex, we operate the Information Security Committee as our top decision-making At GS Caltex, we examine security issues identified in Korea as well as other countries organization regarding issues related to information security. The Information Security through our security organization composed of top experts in the industry. To prevent Committee is comprised of executive officers from each division, with the CISO (Chief security breaches, we conduct employee training and programs including scenarioInformation Security Officer) as the chairman. The committee discusses investment activities based simulations (malicious mail training), security seminars, and campaigns. Furthermore, and current issues to improve company-wide information security regarding personal we have maintained a strict information protection management system through ISMS information protection, prevent cyber-crimes, and raise employee awareness. (Information Security Management System) since 2017, and conduct annual vulnerability inspection of IT systems to upgrade technical security and practice annual mock hacking To respond to various security threats, protect our assets, and ensure reliable business programs. practice and safety, we consistently align our information security policies with domestic and international laws while operating an information security system of global standards. At the same time, we monitor and analyze logs to identify network anomalies, such as Scope of Validity Certification Period unauthorized access, through various security solutions. Meanwhile, business infiltration Online Service for April 26, 2018 to Customer Information Protection System tests and unannounced security checks are also carried out to enhance physical security. External Businesses April 25, 2021 Dataㅣ‌Information Security GS Caltex acquired the government-designated PIMS (PIMS : Personal Information Management Access Monitoring System Dataㅣ‌Customer Information Certification System) certification for the first time in the industry in 2013. Our company undergoes Security stringent examinations to maintain the status. GS Caltex classifies its main business sites as restricted, controlled areas, and administrative and production areas so as to ensure security and safety. We run an To protect our customers’ personal information, important data is encrypted when it is internally developed special access control and monitoring system to strictly prevent stored and transmitted, and access to customer data is only allowed in a secured area access by unauthorized personnel or vehicles. Outsiders and visitors who need to where fingerprint scanners and CCTV are installed. In addition, we have an elaborate enter our business premises are required to register and obtain approval through our system to manage access to personal information and to monitor any unauthorized access. reservation and approval process. In order to prevent any misuse or violation of laws, all teams and third parties with access to personal information are subjected to security audit every year. Protection and Management of National Infrastructure In addition, we have been diligently complying with legal obligations regarding the EU GDPR GS Caltex Yeosu Complex is designated as a Critical National Facility, and complies (General Data Protection Regulation) valid as of 2018 along with domestic personal information with security requirements specified by the relevant laws. This work site has also laws. GS Caltex notifies customers of the status of processing personal information more than implemented the national infrastructure protection plan in response to emergency once a year to protect and guarantee rights to personal information and decision-making. We situations. In the event of a disaster or emergency situation, we ensure that our also work to improve our personal information protection capabilities through various information petroleum production and storage are maintained and controlled in an effective manner protection exercises. We will continuously work to maintain the best security capabilities and while preventing interruption of supply and operation. safeguard the information of GS Caltex and our customers through these activities. Information Security Training At GS Caltex, we conduct annual information security and personal data protection training for all our employees. Furthermore, we run information security assessments and training programs for our subsidiaries so that the information security standards of the entire network are improved and maintained. GS Caltex 48 49 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Employees To guarantee finishing work on time, we are also inducing departments to apply and optimize duties according to the 52hour workweek. We are also promoting vacation Employees use, improving office dinner culture, activating the flexible working hours system, and introducing a work management system. Even after full implementation of the 52-hour work per week system, we aim to gather feedback from our employees and incorporate it into our Smart Working System to make necessary improvements. Maternity Support and Parental Leave Organizational Culture We established a breastfeeding room (Mother’s Room) at our headquarters to provide an DataㅣParental Leave area for relaxation and convenience for female employees during or after their pregnancy. On/Offline Communication Activities Key Channel to Communicate with Employees Employees are allowed to take parental leave up to 1 year to take care of children aged up to 8 years or in second grade of elementary school. This parental leave can be split one time. Classification 2018 To share insights into our business strategy and status and promote various internal Online communication technologies, we have developed several on/offline communication channels. To this platform to discuss end, in 2015, we established a facility with an area of 760㎡ on the 27th floor of our ways to improve the Online Nanumteo work process, and GS Tower named ‘Jieum’ to promote open communication and collaboration between Human Resource Recruitment and Retention present new business employees and teams, foster new ideas, and engage in organizational cultural activities. ideas or issues In 2018, we implemented SBT (Self-designed Biz. Trip), a program that allows our employees Fair and Objective Recruiting Procedure Held 7 Special lectures to experience changes in the external environment to gain a fresh, wide perspective by by external experts personally planning and conducting benchmarking tours to overseas locations. on trends in business, GS Caltex recognizes the importance of human resources for sustainable growth and value Jieum culture, and technology Average Years of Employment Academy diversity. Given this, we focus on the actual qualifications of our employees rather than that can be applied to Through our online communication channel ‘Nanumteo’(means a space for sharing several the work process or their academic background. To do this, we simplified our application process and removed Offline daily practice opinions), 75 ideas for improving the work process were collected and 35 of them were the foreign language test scores from the qualifications and focused on job competency. 14.7 Years reviewed and incorporated into practice. In 2019, we are planning a Book Concert to hold Share company performance and business discussions with authors and experts from various fields such as arts, social science, and Business We provide equal opportunities in the job selection process using an online system. The status, discussions business management in order to stimulate creativity and ideas. Presentations between the CEO and applicants are tested for their personal character and competency for the job as well as Dataㅣ‌Human Resource employees Recruitment knowledge of Korean history. In addition, our interviewers are not allowed to view applicants’ Smart Working Time System Deliver company news academic records : applicants are thus judged based on their level of competency. and information on a monthly basis by In response to the 52-hour workweek mandated by the law, we implemented a Smart On/ Company posting various digital We also diversified our hiring process and introduced an academy-industry internship Offline Magazine Working Time System as of May 2018 to enhance quality of life for our employees. contents through the program, and a concept termed chemical engineering leadership to recruit talented, company blog and At GS Caltex, we are also expediting our decision-making process by implementing qualified individuals. The chemical engineering leadership program in particular is coprinted magazines policies including ‘Let’s call it a day’ announcement, automatic PC off system, paperless established by GS Caltex and the university, and allows the executive officers of GS reporting, flexible approval system, and improved meeting culture. Caltex to share their expertise and hands-on knowledge with students. New Employees in the First Half of 2018 “ ” We are working to create a workplace that brings happiness to employees. GS Caltex invests extensive efforts to encourage communication with employees. We operate a number of team-focused programs to promote collaboration. Major programs include Assimilation Sessions that ignite mutual understanding between new team leaders and team members and Action Workouts where employees can liberally experience physical off-line activities. In addition, we provide various stimuli based on external trends as well as opportunities to experience them. We support various forms of communication such as self-driven business trips, experiences, and discussions on many job-related GS Caltex topics like arts and environmental change. These multilateral communications have improved mutual Organizational Capability Team understanding and teamwork, and proved to be extremely useful in teamwork during job tasks. Manager Soomi Lee GS Caltex 50 51 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Employees Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensation For executives, we conduct the GS Group Curriculum that includes programs for new, experienced, and advanced executives apart from Executive Conferences. In addition, we invite GS Caltex supports fair performance evaluation and compensation. Further, any specialists to deliver lectures for executives and Team Leaders to provide them opportunities to DataㅣPerformance Evaluation discrimination in wage, evaluation, and promotion based on gender is strictly prohibited. understand external trends and enhance their insights. We also hold training and discussions Our system for performance evaluation and compensation is designed to increase job on issues regarding leadership. Furthermore, we evaluate the leadership of our executives and satisfaction and motivate our employees by keeping the system fair and effective. team leaders from multiple perspectives and provide them with feedback on a yearly basis. When it comes to our evaluation system, we categorize employees based on their positions and Coaching/Mentoring Program ensure that their performance is evaluated based on their roles and responsibilities in a fair and objective manner. When setting job performance goals at the beginning of the year, we closely We have organized a coaching program for our new executives and team leaders to help align employees’ goals with our business objectives through interviews and provide feedback so them improve the leadership skills required to perform their duties. Our internal coaching that employees can review their progress and seek ways to improve their performance. program helps employees adapt to the organizational environment and realize their full potential. Our mentoring program, in which team leaders or seniors play the role of At the end of the year, we evaluate performance using a descriptive form to include both mentors, targets new employees during their first and second years of employment to help quantitative and qualitative aspects and apply performance metrics for their development and them learn work processes and adapt to the organization. compensation. To improve the level of fairness and acceptability of performance evaluation, evaluators are required to record their observations at all times. We have also implemented Job Competency Development Program follow-up interviews, feedback system, and a system for posting objections regarding the results of evaluation. Furthermore, our compensation system is aligned with performance evaluation Our job competency model consists of common areas required of all employees as well as to ensure that our employees stay fulfilled and motivated. The level of compensation for our specialized areas based on each job category. To develop job competency in the common employees is determined based on their individual performance, level of contribution, and the areas, we provide business courses dealing with the refining process and corporate finance importance of their roles. High performers are rewarded with additional incentives to motivate them. as well as courses to improve individual communication skills, creativity, as well as planning and analysis skills. In particular, we have introduced an innovative change program based on Design Thinking, and operate a curriculum that offers direct experience of global innovation Human Resource Development sites. For specialized competency, we have established various online development programs, basic expertise courses by division, as well as customized courses based on organizational and individual needs. We encourage our internal organizations and employees to voluntarily Systematic Human Resource Development enroll in necessary internal and external job training programs. GS Caltex regards talent as the most important source to create sustainable organizational Individual Development Program HR Training Cost competitiveness. To pursue talent, we have established and operate talent development programs that can contribute to company performance including programs to secure necessary We provide selected individuals with the opportunity to earn various academic degrees KRW 6.5 Billion job expertise based on organizational value and core actions that all employees must follow. We including MBAs in eminent, domestic or global colleges and attend training programs at also implement programs that promote leadership to achieve our company vision. global companies such as Chevron to help them reach their full potential. We also provide opportunities for our employees to take various courses and external education programs Our training programs are oriented towards practical aspects, and are designed to provide in their areas of expertise when needed. DataㅣHR Development specialized leadership training by rank; these training programs include job training connected to tasks, curriculums with diverse experiences, coaching, mentoring, and Executive Development Program (EDP) Held in Early 2019 external degree programs. We also provide both short and long-term courses targeting employees recognized for outstanding performance. Leadership Development Program GS Caltex provides training programs for all our employees on a regular basis to help them improve their job competency and skills at each stage of growth. We select and foster candidates through the LDC (Leadership Development Center), our internal leadership program, and the Early Leader Curriculum. We also offer New Team Leader Curriculum, Team Leader Group Study and Team Leader Curriculum toward developing the capabilities necessary for team leaders. GS Caltex 52 53 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Employees Welfare System Labor-Management Relations Healthcare Support GS Caltex has implemented various Labor Management programs to maintain a good relationship 2) ‌Composed of 7 members from each side, discusses with our labor union and promote mutual benefits. We uphold the principles of freedom of association working conditions and work-related matters 3) ‌Composed of 8 members from each side, discusses We provide medical expenses for our employees and their family members as part of our and the right to collective bargaining, and prohibit any kind of forced labor or child labor at all our occupational safety and health issues employee healthcare and welfare program. workplaces. In 2005, we established the Declaration and Charter for Harmonious Labor-Management Relations to achieve our vision of Shared Growth based on Productive Labor-Management Relations. Educational Support Furthermore, we operate a Labor Management Council2), a labor-management consultative DataㅣLabor Union As part of our employee educational support program, we provide 50% of the tuition if body, as well as the Occupational Safety and Health Committee3) every term as channels employees go to a higher level of Education. Also we cover 100% of educational costs for ongoing communication with unions. We also engage in negotiations to determine for their children if they go to regular schools and colleges authorized by the Minister of wages for employees every year and discuss the renewal of collective agreement to review Education without limitation on the number of children. For motivational purposes, we labor union activities and working conditions every two years. also provide our employees the full tuition fee even if their children received an academic excellence scholarship. Industry Safety and Health Livelihood Support GS Caltex conducts a livelihood support program to reduce the burden of rent for our Establishing Safety Management and Safe Culture employees. We provide them with a loan up to KRW 80 million at a low interest rate for properties within the size limit prescribed by the National Housing (85㎡) to prevent GS Caltex recognizes that safety is essential for sustainable growth, and works to GS Caltex SHEQ Management abuse of the system. We also give our employees a loan of up to KRW 10 million at a internalize the value of safety. Based on this philosophy, we promote active communication Policy low interest rate when they get married as well as other low interest loans to help them among employees and raise safety awareness and safe practices, while working to secure secure their livelihood (up to KRW 30 million). a structured system and safe facilities. We have also secured emergency response Dataㅣ‌Occupational Safety & Health Indicators capabilities to address any unexpected accidents. Group Insurance Support Internalization of Process Safety Management We provide our employees with optional group insurance1) up to KRW 100 million (maximum Human 1) ‌Not a legal obligation, but insurance coverage Factors provided for unexpected accidents KRW 200 million). The insurance is not a legal obligation, but we have got insurance that GS Caltex continues to enhance the level of our response and operation capabilities covers death, disability, and hospitalization fees of employees involved in an industrial in accordance with Process Safety Management. We make sure that our employees accident. understand the 12 principles of Process Safety Management, and operate production safety management systems by emergency response areas including Human Factors (Education and Emergency DataㅣEmployees Using EAP Employee Assistance Program Training, Accident Investigation, Partner Management, and Internal Audit), Facilities (Facilities Maintenance Facilities Response System/ and Pre-Safety Checkup), and System/Technology (Process Safety Data, Safety Operation Instruction Technology We offer professional counseling programs for our employees and their family members Procedures, Safety Work Permit Procedures, Process Risk Assessment, and Change Management). Night View of the Learning & Development regarding their professional and personal issues, as well as legal and financial matters. Center 344 employees used this service in 2018. Improving Facility Safety Selective Welfare System GS Caltex facilities are designed, built, and operated with the highest level of safety in the world. We continually check and maintain the safety of our facilities using our state-ofTo meet our employees’ varying needs, we have implemented a selective employee the-art inspection and diagnostic system, and promptly replace any outdated facilities. welfare system. We allot our employees a certain number of points that they can spend We established a midto long-term Reliability Master Plan for the years 2017 to 2020 to for cultural activities and sports facilities and so on. The points they spend are calculated make continuous improvements on our overall facilities without any omission. All facilities by our company system. are operated in strict compliance within the safety range. If they go outside the range, the alarm system is activated and the process operation system stops automatically. GS Caltex 54 55 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Employees Raising Safety Awareness At each workplace, an emergency response scenario is prepared. Training is conducted Campaign for Holding Handrail in Staircase on a monthly basis while unannounced emergency response drills are conducted at At GS Caltex, since 2017, we have been conducting the Safety Culture Program at major our headquarters. The Yeosu Complex has a system that dispatches a total of 300 worksites including our Yeosu Complex. Additionally, we operate the Safety Leadership emergency personnel over the first and second line of response. In addition, we are Committee every month to make decisions on this program. The program aims to focusing on strengthening the emergency response skills and preparedness of all our fundamentally improve employee awareness and behavior on safety, enhance safety employees through fire drills at the large facility in order to minimize damage. standards, and prevent accidents. Health Management at the Workplace We are expanding our Safety Culture Program to employees at office spaces as well as the production sites by conducting initiatives such as the Campaign for Holding Handrail GS Caltex provides various healthcare programs and facilities to help our employees 2) ‌Global Harmonized System of classification and in Staircase, to make it mandatory for employees to oblige with daily acts of safety and maintain their health and deal with musculoskeletal disease, smoking, and obesity. At labelling of chemicals thereby raise safety awareness for our office workers. The Campaign reminds employees the Yeosu Complex, we operate a clinic with the latest medical equipment as well as that preventing the tiny hazards and widening our view of danger are the first steps to specialized medical staff including doctors, nurses, medical laboratory technologists and creating a safe worksite. emergency rescue personnel. The clinic can provide basic medical services such as first aid, blood tests, hearing tests, and X-ray examinations as well as follow-up examinations Upgrading the Safety System/Technology if necessary. We also provide various healthcare support including protective gear, work environment analysis, and special medical check-ups for our employees. GS Caltex assesses our production risk using advanced techniques for systematic analysis and assessment. We have revised our former risk assessment system to the In addition, we established an MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) management system HAZOP-LOPA-SIL-QRA system1) to enhance our risk assessment capacity. To maintain to manage our inventory and train personnel throughout the entire business process a high level of safety in our operations, we ensure that safety requirements are met (purchase-production-sale). Through this system, we create MSDS and safety signs in 1) ‌Hazard and Operability Study-Layer of Protection Analysis-Safety Integrity Level-Quantitative Risk prior to undertaking the work through advanced, practical risk assessment, and all our accordance with GHS (Global Harmonized System)2) standards and Industrial Safety and Assessment activities are carried out in compliance with our safety plan. Health Act to support customers use our company products in a safe manner. While work is in progress, safety supervisors are allocated to ensure safety compliance. SHE Management for New Projects When changes are needed, risk assessment is performed and the safety work plan is revised. If any part of the work is found to be unsafe during the operation, it is paused GS Caltex establishes PSMP (Project Safety Management Plan) in conducting new projects until safety issues are rectified. to systematically manage the SHE field in the EPC (Engineering, Procurement, Construction) process. We have created and apply a PSMP for the currently undergoing MFC project for To ensure effective operations of our Safety, Health, Environment management system, successful SHE management. we carry out objective diagnoses in consultations with some of the best experts in Korea. The diagnosis is conducted on a regular basis to identify vulnerable areas within Human In addition, we have secured operational and safety standards that must be adhered to Factor, Facilities, System/Technology, and Emergency Response in a comprehensive through the entire work process from design and purchasing to construction. In addition, and consistent manner. In addition, we conduct an API (American Petroleum Institute) safety along with our employees and partners, we have established a safety management plan, environment diagnosis every three years at our workplace while also undertaking an and provide safety training and conduct job risk assessment, job approvals, and SSE (Short assessment of safety culture every year to identify the areas requiring improvements Service Employee) management. GS Caltex acts as a pioneer in establishing a safety culture and continue to raise the level of safety. by implementing safety observation programs and creating a safe work environment through implementation of an advanced safety index. Emergency Response System Establishment Response to Industrial Safety and Health Act GS Caltex runs an Emergency Response Team that is on standby 24 hours a day. The team expedites our emergency response process in case of industrial accidents, safety GS Caltex will analyze areas of change in the Industrial Safety and Health Act to ensure and environmental problems, and natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons. compliance with the total upcoming revision and improve work process and regulations. Based on the GS Caltex Emergency Response Manual, we clarify the responsibilities of Especially, with respect to MSDS submissions and approval of confidential material, our employees in emergency situations while simplifying our reporting system so that we will upgrade our chemicals control management system to prepare for regulatory we can promptly respond in the event. compliance. GS Caltex 56 57 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Partners We assist small and medium-sized companies by providing support for securing human resources from government-supported research centers, and finance their R&D projects without claiming any ownership or beneficial interest in the technology developed under Partners this program. We also provide subsidies for service costs of small and medium-sized companies engaged in on-site innovation. Code of Conduct for Establishment of the Supply Chain Management Process GS Caltex Partners Shared Growth Basic Policy GS Caltex has developed standards and processes for assessment of partner companies to Low-Interest Loan Support establish the supply network management process that we have been implementing. Partner Recognizing that shared growth with partners is a key element for sustainable assessment is composed of 3 steps : 1) Partner due diligence where the due diligence management, we have implemented various programs including financial support, authority visits the prospective partner company to evaluate technical competency such KRW 62.8 Billion technical development support, training, and education for our partners. as production, management and quality control, 2) Quality assessment where we evaluate supplies and services themselves through performance tests and evaluation, and 3) General In particular, we take a proactive approach focused on ‘fair’, ‘stable’, and ‘practical’ assessment where we calculate the sustainability of the partner’s supply, as well as their practices. We ensure fair and ethical practice when dealing with our partners, and operational and financial status to arrive at a total score for evaluation. Shared Growth Basic Policy provide support such as cash settlement and long-term contracts, as well as assistance in more practical areas such as technical development, and training. For future plans, we are preparing a partner portal renewal, slated to be launched in early 2020. In addition, we have created an internal TF to improve ESG standards and establish Fair Financial Support an ESG management system for partners since early 2019. Promote a mutually beneficial business arrangement based on fairness and transparency We have implemented an array of financial support programs for small and medium-sized Education and Training Support companies with which we do business. When making purchases, we ensure 100% cash settlement, and payment is made within 7 days upon receipt of invoices. In addition, we raise shared growth GS Caltex provides training programs targeting the maintenance partners of our Yeosu Dataㅣ‌Partner Industrial fund jointly with financial institutions for our partners that join our shared growth program. Complex, in areas such as improving their job performance as well as safety and Safety Training Stable management expertise. We use the data derived from the program as a basis to establish Pay partners in cash, form In particular, we increased the shared growth fund to KRW 200 billion as of 2018, with certification policies for partners’ employees. The certification system also enables safe long-term partnerships to operations at GS Caltex through improved partner capabilities. which we currently provide loans to 81 partners. We have also introduced a program enable partners to pursue sustainable business where we make advance payments of up to 20% of the projected monthly expenses for operation. major shipping companies that we have contracted. We also build new training programs such as discussions with partner companies. We conduct partner training for tank vessels and coastal shipping vessels on a biannual and Technical Development Support quarterly basis respectively. In addition, we organize training programs for employees Practical of logistics companies and partners to prevent accidents, raise safety awareness, and Provide practical and We recognize the challenges that small and medium-sized companies face when it enhance customer satisfaction. effective management support including comes to technical development, due to a lack of human resources and access to reliable technological cooperation, outside organizations. Therefore, to secure technologies we need in the midto longtraining, and consulting term, and to help our partners overcome their technical challenges, we have established Partner Discussion/Seminar (Held in 2018) programs. the Productivity Innovation Program for partners. Name of Event Location Target Contents Mutual Growth Forum for Construction Partners Seoul 10 partners Safety and environment, Business plan and discussion Discussion with Partners in Western district Daejeon 10 partners Safety and environment, Business plan and discussion “ ” Discussion with Partners in Gyeonsang district Busan 8 partners Training for environment safety accidents and discussion We looking forward to providing the continuous opportunities for mutual growth Discussion with Retail Facility Partners Seoul 5 partners Safety and environment, Construction and discussion with partners. Discussion with Facilities Partners Seoul 7 partners Outstanding partner awards and accident-free declaration, Safety training, etc. Jokwang ILI is a major partner of GS Caltex that manufactures Safety Relief Valves and Pressure Discussion with Tank Lorry Shipment Partners Seoul 7 companies Accident-free declaration, marine shipment environment Reducing Valves among other products. We are able to continuously accumulate and develop new and policy sharing, safety management, etc. technologies through transactions with GS Caltex. More than anything, we were motivated by GS Caltex’ Discussion with Construction/Environment Yeosu 20 companies Safety and environment, Business plan and discussion recommendation to conduct CSR activities. We also created products suited to the market through GS partners and Surveyor of Yeosu Complex Caltex’ mutual growth program, which enabled us to conduct a project to localize production of Safety Discussion with Shippers Busan Approx. 8 partner companies Safety and environment, Business plan and discussion Relief Valves and accurately understand customer demands. Working with GS Caltex, we anticipate Jokwang ILI Co. Discussion with Lubricants Sub-material Partners Incheon 25 partners Guide for Labor Standards Act revision, Business plan etc. continuous mutual growth opportunities that provide technical support and new product proposals. CEO Mansoo Lim GS Caltex 58 59 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Local Community Business CaseㅣGo Together Project GS Caltex is establishing an opportunity by improving R&D capabilities for both suppliers and GS Caltex. Starting in 2016, we conduct the Go Together Local Community Project that serves as a useful groundwork for mutual growth for GS Caltex and partners. We have created opportunities to develop partners’ technology, products, and services that GS Caltex plans to purchase while enhancing the R&D competency of partner companies. GS Caltex supported 5 partners in 2016, 6 in 2017 and 12 in 2018 through the Go Together Project. Through this project, our partners saw KRW 20.9 billion in revenue growth and KRW 2.9 billion in cost reduction over 25 operations over the past 3 years. This performance led GS Caltex to be selected as an Excellent Supervising Corporation for Company Support in 2018 by the Korea Institute of Industrial Technology. CSR System Jokwang ILI is a leading example of a partner availing technical development support from GS Caltex. Jokwang ILI participated in the Development and Purchasing sector in 2018, and was registered as an approved supplier of high-temperature/high-pressure safety relief valves for petrochemicals production in early 2019. As a result, the company will also participate in the olefin production facilities (MFC) project scheduled to CSR Strategy begin commercial operation in 2021. Gfutech, a supplier of medium-sized air-conditioning facilities for plants, was seeking a solution for their lack of technology to manufacture explosion-proof motors that petroleum and petrochemical plants require. Through the Go Together Project, they To fulfill our corporate social roles and responsibilities, we engage in various social Dataㅣ‌CSR completed the development of explosion-proof motors in 2018. Based on this improvement, Gfutech started developing air-conditioners with contribution activities. By focusing on culture and art, environmental protection, and explosion-proof motors in 2019. It is expected to generate KRW 1 billion revenue growth at completion. Also, the company plans to acquire IECEx local communities, we aim to create values for our society at large. (International Electrotechnical Commission System for Certification to Standards Relating to Equipment for Use in Explosive Atmospheres) certification. It is expected to make exports to overseas plants possible. We are committed to improving quality of life and making the world a better place to Tae Young Cap Mold, which supplies lubricants containers to GS Caltex, creates and provides metal automatic assembly devices with flip-top live, through projects such as ‘Maum Talk Talk’, an initiative for providing art therapy for cap (easy-to-open cap) form according to customer orders. However, the device cannot be shown to other clients, once it was supplied to a client. children, and construction of ‘Yeosu Culture&Arts Park-GS Caltex Yeulmaru.’ Employees The company received technical support from GS Caltex to build a metal automatic assembly device for client demonstration. This helped clients are also participating in our company’s determined pursuit of social contribution through understand the product better and led to a 30% increase in contracts relating to metal automatic assembly devices in 2018. Hado, a producer of crude oil tank mixers, intended to use durable metal adhesive parts. However, the company did not have sufficient data for product design and could not voluntary donations and volunteer work. guarantee product reliability. To address this situation, the Go Together Project helped the company establish test equipment for the corresponding parts so the company could collect data. As a result, Hado succeeded in localizing crude oil tank mixers with improved reliability; the new model Furthermore, we are actively conducting local community support programs to give could be disassembled for maintenance without the need to empty the oil tank. Test data can also be used to improve tank mixer durability which we back to the communities in Yeosu, Incheon and other locations nationwide where our anticipate will result in revenue growth. KDM Tech, a supplier of pressurized containers introduced welding-related technology for special materials business sites are located. GS Caltex engages in various environmental protection (Chromium-Molybdenum) through the Go Together Project. It allowed them to expand their field of operations to high-functioning (high volume/high pressure/ activities and educational programs to create a sustainable future. high corrosion resistance) products, serving as groundwork for an exponential increase in revenue as well as sales price. In 2019, we discovered two companies that were not directly trading with us and asked them to participate in the Go Together Program, providing Slogan Areas of Focus Action Principles opportunities to companies beyond our partners. GS Caltex will continue to support partners in improving their technical competitiveness. Kick-off Workshop for Go Together Project Integrity Expertise Stakeholder-oriented Culture & Art Engage in long-term and Promote cooperation with Organize social contribution A beautiful world sustainable activities, competent partners and programs based on the through Local Community based on the participation focus on effective social needs of local communities sharing energy Environmental and support of employees, contribution and stakeholders at Protection rather than providing business sites nationwide, financial/onetime support including Yeosu Complex and Logistics Centers “ ” Please incorporate more feedback to lead CSR activities. We are supporting after school academies in collaboration with GS Caltex. GS Caltex is the older brother of Yeosu Industrial Complex, taking on a leading role in local CSR activities and influencing other companies on a large scale along the way. GS Caltex Yeulmaru in particular has greatly contributed to the culture and arts of this small regional city to upgrade our reputation, and we anticipate that the Jangdo Park scheduled to open in 2019 will also present great value to the citizens of Yeosu. We hope that GS Caltex incorporates more feedback from locals and be an Yeosu YMCA Secretary General example for other companies. Sanghoon Lee GS Caltex 60 61 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Local Community Key CSR Activities Psychological Change among Wee Center Program Participants (Unit : Point, Out of 5 Points) Before participating After participating 1st Semester of 2018 (420 Students) Maum Talk Talk 5 3.63 3.84 3.71 3.86 3.62 3.65 3.70 3.84 3.96 4 3.40 3.28 3.37 Photo of Maum Talk Talk Healing GS Caltex started the Maum Talk Talk project in 2013 in hope that children who are our Class Program 3 future grow in a healthy and happy way. In 2015, we entered into an agreement with 2 the Ministry of Education to promote art therapy for students in crisis, and expanded the 1 project full-scale into a school. Self-esteem Self-growth SelfEmpathy Cooperation Satisfaction with initiative expression School Life Schools are the optimal space where students form various relationships and learn how to 2nd Semester of 2018 (496 Students) be social. Maum Talk Talk is a group art therapy composed of Maum Talk Talk Therapy and Maum Talk Talk Healing Class, which enhance the self-confidence and social skills among 5 4.03 3.87 3.84 3.58 3.55 3.44 3.62 3.64 3.84 3.80 youth experiencing various challenges associated with adolescence so they can enjoy 4 3.20 3.33 healthy friendships and a happy school life. 3 Participation of Supervising 2 Professors Maum Talk Talk Therapy is an art therapy program that visits schools or operates in each 1 • Provide ‌ overall program regional center for students in need of empathy and healing. This program works in cooperation Self-esteem Self-growth SelfEmpathy Cooperation Satisfaction with counseling and individual or initiative expression School Life group supervision with Wee Center and Good Neighbors’ Good Heart Center and other organizations. The Maum Talk Talk Healing Class targets all first graders of selected middle schools, and forms the Change in High Risk Children among Participants of Maum Talk Talk Healing Class Program (Unit : %) 1) ‌The high risk level of the isolation group (1st to 5th) students into 3 to 4 groups to conduct preemptive or healing programs. was calculated based on the number of times the Participants1) student was selected by a friend for emotional or Outstanding Therapy Team Before participating After participating entertainment aspects. The risk level was classified Maum Talk Talk works with some of the best art therapists, and conducts qualitative based on grades ranking from 1st to 8th. Higher • Select ‌ expert therapists with rank (1) implies higher risk, lower rank (8) implies graduate degrees/certification management and undertakes studies to improve the effectiveness of art therapy. Up to 1st Semester of 2018 (369 Students) 2nd Semester of 2018 (216 Students) better safety. and clinical experience, and now, more than 200 art therapists have participated in 11,391 hours of training under the manage therapist pool 33.8 supervision of ten professors. Over the last 6 years until end of 2018, a total of 15,458 30.9 31.5 33.3 28.9 30.2 28.7 24.1 students across the country participated in the programs and learned how to express their Specialized Target Program feelings in a healthy way to improve their relationships with their peers. • Design ‌ programs optimized to school sites or child Social Impact Analysis of Maum Talk Talk Maum Talk Talk Control Maum Talk Talk Control characteristics Healing Class group Healing Class group GS Caltex analyzes the effectiveness of Maum Talk Talk in a systematic way. Since 2015, we have been conducting surveys with program participants before and after they joined the Multidimensional Assessment Youth Participating in Maum Talk Talk Healing Class Performing on Stage Children and teenager participants for Maum program, and include a control group to evaluate the effectiveness. We also collect feedback of Effects Talk Talk (2013 to 2018) from students’ school teachers (evaluation of students’ behavioral change) and program teachers • Develop ‌ and utilize diagnostic (satisfaction survey) to improve the effectiveness of the program. Through these surveys, we tools to verify effectiveness learnt that Maum Talk Talk helped children improve their self-esteem and motivated them to 15,458 • ‌Analyze qualitative performance and develop cultivate as well as improve social skills, enhancing their rate of satisfaction at school. academic papers The Maum Talk Talk programs provided in school are considered to have raised awareness of psychological therapy and art therapy programs for children. Meanwhile, we are developing the program to expand its areas of application for students with juvenile DataㅣMaum Talk Talk Program delinquency and those who are involved in school violence. Through preventive and corrective activities, we can help these students to adapt to society and reduce social costs. By building a network with various partners including the Ministry of Education and Good Neighbors, we aim to create values for society. GS Caltex 62 63 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Local Community Social Value Sharing of Maum Talk Talk CSR Activities for Local Communities by Life Cycle 마음톡톡 교실힐링 마음톡톡 GS Caltex undertakes efforts to share the expertise and value accumulated from our Maum 교실힐링 Talk Talk program with the Korean society at large. The Maum Talk Talk Song (Be with you) is a GS Caltex actively engages in CSR activities for local communities in the Yeosu area where our 중학교 1학년 학생들의 자아와 사회성 향상을 위한 집단예술치유 프로그램 활동한 song written and composed by therapists who participate in Maum Talk Talk, based on their major production facilities are located. We conduct various programs customized to the human life 마음 열어줄 의미있는 중학교 1학년 학생들의 자아와 사회성 향상을 위한 집단예술치유 프로그램 보물 모습을 쉬는 수업을 다함께 병원나를 나의 experience in psychotherapy. GS Caltex promoted this campaign online in 2018 to encourage cycle for children, teenagers, job seekers and seniors who have difficulty in supporting themselves. 편하게 성격 재밌는 휴게소 활동을 마주하기 즐겁게 재밌게 얘기하면서 편안 힐링 알아가는 children and teenagers who are emotionally worn out. As a result, 212 netizens participated 생각을 주말이다 비우고 오아시스이다 얘기하고 자기 즐거움 자유 사막 수많은 두꺼운 가까워 연극 아프거나 장점 지친 나에 대화 처럼 표현다른정말 노는 선생님 재미있었던 하늘이다 공간 털어놓고 시간 서로 소통 새롭고 존재 지낼 in singing Be with You and the related video was viewed more than 400,000 times on Project to Promote Childbirth 행복이다 상담소 평소에 놀이 공원 많은 창의 다양한 나에게 특정한 창문과 숲이다 YouTube, serving an opportunity to deliver the value of Maum Talk Talk to a wider audience. 말할 자아성찰을 존재이다 좋았다 여러 진정한 친구들과 만들어서즐겁기방이다고민따뜻한 보여줄 털어놓을 활동할 즐겁다 근사한 GS Caltex has promoted the Childbirth Project of Yeosu in partnership with the Community Chest of 알려주기 추억 함께 재미있기 생각해보는 쉴 수 있기 활기찬 위한 In addition, in February 2019 GS Caltex published the Maum Talk Talk Class Therapy Korea and Jeonnam Welfare Foundation to improve the local community’s sustainability. We strive to 많이 재미있게 Healing Whitepaper composed of Maum Talk Talk experiences. We designed the program create an optimal environment to nurture children by providing educational kits to selected households to disseminate the comprehensive contents and performance of our Class Therapy Healing where mothers are 6 months into pregnancy or where families have children younger than 2 years old. to art therapists and outside specialist institutions. The whitepaper was written by Maum GS Caltex is also promoting a resident registration campaign for residents who live in Yeosu but have Talk Talk managers and arts/performance therapists to enhance credibility. not yet registered. The campaign is expected to help increase the population of Yeosu. Watch online video of the The printed whitepaper is used to train arts therapists and also used as informative data for Developing Talents among Children and Youth Maum Talk Talk Choir schools that wish to participate. In addition, we plan to use it to inform the arts therapy industry, Ministry of Education, Education Office of various districts and employees regarding the status Our GS Caltex Hope Energy Class is designed to help children pursue their dreams and develop and effects of the program. Other than that, GS Caltex developed and distributed booklets on visions for their future. Since 2010, more than 3,600 children were provided with various programs stories about musical healing at Maum Talk Talk and Maum Talk Talk parent guidance. including job experience and education on art, culture, and environment. In particular, from 2017 to 2018, we conducted the History of My City program for children and installed a massive tile mural Emotional Support Program for Job-hunters made of afterthoughts in Yeosu’s tourist attractions to encourage children to chase their dreams. Furthermore, since 2007, we have provided English Lessons with Native Speakers in Remote GS Caltex planned an event known as emotional support program for job-seeking young Areas, to impart English skills to students in elementary, middle and high school in the isolated people in cooperation with the Korea Mecenat Association to alleviate the psychological Geumo island area where it is hard to access English education. The native speakers who reside on and emotional difficulties of youth who are on the lookout for jobs and also help them with the island also conduct various programs other than teaching English to engage with students on practical employment preparation. The first camp was held in February 2019. an emotional level, receiving positive response from students and locals alike. We have instituted GS Caltex Scholarships to assist students from low-income families in the Yeosu area. This program consists of corners that remove the stress from job hunting and help recover their self-confidence (Wine and Canvas, My Career Performance, famous lectures on humanities and speech writing We also provide school uniforms for the first year and fund after-school classes and dinner in Korea). In addition, practical programs that helped with employment such as CV writing lectures meals in collaboration with the GS Caltex Labor Union. Since 2012, we have organized the and mentoring from current employees received a positive response. The 2nd and 3rd camps will Green Energy School Program in a joint effort with the Green Fund to raise awareness of be held in the second half of 2019. climate change and energy conservation among elementary school students. Through this program, we developed textbooks on environmental education for expert instructors to visit Read reviews of Emotional Support Scene of This Program (Wine And Canvas : Mental Expression by Drinking Wine and Painting) schools and educate children about environmental initiatives. Program for Job-hunters Tiling Ceremony of the Hope Energy Class History Program GS Caltex 64 65 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Local Community Career Support for Local Talent Conservation of Marine Resources GS Caltex entered into an MOU with Yeosu City to Recruit Yeosu Citizens, being the first We released 1.94 million young fish including sea bream and 155 tons of shellfish company to do so in the Yeosu Industrial Complex in 2017 to resolve the issue of youth eggs such as manila clams into the sea to preserve the eco-system and contribute to unemployment in the region. The MOU was implemented as of 2018. In addition, we sustainable growth of the fishery industry in 2017 and 2018. The project increased the also support the Yeosu City-hosted Warm Table program that provides lunch meals for income of local fisheries and set an example of mutual growth with the local community. job-seeking youth from low-income families in Yeosu. The project, which is carried out in cooperation with the Yeosu City and Fishery Association, has continued for more than 20 years since its beginning in 1996. Furthermore, the Smart Work TFT is operating an Industry Affiliated Curriculum at four MOU between Mokpo University and GS Caltex universities to help the employment of university students in the Jeonnam area and Communication with Local Communities recruit talent for regional companies. The curriculum educates students on the problemsolving methods of GS Caltex along with discussions on actual cases. GS Caltex actively engages in communication with residents of the Yeosu area, the location of our major production base, viz. Yeosu complex. In addition to official events such as public A Soup Kitchen Program for Seniors hearings and discussions targeting residents of Yeosu and Jeonnam district, local welfare organizations and NGOs, we also contact locals individually to discuss major issues. These We operate the GS Caltex Soup Kitchen, a free food station for seniors of Yeosu, as part methods are part of a larger scheme to incorporate feedback from various stakeholders in of efforts to resolve the nutrition issue faced by the socially vulnerable classes. Since the Yeosu district, reduce conflict, and establish a framework for sustainability. its establishment in 2008, we provided free lunches to 323 senior citizens on average daily, for 5 days a week, recording a total of 861,000 meals cumulatively up to December Hanyeowool Forum, Female Leadership Development in Jeonnam district 2018. More than 42,000 employees, family members of employees and local volunteer groups helped out to serve warm meals, establishing the program as a core volunteer DataㅣGS Caltex Soup Kitchen program in the region. Volunteer Group Activities Volunteer Activities and Participants GS Caltex launched the GS Caltex Volunteer Group based out of Yeosu to share love No. of volunteer activities No. of volunteers and care with neighbors as a member of the local community. Twenty-three volunteer groups formed in 11 cities nationwide organized 15 regular monthly volunteer activities 64,427 and helped to solve community problems through programs such as meal service for seniors, repairs for welfare centers, outdoor activities for people with disabilities, and cleaning seaside parks. Business CaseㅣDeveloping Small & Medium Enterprises and Talent in Regions 7,455 Furthermore, the children and family members of employees participate in our efforts to GS Caltex Smart Work TFT commenced operations in 2016 aiming to support local communities by improving business operations of small and share with neighbors and the local community. The Family Volunteer Team was created medium enterprises and cultivating local talent. in line with the changes of lifestyle in a family, and regularly participates voluntarily in Total (2005 to 2018) The Smart Work TFT conducts operational improvements directly at the beneficiary companies’ business sites. Most small and medium welfare facilities in the vicinity of the home at desired hours. This team is highly active as enterprises understand the need to establish infrastructure and organizational capacities that are the core of business competency, but cannot there are some families that take time out of their holidays for volunteer work. tackle the issue due to the limited resources available to them. The TFT has been conducting improvement activities including ERP setup, strengthening organizational capacity, enhancing organizational culture, establishing safety management systems and increasing productivity Since 2005, we have engaged in various volunteer programs every May as part of our at 14 companies using the experience and expertise of GS Caltex. corporate anniversary celebrations, and have donated rice and household goods worth In addition, we support the activities of Hanyeowool Forum, a group formed to develop leadership skills for women based in the Jeonnam district. KRW 100 million as part of the Charity Event during the Chuseok holidays. We also The forum started in 2018 with 6 female entrepreneurs and specialists, 8 professors from Seoul-based universities, and corporate talent. It actively conducts various lessons and open discussions on female leadership, and plans to increase the number of participants. donate Kimchi, heating fuel, and Christmas presents at the end of each year for those GS Caltex plans to continue supporting small and medium enterprises, youth, and female leaders in the Jeonnam district. We are also preparing in need. After volunteer activities, we collect feedback from volunteers and use it to to provide business consultation as well as talent for starting businesses, and expanding the scope of support to more recipients. We will develop encourage participation and improve our volunteer activities for the future. this into a CSR activity on a strategic dimension that differs from existing ones where we share our unique knowledge and expertise. Dataㅣ‌Smart Work TFT Activities GS Caltex 66 67 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Shareholders & Investors Investment in Green Car GS Caltex responds to the innovative changes in mobility such as car sharing and selfShareholders & Investors driving cars, and has been investing into efforts to understand the changes in consumer behavior and technology that may impact the company’s business. We have invested in Green Car, a major domestic car-sharing company, to acquire 10% of shares and establish a mid to long-term partnership. This is part of our plan to respond to the changes in consumer behavior in use of mobility rising from car sharing. Creating New Growth Engines We forecast that collaboration with client companies of our infrastructure service (Green Car) will be possible. Innovative technology such as EV and self-driving cars are being Providing a New Concept of Service at Gasoline Stations applied in advance to the car-sharing service and GS Caltex aims to discover new areas of technology in the car-sharing area as well as gain an early advantage. At GS Caltex, we have redefined the concept of gasoline station from a space providing oil service, car wash, and maintenance to a hub of the mobility industry based on radical Connected Cars innovation. To lead the change, we have established a development model that combines the potential of startups and the experience of GS Caltex to share advantages as well as GS Caltex acquired 12% of shares in OWIN, a Bluetooth-based connected car technology grow mutually. company. This is an early investment to respond to the rapid growth in the connected car market including self-driving vehicles by the development of communication technology GS Caltex will continue to prepare for mobility-based innovation to establish our position as and IoT (Internet of Things). Using the technology, customers can make non-face-to-face a Mobility Infra-Service Provider equipped with infrastructure for energy, mobility, and Carpayments with their vehicles as a means of transaction. Care. We plan to conduct the EV (Electric Vehicle) demonstration project in 2019 to secure infrastructure for energy service. We will secure high-speed EV chargers and internal As of the end of 2018, there are 70 gasoline stations and 280 F&B stores that support operation solutions for charging infrastructure, and operate EV-themed service stations to OWIN service. We plan to expand offline applications of OWIN in places such as parking identify various business fields such as EV charging and Digital Signage. lots and F&B stores, and develop drive-through services where customers do not even have to get out of their vehicles to present credit cards. Going forward, we will New Conceptual Framework commercialize the vehicles with the system and strengthen the distribution of Car IDs GS Caltex (in-car Bluetooth transmitters) in cooperation with automobile manufacturers and credit card Gasoline Station service providers. Acquisition of Cardoc Shares Mobility Base Platform Logistics Base In order to attract more automobile maintenance service customers through online and mobile platforms, we acquired 9% of the shares of the startup company, Cardoc, in 2017. The company provides O2O (Online to Offline) services that connect the car owner C2C Parcel Delivery and the exterior maintenance service company using a mobile platform, and is expanding Car sharing Electric Vehicles Smart Locker QBoo Service HomePick its service into new areas such as replacement of lubricants and consumable parts, and premium car wash. We also expect to see synergistic benefits between Cardoc and Auto Oasis, a franchise of our subsidiary GS Mbiz. “ ” We anticipate long-term growth through transformation In the second half of 2019, we plan to introduce a new concept gasoline station that combines high-end car wash service with coffee shop through collaboration with Dividend distribution is rising in importance when evaluating the value of oil companies. If consistency can be brought to the dividend distribution along the equity structure of GS Caltex, GS Energy and GS Cardoc, which will provide semi-automatic hand wash service and high-quality food Holdings, the market understanding of GS Holdings’ equity distribution will improve. Furthermore, as and beverage in the waiting area of the gasoline station. The new gasoline station will performance in the oil industry is becoming more and more erratic, expansion into non-oil sectors be promoted under the ‘Cardoc Wash Express’ brand as part of our efforts to offer new will cancel out the unpredictabilities in the oil sector. As GS Caltex is pursuing transformation and DB Financial Investment services and increase the level of customer satisfaction. innovation through investments in MFC and new projects, we anticipate long-term growth. Analyst Seungje Han GS Caltex 68 69 Sustainability Activities 2018 Sustainability Report Shareholders & Investors Transforming Gasoline Stations into Logistical Hubs In addition, we have identified optimization of production and logistics facilities as our V-Project Financial Performance strategic agenda to respond effectively to the changes in the external environment. We (Accumulated to 2018) GS Caltex in collaboration with SK Energy combined the gasoline station network, the core expect to see our financial performance reach a total of KRW 387.8 billion in 2019. asset of both companies, and initiated research to create new value. To achieve this on a KRW 346.1Billion larger scale, both companies established a partnership based on service stations for the V-Project Areas of Improvement1) & Financial Performance (Unit : KRW 1B) expansion of shared economy, developing an ecosystem for mutual growth with startups, Year of 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 creating jobs by utilizing new station spaces, and creating social value in the process. Implementation Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Expected Wave1 (2013) 64.2 99.2 153.9 108.4 84.7 70.6 91.1 In 2018, we launched HomePick, a C2C (Customer to Customer) parcel delivery service based on Wave2 (2014) 61.0 117.0 72.0 61.6 66.3 63.9 gasoline stations as the first collaborative model. If a customer registers to send a parcel, logistics Wave3 (2015) 30.7 65.6 57.6 94.3 73.7 startups promptly find customers along the delivery route based on each gasoline station, gather Wave4 (2016) 27.0 36.7 36.2 41.4 goods, and safely transport the products to the delivery point from the existing shipping company. Wave5 (2017) 25.0 42.6 35.6 Wave6 (2018) 36.1 58.6 Through this service, shipping companies can shed the burden of collecting goods and 1) ‌Improvement in Feed Stock competitiveness, Wave7 (2019) 23.6 optimization of the production process, maximization reduce shipping time, which jointly increase efficiency of logistics. This system also of product value, optimization of energy and utilities, offers more convenience to customers as they no longer need to carry heavy items to Grand Total 64.2 160.2 301.6 273.0 265.6 3,461 3,878 improved mid to long-term competitiveness post offices or convenience stores to save time and money. In addition, additional profit is created by utilizing extra space in the gasoline station which formerly provided limited services such as oil service and carwash. Expansion of R&D HomePick Delivery Service HomePick Delivery Service Framework R&D Activities At GS Caltex, we are committed to strengthening the competitive advantages of our R&D Expenses 3 Base Gasoline 5 Destination existing business models and creating new growth engines for sustainable growth. 1 Sender Station (Recipient) We are focused on building high-value added products and developing technologies to improve our productivity and thereby strengthen our competitiveness in existing sectors. KRW 51.5 Billion We are also actively pursuing technological development in catalysts, production, and 2 Pickups within 1 hour 4 Shipping Company (Logistics Startup) (CJ Logistics) polymer-based sectors to succeed in MFC, our new investment project. Going forward, Dataㅣ‌R&D Investment Costs we will continue to innovate our products and technology. Strengthening Internal Competency Based on V-Project Key R&D Project At GS Caltex, we established a corporate-wide organization to strengthen our internal Sector Description Develop Catalysts and We are developing technology for HDPE production competency along the value chain (crude oil-production-sales) as part of the V-Project, which has Production Technology and also developing high-value-added polyolefin played a key role in securing stable revenue streams in the present fast-changing business Petrochemical Base Materials products through core fundamental technologies such (MFC-based environment. From 2013 to 2018, we identified more than 210 items for improvement technology) (Polyolefin) as metallocene catalysts. We are developing products based on functional materials, which are used in various Functional Materials including reduction of crude oil costs, optimization of production processes including upgrades industries for special purposes. (Composite material) to facilities, utility and energy efficiency, and maximizing sales of high-value-added products. Eco-friendly Special In response to market demand for eco-friendly materials, High ValueChemicals we are developing eco-friendly special chemicals and added Furthermore, we focused on optimizing our investment costs and increasing the competencies Eco-friendly Cosmetic cosmetics ingredients as well as high-performance Derivatives and Ingredients specialty polymers that are applied to lightweight Materials of our employees by revamping the way we work in areas such as facility design, procurement, Specialty Polymer materials in the automotive industry. and maintenance that did not fall within the scope of our existing improvement activities. In order to improve the quality of our refinery products and Thanks to these V-Project activities, our financial performance reached a total of KRW 346.1 respond to changes in eco-friendly energy policy, we are Refining Oil conducting research on quality control. In addition, we are billion in 2018. In 2019, we will continue with the V-Project to uncover and implement items for conducting R&D to develop high-value-added products improvement to achieve short-term as well as midto long term profitability. and improving the productivity of our refinery process. 04 Financial Data ESG Data and Performance Selection of Material Topics GS Caltex 2018 Sustainability Report GS Caltex Stakeholder Policy GS Caltex Code of Ethics GS Caltex Human Rights Policy Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners GS Caltex Tax Policy Appendix GS Caltex SHEQ Management Policy GHG Assurance Statement Third Party Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UN Global Compact Major Memberships for Sustainability Major Donated Organizations GS Caltex 72 73 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report Financial Data ESG Data and Performance Financial Data ESG Data and Performance Environment1) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Income (Unit : KRW 1M) (Unit : KRW 1M) GHG2) Energy3) Category 2017 2018 Category 2017 2018 (Unit : tCO2eq) (Unit : TJ) Assets Sales 30,318,432 36,363,010 Category 2016 2017 2018 Category 2016 2017 2018 Current assets Cost of sales -27,409,674 -34,257,270 Scope I : Direct emissions Scope I : Direct energy consumption 93,003 77,784 86,615 Cash and cash equivalents 1,200,846 1,043,274 Selling, general and administrative (Fixed combustion, mobile combustion 6,993,791 6,373,507 6,324,522 -907,204 -871,522 and process emission) Scope II : Indirect energy consumption 16,099 16,472 16,503 Accounts and notes receivable 3,502,450 2,802,538 expenses Scope II : Indirect emissions Annual reduction 2,562 1,896 1,864 Short-term financial assets 1,010,553 1,070,059 Operating profit 2,001,554 1,234,218 1,600,523 1,624,433 1,642,876 (externally purchased steam and power) Share of profit (loss) of equity method 3) ‌Source of energy consumption calculation method and unit conversion factor Inventories 4,271,305 4,293,707 10,977 8,441 accounted investees 1) If not indicated otherwise, environment data is based on Yeosu Complex ‌‌Direct consumption : Calculation of calorific value by product after checking the amount Prepaid income taxes 432 165 2) ‌GHG is based on all worksites of GS Caltex and reflects partial post-alterations of consumption through the flow meter Financial income 1,442,352 1,031,268 ‌Unit conversion source : Unit conversion based on the energy calorific conversion Assets held for sale 27,442 standards of the Energy Act Finance costs -1,330,610 -1,241,331 Other current assets 45,841 248,450 Other income 568,793 1,015,931 Total current assets 10,031,427 9,485,635 Other expenses -758,108 -1,052,487 Non-current assets Profit (loss) before income taxes 1,934,958 996,040 Air Pollutants4) Long-term financial assets 233,648 235,541 Income tax expenses -496,831 -292,472 Investments in associates 294,685 299,165 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Profit (loss) for the year 1,438,127 703,568 Properties, plants, and equipment 9,364,164 9,380,750 Dust 165.9 100.7 119.8 Profit (loss) attributable to : Investment properties 56,876 56,463 Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) 4,374.1 3,221.4 3,314.3 Owners of the parent company 1,438,127 703,568 Intangible assets 70,528 70,274 Sulfur Oxide (SOx) 7,392.1 7,479.9 6,543.1 Non-controlling interests Volume of air Deferred income tax assets 3,642 3,049 Ton pollutants Carbon Monoxide (CO) 395.4 649.9 732.6 Other non-current assets 28,827 28,659 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 109.8 107.4 137.9 Total non-current assets 10,052,370 10,073,901 Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) 95.6 66.8 73.3 Total assets 20,083,797 19,559,536 Dust mg/㎥ 5.7/30 3.8/30 4.1/30 Liabilities Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) 83.3/150 88.8/150 66.0/150 Concentration level Current liabilities (Unit : KRW 1M) of air pollutants5) Sulfur Oxide (SOx) ppm. 62.1/180 37.4/180 46.4/180 (GSC State/Legal Req.) Accounts payable-trade 2,947,404 2,399,158 Category 2017 2018 Carbon Monoxide (CO) 24.2/200 27.1/200 24.4/200 Short-term financial liabilities 3,000,984 3,536,384 Profit (loss) for the year 1,438,127 703,568 4) Major Air Pollutant Discharging Facilities : RFCC CO Boiler, Heater, Package Boiler Income taxes payable 306,474 64,957 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax : 5) Effluent standards and average concentration level of standard boilers (Dust/NOx/Sox) and incineration facilities (Carbon monoxide) Other current liabilities 77,278 79,760 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Total current liabilities 6,332,140 6,080,259 Remeasurements of defined benefit liability 3,676 -13,309 Non-current liabilities Other comprehensive income (loss)Water Resource and Water Pollutants6) Long-term financial liabilities 2,838,062 2,269,789 Financial asset income (loss) from fair value 864 Employee benefits 9,643 6,203 assessments Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Deferred income tax liabilities 165,566 234,976 Changes in equity method accounted -188 -315 investee’s capital Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 172.8 169.7 224.0 Other non-current liabilities 47,009 161,345 Volume of water Total 3,488 -12,760 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Ton 140.2 202.8 200.0 Total non-current liabilities 3,060,280 2,672,313 pollutants Items that will be reclassified subsequently to Suspended Solids (SS) 82.3 71.2 75.0 Total liabilities 9,392,420 8,752,572 profit or loss Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 6.9/30 7.7/30 8.0/30 Equity Net change in unrealized fair value of Concentration level of ppm. 256 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 9.2/40 10.7/40 11.3/40 Common stocks 260,000 260,000 available-for sale financial assets water pollutants7) (GSC State/Legal Req.) Suspended Solids (SS) 3.2/30 3.3/30 3.7/30 Capital surplus 68,330 68,330 Changes in equity method accounted -412 148 Water consumption Daily average consumption Ton 55,487 56,068 53,476 Capital adjustments -61,189 -61,189 investee’s capital Wastewater Daily average effluent Ton 28,542 27,488 28,057 Accumulated other comprehensive Effective portion of changes in unrealized -18,472 -17,629 -713 -4,672 fair value of cash flow hedges Recycling rate of Volume of reused wastewater/ income % 18.8 17.7 wastewater generated wastewater Retained earnings 10,442,708 10,557,452 Foreign currency translation differences -23,898 4,503 Total -24,767 -21 6) Major Facilities Discharging Water Pollutants : Petroleum Refinery Facilities, Basic Petrochemical Compound Production Facilities, Industrial Water Purification Facilities Equity attributable to owners of the 7) Effluent standards and concentration level of ocean effluence 10,691,377 10,806,964 parent company Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year 1,416,848 690,787 Non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to : Total equity 10,691,377 10,806,964 Owners of the parent company 1,416,848 690,787 Total liabilities and equity 20,083,797 19,559,536 Non-controlling interests GS Caltex 74 75 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report ESG Data and Performance ESG Data and Performance Environment Society Waste Material Customer Satisfaction Performance Quality Management Certification (Unit : Ton) Category 2016 2017 2018 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Item Worksite Validity Period Designated waste 21,165 23,972 20,093 Certification Certification Certification ISO9001 Yeosu Complex July 2018 to July 2021 CCM certification Volume of waste material General waste 20,726 19,371 22,874 acquired maintained acquired Total 41,891 43,343 42,967 KSQI (Korea Service Quality Excellent Excellent Excellent Index) Call Center Call Center Call Center Recycling 30,001 33,018 28,902 Employees5) Incineration 2,596 2,316 2,064 Average time spent in Day 0.8 0.7 0.7 handling customer complaints Waste disposal methods Landfill 9,294 8,009 10,787 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 NCSI (National Customer Ranked 1st Ranked 1st Ranked 1st Others (crushing etc.) 1,214 Satisfaction Index) gasoline (for 8 consec(for 9 consec(for 10 conTotal 3,000 2,969 3,212 Total 41,891 43,343 42,967 station category utive years) utive years) secutive years) Executive 51 49 45 By employment Full-Time 2,770 2,758 3,026 type Consumption of Hazardous Chemicals Investment in Environmental Protection Part-Time 179 162 141 (Unit : Ton) (Unit : KRW 100M) Domestic Sales Seoul, etc. 1,326 1,317 1,448 By location Category 2016 2017 2018 Category 2016 2017 2018 Yeosu 1,674 1,652 1,764 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Persons Caustic soda (NaOH) 30,398 29,824 24,201 Reduction in wastewater and Over 50 682 745 20.0 6.0 31.9 Sulfuric acid (H2SO4) 770 1,155 806 marine contamination Gasoline stations No. of stations 2,569 2,563 2,510 By age 30-50 1,856 1,912 Hydrochloric acid (HCl) 1,840 1,703 1,818 Reduction in air pollution 52.6 36.3 368.71) LPG stations No. of stations 402 399 400 Under 30 431 555 Ammonia (NH3) 579 535 517 Reduction in volatile organic Bonus card members2) 10K persons 1,757 1,136 1,142 2.1 13.9 Employees subject to pension compounds 2,771 2,795 2,579 Domestic market share % 25.6 25.0 24.5 system Prevention of soil contamination 51.8 47.2 106.1 Others 16.1 40.0 2) ‌The personal information of about 6 million people was destroyed or separately stored Retirees 170 123 131 in accordance with the revised validity period of the Information and Communication Retirement rate 5.7 4.1 4.1 Total 126.5 105.6 560.6 Network Act resulting in a decrease in member numbers in 2017. Environment and Energy Certification 1) Includes investment in RFCC Wet Scrubber Percentage of female employees 9.6 9.6 9.9 % Percentage of employees with 1.5 1.4 1.3 Item Worksite Validity Period disabilities Inspection of Soil Contamination Information Security Certification ISO14001 Yeosu Complex July 2018 to July 2021 Total employee compensation KRW 100M 3,336 3,119 3,891 (Unit : No. of inspections) ISO50001 Yeosu Complex December 2017 to December 2020 Category 2016 2017 2018 Average years of employment Years 15.3 15.3 14.7 Category 2016 2017 2018 3) PIMS Certification acquired Certification acquired Certification acquired 5) Based on December 31, 2018 Gasoline stations inspected for 198 138 147 soil contamination ISMS4) Certification acquired Certification acquired Environmental Indicators and Activities 3) Personal Information Management System 4) Information Security Management System Parental Leave (Unit : Persons) Index Activities Source Category 2016 2017 2018 •• ‌Senior position in charge of climate change • Head ‌ of Safety and Environmental Planning •• ‌UNGC Advanced 9~11 Male 2 2 2 •• ‌Potential opportunities and risk associated with climate change • ‌Financial impact of the GHG Emissions Trading System is analyzed in •• ‌GRI 201-2 Customer Information Security Employees on parental •• ‌How to respond to opportunities and risk factors related to climate change advance, and a consistent response strategy is established. • I•‌SO26000 6.5.5 (Unit : No. of incidents) leave Female 17 8 15 •• ‌GRI 303-1 Male 3 •• ‌Consideration of water stress level when undertaking a project • ‌Water stress level is considered when undertaking a project Category 2016 2017 2018 Employees who returned •• ‌UNGC Advanced 9~11 Issue raised by third-party from parental leave Female 10 13 10 • I•‌nitiatives for the improvement of energy efficiency and saving and their Customer •• E victim and verified internally by • nergy saving goals are set information the organization Employees who have Male 3 3 •• ‌Consultation with energy experts and internal TF are in progress •• ‌GRI 302-1~2,4 procedure •A related worked for 12 months •• Energy portal system is operated • I‌•SO26000 6.5.4 •‌ ctivities for energy saving and GHG emissions reduction complaints Issue raised by regulatory •E after returning from •• No energy is sold outside •‌ nergy used directly for electricity, heat, and vapor institution Female 10 11 13 •E parental leave •‌ nergy consumption/saving/sales to outside •H •• ‌Volume of waste material and hazardous chemical material control process •G Data leakage, theft and loss •‌ azardous waste materials under control for emission/disposal process ‌• RI 306-2~3 • Emission of normal waste materials are disclosed through sustainability report • I‌•SO26000 • Activities for transporting hazardous materials • ‌Diesel spill in Changwon Logistics Center in 2018; appropriate actions taken 6.3.3/6.5.4,/6.5.6 Women in Management Positions • Amount and cases of critical oil spill for oil cleanup and soil recovery •U ‌• NGC Advanced 9~11 (Unit : Persons) Quality Inspections •• ‌Environmental impact analysis is conducted at all business ‌sites (Unit : No. of inspections) •• Availability Category 2017 2018 ‌ of formal documents for analyzing the environment risk Construction ‌ of third product wharf : post-environmental impact analysis •• ‌UNGC Advanced 9~11 associated with new processes and process changes ‌ Construction of new project site : post-environmental impact analysis Category 2016 2017 2018 Executive officer 1 • Operation ‌ of official system for implementing, applying and reporting Oil‌ tank construction project at Sapo : post-environmental impact analysis Quality inspection of gasoline stations 4,426 5,217 4,936 Senior manager 16 18 environmental impact assessment Oil ‌ and naphtha tank site construction : post-environmental impact analysis Quality inspection of LPG stations 439 479 458 Manager 88 80 Construction ‌ of second product wharf : environmental impact analysis GS Caltex 76 77 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report ESG Data and Performance ESG Data and Performance Society HR Development Supply Chain ESG Evaluation Occupational Safety & Health Indicators6) (Unit : KRW 100M) (Unit : No. of companies) Category 2016 2017 2018 Category 2018 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Training cost1) 39 52 65 Partners receiving written evaluation 2 TRIR 0.07 0.09 0.13 Employees & partners 1) ‌Including internal training cost and external training cost (excl. indirect expenses) Partners receiving on-site evaluation 2 DAFWR Case/200,000 0.03 0.01 0.09 TRIR working hours 0.03 0.13 0.10 DAFWR 0.03 0.06 Employees Labor Union Work-reated death (Male) Partner Companies Persons (Unit : Persons) Work-reated death (Female) Category 2016 2017 2018 TRIR Case/200,000 0.10 0.06 0.16 Category Unit 2017 2018 working hours Members registered with DAFWR 0.03 0.03 0.11 1,289/1,796 1,306/1,793 1,398/1,934 Partners with transaction No. of Partners labor union 1,456 1,347 Work-reated death (Male) 1 (Registered/employee number) performance companies Persons Work-reated death (Female) Purchase amount KRW 100M 11,283 12,820 Partners who signed the code of No. of 6) ‌Method and Definition for Industrial Accident Calculations 308 ‌Total Recordable Incident Rate : No. of incidents (any injuries, illnesses, and fatalities, excluding those equivalent to or less serious than incidents requiring first aid) that occur every 200,000 2) conduct agreement companies Employees Using EAP working hours (Calculation : No. of incidents/working hours x 200,000) (Unit : Persons) ‌Days Away From Work Rate : No. of incidents that cause a loss of one or more days’ work every 200,000 working hours (Calculation : No. of incidents that cause a loss of work/working hours x 200,000) Category 2016 2017 2018 Personal counseling 147 262 312 Low-Interest Loan Support Financial counseling 45 21 21 Accidents Related to Safety of the Production Process Legal counseling 15 28 11 Category Unit 2017 2018 No. of Category 2016 2017 2018 2) Employee assistance program Partners 78 81 companies Incidents per 1M work hours (Tier 1 Process Safety Event)7) 2 1 Value amount KRW 100M 531 628 7) ‌An unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material, including non-toxic and non-flammable materials, from a process that results in consequences as listed, per the American Petroleum Institute (API) 754 Guide Human Resource Recruitment (Unit : Persons) Category 2017 2018 Partner Industrial Safety Training8) 3) Smart Work TFT Activities New employees 171 396 Male 122 3253) Category Training Program 2017 2018 By gender Category Unit 2018 Female 49 71 Construction safety training program for No. of 30 companies / 43 participants 32 companies / 52 participants Supported partners 14 supervisors Seoul, etc 101 187 companies By location Practice training for signalmen 45 companies / 347 participants 49 companies / 324 participants Yeosu 70 209 No. of Supported universities 4 Training & maintenance program for 3) Additional recruits for 52-hour weekwork, MFC project, etc. universities 48 companies / 227 participants 57 companies / 405 participants safety managers Yeosu Complex Safety training for cargo crane operators 51 companies / 137 participants 58 companies / 178 participants Human error prevention & rescue training 11 companies / 16 participants Performance Evaluation program (Unit : %) Performance improvement program for 5 companies / 10 participants Category 2016 2017 2018 managers Percentage of employees who received TA special safety training Approx. 2,500 persons Approx. 5,000 persons periodical reviews on performance and 88 89 87 4 cases for 7 companies 4 cases for 9 companies Safety training for ship owners/crews career development4) (approximately 250 participants/times) (approximately 200 participants/times) Percentage of employees who are 9) ‌On-site facility training on safety management ‌JSA training for supervisors / safety managers : assessed by their direct supervisors 88 89 87 standards : 7 companies / 16 participants 8 companies / 17 participants with measurable goals4) Headquarters Safety training for partners ‌Partner workshop to share construction / ‌Safety training on open inspection : Percentage of employees who received safety management know-how : 90 90 95 Safety managers of 4 companies comparative evaluation5) 7 companies / 16 participants Customer service improvement training 4) Employee expense for setting goals/halfway review/end of the year evaluation 15 centers / 600 participants 16 centers / 400 participants 5) Excl. absolute evaluation for logistics center 8) Based on annual participants in the course (multiple participation by program, by class) 9) Job Safety Analysis GS Caltex 78 79 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report ESG Data and Performance ESG Data and Performance Society Occupational Safety Drills Occupational Safety Certification Social Indicators and Activities Category Drill 2018 Category Workplace Validity Date Indicators Activities Reference Data Corporate-wide • ‌Minimum ESG requirements needed for review of partners • ‌Minimum ESG requirements needed for review of new Corporate-wide 1 time/quarter Firefighting/Response drills •• ‌GRI 308-1 • ‌Additional points granted for ISO9001 and ISO14001 certification partners • Inclusion and scope of ESG in contract • I‌•SO26000 6.3.5/6.6.6 Firefighting/Response drills 3 times/year (by shift) • CSR monitoring on partners •U Incheon Lube Oil when selecting partners for materials and service On & Offshore oil spill KOSHA18001 May 2011 to May 2020 ‌• NGC Advanced 2/9~11 • ‌Ratio of new partners reviewed for environmental 3 times/year (by shift) Blending Plant response drills Workplace1) Entire Workplace Training compliance •• ‌Official process of identifying sustainability risk in the Emergency response drills 16 times/year supply chain •• ‌Supply chain management information disclosed externally 2) Process dry training 1 time/month (by shift) •• ‌Items for the evaluation of partners’ management performance •• ‌Activities for the enhancement of partner performance • I‌•PIECA SE5 C1/SE7 Early response drills 1 time/month (by shift) •• ‌Incentives for suppliers (trading performance/credit rating) •• ‌Sustainability improvement activities (e.g. financial and technical •• ‌Corporate policies, programs, and procedures for procuring 1) ‌The workplace drills are based in the Yeosu complex, and internal drills are conducted C1/SE9 S1 under individual guidelines for each place support and safety and ethics training support) products, services, and human resources •• ‌Strategies, programs, and procedures for providing 2) One type of training according to the emergency response scenario assistance to local partners and contractors •• ‌Ratio of contracts for the prevention of corruption in a • ‌100% (work process regulations covering legal compliance, fair practice, • I‌•PIECA SE12 S1 specific language (%) and transparency in Korean) Maum Talk Talk Program •• ‌Healthcare programs are provided (e.g. program for prevention of •• ‌A description of the processes and programs that musculoskeletal disease, smoking cessation program, metabolic syndrome recognize the local and global issues related to employees’ management) •• ‌Affiliated clinics with medical staff (e.g. doctors, nurses, medical Category Unit 20163) 2017 2018 health and produce outcomes and plans Organizations No. of Schools 35 31 35 •• ‌Explanation of current healthcare systems and recent • I‌•SO26000 6.4.4 laboratory technologist, paramedics) are operated •• ‌MSDS management, protective gear, and analysis of the work Maum Talk Talk Therapy • I‌•PIECA HS2 C1, S1 Children Persons 1,529 1,828 2,247 improvements environment are supported • ‌Processes are implemented or changed in accordance with School No. of Schools 5 6 5 •• ‌Availability of formal documents and processes for Maum Talk Talk Healing Class Children Persons 730 897 628 company regulations. Through this process, the risk of assessing impact on employees’ health and safety when Camps Times 1 2 1 introducing/changing processes is analyzed in detail considering Maum Talk Talk Healing Camp introducing/changing processes impact on employees’ safety and health. Children Persons 65 135 67 •• ‌Percentage of the organization’s exclusive employees who Total Persons 2,324 2,860 2,942 •G •1 are represented in the Occupational Safety and Health ‌• RI 403-1,4 • I‌•SO26000 6.4.4/6.4.6 ‌• 00% •C Committee •• ‌‌Level of operations of the Occupational Safety and Health •• ‌UNGC Advanced 6~8 3) Data of 2016 is different from the previous report depending on the aggregation method ‌• omposed of 8 members, held once every quarter Committee •• ‌GRI 102-41 •• ‌Number of negotiations/agreements made with the union • ‌0 (no significant changes in business management) • I‌•SO26000 5.3 •U CSR Yeulmaru regarding changes in business management ‌• NGC Advanced 3~5 •• ‌Ratio of new employees’ wages against minimum wage • ‌Production engineer 190%, Office Staff 233% •• ‌GRI 202-1~2 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Category Unit 2016 20175) 2018 by gender (There is no discrimination by gender) • I‌•SO26000 6.8.1~2 •• ‌GRI 202-1~2 •• ‌Percentage of local senior executives • ‌100% Amount of social Visitors to performances Persons 77,070 67,004 66,864 • I‌•SO26000 6.8.1~2 KRW 100M 356 177 149 contribution4) Visitors to exhibitions Persons 28,432 23,629 19,477 •• ‌Actions taken to prohibit child and forced labor •• ‌International Labor Organization Standards and UNGC Principles •• ‌GRI 408-1/409-1/412-2 Annual volunteers Persons 2,132 2,548 1,755 •• ‌Reporting on business sites with a risk of child labor Performance, exhibitions No. of •• ‌ISO26000 329 356 387 are complied with •• ‌Actions taken to prevent child and forced labor •• Forced or child labor is strictly prohibited 4) ‌Amount executed for social contribution purposes. It is different from donations specified and academy events events •• ‌Employee training on human rights policies and processes •• ‌Voluntary compliance programs to ensure human rights and 4.8/6.3.1~2/6.3.5/6.4.1~2 •U in business report. •• ‌Corporate policies on human rights 5) Data is different from the previous report depending on the aggregation method ‌• NGC Advanced 3~5 prevent sexual harassment have been implemented •• ‌Employees are notified 30 days prior to termination of •• ‌Minimum notification period for changes in business employment with justified cause, and 50 days in advance in the GS Caltex Soup Kitchen management that have a significant impact on employees case of termination due to a business reason under Article 24 of (Unit : Persons) •• ‌GRI 402-1 the Labor Standards Act Category 2016 2017 2018 Total (2008~2018) • ‌A written notification for renewing collective agreement must • I‌•SO26000 6.4.3/6.4.5 be issued at least 2 months before its expiration. Both parties •U •• ‌Availability of notification period and negotiation terms on Meal recipients 85,591 84,070 83,474 861,639 ‌• NGC Advanced 15~18 must respond to the notification regarding collective bargaining collective agreement at least 30 days before the expiration date of the current agreement. However, if there is no request for any changes upon renewal, it is renewed automatically •N ‌• umber of violation of natives’ rights reported during the • ‌GRI 411-1 reporting period • ‌Not applicable • ‌ISO26000 6.3.4/6.3.6~7 •R ‌• eporting of status and measures taken •• ‌IPIECA SE2 S1 GS Caltex 80 81 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report ESG Data and Performance Governance Fair Practice Issue Governance Indicators and Activities Category 2016 2017 2018 Indicator Activities Reference Data •• ‌GS Caltex was fined for violations against •• ‌Changes in location and operation (e.g. opening/closing, shutdown, obligatory publication of the company’s •• ‌GS Caltex agreed to pay criminal fines and civil and expansion of facilities) • ‌There were no significant changes •G ‌• RI 102-10 organizational status (omitted disclosure) from 2012 damages to US Department of Justice for rigging • ‌Formation, maintenance, and change in equity structure Number of enforcement actions to 2015 (4 years). bids on contracts for provision of fuel to United •• ‌Full payments were made by 2016 and risk (both ongoing and settled) for 0 incidents States military installations in Korea. •• ‌Availability of staff in charge of environment, human rights and violations of anti-competition •• ‌GS Caltex will reinforce corporate compliance •• ‌Environment : Head of Safety and Environmental laws and regulations associated with obligatory publication is being labor issues •• ‌GRI 102-11/14/20~21/26~34 •• Appointment • I‌•SO260005.2/6.2/6.3.5/6.7/7.4.2~3/ managed through improvement of the internal function and employee training to prevent Planning • ‌Human Rights/Labor : Head of Human Resources ‌ of executive officers who are responsible for managing process for publication of the company’s recurrence. • ‌Reporting can be done through CSR Committee the company’s commitment toward economy, environment, and 7.8 organizational status. society •U ‌• NGC Advanced 1/19~20 •• ‌Right to report to the top decision-making body and Sustainability-related committees •• ‌Policies/activities/system/training on fair business practices and •• ‌Systematic compliance is ensured •• ‌Corporate compliance management extended •• ‌GRI 102-17/205-2 Ethical Management Training Compliance Reports (2018) anti-bribery and anti-corruption standards • ‌Internal/external guidance/grievance handling programs for eth• I‌•SO26000 4.4/6.6.1~6.6.3/6.6.5~6 (Unit : No. of reports) to partners and subsidiaries •• ‌Ethics education is mandatory for all employees •U ical and legal compliance • ‌Percentage of employees that attended ethics training •• ‌Universal human rights policies for partners and Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Category Complaint Corruption Petition Total ‌• NGC Advanced 12~14 Participants of ethical Online 2,052 2,120 2,212 Customers 24 2 4 30 • ‌Scope of application for basic human rights activities/policies customers (UNGC 10 Principles) management training Offline 833 842 905 Partners 3 4 7 •• ‌Consumer Centered Management (CCM) is •C • I‌•SO26000 6.7.6 Ethical management Persons Employees 1 2 3 6 ‌• onsumer service support and activities to resolve complaints adopted • ‌Customer Service Center (CSC) in operation training participants Others 2 3 5 10 and disputes Offline 22 161 from partners/sales division Total 27 10 16 53 •• ‌Potential business impact reported publicly Official letters sent Online No. of • ‌Risk mitigation measures reported publicly • ‌•Q uality control is performed on the entire regarding ethical Letters 5,964 5,875 5,855 • ‌Descriptions of product, health, safety and environmental process from production to sale under the ISO • I‌•SO26000 management Offline management systems Quality Management System 6.5.3~5/6.7.1~.2/6.7.4~5/6.8.8 • ‌Describe how to monitor, track, evaluate, and manage product•E‌• U REACH compliance is in progress related accidents Tax Payment1) Actions on Compliance Reports (2018) •• ‌Violations of laws governing marketing communication e.g. •• ‌GRI 417-3 • ‌•0 case (2016-2018) • I‌•SO26000 6.7.3 (Unit : No. of reports) advertisement, promotion, and sponsorship Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Category No. of Reports •V •G ‌• iolations of laws governing product and service information and • ‌•0 case (2016-2018) Nominal tax KRW 1M 395,214 487,618 282,113 Investigations (audit/prevention) 9(5/4) ‌• RI 417-2 • I‌•SO26000 4.6/6.7.1~2 labeling Nominal tax rate % 22.34 25.48 29.35 Transferred to the relevant 44 • If no violations have been committed, simply state the fact. Effective tax KRW 1M 444,326 461,898 218,867 department •• ‌Communication of information about the product, service, and •G • ‌MSDS and details are disclosed on the website Effective tax rate % 25.11 24.14 22.77 Others (dismissal, etc.) ‌• RI 417-1 Total 53 labeling • I‌•SO26000 6.7.1~3/6.7.5 1) Separate Standards •• ‌Service quality control system is operated •• ‌Training and activities to raise awareness about products and • ‌Customer service manuals are distributed • I‌•SO26000 6.7.9 services • ‌Star Service Team is operated R&D Investment Costs • ‌Star Festival is held (Unit : KRW 100M) Category 2016 2017 2018 •• ‌UNGC Universal Human Rights Principles are •H‌• uman rights of public security companies supported •T • ‌Security companies licensed by local police •• ‌GRI 410-1 R&D Investment 500 523 515 ‌• raining for private security providers • ‌•Reporting human rights issues related to private and public departments have been hired, human rights are • I‌•SO26000 6.3.5 security protected, and training on confidentiality and security is conducted on a regular basis. •• I‌•ntegrated management system for safety measures and crisis • ‌•PSM (Process Safety Management) is operated response throughout the supply chain and research/ production •• S‌• ASB NR0101-19 systematically cycle GS Caltex 82 83 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report Selection of Material Topics Selection of Material Topics The topics of this report have been selected according to GRI Standards. Our pool of sustainability issues consists of 38 issues Result of Materiality Assessment selected based on our internal and external environment in the context of sustainability. The materiality is evaluated based on ‘Relevance’ and ‘Impact’. The material issues identified based on relevance may have an impact on our business performance if they ❶ are not managed properly. Those based on impact have a major effect on business performance and stakeholders. Based on these Core Issues ❶ New growth engines and diversification criteria, we conducted a materiality assessment through a comprehensive review of employee surveys, external stakeholder surveys, of business Impact ❸ ❷ ❷ industry benchmarking, and media analysis. We then selected 10 material issues from the pool of 38 sustainability issues. Prevention of incidents and raising safety awareness Materiality Assessment Process ❸ Investment in local communities ❾ ❹ ❺ Response to environmental regulations ❺ ❻ Create a pool of 38 issues in the context of sustainability Talent recruitment and retention ❹ ❻ Step 1 Energy conservation and improvement ❿ 7 issues of economic responsibility 6 issues of responsibility towards customers of efficiency ❽ ❼ Issue Definition 9 issues of environmental responsibility 7 issues of social responsibility 9 issues of responsibility towards employees ❼ Fair practices ❽ Ethical management ❾ Reporting Issues Mutual growth with partners ❿ Analysis of global standards Customer safety and health Based on analysis of global standards and initiatives such as GRI Standards, ISO 26000, IPIECA, and UN SDGs, we are Relevance working toward energy conservation and improvement of efficiency. Media analysis We selected articles related to sustainability management and created a list. Based on media analysis, we found that Inclusion of Reporting Topics articles associated with market share appeared most frequently on topics such as investment in local communities as social contribution activities and expanding sales were the most frequent concerns. Step 2 The material issues identified through materiality assessment are reflected in each section of the report while ‘Communication with Prioritization stakeholders’ is reflected throughout the report. Industry benchmarking We analyzed the sustainability report of six of new growth engines and diversification of business, energy conservation Areas of Reporting Core Issues Impact on Stakeholders Reporting Page and improvement of efficiency and emission control as highly prioritized material issues in the industry. Shareholders and investors, customers, 2018 Highlight Investments for New Growth New growth engines and diversification of business 14, 15 local community Government and relevant organizations, 2018 Highlight Making a Safe Workplace Prevention of incidents and raising safety awareness 16, 17 Stakeholder and employee survey local community, employees, partners In February 2018, we conducted online surveys to collect opinions from stakeholders including employees, partners, 2018 Highlight Reducing GHG by Cookstoves Energy conservation and improvement of efficiency Local community 18, 19 gasoline station managers, shareholders/investors NGOs, academic circles, and experts. A total of 441 people participated in the survey and selected new growth engines and diversification of business, Prevention of incidents and Government, relevant organizations, 2018 Highlight Creating Culture Space Investment in local communities 20, 21 raising safety awareness as the most important issues. local community, employees Management System Ethics Management and Fair practice, ethical management Employees, partners 32, 33 Fair Trade Response to environmental regulations, energy Government and relevant organizations, Sustainability Activities Environment 36-41 conservation and improvement of efficiency local community, employees Step 3 Sustainability Activities Customers Customer safety and health Customers, local community 42-47 10 material issues were selected based on relevance and impact on our stakeholders. Selection of Sustainability Activities Employees Talent recruitment and retention Employees 48-55 Material Issues Sustainability Activities Partners Mutual growth with partners Partners 56-58 Government, relevant organizations, Sustainability Activities Local Community Investment in local communities 59-65 local community, employees Shareholders & investors, customers, Sustainability Activities Shareholders & Investors New growth engines and diversification of business 66-69 local community GS Caltex 84 85 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report GS Caltex Stakeholder Policy GS Caltex Code of Ethics GS Caltex Stakeholder Policy GS Caltex Code of Ethics GS Caltex listens to stakeholders’ opinions based on transparent communication in various fields, and reflects them in our decisionPurpose making to pursue sustainability of operations. GS Caltex is striving to build an optimal business portfolio and maximize synergies with the goal of growing into the leader in total energy service. The Company’s objectives are to provide customer satisfaction by offering top quality products and services, pursue mutual In pursuit of this vision, we have created a GS Caltex Stakeholder Policy. GS Caltex will relentlessly practice this policy to achieve mutual prosperity with suppliers and business partners, help employees grow by providing fair opportunity and support, maximize shareholder growth of the company and stakeholders. value through outstanding performance, and promote sustainable growth of the Company and society by building a safe workplace, protecting the environment and contributing to local communities. With that in mind, GS Caltex prepared the Code of Ethics which sets forth the standards for decision-making and conduct for all employees of GS Caltex. 1. Definition of Stakeholder GS Caltex defines stakeholders as local communities, employees, customers, partners, government and relevant organizations, shareholders and investors that can directly or indirectly affect or be affected by our business operations. The scope of stakeholders 1. Customer Satisfaction can adjust depending on changes in the business environment, location of business site and other issues. We recognize that customers form the basis of our growth and profits and will satisfy customers by providing them with genuine value. 1.1 We shall respect and give priority to customers’ opinions in conducting our business. 2. Scope of Policy 1.2 We shall provide top quality products and services that meet customers’ demands and expectations. GS Caltex Stakeholder Policy applies to all domestic and global worksites. When necessary, the Stakeholder Policy can also be applied 1.3 We shall protect customer Information and interests and keep our promises to customers. to subsidiaries that trade with other companies under the GS Caltex company name or brand. 2. Co-prosperity with Business Partners 3. Communication Principle We shall build mutual trust and cooperation with business partners through fair and transparent transactions for mutual development. 3.1 Responsibility : We comply with legal and ethical responsibilities toward the stakeholders to protect human rights, security, and 2.1 We shall build partnerships by providing equal opportunity to business partners and Guaranteeing reasonable transaction terms. confidentiality of the stakeholder, and do not engage in acts that undermine their interests. 2.2 We shall conduct transactions as equal partners and shall refrain from abusing our position to engage in unfair conduct in any form. 3.2 Transparency : The managers and managing departments undertake efforts to share relevant information in a transparent manner when communicating with stakeholders. 3. Respect for Employees and Basic Ethics 3.3 Equality : We guarantee equal opportunities for stakeholders that publicly share opinions related to GS Caltex, and undertake efforts We and our employees will faithfully fulfill their duties to spur mutual growth and development based on mutual trust and respect. to stimulate active communication. 3.1 We shall respect each employee and treat each Individual fairly based on his/her ability and performance so that all employees may realize their full potential. 4. Stakeholder’s Action Principle 3.2 Our employees will treat each other with mutual respect, and clearly distinguish between work and personal affairs and carry 4.1 Local Communities : As a member of the local community, we create social value to achieve mutual growth with local communities. out their work in a transparent manner to fulfill their respective responsibilities. 4.2 Employees : We invest efforts to create a safe and happy workplace. 4.3 Customers : We set customer satisfaction as our ultimate priority and engage in transparent communications to gain customer 4. Protecting Shareholder Interests trust and achieve customer happiness. We shall protect shareholder interests through efficient and transparent management worthy of shareholders’ trust and investment. 4.4 Partners : We pursue mutual growth to realize sustainably along with our partners. 4.1 We shall realize sound profits through efficient management to protect shareholders’ return on investment. 4.5 Government and relevant organizations : We comply with laws as a member of society and contribute to the development of society. 4.2 We shall respect shareholders’ right to know relevant information and provide necessary information in a timely and transparent manner. 4.6 Shareholders and Investors : We establish a sustainable groundwork for growth to expand the value for shareholders and investors. 5. Responsibility to Society 5. Communication Channels We shall comply with national laws and regulations and fulfill our social responsibility as a corporate citizen. GS Caltex works to communicate with stakeholders through various channels. We share basic company information through the 5.1 We shall contribute to national development through job creation and faithful payment of taxes. channels we possess and also engage in direct communication through methods such as public hearings, meetings, and individual 5.2 We shall work with local communities for sustained development and play a leading role in creating a happy future for all people. contact. Channels may change depending on the goal and target of communication. 5.3 We shall prohibit engaging in improper solicitation, bribery, and actions that may disrupt the market. We comply with laws and treaties that regulate international commercial trade, and anti-corruption, and we take care to exercise good commercial practices 6. Issue Management Process and culture. GS Caltex has secured a systematic control process to respond to issues. When issues occur, the managing department considers the 5.4 We shall respect human dignity and rights and support freedom, equality, and the value of coexistence. urgency, materiality, and impact of the issue to prioritize the issue and create solutions. When necessary, we facilitate collaboration among various departments to control the issue on a corporate-wide scale, and major issues are regularly reported to the management 6. Safety, Health and Environment, Management through relevant committees and other entities. We shall do our best to protect the environment and create an accident-free workplace. 6.1 We shall make efforts to prevent pollution and fulfill our environmental responsibility. GS Caltex stipulates the rules related to stakeholders as above, and the employees of each department at GS Caltex will communicate 6.2 We shall place priority on the health and safety of employees and business partners and create a safe and pleasant workplace with stakeholders based on this policy within the scope of the actual laws of the country where the worksite is located. free of accidents. (Enacted on January 1, 1994) (Enacted on July 1, 2019) GS Caltex 86 87 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report GS Caltex Human Rights Policy Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners GS Caltex Human Rights Policy Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners Introduction Introduction As a global corporate citizen, GS Caltex recognizes the importance of human rights, universal values of humanity, and respects the At GS Caltex, the Code of Ethics, established in 1994, has functioned as the foundation for ethical business practices in every aspect, rights of stakeholders in its and employees’ activities. and the Corporate Compliance Program, introduced in 2001, further improved ethical standards in GS Caltex. The voluntary compliance management policies begin with the CEO but are deeply-rooted throughout the company together with the appointment of Corporate GS Caltex complies with various state and local labor laws, and in order to support and implement the human rights/labor standards Compliance Officers and a reporting system already in place. of international organizations such as UN and ILO, operates its human rights/labor-related processes including internal/external communications and grievance handling/remedying procedures. Also, we intend to promote shared and sustainable growth by ensuring that we fulfill our ethical and social responsibilities not only toward our In order to implement the above, GS Caltex hereby declares its human rights policy as follows. customers, shareholders, and employees but also other stakeholders such as partners, local communities, and the environment, throughout the entire business process. Reflecting the resolve to implement ethical management and mutual growth with our partners, GS Caltex has enacted the Code of Conduct 1. Protecting basic human rights for GS Caltex Partners (hereinafter “this Code”), through which we intend to request our partners to respect their workers’ human rights, build a 1.1 Humane treatment : We will respect our employees, and endeavor to prevent mental or physical inhumane treatment, such as safe, eco-friendly work environment, and comply with corporate ethics. verbal abuse, sexual violence, or physical abuse, to them. Partners shall endeavor to comply with this Code, and shall request all its sub-partners to do the same. 1.2 Non-discrimination : In operating our personnel system which covers hiring, promotion, compensation, and training opportunities, we With the increasing need for transparency in companies’ ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) data and legislation of CSR disclosure in the EU, will not engage in unjust discrimination on the basis of race, skin color, gender, language, faith, nationality, disability, social status, etc. sustainability has become more important than ever. We promise to continue our sustainability efforts to achieve our vision of becoming a ‘Value No. 1.3 Prohibiting forced labor : We will not force labor which unduly restricts mental or physical freedom, e.g., by assault, intimidation, or 1 Energy & Chemical Partner’. We appreciate your continued interest and support for us as we continue to create a sustainable and better future. imprisonment, and is against a person’s free will, nor require workers to hand over their IDs or other important personal documents, as a condition of employment. 1. Respecting Workers’ Human Rights 1.4 Prohibiting child labor : We will comply with the minimum employment age as prescribed in the state and local laws, and will not 1.1 Prohibiting forced labor : A partner shall enter into an official labor contract with every worker in a language the worker can expose youth to any work environment harmful and dangerous to human bodies. understand in compliance with legal requirements, and all labor shall be voluntary labor, not forced labor, which includes slave labor and human trafficking. Also, in respect for the worker’s will in any circumstances, a partner shall allow them to resign from the 2. Protecting labor rights company of their free will or allow them to suspend work in cases of illness, temporary disability, etc. 2.1 Complying with legal working hours and working conditions : We will comply with work hours and guarantee minimum wage as prescribed in state and local laws, and comply with labor-related laws governing social insurance membership, provide recesses and 1.2 Protecting youth workers : A partner may not hire anyone under 15 years of age (or minimum employment age under the law), and vacations, etc. in cases where it is hiring youth employees under 18 years of age, they shall not be given dangerous work or overtime or night work. 2.2 Creating a safe work environment : We will strictly comply with health and safety standards as required by state and local laws. We 1.3 Complying with work hours : Work hours for a partner’s employees shall not exceed maximum work hours under applicable will conduct periodical training/education reflecting legal requirements, and promote workers’ safety awareness through safety culture laws, and at least 1 day of holiday shall be guaranteed every 7 days. In addition, maximum work hours and maximum overtime activities. hours under applicable laws shall be complied with, and workers shall be allowed recesses, weekdays off, vacation, and paid/unpaid leave in accordance with the law. 2.3 Building productive labor-management relations : In order to foster a healthy organizational culture, we will grant opportunities for communication between the company and employees, will guarantee labor union membership and collective bargaining, and will not 1.4 Wages and benefits : A partner shall comply with minimum wage provisions under applicable laws, and comply with the impose undue disadvantages on employees by reason of labor union activities. benefits system, under applicable laws, including that for salary, overtime allowance, employee benefits, and salary deduction. Base salary should not be reduced as a means of discipline. 3. Protecting stakeholders’ human rights 1.5 Humane treatment : A partner shall take reasonable measures to prevent workers from being discriminated against on the basis 3.1 Privacy : We will protect customers’ and other stakeholders’ personal information in accordance with state and local laws, and will of race, skin color, gender, age, sexual orientation, sexual identity, and nationality, place of origin, religion, disability, marital status/ not use the same without the information-holder’s prior approval nor use the same for any other purposes. Also, we will transmit true pregnancy, labor union membership, or political inclination. information and not provide false information. 1.6 Non-discrimination : A partner shall take reasonable measures to prevent workers from being discriminated against on the 3.2 Local community engagement : We will manage changes in local communities caused by our workplaces’ potential social and basis of race, skin color, gender, age, sexual orientation, sexual identity, and nationality, place of origin, religion, disability, marital environmental impacts. So that residents near the workplaces can raise their concerns for potential impacts and solve the same, we status/pregnancy, labor union membership, or political inclination. will listen to local communities’ opinions and endeavor to reflect the same in our business activities. 1.7 Respecting freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining : A partner shall respect workers’ right to freely organize and join a labor union and to associate with other workers in order to engage in collective bargaining and peaceful assembly and GS Caltex will do its best to prevent human rights violations which can occur in the process of business activities and exclude thirdparties’ demonstration, and also guarantee the right to refuse to do such acts. Also, workers or workers’ representatives shall be allowed undue involvement in human rights violations. Further, GS Caltex will continuously improve this human rights policy by reflecting domestic to freely communicate and share, with the partner’s management, opinions and grievances on labor conditions and management and overseas trends. policy without fear of discrimination, retaliation, threat, etc. and there shall be a complaint mediation process put in place for them. (Enacted on July 12, 2018) GS Caltex 88 89 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners 2. Safe Working Environment 4. Complying with Corporate Ethics 2.1 Occupational safety : A partner shall, through risk evaluation, identify risk elements to which workers may be exposed, 4.1 Complying with ethical management and prohibiting unjust enrichment : A partner, pursuant to GS Caltex’s ethical analyze the causes, predict the results, and then in order to remove/control such risk elements, conduct work process management policy, shall prohibit all forms of bribery, corruption, unjust enrichment, and embezzlement, and continuously designs, technical/administrative controls, preventive maintenance, work safety procedure formulation, and continuous safety supervise and check for compliance with anti-corruptions laws. education, and if necessary, provide workers with appropriate personal protection equipment. 4.2 Information disclosure : A partner shall disclose information on its state of labor/safety and health/environmental 2.2 Preparing for emergencies : A partner shall identify potential industrial disasters/diseases, and establish response plans management, management activities, corporate governance, financial conditions and performance in accordance with thereof, in advance. applicable laws and industry practices. 2.3 Preventing industrial accidents and illnesses : A partner shall establish procedures to prevent and manage workers’ 4.3 Protecting intellectual property rights (“IPRs”) : A partner shall respect all IPRs, protect the relevant IPRs in cases of industrial accidents and occupational illnesses and to suppress recurrence thereof. technology/know-how transfer, and protect the security of GS Caltex’s information. 2.4 Managing exposure to hazard factors in the work environment : A partner shall periodically measure and evaluate hazardous 4.4 Fair trade, advertising, and competition : A partner shall comply with regulations/standards on fair trade, advertising, and chemicals, noise, dust, high temperature, radiation, etc. in the workplace to which workers may be exposed, and protect competition. workers through technical measures and management/supervision to control the same. 4.5 Protecting identity and prohibiting retaliation : A partner shall run a whistle-blowing channel which guarantees 2.5 Managing physically-challenging work : A partner shall identify workers’ exposure to physically-challenging work such confidentiality and anonymity so that workers can raise issues without fear of retaliation. as long hours of repetitive manual work, and handling of heavy items, and establish methods of removing or minimizing the 4.6 Privacy : A partner shall protect the personal data of all its stakeholders including partners, clients, consumers, and same. employees, and when collecting, keeping, processing, transmitting, and sharing the personal data, shall comply with laws 2.6 Equipment safety : A partner, in order to secure workplace safety, shall formulate and implement work safety procedures related to privacy and information security. and guidelines according to the characteristics of the work, and in cases including adoption of new machinery or equipment, changes in facility, or repetition of safety accidents in the same work, shall revise the relevant procedures or guidelines and 5. Management System conduct sufficient training for the workers. 5.1 Management’s expression of resolve for compliance : A partner shall put in writing management’s resolve to comply with 2.7 Providing dormitory and sanitation facility : A partner shall see to it that all places that are related to workers’ location such and continuously improve this Code and post the same in the workplace, and management shall periodically check the state of as workplaces, sanitation facility, and housing facility, are free from health, safety and pollution risks. compliance with this Code. 2.8 Safety, health education and communication : A partner shall conduct safety and health-related education and training for 5.2 Responding to outside requirements : A partner shall identify requirements made by new laws/regulations and the workers performing works which could affect their safety and health, formulate internal operating standards meeting those of customers including requirements hereof and periodically review compliance therewith. applicable laws, and establish and operate annual plans. Also, safety information including such operating standards shall be 5.3 Risk evaluation and management : A partner shall periodically identify its risks in terms of human rights, occupational announced to the workers. safety, environment, and corporate ethics as contained herein, and establish plans to manage high-impact risks with high chance of occurrence. 3. Eco-Friendly Business Site Management 5.4 Establishing and managing goals : A partner shall establish, and periodically evaluate, the goals and execution plans to 3.1 Complying with environmental laws : A partner shall comply with its legal obligations such as environmental permits and improve performances in terms of human rights, occupational safety, environment, and corporate ethics. reporting required by chemicals-related laws and with GS Caltex’s environmental and quality standards. 5.5 Education, training and communication : A partner shall conduct education and training for its managers and workers for 3.2 Preventing pollution and reducing resources/energy consumption : A partner shall endeavor to prevent environmental the purpose of complying with this Code and the law, and communicate with its workers, partners, and customers concerning pollution and reduce its energy consumption and waste emissions through improvement of production processes, changes its policies, goals, and performances. in equipment/process, substitution of materials, recycling/reuse of materials, normal operation of environmental pollutant5.6 Collecting employees’ opinions and improving this Code : A partner shall collect and listen to workers’ opinions on this emitting/preventing facilities, etc. Code and use them to improve this Code. 3.3 Chemicals management : A partner, by accurately identifying the state of handling chemicals which exist in the workplace, 5.7 Documentation : A partner, in preparing and keeping documents and records, shall comply with relevant regulation. shall dutifully perform its responsibilities under the chemicals-related laws and also prevent risks to workers’ health or the 5.8 Partners’ responsibilities : A partner shall request its sub-partners to comply with this Code, and help them to join the environmental. ethical/environmental/social management activities which GS Caltex conducts pursuant to this Code. 3.4 Waste and wastewater management : A partner shall identify the characteristics of waste and wastewater from the 5.9 Sustainable procurement : A partner, in procurement transactions with its sub-partners, shall formulate ethical/ workplace, emit/dispose of them after managing/processing the same in accordance with the law, and take measures to environmental/social policies and procedure for sustainable procurement, and then conduct procurement accordingly. reduce emissions thereof. 3.5 Air pollution management : A partner shall identify the characteristics of volatile organic compounds, aerosol, corrosive gas, (Enacted on November 17, 2017) dust, ozone layer-depleting materials, and combustion by-products in the work processes, process them in accordance with applicable laws, and then emit them. 3.6 Complying with regulation on hazardous materials in the products and process : A partner shall comply with laws and regulations which prohibit or restrict use of specific materials. GS Caltex 90 91 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report GS Caltex Tax Policy GS Caltex SHEQ Management Policy GHG Assurance Statement GS Caltex Tax Policy GHG Assurance Statement GS Caltex has set the following, among others, as the core values of our tax policy in order to meet obligations of tax reporting and Introduction payment set by each legislation : diligent tax payment, management of corporate tax risk through legal compliance, and improvement of Korean Foundation for Quality (hereinafter ‘KFQ’) has been engaged by GS Caltex Corporation (hereinafter the ‘Company’) to independently verify objectivity and transparency. Through these values, we consider the stable development of our company, value creation for stakeholders its 2018 Report on Quantity of emitted Greenhouse Gas from places of Korea (hereinafter ‘Inventory Report’). and contribution to national finance and development of society as important corporate responsibilities. It is the responsibility of the Company’s management to compile the Inventory Report and the emission quantity report by ‘Scheme on the trading of Greenhouse Gas Emission Permits’ run by the government of Korea and KFQ’s responsibility is provision of opinions on the Inventory Report after verification according to ISO 14064-3 and national scheme. 1. Diligent Tax Payment GS Caltex complies with tax-related laws applicable to the country in which the worksite is located, reports and pays tax Independence of Verification diligently, and strictly manages relevant documents and proof. Through this method, we contribute to a healthy tax culture and KFQ has no conflict of interest with GS Caltex Corporation in terms of profit generation-related activities except providing third party support economic development of the country where our worksite is located. verification service on the report. And we do not have any biased opinion on GS Caltex Corporation’s stakeholders. 2. Corporate Tax Risk Management through Legal Compliance Verification Scope GS Caltex engages in transactions with third parties or special stakeholders within a legal and normal price range, restricts KFQ’s verification was focused on all of the greenhouse gas emission sources controlled by the Company’s places of Korea. income transfers between countries or use of tax havens based on transparent and fair trade, and complies with other international tax regulations to control tax risk. Consideration and Limitation 3. Improvement of Objectivity and Transparency Accuracy and completeness of emission data reported in the Report are subject to inherent limitations due to their nature and the GS Caltex receives objective review from independent institutions and engages external tax specialists for consultations on methodology used determining, calculating and estimating such data. tax-related accounting information and reports, and publishes the corresponding information in our business report, audit report from independent auditors, sustainability report, and other publications. Conclusion/Opinion Based on verification process according to the ISO 14064-3, KFQ obtained reasonable basis to express the following conclusion on the 4. Cooperative Tax Payment greenhouse gas emission data in the Inventory Report. GS Caltex contributes to advancing the national tax culture by cooperating in tax payment duties beyond simply reporting and paying tax. 1) ‌The Company’s 2018 Report on Quantity of emitted Greenhouse Gas was documented in accordance with ‘Scheme on the trading of (Enacted on December 14, 2018) Greenhouse Gas Emission Permits (Notification No. 2018-73 of the Ministry of Environment)’ run by the government. 2) According ‌ to materiality assessment on quantity of greenhouse gas emitted from every Company’s places of Korea in 2018, material discrepancy is less than the criteria of 5% for an organization that emits more than 5,000,000 tCO2-eq in accordance with ‘Scheme on GS Caltex SHEQ Management Policy the trading of Greenhouse Gas Emission Permits’. GS Caltex fulfills its corporate social responsibility, works to achieve an accident-free workplace and sustainable growth, as well as setting Total Annual Emissions (tCO2eq) SHEQ (Safety, Health, Environment and Quality) management as its top priority and undertakes the following guidelines. Report Year Direct Emissions (Scope 1) Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) Total Emissions 2018.1.1~2018.12.31 6,324,522 1,642,876 7,967,398 1. Comply with the overall laws and regulations as well as establish an advanced SHEQ culture through voluntary practice. 2. ‌Establish a developed SHEQ management system to manage performance, continue to make improvements and conduct training. 3. Conduct safe operations and work as well as secure the soundness of facilities. 4. Improve work environment and manage health so that internal and external stakeholders can lead healthy lives. April 1th, 2019 5. ‌Reduce pollution in air, water and other areas and minimize waste material in the entire business process to contribute to the CEO Seokun Yoon conservation of local communities and national environment. Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) 6. Respond to climate changes by systematically improving energy efficiency and reducing GHG. 7. Undertake efforts to improve customer safety and health by developing eco-friendly products and strict quality control. 8. Collaborate with business partners for continued mutual improvement of SHEQ management standards. 9. Publicize SHEQ information to local communities and stakeholders in a transparent manner. (Amended on November 28, 2018) GS Caltex 92 93 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report Third Party Assurance Statement Third Party Assurance Statement Introduction Stakeholder Inclusiveness GS Caltex Corporation (“GS Caltex”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake GS Caltex has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Local community, Employees, Customers, Business Partners, independent assurance of the GS Caltex 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 (the “Report”). The directors of GS Caltex have the sole Government, Shareholders/Investors. GS Caltex engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of GS Caltex established and operates stakeholder policies including communication principles, communication channels, and management process. GS Caltex in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and Sustainability Context information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. The Report describes the business model and the vision for value creation with its stakeholders. The business model and the vision are explained in line with UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). The performance and goals of sustainability management in 6 areas Scope and Basis of assurance (Environment, Customer, Employees, Business Partners, Local community, shareholder/Investor) are presented on the Report. Based on non-financial data, sustainability activities and performance data of 2018 generated from GS Caltex, we have evaluated the adherence to the Reporting Principles for defining report content set forth in the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Materiality Standards 2016 and assessed the quality of sustainability performance information. We have reviewed that the Topicspecific disclosures GS Caltex has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. ‘Business impact’ and ‘stakeholder interest’ are considered of GRI Standards which are identified in the materiality assessment process ; for the materiality assessment, and 10 material topics are prioritized accordingly. The materiality assessment process is described on the Report. DNV GL has reviewed material topics that could have significant impacts on the GS Caltex’s economic, environmental and social No. Material topic GRI Disclosure No. Material topic GRI Disclosure performances or that could affect the decision-making of stakeholders. 1 New growth engines and diversification of business 201-1 6 Energy saving and improvement of energy efficiency 302-1,4 / 305-1,2 2 Prevention of incidents and raising safety awareness 403-81) 7 Fair trade 206-1 Completeness 3 Investment in local communities 413-1 8 Ethical management 205-2,3 The Report has covered the sustainability strategy, management approach and sustainability performances of GS Caltex for the reporting period. 4 Compliance with environmental laws and regulations 307-1 9 Mutual growth with suppliers N/A The reporting boundary has been set to include not only domestic operational sites, but also the terminal, lubricant plant, gasoline stations, LPG 5 Talent recruitment and retention 401-1,2 10 Customer safety and health 416-2 stations and local logistics centers, and affiliated companies. Some sustainability performances derived from a specific site are indicated with the reporting boundary of the performance in order to prevent from misleading the readers about the sustainability performance. DNV GL has * ‘N/A’ is not associated with GRI Standards reviewed that the materiality assessment process and confirms the material topics prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustain2), which is based on our professional experience, Further opinions with the principles of report quality of GRI Standards as follows; international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the limited level and assurance on reporting principles in the assurance engagement. The verification was carried out from April to June Report quality : Accuracy, Balance, Clarity, Comparability, Reliability and Timeliness 2019. The site visits were made to GS Caltex’s Head Office. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process : DNV GL has reviewed accuracy and reliability of data and information in the Report based on the principles defined in the GRI Standards. DNV GL also has interviewed the responsible individuals, reviewed the process of gathering and processing data and information, and the •• Challenged ‌ the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data supporting documents and records. GS Caltex presents the sustainability performance for the last 3 years to allow for comparability over management system, information flow and controls; time. Any errors or misstatements identified during the assurance engagement were communicated and corrected prior to the Report •• Interviewed representatives from the various departments; being published. The information in the Report indicates the time period to which it relates. • Conducted ‌ document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; Competence and Independence •• R• eviewed the materiality assessment report. DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021 : 2011 Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a Limitations comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of GS Caltex’s subsidiaries, associated companies, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct3) during the suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. We did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of statements or data included in statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as GS Caltex’s website the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance (www.gscaltex.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth process. DNV GL did not provide any services to GS Caltex in 2019 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for environmental and social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV Jang Sup Lee June 2019 GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Seoul, Korea Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the Reporting Principles for defining report content defined in GRI Standards. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; 1) GRI 403 : Occupational Health and Safety 2018 3) DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) 2) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL website. (www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/verification.html) GS Caltex 94 95 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report GRI Standards Index GRI Standards Index General Standards Topic-Specific Standards Category Description Page Note Category Description Page Note Organizational Profile Economic Performance GRI 102 102-1 Name of the organization 6 GRI 103 103-1~3 Management Approach 66 GRI 102 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 11 GRI 201 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 66-70, 72 GRI 102 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 Anti-corruption GRI 102 102-4 Location of operations 7 GRI 103 103-1~3 Management Approach 32 GRI 102 102-5 Ownership and legal form 27 GRI 205 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 32, 80 GRI 102 102-6 Markets served 7-11 GRI 205 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 80 GRI 102 102-7 Scale of the organization 6, 7 Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 102 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 75 GRI 103 103-1~3 Management Approach 33 GRI 102 102-9 Supply chain 76 GRI 206 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 33, 80 No significant Energy GRI 102 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 81 changes GRI 103 103-1~3 Management Approach 36 GRI 102 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 30, 31 No use of renewable GRI 302 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 36, 73 GRI 102 102-12 External initiatives 22, 23, 97 energy GRI 102 102-13 Membership of associations 98 GRI 302 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 36, 37, 73 Strategy Emissions GRI 102 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4, 5 GRI 103 103-1~3 Management Approach 36 Ethics and Integrity GRI 305 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 73 GRI 102 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 26, 32 GRI 305 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 73 Governance Environmental Compliance GRI 102 102-18 Governance structure 27 GRI 103 103-1~3 Management Approach 36 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 307 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 39, 41 GRI 102 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 29 Employment Collective GRI 103 103-1~3 Management Approach 48-50 GRI 102 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 76 agreement applies Turnover rate is not to all employees GRI 401 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 75, 76 classified by age or gender GRI 102 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 29, 84 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or GRI 401 401-2 52 GRI 102 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 29, 84 part-time employees GRI 102 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 29 Occupational Health and Safety Reporting Practice GRI 103 103-1~3 Management Approach 14 GRI 102 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Business Report 3 GRI 403 20181) 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 79 GRI 102 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 83 GRI 403 2018 403-3 Occupational health services 54, 55 GRI 102 102-47 List of material topics 83 GRI 403 2018 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 79 GRI 102 102-48 Restatements of information About this report GRI 403 2018 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 54, 77-79 GRI 102 102-49 Changes in reporting 73-80 GRI 403 2018 403-6 Promotion of worker health 55 GRI 102 102-50 Reporting period About this report Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by GRI 403 2018 403-7 17, 53-55 GRI 102 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report business relationships GRI 102 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report GRI 403 2018 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 28, 53, 79 100% GRI 102 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report GRI 403 2018 403-9 Work-related injuries 77 GRI 102 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this report GRI 403 2018 403-10 Work-related ill health 77 GRI 102 102-55 GRI content index 94, 95 Local Communities GRI 102 102-56 External assurance 92, 93 GRI 103 103-1~3 Management Approach 20 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development Focus on the Yeosu GRI 413 413-1 21, 59-65 programs complex Customer Health and Safety GRI 103 103-1~3 Management Approach 42 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products GRI 416 416-2 81 No case and services 1) GRI Standards revised in 2018 GS Caltex 96 97 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report GRI Standards Index UN Global Compact GRI Standards Index UN Global Compact Other Standards Since we joined the UN Global Compact, we have been fully committed to its ten principles covering human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We Category Description Page Note have reported our progress to the COP (Communication on Progress) every year. At GS Economic Performance Caltex, we will continue to improve our compliance with the UN Global Compact GRI 201 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 72 and its principles. Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 203 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 59-65 Classification Principles Related Activities Report Page Water and Waste GRI 303 2018 303-3 Water recycled and reused 73 Providing education on in-house sexual harassment prevention 1. ‌Businesses should support and respect the protection 32, 33 Biodiversity and protection of human rights for all employees of internationally proclaimed human rights. Human Rights Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and GRI 304 304-1 40 2. ‌Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Establishing GS Caltex Human Rights Policy 86 human rights abuses. Effluents and Waste GRI 306 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 74 Operating a labor union and guaranteeing freedom of engaging Supplier Environmental Assessment 76, 79 in the union GRI 308 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 76, 79 3. ‌Businesses should uphold freedom of association Labor Relations and effective recognition of the right to collective Maintaining a communication channel through the points of 53 GRI 402 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 79 bargaining. contact in the union Training and Education 4. ‌Businesses should uphold elimination of all forms of GRI 404 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 50, 51, 76 forced and compulsory labor. Abiding with the regulations of the International Labor Labor 97 Organization and the UNGC principles Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 5. ‌Businesses should uphold effective abolition of child GRI 404 404-3 76 reviews labor. Prohibiting discrimination by gender regarding wages, Diversity and Equal Opportunity 50 6. ‌Businesses should uphold elimination of discrimination evaluation, promotion GRI 405 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 27, 75 in respect of employment and occupation. GRI 405 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Business Report 187 Providing equal opportunity of employment through a rational 49 Non-discrimination recruitment process GRI 406 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 79, 86 No case Child Labor Establishing and practicing SHEQ management policy 90 No case in GRI 408 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 79, 86 operations and suppliers Responding to the GHG reduction 36, 37 Forced or Compulsory Labor No case in 7. ‌Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory GRI 409 409-1 79, 86 operations and environmental challenges. labor Building an environmental monitoring system 37-41 suppliers 8. ‌Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Rights of Indigenous Peoples Environment greater environmental responsibility. GRI 411 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 79, 86 No case Strengthening compliance with new environmental laws 39 9. ‌Businesses should encourage the development and Human Rights Assessment diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GRI 412 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 79, 86 Signing and performing voluntary environmental management Supplier Social Assessment 40 agreement GRI 414 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 76, 79 Customer Privacy Providing Cookstoves to developing nations 18, 19 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of GRI 418 418-1 46, 47 No case customer data Submitting of the employee pledge for voluntary compliance 32 (annual) 10. ‌Businesses should work against corruption in all its Anticorruption forms, including extortion and bribery Expanding the Voluntary Compliance System and Strengthening 32 the role of Compliance Officer GS Caltex 98 2018 Sustainability Report Major Memberships for Sustainability Major Donated Organizations Major Memberships for Sustainability Korea Business Council for Korea Chemicals Management Korea Emissions Market GS Caltex 2018 Sustainability Report Kisanhyup* Sustainable Development (KBCSD) Association (KCMA) Association (KEMA) Korea Institute of Hazardous Korea Institutional Committee Korean Association of Korean Society for Atmospheric Materials for Safety Occupational Health Nurses Environment (KOSAE) Departments Participating for Publication Korean Society for Marine National Assembly Forum on The Association of Energy The Korea Fair Competition Environment and Energy Climate Change Future Forum Federation Base Oil / Lubricants Strategy MFC Management Team WEC (World Energy Council) World Business Council For Team UN Global Compact MFC SHE Team Korea Energy Foundation Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Board Support Office Organizational Capability Team Chemical Business Execution * Association for Occupational safety and health Team Performence Innovation Team (Complex) Corporate Affairs Team Planning & Communications Team Corporate Branding & (Yeulmaru) Major Donated Organizations (2018) Communication Team Planning & Integration Team Corporate Social Responsibility Team (Complex) Planning and Budget Team Crude Oil Team Product Tanker Chartering & Operation Team Community Chest of Korea Emergency Response Team Child Fund Climate Change Center Community Chest of Korea Public Relations Team Jeonnam District Office Energy & Yield Optimization Team R&D Planning Team Ewha Womans University Gapyeong-gun Lifelong Environment / Product Quality Creativity Engineering Institute Good Neighbors International Industry Collaboration Center Education Center Planning Team RM Strategy Team Environment Affairs Team S&T Strategy Team Gwanak Municipal Welfare Jeonjinsang Social Welfare GS Caltex Foundation Hanyang University Safety & Health Planning Team Complex for Senior Institute Environment Team Fair Trade Affairs Team Safety Management Team Jeonnam University Industry Korea Education JH Foundation Korea Forum for Progress Collaboration Center Volunteer Group Finance & Insurance Team Smart Work TFT HR Development Team Special Audit Team Korea Support Foundation for Korea Green Foundation Korea Legal Aid Corporation Korea Red Cross Vulnerable Seniors HR Development Team (Complex) Strategic Procurement Team HR Service Team Tax Team Korean Institute of Chemical Research Center for Korean Korea University Korea-America Association Engineers Youth Culture HR Team Technical Service (Incheon Lube Oil Blending Plant) Research Foundation of College Incheon Branch Seoul Foundation for Arts Utility Technical Service Team of Engineering, Seoul National Sangrok Orphanage Seorak High School and Culture Information Security Team University we+dea Development Team Logistics Facilities Team we+dea Team Sungkyunkwan University The Korea Society Work Together Foundation Yeodo Educational Institute Logistics Operations Team Corporate Social Responsibility Marketing Operations Team Team Yeongdeungpo-gu Multicultural Yeosu Christian Youth Yeosu-si Senior Yeonam High School Family Support Center Association Welfare Center Yeosu-si Soccer Association Yonsei University 7th Maneuver Corps This report is printed in soy ink and on FSC™ certified paper.
