FINAL Communication on progress (COP) The period covered by this COP runs from 9 June 2018, up to and including 8 June 2019. 1. Statement of continued support by the Managing Partner and the Head of Sustainability 8 June 2019 To our stakeholders: We are pleased to confirm that Mannheimer Swartling Advokatbyrå AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. In this annual COP, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. As one of the largest law firms in the Nordic region, we have a responsibility to influence and set an agenda that is challenging and important – not only for our own and our clients’ businesses, but also for the development of a more sustainable world. We are thus determined to do what we can to contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As a means of doing so, we have developed a clear strategy comprising the following three areas of execution for our sustainability work in (a) advising clients, (b) internally at the firm and (c) in the community through our pro bono-projects. Providing advice on matters that affect our clients’ businesses naturally accounts for a large portion of our sustainability work. We systematically advise clients on matters including Human Rights, Labour, Environment, Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption. The work we do enables our clients to become even better at managing risks and business opportunities. Read more here. Internally, we work actively to increase diversity and reduce our environmental impact. We have systemised our internal efforts to enable continuous skills development for all of our employees; to ensure processes for adherence to regulations and the firm's core values, quality control, business focus and team spirit, and to minimise our negative environmental impact. Read more and access the firm’s Environmental Policy here. In the community, we contribute through our engagement pro bono in various projects. Our pro bono engagement keeps us educated on important and relevant societal issues, while actively engaging our employees and taking our responsibility in the community. Read more here. FINAL 2(4) We must be responsive and engage in ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders in order to understand where the firm has the greatest impact, and thereby identify the key issues for our strategic sustainability initiatives. Stakeholder dialogues are central to our efforts to develop our business and are natural parts of the day-to-day business. Our stakeholders include, among others, Swedish and international clients, the Swedish Bar Association, trade associations, administrative authorities, employees, suppliers as well as our pro bono partners. Stakeholder dialogues play a central part in the materiality analysis on which our sustainability initiatives are based. These initiatives are also guided by our strategy, directives issued by the board, and our assessment of risk. Mannheimer Swartling’s most important sustainability issues are long-term and focus on:  Continuing to develop our sustainability advisory services to clients.  Working for increased diversity, provide a more even workload, and improve employees' work-life balance.  Monitoring the firm’s information security, personal data processing, and policies and procedures as required by anti-money laundering legislation.  Minimising the firm’s negative environmental impact.  Strategically developing our pro bono work. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT To us, the way forward is obvious: we must be a firm that accepts responsibility for our own business activities as well as for the community around us. With our size and our role as a legal adviser comes a responsibility and an opportunity to be part of the transition to a more sustainable society, but we need to work together. We want to be a positive force and contribute to sustainable growth through dialogue and co-operation with other legal professionals and community stakeholders such as the UN, the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs and NGOs. MANNHEIMER SWARTLING AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS We take the SDGs into account in our approach to strategic sustainability with our clients, internally and in our pro bono work. This involves everything from providing legal advice and expertise concerning our clients’ business goals, to taking active steps within the firm to improve diversity and reduce climate impact, to our pro bono projects, where our work includes promoting the rule of law and individual freedoms and rights (e.g. for example through our partner, the Centre for Justice). Taking our own business and the legal industry as a starting point, we have identified four goals where we have a particular ability to make a difference.  Goal 5: Equality – concentrating on diversity, a strategically important issue we have been working with for several years.  Goal 13: Climate Action – take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. FINAL 3(4)  Goal 16: Peaceful and inclusive communities – concentrating on promoting the rule of law.  Goal 17: Implementation and global partnerships – concentrating on collaborations and partnerships with other stakeholders to exchange knowledge and expertise. As we are simultaneously reporting on sustainability using GRI Standards at Core level, our outcomes will be by reference to the sections of our 2018 Annual and Sustainability Report that are also relevant to this COP. The below matrix provides easy reference and comparison to the framework of the UN Global Compact. It also provides details on some of our our pro bono initiatives and specifies the practice groups that have main responsibility for the various parts of our advisory business. Mannheimer Advisory Internal Pro bono Swartling/Global Compact Ref to A&SR pp. 22Ref to A&SR p. 26-29 Ref to A&SR p. 3025. & webpage 31. Human rights Practice Group “Ethics and regulatory SOS Children’s “Corporate compliance”, pp. 27Villages Sustainability & Risk 29, as well as Management” “Practising what we Centre for Justice (CS&RM) preach – organisation and employees”, pp. Global Compact 26-27. Network Sweden RAOUL Labour Practice Group “Practising what we Global Compact “Employment and preach – organisation Network Sweden Pensions” as well as and employees”, pp. CS&RM 26-27. Rapid Acceleration Management Programme Environment Practice Group “Environment” pp. 29Global Compact “Environment” as well 30. Network Sweden as CS&RM Race for the Baltic Anti-corruption Practice Group “Ethics and regulatory Global Compact CS&RM compliance Network Sweden Members of the Ethics Committee of the Swedish AntiCorruption Institute The complete English version of the 2018 Annual and Sustainability Report can be found here. FINAL 4(4) Head of Sustainability
