JUNCKERS CSR REPORT 2018 JUNCKERS.COM 1 CONTENT 3 1. MANAGEMENT DIRECTIVE 4 2. GENERAL 2.1 Description of Junckers as a company 2.2 Implementation of the UN Global Compact at Junckers 2.3 Anchoring and organising of CSR work 2.4 Relationship to existing structures at Junckers 9 3. STATUS FOR THE 10 PRINCIPLES 3.1 Principle 2 3.2 Principle 6 3.3 Principle 7 3.4 Principle 8 3.5 Principle 9 3.6 Principle 10 20 4. SUMMARY 2018 1. MANAGEMENT DIRECTIVE At Junckers Industries A/S, we are working on implementing Committing to the UN Global Compact principles is also well environmentally and socially responsible business practices in line with the company’s other work within the environment, as part of our daily operations. working environment and energy management (ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 certified), as well as with its track Therefore, in 2011, Junckers entered as a signatory to UN record of using sustainable wood (PEFC™ and FSC® certified). Global Compact to support the 10 principles in the 4 main areas of: Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment In addition to continuing to safeguard the progress of the Global and Anti-corruption. Since then, the company has described Compact principles that have already been implemented, the progress of its work with the individual principles in the the company’s energy consumption is still a focus area, due company’s annual CSR report. to CO2 emission and the major economic costs of energy. In 2018 focus has been on ensuring low energy consumption in As a signatory to the Global Compact, Junckers support the the new kiln drying facilities planned for 2019. Furthermore, work of the organisation and strengthen its own work within LED lighting has been installed in a number of production and corporate social responsibility. Junckers has been a workplace office facilities. The conversion to electric forklifts from diesel for many people with different backgrounds and education for and lpg forklifts continues. It is however still challenging to more than 80 years and is still one of the largest companies in replace large machines but the outlooks are promising. the timber industry in Denmark. Junckers has a responsibility to society and its employees, both as a company and as an In October 2018 the privately owned industry investment employer. Junckers’ aim is to be a company that society can company Jysk Fynsk Kapital A/S (JFK) purchased the share be proud of and to have a workplace where employees look majority in Junckers. The management and owners confirm a forward to coming to work. continued support to UN Global Compact. The responsibility for implementing the principles into the The annual CSR report (the COP) will be published on everyday life of the company’s will be defined and delegated www.junckers.com and will also be used when communicating by the organisation, and the employees will be informed about with external stakeholders, among these, customers. the agreement and its significance. Some of the principles have been integrated into the company’s operations in advance, as Junckers has already worked systematically with these areas for many years, following the implementation of its environmental and working environment certifications. F. Junckers Industries A/S, Koege, Junckers envisage obvious benefits in adopting the Global Denmark May 2019 Compact, as the company will become structured and made visible by the numerously good initiatives that have already Carsten Chabert been taken within CSR. This means that the company will be Chief Executive Officer stronger on the market among the customers who emphasis that their suppliers are also serious and trustworthy within CSR. 3 2. GENERAL 2.1 Description of Junckers as a company 2.1.1 History Flemming Juncker was a young Danish graduate in forestry with foresight. The young forestry graduate knew that the economic viability of the Danish forests was in a bad condition. It was necessary to find new fields of application for the wood that had up until then, been used as firewood or simply left in the forests. Flemming Juncker started the sawmill in 1930 to produce an order of 40,000 railway sleepers from beechwood for DSB (The Danish State Railways). In order to do this, he rented 7,000 m² of ground from Køge Shipyard in Denmark and bought a frame saw in Sweden. The production of the railway sleepers was thought to be a one-off assignment. The remaining wood was sold to the Køge Timber Factory. When the collaboration ended, Juncker had to find other ways to dispose of the remaining wood. This was the beginning of the 2-strip beech parquet board. Two rows of staves assembled into one board on a “Lindermann machine”. The idea of the beech parquet floors was to drive the Swedish pinewood floors out of the Danish housing market. It worked, and the foundations for Junckers’ solid hardwood flooring were now in place. 2.1.2 Key figures, end of 2018 Number of employees, Køge:............................................... 305 Number of employees, Nørre Alslev:..................................... 20 Number of employees, foreign sales companies:................. 35 Annual turnover:.................................................... DKK 449 m. (International sales account for approx. 70%). Logs for parquet consumption, Køge: ................... . 130,934 m³ Consumption of raw planks, Nørre Alslev:.................................................................3,199 m3 Production of oil and lacquered products: ...... 1.346,000 litres. 4 2.1.3 Production flow Junckers operates its production from two factories in Denmark: The factory in Køge produces the solid hardwood parquet flooring and the lacquered/oil products. Administration, technology, development, packaging and shipping operations etc. are also located here. The factory in Nørre Alslev produces solid hardwood plank flooring and subconstructions that are shipped via Køge. Parquet production is approx. 10 times greater than plank production, both in terms of production and resource consumption. Here is a short description of the parquet flooring production process: The process starts with the logs from the forest arriving at the log yard. The wood is transported to Junckers by lorry, train or ship. The logs are stored at the log yard until they are ready to be cut. The logs are sorted at the sawmill and cut into staves, which are subsequently dried in the chamber drying plant or pressure drying plant. Once dry, the staves are planed, sorted, labelled and assembled into floorboards. The floorboards are then polished and shaped. Grooves are cut on the back for the brackets used when the floor is laid. The last stage of the process is when the floorboards are treated with lacquer or oil. Besides being a manufacturer of solid hardwood flooring, Junckers is also the supplier of the Junckers Wood Care system. The system consists of lacquer, oil, lye and soap products for the treatment and maintenance of, e.g. floors, ceilings, furniture and wooden terraces. Junckers Wood Care system is available for both the retail and professional market, and is also used in-house for the treatment of Juncker’s wide range of wooden floors, which are finished at the factory before being delivered to the customers. Junckers Industrier A/S has sales companies in Great Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the United States. Junckers floors and Wood Care systems are sold worldwide through their wide network of distributors. The lacquer and oil products have been developed in Junckers own laboratory and are therefore specifically produced for the treatment of high quality wooden flooring. KNIGHTSBRIDGE, UNITED KINGDOM 2.1.4 CSR challenges in Junckers’ history Junckers has undergone considerable development over the course of time, despite the fact that products and raw materials have basically been the same for the past many decades. Although some conditions haven’t changed much since the beginning, in spite of developments, the following significant changes and conditions can be singled out: » Environment: Up until the mid-1990s, the company would receive many complaints regarding dust, smell, noise, sewage etc. In addition to flooring, Junckers also produced pulp and MDFs (Medium density fibreboards), and these productions gave rise to a number of local environmental problems. The closure of pulp and MDF production resulted in a significant reduction of emissions from the company, and the introduction of environmental management, along with a number of technical improvements meant that the number of annual complaints from neighbours for approx. the past 5 years, are now in the region of 0-1. » Environment: Up until the mid-1990s, the company would receive many complaints regarding dust, smell, noise, sewage etc. In addition to flooring, Junckers also produced pulp and MDFs (Medium density fibreboards), and these productions gave rise to a number of local environmental problems. The closure of pulp and MDF production resulted in a significant reduction of emissions from the company, and the introduction of environmental management, along with a number of technical improvements meant that the number of annual complaints from neighbours for approx. the past 5 years, are now in the region of 0-1. » Working environment: Despite the introduction of robotics, visual systems, automatic sorting, etc., many manual functions are still used in the production of the flooring. The main problem, in terms of pure ergonomics, is the monotonous repetitive work (MRW), which, despite technological improvements, continues to occur, and in the long-term can cause muscle and joint injury. Rotational systems, where employees change workplace several times a day, have reduced the risk of health injuries significantly however. Junckers are trying to reduce the amount of MRW jobs on a constant basis, and the progress for this is positive. » Tropical wood: Junckers has previously experienced significant sales of market goods, such as Merbau and Jatoba. Despite meticulous purchasing work, it was not always possible to check the legality or sustainability of the wood, but Junckers sought to guide its suppliers in the right direction, which was more than many other companies were doing at that time. The sale of tropical wood today, only accounts for a very small part of Juncker’s revenue, and through certifications within the PEFC™ and FSC® and most recently with the introduction of the “European Union Timber Regulation” in 2013, all the wood purchased is legally harvested. 6 THE SILO, DENMARK 2.2 Implementation of the UN Global Compact at Junckers Junckers supports all 10 principles within the Global Compact, and through its compliance with Danish legal requirements, the company also works with the principles every single day, albeit “subconsciously”. For simple reasons of resource, Junckers has chosen to thoroughly prepare and describe the ten principles separately in detail and gradually incorporate the principles so that the systematic work with CSR and the documentation of the work is built up gradually with the inclusion of the experiences gained along the way. Up until now, Junckers has therefore decided to concentrate on 6 of the principles: Area Principle Human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Workers’ rights Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Relevance, progress, etc. of each principle is described in section 3. Matters relating to CSR are communicated internally to employees through the company’s intranet, at meetings, etc., and externally via sellers, subsidiaries and marketing material. A section on CSR and a link to the COP report can be found at www.junckers.com 2.3 Anchoring and organising of CSR work The CEO has the overall responsibility for implementing the principles of the Global Compact into the company. The dayto-day work of implementation, information, coordination, reporting, etc., is carried out in a collaboration consisting of: » The purchasing manager, who coordinates the literacy relating to CSR and manages contact with suppliers, e.g. risk screening and acceptance of the Supplier Code of Conduct. The purchasing manager is also responsible for describing the progress of the CSR work in the annual CSR report. » The technical manager, who as “system man”, is responsible for written documentation, reports and internal communication. » The marketing manager, who manages external communication for commercial purposes. 7 2.4 SUSTAINABLE BUILD: Reference to existing structures at Junckers As a resource partner, Junckers Industries A/S Junckers Industries in Denmark are certified in supports Sustainable Build, which was initiated by the accordance with: Danish Industry Foundation, the Danish Architecture Centre and Leaderlab. Sustainable Build promotes » ISO 14001:2015 (environment) growth in sustainable construction and is actualised in partnership with suppliers, companies and organisations » OHSAS 18001 (working environment) of the building industry, as well as the Green business development fund. » ISO 50001 (energy management) » PEFC™ and FSC® (legal and sustainable wood) THE EU TIMBER REGULATION: There is no production within the foreign sales companies In connection with the implementation of the EU Timber and they are therefore not covered by the productionRegulation of 3 March 2013, Junckers has incorporated related certifications. the use of a Supplier Code of Conduct as a part of Due Diligence. Suppliers of wood-based products considered Junckers Industries A/S has been approved and granted to be at risk of not complying with these legal requirements labelling authorisation in accordance with Dansk must sign Junckers Supplier COC in order to minimise Indeklimamærkning (Danish Indoor Climate Labelling). the risk of Junckers inadvertently buying wood-based This agreement ensures that there are no chemical products of controversial or illegal origin. PEFC/09-31-004 substances in the flooring and that the products cannot Promoting Sustainable Forest Management www.pefc.org adversely affect the air quality in the room. A comprehensive management system has been organised to cover all standards. The contents of the management THE LABELLING INCLUDES: system are freely available for all employees. The overall responsibility for the system lies with the head » Junckers Wooden Flooring of production. Compliance with the individual standards is audited by internal and external audits on an annual » Junckers Water-based care, Furniture and basis. » Floor Lacquer Procedures, registrations, documentation, policies, etc. related to CSR are implemented in the environmental » Junckers Furniture, Table tops and Floor Oil management system on a constant basis and follow its overall methodology. SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION: In co-operation with Rambøll, the ways in which Junckers positively contributes to focus areas have been identified, such as overall economics, indoor climate and materials within the certification agreements: » LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) » BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology) » DGNB (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen (German Sustainable Building Council)) 3. STATUS FOR THE 10 PRINCIPLES As a signatory to the Global Compact agreement, Junckers expresses its support for all 10 principles of the organisation. Junckers’ implementations of the principles are being phased in gradually (see section 2.2). Therefore, below described are only the work and results for the principles, that the company has approached in details until now. 3.1 are consolidated in Junckers’ “CSR Performance Evaluation Principle 2: Businesses should make sure Procedure.” Initially, it is currently suppliers from Asia and that they are not complicit in human rights Eastern Europe, who are considered to be relevant in terms of abuses signing our Supplier Code of Conduct. A program has been set in motion to audit whether the standards contained in the SCOC are being complied with. 3.1.1 An audit form, letter of intent and accompanying list of Relevance for Junckers documents to be displayed/delivered have been prepared Junckers and its sales companies are located in countries and will be updated at least once a year. Initially, the audits that have adopted agreements regarding the compliance will be conducted by Junckers themselves at the suppliers. of international human rights, and where human rights are The results of these audits will form the basis for assessing included as a fixed part of national legislation. Junckers whether it subsequently will be relevant to involve an external thus considers the risk of violating human rights within the auditing company in the process. company to be insignificant. Junckers has therefore chosen to focus on the risk of indirect violation that can occur through trade with suppliers who have 3.1.3 little respect for human rights. Junckers has less than 10 What did Junckers do last year? suppliers from countries outside the EU and North America. The planned review and evaluation of the Supplier Code of Conduct and the associated evaluation procedure, as well as the planned follow-up audit with one supplier in Asia was rescheduled for the third quarter of 2019 3.1.2 How has the principle been implemented in Junckers? As mentioned in section 3.1.1, Junckers considers the risk of 3.1.4 violating human rights within the company to be insignificant due Results achieved, incl. description of to their compliance with international rules and conventions in measurement/ calculation method, data this area. The principal is therefore “informally” implemented at sources and potential uncertainty the present time. The actions were re-scheduled for 2019 – see point 3.1.3. The company has developed a Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC), which specifies a specific number of requirements made by the company 3.1.5 to its suppliers. The requirements encompass a Plans for next year combination of the 10 principles contained in the A review and evaluation of the Supplier Code of Conduct and Global Compact. the associated evaluation procedure, as well as a followup audit with one supplier in Asia is scheduled for the third The SCOC has been approved by Junckers’ board of Directors and quarter of 2019. is distributed to those who are considered to be at risk in relation to the “Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Workers’ Rights, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption”, which 9 3.2 As the risk of discrimination in the period of employment is Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the considered to be very small, especially in view of the company’s elimination of discrimination in respect of employment policy (as mentioned above), the primary focus is employment and occupation to ensure that there is no discrimination/ bullying on a day-today basis. Part of the common framework is also an overall consequence 3.2.1 policy. This should be exerted in cases where an employee Relevance for Junckers feels harassed or bullied to an extent that cannot be accepted Junckers has a clearly defined employment policy that by the company. ensures principle 6 is complied with in the actual period of employment. It is therefore a primary objective for Junckers The company has decided to train a number of employees as to ensure that there is no discrimination/ bullying on a day“job satisfaction agents” to run in parallel with the proposal to-day basis for a job satisfaction policy. The work areas, tasks and competencies of the job satisfaction agents are described in a separate document. 3.2.2 How has the principle been implemented in Junckers? How has the principle been implemented in Junckers? Junckers has a clearly defined employment policy: “It is Junckers Industries aim to hire the applicant best qualified for any job within the given financial framework. The company’s core value is to aim for diversity at work so that all applicants are guaranteed equal opportunities; regardless of sex, age or ethnic background. A newly appointed employee must possess the qualifications that reflect the demands required for the job, as well as those of Junckers’ current standards of conduct and values. In addition to an applicant possessing professional and human requirements, basic language skills that are necessary for daily communication and compliance with the environmental management concept may be required. The company will encourage a potential applicant to acquire these attributes or actively contribute to a qualified applicant in gaining these qualifications. In addition to normal employment, Junckers also engages employees for short-term jobs, and has a positive attitude for engaging employees in job training if this is compatible with actual circumstances.” THE BOXING CLUB, USA The departments’ common framework for the implementation of job satisfaction work has been organised under four headings: Junckers’ job satisfaction policy: All employees at Junckers Industries in Denmark must contribute to create and maintain a workplace where the tone and behaviour towards fellow colleagues is both positive and respectful. Bullying, harassment and any other behaviour that can cause harm to others will not be tolerated.” 1. Acknowledgement 3. Communication »» Acknowledge the experience and knowledge of »» Communication should always be open and direct your colleagues. »» Avoid irony and insinuations, especially if you are »» Praise your colleagues when they deserve it. a leader. »» Appreciate extraordinary effort it’s not to be »» Avoid misunderstandings by adapting the taken for granted! communication to fit the recipient. »» Simply say thank you. »» Conduct regular departmental meetings – this also provides a sense of security! »» Believe that your colleagues are doing their best. 4. Good tone 2. Security »» Greet your colleague (this shows that »» Respect agreements and confidentiality. you acknowledge them). »» Be visible, accessible and present as a leader. »» Politeness (always gratifying, never damaging!). »» The work should, as far as possible, be planned so »» Adapt your language and tone to avoid that it is predictable and transparent. upsetting others. »» It is your rightful duty to put your foot down if you »» Provide adequate instruction for new tasks. are offended by someone’s tone and behaviour. »» A good atmosphere provides a sense of security. »» Listen and try to understand the other person’s »» Take responsibility and make sure that everyone point of view. is happy. »» Respect each other’s personalities and work. »» Friendly nicknames are OK but “nasty” nicknames are bullying! »» Think before you speak! 11 3.2.3 3.2.4 What did Junckers do last year? Results achieved, incl. description of During the course of the year, Junckers personnel measurement/calculation method, data association arranged a number of events that contributed sources and potential uncertainty to the team spirit and happiness of the workplace In 2017, an examination of the psychological working environment was carried out and the results were very much like the results from previous years. Therefore, it has been decided not to make the same examination each year. The results from the 2017 examination has been addressed by the departments’ environmental groups and at information meetings throughout the year. 12 MULTIFORM, DENMARK 3.2.5 3.3.2 Plans for next year How has the principle been implemented in Steps will be taken on an on-going basis, as and when the Junckers? need arises. The company’s environmental policy (which also includes the working environment and energy) has been implemented as follows (excerpts): 3.3 »» Junckers complies with current Danish legislation, Principle 7: Businesses should support a as well as other requirements relating to company precautionary approach to environmental certifications, environmental approvals and binding challenges obligations. Discrepancies that occur will be corrected. »» Implementation of prevention and improvement in the areas of environmental policy; including prevention of pollution, prevention of occupational injury and illness 3.3.1 and the reduction of energy consumption, is carried out by Relevance for Junckers Junckers on an on-going basis. This work is documented. Environmental legislation in Denmark imposes great demands on businesses in terms of environmental and resource »» Junckers is part of an open and positive dialogue consumption in a company’s activities. The environmental with relevant stakeholders in the areas of authorities issue industry companies of Junckers’ type and environmental policy, and wishes to influence size with a detailed environmental approval containing the developments in these areas in a positive direction. terms and conditions to be observed. The company is regularly monitored by environmental authority (Køge Municipality for Junckers) inspections, and may be issued with an injunction and ban if conditions are not observed. When establishing new facilities or buildings, an application seeking permission must be sent to the authorities. Part of the application must contain a description and reference to environmental issues and challenges, including in some cases, issues regarding the best use of available technology, risk assessment if facilities or new buildings are deemed to give rise to a specific risk, e.g. pollution or fire hazard, or a description of the anticipated consumption of resources (incl. energy). Junckers has a healthy and positive dialogue with the environmental authorities, and the cooperation is characterised by openness and transparency. The company’s certified environmental management system focuses on environment, resource consumption, responsible waste treatment and more, which today, is a natural part of the daily operation and planning. Junckers therefore unreservedly support the Global Compact’s principle of a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 13 3.3.3 3.3.4 What did Junckers do last year? Results achieved, incl. description of Junckers’ emission of saw dust, fine particles and noise measurement/calculation method, data has met with the authority’s requirements for many years sources and potential uncertainty and as such, is no longer a direct focus area for significant The graphs below illustrate the progress in energy improvements. Junckers has begun to further reduce noise consumption. impact in compliance with environmental approval, as Køge’s port area is under expansion and will bring neighbours closer. The “Noise Action Plan 2017”, was completed and the resulting noise was calculated in 2018. The results showed an improvement and the night noise level has been reduced. Furthermore, a plan for further action, “Noise Action Plan 2019”, was prepared in 2018. The company’s energy consumption is still a focus area, due to CO2 emission and the major economic costs of energy. In 2018 focus has been on ensuring low energy consumption in the new kiln drying facilities planned for 2019. Furthermore, LED lighting has been installed in a number of places. The conversion to electric forklifts from diesel and lpg forklifts continues. It is still difficult to replace large machines but the outlooks are promising. The company’s energy performance in general is considered to be satisfactory. Work on reducing energy consumption is still highly prioritised. Junckers is ISO 50001 certified, as well as entered into an agreement with the Danish Energy Agency on energy efficiency. 3.3.5 Plans for next year There will be continued focus on reducing heat and electricity consumption in 2019. Several major projects, which are expected to reduce energy consumption significantly, are being worked on. HARBOE VISITOR CENTRE, DENMARK Brushed oak parquet The Biological House 15 CAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, DENMARK 3.4 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 3.4.1 Relevance for Junckers Junckers has been environmentally certified according to the ISO14001 standard, since the end of the 1990s. An external audit company follows up on the progress of the environmental objectives every 12 months. Environmental consideration and environmental responsibility are therefore included as a fully integrated principle in the company’s operations together with the legal requirements. The new standard of ISO14001, introduced in 2015 has been fully integrated in the Junckers 3.4.5 management system. Plans for next year Please refer to the company’s environmental report that can 3.4.2 be downloaded at www.junckers.com How has the principle been implemented in Junckers? 3.5 The company has an environmental policy with associated Principle 9: Businesses should encourage environmental objectives. The management evaluates the the development and diffusion of operation and proficiency of the environmental management environmentally friendly technologies system in relation to the policy on an annual basis. All employees in the company are informed of environmental objectives and action plans. The administrative procedures 3.5.1 are carried out by the environmental protection organisation. Relevance for Junckers Work with the environmental objectives is in progress on an Junckers produces solid hardwood parquet and plank flooring. ongoing basis throughout the year. The four main wood species used for the floors are beech, oak, maple and ash. The wood is purchased from neighbouring regions, i.e. Denmark, South Sweden, Germany and Poland. A lesser amount is purchased in the USA and Canada, who are able to supply planks in specific dimensions and quality. 3.4.3 Junckers also sells flooring manufactured from tropical wood What did Junckers do last year? species. Please refer to the company’s environmental report that can be downloaded at www.junckers.com Junckers had a natural interest in having a good relationship with forest management since its inception, so the factory’s raw material (logs and raw planks) can still be delivered in the right quality at a competitive price. The company has been certified according to the internationally used PEFC™ 3.4.4 standard since 2006, as well as the FSC® standard since 2010. Results achieved, incl. description of The certifications document the traceability of the flooring the measurement/calculation method, data company sells as certified, so the customers are sure that sources and potential uncertainty the wood used for the flooring has been legally harvested and Please refer to the company’s environmental report that can sustainably managed (PEFC™ and FSC®). be downloaded at www.junckers.com 16 As Junckers Industrier A/S is based in the EU, it must comply be attributed to minor changes in the purchasing pattern and with the EU Timber Regulation, which was implemented on 3 geographical origin. (see paragraph 3.5.4). March 2013. As a part of this regulation, it must have a Due Diligence system, which, e.g. must cover these areas: PEFC™/FSC® audits: Information: The operator must have access to information The external PEFC™/FSC® surveillance audit No. 3 was describing the timber and timber products, country of harvest, carried out by 3rd party certification body in August 2018. species, quantity, details of the supplier and information on compliance with national legislation. 2 minor non-conformances from the previous years’ audit were closed during the annual external PEFC™/FSC® surveillance Risk assessment: The operator should assess the risk of illegal audit No. 3. No new non-conformances were recorded in timber in his supply chain, based on the information identified relation to the FSC® standards and no non-conformances above and taking into account criteria set out in the regulation. were recorded in relation to the PEFC™ standard. Risk mitigation: When the assessment shows that there is a risk The auditor emphasised that we have well-implemented of illegal timber in the supply chain that risk can be mitigated procedures in general and that we continuously improve our by requiring additional information and verification from the routines to reflect changes in the standards. supplier. An internal audit was conducted at our office/administration The risk assessment used in connection with PEFC™ and and external storage facility in the USA west coast FSC® standards has been added to the requirements of the warehouse in July. No nonconformances were recorded EU Timber Regulation. This means that we use only one risk and communication between office and storage facility were, assessment for the purchase of raw wood, which is therefore based on samples, assessed as being followed as described in included in Junckers Due Diligence system. Raw wood procedure I.5.8a. suppliers based outside the EU must sign Junckers’ “Supplier Code of Conduct” as part of the risk mitigation. An internal PEFC™/FSC® audit was conducted at the head office in Køge in August and no non-conformances were recorded. 3.5.2 Sale of wood-based waste products: How has the principle been implemented in Junckers? Junckers Industries A/S sells all of its waste from wood The company’s purchase policy includes that all raw wood, production to its neighbor, VEKS. VEKS has signed semi-finished goods (wood) and goods for resale (wood) an industry agreement that commits them to fulfill a purchased, must comply with the requirements of the EU requirement for a proportion of their procurement of biomass Timber Regulation as a minimum and therefore be of legal to be documented as being sustainable via PEFC™, FSC® or origin. Junckers procurement strategy also urges its suppliers SBP certifications – or by using “alternative” documentation. to certify themselves according to PEFC™ or FSC® standards, The requirement is valid from August 1st 2016 and the to be able to purchase the highest possible amount of purchased proportion of biomass to be documented as sustainable will raw wood as being from sustainably managed forests. The be increased gradually as follows: company therefore continues to pay a premium for certified wood. 2016: 40% 2017: 60% Junckers actively participates in the dissemination of PEFC™ 2018: 75% certification and has, inter alia: been represented on the board 2019: Fully implemented of PEFC™ in Denmark since 1999. In 2018 Junckers has sold its waste products as sustainably certified via PEFC™ and FSC® claims, as well as with 3.5.3 “alternative” documentation. What did Junckers do last year? The total amount of certified raw wood purchased in 2018 has 17 been increased compared to the 2017 level. The increase can 3.5.4 Results achieved, incl. description of measurement/calculation method, data Junckers therefore wish to continue to increase the amount of sources and potential uncertainty purchased certified felled timber and pay, e.g. a higher price for certified raw wood in order to influence forest owners to Amount of raw wood become certified according to PEFC™ or FSC® standards. purchased as PEFC™ FSC® Total certified 2010 24 % 41 % 65 % 2011 37 % 28 % 65 % 3.6 2012 52 % 13 % 65 % Principle 10: Businesses should work 2013 52 % 29 % 81 % against corruption in all its forms, 2014 53 % 21 % 74 % including extortion and bribery 2015 44% 21% 65% 2016 40% 26% 66% 3.6.1 2017 Relevance for Junckers 44% 29% 73% Sales companies in Europe and the USA represent Junckers 2018 43% 33% 76% outside of Denmark. The company collaborates with commercial agents in Eastern Europe/Russia, the Middle 3.5.5 East, Asia and Oceania. Overall, this means that the company’s Plans for next year sellers operate in different cultures with major differences The internal PEFC™/FSC® audit for the headquarters in and tolerance to corruption and corruption-like transactions Køge is scheduled for the 2nd quarter of 2019 and the annual among them. Junckers has once and for all made it clear that internal PEFC™/FSC® audit in the USA is scheduled for 2nd the company is against corruption, extortion and bribery, and quarter of 2019. that it is unacceptable for an employee to participate in this type of behaviour, be it as a giver or receiver. An external PEFC™/FSC® surveillance audit is planned for the end of August 2019. Circular and new guide on ensuring the use of sustainable 3.6.2 wood in the public sector in Denmark: How has the principle been implemented in Junckers? A circular and guide on ensuring the use of sustainable Junckers stance on corruption was published on their wood in the public sector in Denmark came into force on 1 homepage with the following wording: “We are against July 2014. The circular commits the state (administration corruption, extortion and bribery and it is not permitted for this and directorates) to ensure that sustainable wood is used for to be offered, promised, given, accepted, tolerated, required or construction, furniture and paper. This was phased in between deliberately benefitted from.” 1 January 2015 and 1 January 2016. The circular came into force with regard to flooring on 1 January 2016. Junckers has chosen to focus on the risk of indirect violation that can occur through trade with suppliers who have no The purchase of PEFC™ and FSC® certified products is respect for human rights. recognized by the Danish authorities as a method for public purchasers to document they comply with the rules in the Junckers has prepared a Supplier Code of Conduct, which is circular, as they are recognized by the authorities as being sent to the suppliers that the company considers having the sustainable. highest risk of failing to comply with Juncker’s requirements for, e.g. anti-corruption (see also section 3.1). A number of EU countries have already implemented similar rules for public procurement, and on this basis, a growing A program has been set in motion to audit whether the demand for PEFC™ and FSC ® certified products must be standards contained in the SCOC are being complied with. expected. An audit schema, letter of intent and accompanying list of 3.6.5 documents to be displayed/delivered have been prepared. Plans for next year Initially, the audits will be conducted by Junckers themselves A review and evaluation of the Supplier Code of Conduct and at the suppliers. The results of these audits will form the the associated evaluation procedure, as well as a follow-up basis for assessing whether it will subsequently be relevant to audit with one supplier in Asia is scheduled for the third involve an external auditing company in the process. quarter of 2019. Junckers has prepared and implemented Due Diligence in accordance with the EU Timber Regulation applicable from 3 March 2013. A risk assessment for suppliers of wood-based products must be made as part of Due Diligence. Junckers uses the criteria from the FSC CW standard to assess the risk. Criteria related to illegal logging are used as primary indicators and sources of conclusion. The supplier must sign Junckers Supplier Code of Conduct if they are based in a country where there is a potential risk of, e.g. corruption. By signing Junckers Supplier Code of Conduct, suppliers we consider to be “at risk” in relation to corruption confirm, among other things, the following: “Suppliers shall not engage in any form of bribery, corruption, extortion or embezzlement in any business practices and transactions carried out by them or on their behalf by business partners. They will not offer, accept or countenance any payments, gifts in kind, hospitality, expenses or promises as such that may compromise the principles of fair competition or constitute an attempt to obtain or retain business from any person or to influence the course of the business or governmental decisionmaking process. The Supplier shall also refrain from offering funding, donations, lavish gifts and extravagant entertainment to any employee of Junckers Industries A/S or any other counterparts in Junckers Industries A/S in an attempt to influence business decisions.” 3.6.3 What did Junckers do last year? The planned review and evaluation of the Supplier Code of Conduct and the associated evaluation procedure, as well as the planned follow-up audit with one supplier in Asia was rescheduled for the third quarter of 2019. 3.6.4 Results achieved, incl. description of measurement/calculation method, data sources and potential uncertainty The actions were re-scheduled for 2019 – see point 3.1.3. 19 AntiHuman rights Workers’ rights Environment corruption Principle Principle Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Principle 10 1 2 Separately + + + + + formulated policy Relevance for Junckers described + + + + + + in COP Direct financial benefit + + + + for the company Principle informal formal informal informal informal formal formal formal formal formal 4. SUMMARY 2018 implemented into daily operation Significant progress + + + + in 2018 Part of Supplier Code + + + + + + + + + + of Conduct Priority in 2019 + ++ + + + ++ ++ ++ + ++ Partnerships Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 20 JUNCKERS INDUSTRIES A/S · Værftsvej 4, 4600 Køge, Denmark · Tel. +45 70 80 30 00 · www.junckers.com
