Annual Report 2018 Contents OVERVIEW Statement by the CEO Our business Market and trends 4 8 10 Vasakronan in Goals and strategies 15 Property management 16 RealEstateCore 17 VASAKRONAN’S ASSIGNMENT Triangeln attracts 21 Property development 22 is to generate a high, risk-weighted return for our Climate impact 25 owners the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish Transaction activities 26 National Pension Funds, though never at the expense Acquisition in Uppsala 27 of the environment and people. A return that will Financing 28 benefit Sweden’s current and future pensioners. Sustainable values 31 Property holdings 33 HOW WE CREATE VALUE REGIONS To accomplish our assignment, we must create value Our regions 38 in the business. This is achieved through good Region Stockholm 40 property management and development, and Region Gothenburg 46 supplemented by active transactions. Our strategies Region Öresund 50 build on our having attractive properties, being a Region Uppsala 54 good landlord and attracting the best employees. Moreover, sustainability is in focus throughout our ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND operations. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Contents financial statements and notes 59 Administration Report 60 Comments to the financial statements 62 Proposed appropriation of profits 74 Notes 75 Risks and risk management 94 Corporate Governance Report 98 The Board of Directors and auditors 104 Senior executives 105 Board of Directors signatures 106 Auditors’ report 107 GRI AND OTHER INFORMATION Sustainability reporting with GRI Index 112 Auditor’s statement on the sustainability report 127 Impact Report, green financing 128 Auditor’s statement Impact Report 133 Goals and attainment 134 Quarterly and five-year overview 137 Definitions 140 Addresses, website, calendar and production 140 seconds OUR AMBITION IS TO BE SWEDEN’S LEADING PROPERTY COMPANY Vasakronan is Sweden’s largest property company with a portfolio comprising 174 properties with a total area of 2.4 million sq. m. OUR VISION IS We own, manage and develop centrally located office and retail to create future-proof properties in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and Uppsala. The cities for everyone, majority of the portfolio is located in Stockholm. where people and companies thrive. The market value of our property portfolio amounts to approximately SEK 139 billion. The number of employees is 309. WE WILL ACHIEVE THIS BY: • Generating a high total yield, that should also exceed that of the industry in general. UPPSALA • Being the preferred choice for tenants looking STOCKHOLM for office or retail premises. • Being perceived as the most attractive employer in the industry. GOTHENBURG • Assuming social responsibility and striving for long-term sustainable development. MALMÖ Property values increase due to rising market rents SEK 139 The value of the property portfolio BILLION SEK 13 Profit after tax amounted to BILLION increased 8.5% and totalled SEK 139 SEK 12,902 million (9,269). billion. Contracted rent Contracted rent by geographic market by property type Stockholm, 63% Offices, 73% Gothenburg, 18% Retail, 19% Öresund, 11% Other, 8% Uppsala, 8% Vasakronan in brief SEK m 2018 2017 Rental revenue 6,718 6,490 Net operating income 4,869 4,678 Profit before value changes and tax 3,884 3,413 Net interest –1,043 –1,165 Change in property values 10,651 7,973 Change in value of financial instruments 13 468 Profit for the year 12,902 9,269 Market value of property, SEK bn 139 127 Contracted rent, SEK m 6,854 6,638 Occupancy rate, % 93.1 93.1 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 4.7 3.9 Loan-to-value ratio, % 41 43 Number of properties 174 177 Area, thousand sq. m. 2,372 2,430 Environmental certification, % 85 84 Energy consumption, kWh/sq. m. 103 100 Number of employees 309 349 Vasakronan’s ambition is to run its entire business in a sustainable manner. Consequently, reporting of our sustainability agenda has been integrated into the company’s annual report. A summary of how we govern, set targets and follow up our significant sustainability topics is on pages 112–126. 2 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2018 • A seven-year lease is signed with Save the • The annual Global Real Estate SustainabilChildren at Alviks Strand for 4,400 sq. m. ity Benchmark, GRESB, ranks Vasakronan as the most sustainable property company • The second stage of the redevelopment in Europe within the office segment and extension of the Strand in Solna begins • Vasakronan issues the world’s first green • Vasakronan relinquishes Primus on commercial paper Lilla Essingen in Stockholm to one of Oscar Properties and Starwood Capital’s jointly • The Gårda 18:23 and Gårda 18:24 properowned companies ties in Gothenburg are valued at over SEK Q1 1,000 million as part of the divestment to Platzer Q3 Q2 Q4 • The leases with the Swedish Medical • A seven-year lease is signed with XXL Products Agency at Uppsala Science Park at Triangeln in Malmö, thus bringing the are extended for a total of 19,000 sq. m. occupancy rate to 95% • The fully let Fenixhuset in central Uppsala • Six-year lease is signed with the Swedish is acquired at a property value of SEK 284 Council for Higher Education, UHR, for million 6,600 sq. m. in the Strand block in Solna • Vasakronan obtains a public rating from • RealEstateCore, the digital language Moody’s with the score A3, stable outlook, Vasakronan helped to develop, wins the thus opening up new funding oppor­tunities “Årets framtidsföretag 2018” (Future Company of the Year 2018) award VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 3 STATEMENT BY THE CEO Best results ever Rising rental revenue and the continued steady increase in property values laid the foundations for our best results ever. At the same time, conditions within the office and retail markets changed at an ever-accelerating pace. In 2020, we will meet the needs of our customers by way of our own co-working concept – Vasakronan Arena, explains Fredrik Wirdenius, CEO of Vasakronan. 2018 was another year with a strong economy, a robust labour rate of change has led to companies having to be flexible and to market and high demand for office premises in attractive, adapt quickly to new circumstances and patterns of demand. central locations. What does this mean for Vasakronan? This entails customers no longer requesting offices with long “Market rents have continued to rise. In absolute prime localeases, rather new types of offices that can be quickly adapted tions in central Stockholm, individual contracts have been to higher or lower numbers of employees and new forms of signed for as high as SEK 10,000 per square metre for modern collaboration.” office premises. High market rents have in turn driven up “In the same way, the enormous growth of e-commerce has property values which, combined with growing rental revetotally changed the preconditions for stores and shopping nue, means we have posted our highest profits ever: SEK 12.9 centres. All of these aspects affect us at Vasakronan and mean billion. After nine consecutive years of rising property values, we have to consistently reassess and renew our offering.” the value of our portfolio has now reached SEK 139 billion.” What are the strongest drivers in the office rental market? You mentioned the strong rental trend in central Stockholm. “Office tenants are continuing to demand ever-smaller spaces. What is the situation in other sub-markets? This trend is becoming more pronounced and we have seen “In general, rents have trended positively in most of our sub-­ examples where office space has been cut by half following the markets. Some Stockholm suburbs have even performed renegotiation of a lease. Meanwhile, the location of premises extremely well. In Solna, we rented offices to the Swedish is growing in importance. Competition for labour has intensiCouncil for Higher Education in the newly remodelled Strand fied during this extended economic boom and modern premblock during the year, and after the end of the financial year, ises in central locations have become increasingly important the Swedish Tax Agency signed a lease for the Nya Kronan in terms of attracting the most sought-after employees.” block in neighbouring Sundbyberg, which consists of both “However, despite the fact that rent levels calculated per newly built and renovated properties.” square metre have increased for several years in a row, many “The rental trend was also positive in Gothenburg, while in tenants currently have a lower rent per employee thanks to Malmö, the major addition of new office premises contributed efficient use of space and smart IT solutions. The winners in to rent levels remaining constant. In Uppsala, where our tenthis market are property owners who, like Vasakronan, are ants are generally less sensitive to economic changes as they able to offer effective premises in the best locations and thus include government agencies, universities and pharmaceutiextract rents at profitable levels.” cal companies, the rental market remains stable.” Tenants are also requesting greater flexibility. So another successful year for Vasakronan, it seems. How is Vasakronan satisfying that wish? But also one that entailed major changes and challenges, “When it comes to developing office environments in such a wouldn’t you say? way that they can serve as a tool and stimulate greater produc“Yes, absolutely! Several major and parallel trends are influtivity, target fulfilment, health and well-being, we have long encing every part of society and thus the property sector and been at the forefront. We were pioneers in designing activity-­ us, too. Essentially, it is digitisation that has radically changed based offices, while a few years ago we introduced the highly-­ both how we work and how we make purchases. The rapid rated “Smart & klart” concept, which offers tenants the 4 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 5 STATEMENT BY THE CEO “We are now taking the next step and adding yet another customer offering that renders us more interesting and relevant to the rental market – Vasakronan Arena”  FREDRIK WIRDENIUS, CEO OF VASAKRONAN opportunity to move in to completed and fully furnished office important progress in relation to our sustainability efforts. premises at very short notice.” Our view is that there is enormous potential for greater sus“We are now taking the next step and adding yet another tainability in how work is undertaken on new construction customer offering that renders us more interesting and releand redevelopment of properties. When renovating Sergelvant to the rental market. The new “Vasakronan Arena” conhuset, we actively sought to exploit and reuse old materials cept offers our tenants a co-working alternative using our and building elements, such as windows and doors. We also unique method. Based on our large customer base, the best refined our planning in conjunction with the contractors in locations, our far-reaching sustainability approach and our order to manage the often extensive waste that occurs during experience of developing offices, we are able to offer a new-build projects. Lastly, we also ensured that all transport co-working concept that places the focus on efficiency and to and from our construction sites around Sergels torg are productivity. IT, ergonomics, ventilation and environment – fossil-free.” all of these aspects will maintain the highest standards.” “Thanks to our size, we are able to combine traditional What is the next stage of your sustainability efforts? office rentals, Smart & klart and co-working in a way that most “We feel that the way to create an even more sustainable of our competitors are unable to. The full range of products property sector is to develop building methods and, above all, will enable the different rental types to support each other building materials that have less impact on the climate. One and our customers will have the opportunity to move such climate-friendly building material we have in excess in between our local offerings over time.” this country is wood. Wood has become increasingly common in the construction of multi-family dwellings over the past When and where will you initially offer decade, and in the coming years wooden frames will also the Vasakronan Arena concept? begin making an appearance in office and retail properties.” “We are not going to launch Vasakronan Arena to great fanfare; “When we begin the construction of the new Magasin X we will instead introduce it gradually into all of our markets. property in Uppsala later this year, it will be one of Sweden’s One of the first properties to be furnished with the Arena largest office properties with a frame made entirely of wood. concept will be the new Sergelhuset in the middle of Stockholm Magasin X will have a clear sustainability profile and will be City, which will be completed in 2020. The new Arena office environmentally certified in line with LEED to the highest will become a neighbour of our own head office, which will be rating: Platinum.” moving into Sergelhuset next year.” “At Vasakronan we have a tradition of moving our head Will rapid technological developments also office to newly remodelled properties and using our own contribute to a more sustainable property sector? office as an example and inspiration to our tenants when “Definitely. That said, rapid technological developments will designing their new office premises. In line with this, we will be not just affect the sector from a sustainability perspective, collocating our office with the new Arena office. We envisage it will change the entire business through and through. The that we too will be able to take advantage of the co-working new digital RealEstateCore “language” means all the different opportunities if we need to expand or want to create an adjatechnical installations in a property can communicate with cent space for our partners.” each other for the very first time. This will enable people to manage and optimise the systems governing ventilation, heatIs Sergelhuset currently the largest development project? ing and lighting, for example, so they can improve the indoor “Yes, together with other new-build and renovation projects climate while also saving energy.” in the area surrounding Sergels torg. Our assessment is that there is still a lack of modern and efficient office premises, What opportunities will be created by this new digital language? particularly in Stockholm but also in Gothenburg and Uppsala. “When combined with artificial intelligence, or AI, RealEstateThis is why we are stepping up investments in project developCore will lead to a large share of property monitoring being ment and will have project volumes totalling some SEK 4 billion done automatically, without the need for property technicians. per year in the near future.” Using knowledge about how many people are in a property “The renovation projects in central Stockholm also represent and where they are within it, it would, for example, be possible 6 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 STATEMENT BY THE CEO to adjust access to facilities such as toilets and thus reduce the shoppers, we have tested various options to strengthen need for cleaning and maintenance. Over the next few years, the attractiveness of stores and commercial districts. Södra we expect RealEstateCore to create the conditions for a range Förstadsgatan in Malmö and Vallgatan in Gothenburg are of new technical applications that both we and our customers successful examples of places where we have created an interwill find highly beneficial.” esting mix of different stores, brands, eateries and experiences “The development of RealEstateCore, which was done that attract many visitors and customers. Another example in collaboration with other players in the sector, has given is Hamngatan in Stockholm, where Vasakronan created an Vasakronan a prominent position within technological develattractive street full of stores with a range of strong internaopments in the property world. It is in our nature to be curitional brands such as Uniqlo, Starbucks and Victoria’s Secret.” ous about and want to exploit the newest developments – not least in order to recruit and retain skilled employees. Our Why is Uniqlo’s establishment experience is that many people want to work at a company at in Stockholm particularly significant? the forefront of developments and where new things are “The Japanese fashion brand Uniqlo opened a flagship store happening all the time.” in the autumn in Sverigehuset. This establishment shows that it has become increasingly important for companies that use Nine years have passed since Vasakronan signed the first the internet as their primary sales channel to also meet their green lease. Are you still the leading property company in customers in physical stores. Over the past few years, an the field of sustainability? increasing number of Swedes have bought clothes from Uniqlo “Since we and CGI – known then as Logica – signed the first online, and the company decided it was time to establish a green lease for their office in Nacka Strand just outside Stockphysical presence in Sweden too. To date, the opening has holm, many other property companies have followed in our exceeded the company’s expectations by a long way.” footsteps. Despite this, I feel that we have maintained our lead “The entire area around Sergels torg in central Stockholm in relation to directing the property sector in a sustainable will receive a real boost over the coming years. This very year direction over the long term.” we began work on an upgrade to Sergelgatan and in 2020, “85% of our properties were environmentally certified by Sergelhuset and the surrounding properties will be ready for the end of 2018, and during the year Vasakronan’s climate occupancy, while Urban Escape on the other side of Hamn­ targets were approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative gatan will be completed and the esteemed NK department – a collaboration involving the United Nations Global Compact, store will be given a facelift. A range of new restaurants and among others. Science Based Targets is a scientific method of stores with strong brands will be opened to attract visitors ensuring that approved companies have climate targets in line to streets that have previously not been known as entertainwith the Paris agreement’s aim to limit global warming to two ment, eating or shopping areas. The major investments of the degrees Celsius. Vasakronan was also named Europe’s most last few years will have an effect and many global chains are sustainable office company and the ninth most sustainable showing increasing interest in Stockholm, which also has a in the world in the eminent international Global Real Estate strong standing internationally.” Sustainability Benchmark, or GRESB.” “During the year we revised and broadened our frameWhat are your expectations as we enter 2019? work for green financing and supplemented our bond pro“The outlook remains bright. However, sooner or later the gramme with green commercial paper. For the very first time, economy will dip, and we know from experience that the next Vasakronan also obtained a rating from the credit rating downturn will not take the same shape as the previous ones. agency Moody’s, thus giving us access to sources of financing That said, we are well equipped for the future – in all sub-­ from across the globe. This creates the conditions for more markets and in terms of both retail and office premises.” cost-effective borrowing with longer tenors, as well as financ“Our properties are “survivors” that never have high ing that helps us reach our goal of achieving entirely green vacancy rates, even during an economic downturn. We have borrowing in the long term.” reliable, long-term customers, of whom many are government agencies or companies less exposed to economic fluctuations. You noted earlier how the growth of e-commerce Over the past few years we have gradually reduced our sensihas affected stores. What does this entail for Vasakronan? tivity in terms of financing by moving over to borrowing with “The extensive structural overhaul of the retail sector con­ longer tenors. All in all, our assessment is that we are as ready tinued unabated in 2018. The market share of e-commerce as we can be.” increased while internet-based sales became established within new product areas. This has led to some stores being Stockholm, March 2019 knocked out, while many others have reduced the size of their sales areas.” “For Vasakronan, which has a large share of retail premises, this intensified competition from e-commerce poses a major Fredrik Wirdenius challenge. Over the past few years and in collaboration with Chief Executive Officer VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 7 OUR BUSINESS TRENDS STAKEHOLDERS Read more on pages 10–15 Read more on pages 112–113 OUR ASSIGNMENT High return & sustainable business OUR OPERATIONS Property management • Development • Transactions Read more on pages 16–26 OUR VALUES Openness binds us together • Enthusiasm drives us forward We get things done • Fair and honest • A holistic approach Read more on page 19 8 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 OUR BUSINESS Future-proof cities FOR EVERYONE, WHERE PEOPLE AND COMPANIES THRIVE STRATEGIES • Investment strategy • Customer strategy • Technology strategy • Employee strategy • Financing strategy Read more on page 15 GOALS • Financial • Environmental • Social Read more on page 15, 134–135 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 9 MARKET AND TRENDS Increasingly rapid rate of change Our operating environment is changing at an increasingly rapid rate, creating both opportunities and challenges. By gaining an understanding of trends and underlying drivers, we can develop our business and satisfy emerging needs. Understanding which trends will affect us both digital and behavioural skills, while also over the coming years is of utmost imporensuring that existing employees develop tance if we are to develop the business in their skill sets. the right way and focus on the right aspects. Competitive intelligence is a continuous and A broad sustainability perspective integrated part of Vasakronan’s business, Increasing awareness of the risks linked to as are efforts to constantly challenge and ongoing climate change has led to the propdevelop the organisation. Vasakronan’s aim erty sector taking measures in a range of is to adopt the role of leader in terms of tackareas to reduce the sector’s negative impact ling the changes affecting the sector. on the environment. Over the past few years, newly built, climate-smart properties, the There are primarily three trends currently a greater number of property companies carbon impact will fall even further. The affecting the property market: digitisation, have realised the importance of adapting installation of solar photovoltaic panels has so expanding e-commerce and new patterns their businesses in a way that reduces their far played a small but growing role in climate of demand for offices. Parallel to these three carbon footprint. The commercial grounds initiatives, as these reduce properties’ needs aspects, the sector – along with society as for ensuring this green transition have also for externally transmitted energy. a whole – is also affected by a greater focus gradually become clearer. A growing number Even ten years ago, Vasakronan identified on sustainability topics, first and foremost of companies and authorities are demanding the need to move its business in a more envidriven by the increasingly obvious effects environmental certification and the chance ronmentally friendly direction. By way of of ongoing climate change. to add green-related services when selecting various measures to enhance energy effiIncreasing interest in health issues, not a landlord; a development that will likely ciency and a transition to renewable energy least how employees’ health is affected by gather pace over the next few years. sources, Vasakronan has reduced its direct workplace conditions and environment, is The property sector accounts for almost GHG emissions by some 98% since 2006. also having a greater influence on how prop40% of society’s energy consumption. It is This reduction in energy consumption has erty companies plan premises and their therefore natural that the property sector’s also led to considerable improvements in net surrounding urban environments. All in all, focus would be on reducing energy consumpoperating income and increased property this rapid development within several differtion and solely using renewable energy values. ent areas means the property sector has an sources. Active efforts relating to heating, In late 2018, Vasakronan’s climate targets acute need to bring new skills into the mix. ventilation and insulation have already led to were analysed and approved by the Science Over the coming years, property companies major reductions in emissions, and as more Based Targets Initiative. This approval testiwill need to recruit new employees who have and more older buildings are replaced with fies that the company’s climate targets are 10 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 MARKET AND TRENDS TRENDS THAT IMPACT VASAKRONAN’S BUSINESS Climate change Perhaps the most vital and all-encompassing issue in our future is climate change. The challenges posed by climate change affect our business model and the way we assess our operations in a range of different ways. Flexibility, simplicity and freedom In rapidly changing times, customers demand the ability to prioritise their own challenges and operations. These needs can vary quickly over time and the need for service and other complementary services has increased. Customers are thus increasingly requesting flexibility, simplicity and freedom in their rental conditions. Health and ill health Interest in health and the significance of a property on employees’ health is increasing among our customers. This issue of health has a major impact on how we design offices and retail stores, For companies whose most important as well as on how we design the sursales channel is e-commerce, it has become rounding urban environment. increasingly important to also meet their customers in physical stores. In the autumn Technological developments fashion brand Uniqlo opened a flagship Technology is plying an increasing role store in Sverigehuset in Stockholm. in our daily lives and is creating entirely new opportunities and challenges for all property sector participants. We must be at the forefront of these develenough to achieve the goal of the Paris climate takes active steps to reduce the amount of opments and have the right expertise to agreement to keep the average global temwaste in society by supporting its tenants in take advantage of trends in a smart way. perature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius. their own aims to reduce their waste, sort During the year the company was also and recycle materials and, as far as possible, Changes in commerce ranked the most sustainable office company reuse furniture and other equipment. In E-commerce is altering the conditions in Europe as well as number nine globally by terms of major redevelopment and new for the retail sector as a whole. It also the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchconstruction projects, Vasakronan attempts places requirements on us to support mark, or GRESB. to reuse as much material as possible. retail companies in renovating their Building materials are often made from stores and making shopping centres Selection of building non-renewable raw materials, and their proand commercial streets attractive to materials increasingly vital duction is often energy-intensive and leads more customers. We also need to As CO2 emissions from energy consumption to high levels of CO2 emissions. An important develop new and interesting uses for at properties have fallen, interest has turned part of our climate efforts is thus to shift as freed-up floor space in stores. to other parts of the business that have far as possible over to building materials Displacement of skills a major impact on the environment and cliproduced from renewable or recycled raw More and more work assignments are mate. One such area is waste management. materials. Wood, a renewable and climate­being automated and new assignments This involves both the receiving and transsmart building material, is being used increasentail requirements for new skills. porting of waste produced by tenants’ dayingly in construction. The planned Magasin X Employees with new skills need to be to-day operations, such as the large amounts office property in central Uppsala will be recruited while existing employees’ of waste created during new construction, Vasakronan’s first construction project using skills require further development. demolition and redevelopment. Vasakronan a wooden frame. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 11 FLEXIBILITY AND SERVICE ”The number of workplaces Flexi­ bility and required can vary wildly over service time and demands for service and related services have increased.” Major growth in co-working One area in which changes have occurred can develop co-working options themselves, rapidly is the demand from tenants for office based on their own skills and experience. premises. The main trend of the past decade – that customers are demanding modern Comprehensive office space offering premises that make efficient use of space, In 2020, Vasakronan will expand its office Johanna Skogestig have good IT infrastructure and are centrally space offering to include a proprietary SVP, CIO located – is definitely holding firm. At the co-working alternative. This project will use Leases are becoming ever shorter. same time, however, demand for greater Vasakronan’s extensive experience of innoWhy is this? flexibility, simplicity and a wider range of vation in relation to offices and workplaces, “We currently have a labour market in which services has also grown. The number of for example its pioneering work to develop companies require the organisation to be workplaces required can vary wildly over activity-based offices and the Smart & klart able to change at any moment – a development driven largely by digital technology. time and demands for service and related concept, that is, fully equipped offices with This means many tenants need flexibility services have increased. This trend is being everything people need already in place. and service from property owners in order driven by small companies, start-ups and Co-working is not a limited concept in to manage their rapid changes. Traditional freelance groups as well as larger organisaVasakronan’s view, rather it forms part of a leases with long durations and extensive tions that are increasingly less inclined to comprehensive offering in which traditional responsibility placed on tenants for the premplan in the long-term way a multi-year lease office rentals and Smart & klart represent ises no longer match this trend – a trend we requires them to. Co-working has largely the fundamental elements. Vasakronan’s can see in many of Europe’s major cities.” been seen as the response to this shifting overall expertise and extensive range put it How are you meeting this trend? demand, that is, a tenant sharing premises in a position to offer tenants a long-term “To a large extent it is a question of how we with other companies. Instead of a normal partnership in which the proportions of the develop our properties, whether existing or new. For example, we are now creating solulease for a specific premises, they sign up for different elements can vary over time. The tions whereby our tenants have the option a kind of membership that offers access to a offering now being introduced by Vasakronan to combine their own office, which they decnumber of workplaces, meeting rooms and – “co-working our way” – builds on extensive orate and equip themselves, with fully coma range of related services. This co-working expertise relating to styles of working and pleted spaces for which we take full respontrend has seen explosive growth in just a few methods to optimise office environments, sibility. From 2020; we will also be offering short years, and in Stockholm there is curwith the aim of contributing to tenants’ prospaces or rooms in Vasakronan’s own co-­ rently a total of 200,000 square metres of ductivity, health and well-being. Naturally, working arenas. Long leases are stable, it’s true, but shorter leases and greater mobility co-working offices, according to a report Vasakronan should offer top-quality perforenable us to pinpoint optimal solutions that from the Swedish Property Federation. mance when it comes to ventilation, ergobenefit both us and our customers.” This trend has not progressed as quickly in nomics, IT infrastructure and other major Gothenburg and Malmö, but the establishaspects of the work environment. This conHow is this trend affecting Vasakronan’s property values? ment of new co-working companies is under cept, Vasakronan Arena, will initially be intro“The winners will be the property compaway in these cities too. duced in the redeveloped Sergelhuset in nies who, like us, have a high-quality propUntil now, co-working workplaces were Stockholm. erty portfolio with properties in excellent largely supplied by service companies who central locations. Tenants in these areas are rented premises and then developed the willing to pay well for flexibility and service. range of services offered to the end customer. The effect will be that market rents in these This rapid demand is placing property comtypes of properties will rise more than others. A clear trend is that the differences panies at a crossroads. They can either rent in rents and property values have increased to such service companies who develop and and will likely continue to do so between the offer co-working workplaces, thus missing “A” and “B” locations, but also “A” and “B” out on the rental premium that a service properties.” offering entails, or the property companies 12 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 RETAIL SECTOR “Tougher competition from Retail e-commerce is forcing city sector retailers to find totally new ways to attract customers.” Growing competition from e-commerce Jesper Örtengren Business Development Manager for Retail Online shopping is ever increasing and many The last decade has proved to be revolutionfor a limited period, as well as showrooms see an end to stores. What is your view? ary for the retail sector. E-commerce has whereby stores whose main sales channel is “Competition from e-commerce is of course grown rapidly and even captured significant online are able to give customers the oppora challenge for physical stores. However, we market shares in certain retail segments. tunity to see and feel the goods. These cencan also see that stores have the right condiMany commentators think this will have trally located showrooms have also offered tions to retake their important role through clearly negative consequences for physical companies that typically sell their products smart combinations of physical presence and stores, since e-commerce accounts for 15% in retail premises far away from city centres, digital offerings. I see an increasing need for flagship stores coupled with fewer stores or more of total sales. The line has already for example car dealers and furniture wareoverall. Two such openings are Uniqlo, with been crossed in terms of electronics, fashion houses, the chance to get closer to customers. its first Nordic store in Kungsträdgården in and books, and now e-commerce is making Major shopping centres and pedestrian areas the middle of Stockholm City, and Rum21/ its largest increases in market shares in areas close to city centres with heavy footfall have RoyalDesign on Kungsgatan.” such as sport and leisure, DIY and home enhanced their competitiveness through ambiWhat other openings decor. The challenges posed by online retail tious investments in other types of local serdo you want to highlight? have had various consequences for physical vices, such as food courts, cinemas and gyms. “In Malmö we signed leases with XXL and stores. Relatively few have been totally out-­ There is every indication that the rate of Ica in Triangeln shopping centre, both of competed, but most have had to rejuvenate change within the retail sector will continue whom make a fine contribution to the whole. and adapt to the new reality. to increase over the coming few years, as Södra Förstadsgatan has made good progress, with all premises now fully let. Another Property companies with a large share of e-commerce continues to gain ground and area that has performed strongly is Fredstan retail premises have also faced challenges expand into new areas. The number of comin Gothenburg, with Holy Greens, Barry’s due to these shifting conditions. The hardest panies offering experiences is also expected Bootcamp, Boss and Chanel all establishing hit have been owners of shopping centres far to increase, while less attractive retail locathemselves there. H&M reopened its rederemoved from city centres, where customers tions will be converted into offices, gyms and veloped store on Svartbäcksgatan in Uppsala come by car and where the range of stores is premises for other activities where location – the only one of its kind in Sweden and a in itself the centre’s main attraction. That said, is not as crucial. Hybrid premises are another great addition to the area.” stores lining centrally located streets with heavy phenomenon likely to become increasingly During the year a new pop-up concept was footfall have also seen their turnover fall. Many common. These premises bring stores, offered to tenants. What does this involve? stores have reduced their floorspace to keep restaurants, showrooms, healthcare facilities “We have a number of permanent pop-up costs down and compensate for falling reveand offices together in a single premises, thus premises that we refer to as ‘Perm Pop’s’. Increasingly, brands want visibility in physinue. At the same time, several e-commerce attracting different types of visitor who can cal stores in central locations, and this companies have established physical stores enrich each other’s experience. Closely related enables such exposure for a short period. where focus is placed on overall turnover to this are micro department stores where One exciting example is The Fitting Room, rather than the turnover of the physical store. the property owner is responsible for its which opened in Nordstan in Gothenburg operation and guarantees an exciting mix of for six weeks. People could try on clothes Focus on all-round experiences fashion collections, new culinary experiences, and shoes before ordering them online. Though only 63 square metres, it managed The past few years have seen a wide range fitness, yoga, hairdressing and more. Some to hold an extremely large range.” of changes and innovative approaches to companies will be located in the micro departstrengthen the competitiveness of physical ment store permanently, while others will be In your view, how will the retail sector retail and differentiate it from e-commerce. there temporarily and in different formats develop in the future? “I believe that new brands, combinations The dominant trend has been to increase the and partnerships will be created. Companies proportion of restaurants, fast-food outlets Successful collaboration increasingly want central locations and as propand cafés in order to offer visitors an allVasakronan works continuously to rejuveerty companies, we have to meet these new round experience. Other new concepts have nate the retail sector. For a number of years, needs. We can do this by continuing to develop included pop-up stores where retail players we have collaborated successfully with other our offering of shared premises for tenants.” are able to market their goods and services property owners on the retail street Södra VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 13 DIGITISATION Förstadsgatan in Malmö, among others. This close collaboration has led to the cre“It will be possible to monitor, ation of a mix of different stores, brands, eateries and experiences and turned Södra Digitisation manage and optimise the Förstadsgatan into an attractive street operation of our properties.” that attracts many visitors. Thanks to consistent development efforts in Gothenburg, Vasakronan has turned Vallgatan into an obvious meeting place for the city’s residents. High quality restaurants and cafés, and a range of strong, local brands has helped build Vallgatan’s trendy status. Common digital language The overall experience will be emphasised in Sergelstan when Vasakronan Rapid digital developments are in the process these coordination benefits be realised. redevelops Sergelhuset and upgrades of creating entirely new conditions for the Together with a number of other players, Sergelgatan. The company plans to create property sector. As more and more functions Vasakronan has taken the lead in terms of this the optimal composition of attractive within management, operation and maintetrend by developing a common digital lanstores, restaurants and other activities. nance become digitised, opportunities will be guage. The new language, RealEstateCore, Stockholm City’s focal point is being created to enhance efficiency and coordinamakes it possible for the properties’ different shifted to the area around Sergels torg tion. Up until recently, this progress was held systems to communicate with and underand new, interesting locations with high back by the fact that each property’s system stand each other. It will be possible to monitor, visitor flows are being created. Former was unique and incompatible with other sysmanage and optimise the operation of our side streets, such as Mäster Samuelsgatan tems. Only once the systems governing such properties and thus save energy, create a and Malmskillnadsgatan, will be opened things as heating, ventilation, IT infrastructure better indoor climate or detect faults and up to become light and inviting for pedesand monitoring are able to communicate with shortcomings early, allowing us to proactively trians with a large people flows. each other in a uniform, digital format can remedy them. When combined with various pre-programmed measures, operations can be managed automatically without property technicians needing to take any manual action. pieces fall into place, but during the year the RealEstateCore will also create the opportuorganisation found its feet and is now working nity in the relatively near future to connect well. Of course, the record heat during the summer was a major challenge, but the comexternal suppliers’ digital systems, which will mitment and desire to solve the problems that help ensure more efficient energy supplies, arose was enormous. We learnt a lot and are waste management, property cleaning and now better equipped if it were ever to happen transportation to and from a property. again.” The development of new digital opportuniSandra Jonsson Together with other property owners, ties and services within the property sector, Technical development and Services Manager, Vasakronan has developed a new common known as Property Technology or in short Stockholm and Uppsala digital language, RealEstateCore. “PropTech”, is still in its infancy. However, many What does this involve? sector commentators expect PropTech to lead In early 2018 you unveiled a new technical “RealEstateCore gives us an entirely new type to changes in the property sector as major as organisation. Why was this? of control over all the data generated by propthe ones fintech (Financial Technology) caused “A lot is happening in our operating environerties. You could call it a digital language for ment. Digital developments within the propproperties. Our “Idun” platform is then able to for banks, insurance companies and other erty sector are moving at lightning speed, to receive, store and analyse the data.” financial institutions. In collaboration with name one aspect. We can also see that our artificial intelligence (AI), RealEstateCore What does this entail for your tenants? tenants are beginning to demand advisory could create the opportunity to collect informa“It will mean we can optimise operations and services, for example in relation to technical tion that ranges beyond the walls of an individmake the properties even more energy-effiissues. In order to take advantage of all these cient and smart, but also that we will be able ual property. Instant information about the opportunities, we needed to create an organisation designed to tackle and manage these to offer and develop new digital services. Right number of pedestrians walking along a pedesnow a number of pilot projects are under way. trian street could, for example, offer restauchanges. It has employees who manage the For example, we are testing energy optimisarants and cafés the chance to adapt their organisation as a whole in terms of day-to-day tion using artificial intelligence, visualisation operations as well as employees whose task is offering and the amount of food to prepare. and analysis of the indoor climate and visualito pinpoint and test new technologies.” Information about which items in the store sation of how premises are used. In the long How well has the organisation worked? term, it is matter of creating flexible, efficient window attract the greatest interest could “It always takes a little time before all the and ever-smarter workplaces.” help a store owner set prices or decide how goods are presented within the store. 14 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 GOALS AND STRATEGIES Creating sustainable value in a changing world Long-term goals Trends affect strategies Business planning at every level Financial To ensure that Vasakronan lives up to Planning, control and follow-up of the • A total yield of at least 6.5% per year (rolling average the assignment set by its owners while operations are in line with the organisaover 10 years) also managing the conditions in the martional structure, with a clear delegation • A total yield of at least 0.5 percentage points higher ket, the Board annually adopts a strateof responsibilities and authorities. To than the industry gic plan. The plan is preceded by an analmake the company’s overall goals and ysis of the market trends assessed to strategies tangible, business plans are Environment have the greatest impact on the comprepared annually for the units that • Our properties are self-sufficient and do not require pany and its operation over a five-year answer to the CEO. any energy to be purchased period. The trends identified in this The business plan establishes the • We have halved our power requirements year’s strategic plan are described in unit’s focus areas for the year and is then • Our business and those of our customers generate no more detail on pages 10–14. The direcbroken down into activities. All employwaste that is unable to be recycled or reused tion the company will pursue over the ees within each unit are involved in the • Our business is climate-neutral coming 1–3 years is established based production of the business plans, which • We build our properties using renewable, recycled or reused materials on this trend analysis. The long-term leads to increased commitment and • All of our financing is green direction is managed by five strategies. greater understanding of how each unit • In the top 10 globally of the GRESB sustainability survey contributes to the company as a whole. The plans are then followed up regularly during the year. Business planning is a Social dynamic process, which means the • All employees act in accordance with our values approach to it differs from year to year and our Code of Conduct depending on the needs and issues of • We have a positive work environment free from negative stress that period. • Discrimination and harassment do not occur at our workplaces • The design of our properties contributes to the security, safety and health of those both inside and outside them • Suppliers work in accordance with our Code of Conduct for suppliers • We reflect the society in which we work in terms of gender, ethnicity and age • We have no workplace accidents at our construction sites Investment Customer Technology Employee Financing strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy • Property holdings fo• Flexible solutions that • Connected properties • Extensive opportunities • Access to financing cused on offices and city can be adapted to the with a high level of secufor employees to influfrom several sources retail in Nordic growth customer’s development rity and full control over ence their work life and with spread-out loan areas and challenges all data at the property take responsibility for maturities their own development • Active investors in new • Comprehensive responsi• Clear energy strategy – • Driving green financing construction and the bility for delivering funcreduce, organise, select • Managers who enable forward existing portfolio tions, service and related development by providing • Combining expertise • Healthy margins in services clear objectives • Properties that satisfy and data to deliver new relation to the financial high sustainability • Efforts to raise customservices • Strong values that guide policy’s framework requirements and are ers’ awareness of how us in our work located in excellent and they can optimise their accessible locations use of resources VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 15 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT New opportunities create flexible solutions Thanks to property solutions such as Smart & klart and Pop-up, expanded service, maintained focus on environmental initiatives and rapid technological developments, Vasakronan is creating new opportunities – both for properties and for tenants. The way people work today has changed. understand, can be signed digitally and a New technology Work is not always linked to the office, which move can be arranged at short notice. For The technology used in Vasakronan’s propmakes the design of the workplace even more retail tenants, Vasakronan offers pop-up erties is being increasingly integrated with IT important. The premises should serve as a shops that include everything needed in – a development that is progressing rapidly tool to change, influence and inspire, instead the form of fittings, check-outs, payment and becoming ever more complex. It is openof simply representing a certain number of solutions, convenient lease conditions and ing up new opportunities while placing new square metres. Vasakronan offers a broad even store staff. demands on the organisation. To meet this selection of attractive premises in prime development head on and exploit it more locations for offices and retail, which gives us Everyday service effectively, Vasakronan introduced a change excellent opportunities to meet the needs of To facilitate our customers’ day-to-day work, to its technical organisation during the year. both potential and existing tenants and to Vasakronan offers several different services. This change entailed the creation of new offer flexible solutions in line with each cusWith help from our partners, we can help roles and clarification of the distribution of tomer’s development. Vasakronan also prowith everything from porters and cleaning responsibilities between property operations vides strategic and specialist workplace stratto fruit baskets and dry cleaning. Opting for and property development. A new central egy consultancy services. We can make green services also allows us to reduce our function for technical developments was recommendations when it comes to selecting environmental impact in multiple ways, created with the task of pinpointing, testing and designing premises that will take the including by offering an environmentally cerand developing new technologies. At the workplace to the next level. tified range of office products, waste sorting same time, Vasakronan expanded and deepAnother change is the greater need our and transportation via green vehicles and ened its collaboration with Coor, which was customers have for flexibility. Businesses can bicycle messengers. given greater responsibility for property change rapidly and the need to move to new Particularly good local service is provided operations. premises can arise suddenly. Our Smart & in premises where Vasakronan owns all or klart office concept makes it easy to find a most of the surrounding area and can thereNew energy solutions quick and convenient solution. Smart & klart fore design comprehensive solutions that The property sector accounts for almost means that tenants do not have to deal with suit its tenants. For example, these proper40% of society’s energy consumption. Thereall the practical issues such as IT, workplaces, ties offer receptions, restaurants, conference fore, reducing our energy consumption and fittings and kitchens. In principle, the tenant facilities and gyms. Tenants are offered using renewable energy is an important issue. can move in the day after the agreement is high-quality office solutions, and the option Low energy consumption is also a prerequisigned. Furthermore, the lease is easy to to utilise the various resources with others. site for buildings attaining environmental 16 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 REAL ESTATE CORE Smart City PROPERTIES CAN NOW COMMUNICATE WITH mon language is also a prerequisite for developing EACH OTHER. Digital developments relating to propnew services for tenants, suppliers and the property erty management, operation and maintenance are sector. RealEstateCore offers opportunities to moving at lightning speed. Modern properties generdevelop properties that are more desirable to own, ate large amounts of data. To control and maximise manage, spend time in and are better for their surthe usefulness of this information, a uniform digital rounding environment – a major contribution to the language is required. In collaboration with other prop“smart city”, quite simply. erty owners, Vasakronan has developed just that: RealEstateCore is a collaboration between Vasa­ RealEstateCore. kronan, Akademiska Hus AB, Jönköping University, The language is published in open source format Klipsk AB, RISE and Willhem AB. There is intense and is thus free and open to all who want to use it and interest both at home and internationally. While a contribute. RealEstateCore means that properties number of pilot projects are run by Vasakronan and can start communicating with and understanding Akademiska Hus, discussions are also being held with each other – and will, in the long term, involve other Nordic, European and US players about the next steps players such as energy providers. to take. RealEstateCore was designated “Årets framThe new digital language simplifies management, tidsföretag 2018” (Future Company of the Year). The monitoring and communication. It will become simpler corporate union that promotes energy efficiency, to share data, for example to optimise operations and Energieffektiviseringsföretagen (EEF) was behind make properties even more energy efficient. A comthe nomination. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 17 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT several perspectives. For example, it provides electric vehicles, thereby reducing the strain Energy intensity independent evidence of our properties’ low on the environment and streets. Another kWh/sq.m. environmental impact. It also means that we way to minimise emissions is to ensure that 150 can fulfil our tenants’ growing environmental the properties we own are in prime locations specifications. That our buildings are environwith good access to public transport. Vasa­ 100 mentally certified is also paramount for our kronan actively tries to improve the frequency green bond financing. of services and the location of public trans50 Environmental certification requirements port stops. are set from the start for all new construction Vasakronan undertakes climate compen0 14 15 16 17 18 and acquisitions. However, to meet all of our sation for the remaining direct emissions – as tenants’ demands for environmentally certiwell as certain indirect emissions – by purchasfied premises, even our existing properties ing shares in compensation projects. Compenmust be certified. Achieving this requires a sation is conducted annually, in arrears. For a certification with high ratings and a prerequistructured property management approach summary of Vasakronan’s total greenhouse site for green financing. and clear procedures for our environmental gas emissions, see page 119. With the help of different technological agenda. At year end, 85% (84) of the portfolio To ensure that our efforts to reduce solutions and an effective, knowledgeable was environmentally certified. our environmental impact are sufficient and organisation, Vasakronan conducts continuin line with requirements specified by the ous improvements aimed at reducing energy Reduced emissions Paris climate agreement’s goal to limit global consumption as far as possible. There is also In recent years, Vasakronan has placed warming to two degrees, we have allowed the close collaboration with tenants, particularly intense focus on direct climate emissions to Science Based Targets Initiative to evaluate via the leases, to identify more ways to reduce reduce the company’s environmental impact. our climate targets. The Science Based Targets energy consumption. The energy intensity of However, the results of our annual climate Initiative is a collaboration between the World our portfolio has more than halved since 2009. calculations show that our focus in the future Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), the United However, the energy intensity of our portfoshould primarily be on reducing indirect Nations Global Compact, the Carbon Disclolio increased during the year to an average of emissions. One of the largest sources of indisure Project (CDP) and the World Resources 103 kWh/sq. m. (100), while at year end, 47% rect emissions is tenants’ private electricity Institute (WRI), and its aim is to ensure that (56) of the buildings had an energy intensity consumption, and since 2017 we have added climate targets set by companies are based below 100 kWh/sq. m. This increase in energy a provision to all new leases concerning the on scientific evidence. intensity can be explained by the extremely choice of green energy. Another cause of During the year the company was also hot summer and cold winter. indirect emissions is waste, both from our ranked the most sustainable office company Efforts to increase our own energy productenants and our own projects. Vasakronan is in Europe as well as number nine globally by tion continued, particularly via solar phototherefore taking active steps to make it easier the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchvoltaic panels, and at year-end a total of 55 for its tenants to recycle waste. For example, mark, GRESB. solar photovoltaic systems (49) were in opera central agreement was signed with Ragnation, estimated to generate a total of 3,700 Sells with the objective of recycling a larger Long-term relationships MWh each year. Vasakronan is also planning share of tenants’ waste. In terms of waste The management organisation is decento begin using other solar photovoltaic techfrom our project activities, Vasakronan has tralised into four regions and a separate, nologies such as roofing tiles with integrated a considerable ability to influence both the centrally coordinated Technical Operations solar photovoltaic panels and thin-film solar amount of waste and the proportion of it that & Development Unit that is staffed in each cells on windows. In addition to this, we are can be reused. city in order to create close relationships with testing the storage of any surplus generated Another facet of our work to reduce emisour tenants. The rest of the operations is by the solar photovoltaic panels by way of sions is creating the conditions for sustainable organised into specialist units. This enables different storage solutions and distributing transportation to and from our properties. each part of the organisation to become the it locally via direct current grids. Among other options, Vasakronan provides best in their fields and support management. To further enhance energy efficiency, geoelectric vehicle charging stations and car The properties are managed with our own thermal energy solutions are being exploited pools so that tenants can travel sustainably staff in all business-critical areas and with via aquifers. This means that groundwater to and from work. Another example is our continuity in staffing. This facilitates the long-­ tables in the earth are used to heat and cool Cykel & service concept that makes it easier term work of maintenance, investments and properties. This process is currently used in for tenants to ride their bikes to work. active supervision of the properties to disSergelhuset in central Stockholm and in the As part of the “Älskade stad” (Love your cover and rectify any irregularities in time. Triangeln shopping centre in central Malmö. city) initiative, Vasakronan collaborates with Personal contact makes a difference for Ragn-­Sells, Bring and the City of Stockholm tenants and cultivates long-term relationCertification requirements to set up urban consolidation centres in the ships. The tenants interact with personnel Environmental certification of both existing heart of the city. In this way, distribution of with extensive knowledge about the premises and new build properties is important from goods to stores can be coordinated using and the tenants’ needs. They can also contact 18 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT a central customer service desk for a rapid administration to increase lighting in darker people who work on behalf of Vasakronan, response when filing a complaint. areas such as parking, or in the area around regardless of which employer they work for, To accomplish our mandate to generate our development properties. Other measures to have acceptable work conditions and to be high, long-term returns, excellent customer include pruning trees and bushes to create treated with respect and consideration for satisfaction is a must. Customer satisfaction better visibility, reviewing alarms and introthe health and safety of the individual. surveys are carried out regularly to monitor ducing passage systems. Vasakronan’s size means there is every how satisfied our tenants are and to identify Our collaboration with the Swedish Proppotential to achieve economies of scale in areas for improvement. Vasakronan conducts erty Federation to certify three areas in our procurement process. The work is led a customer satisfaction survey, Tyck om Gothenburg in accordance with the Purple by a central procurement department that Vasakronan, at the beginning of every year. Flag standard continued during the year. ensures that purchases meet high quality and The latest survey was performed at the start Purple Flag is an accreditation process that sustainability requirements at the lowest of 2019, and the score was 76 (76) for office identifies places that have successfully worked possible cost. A systematic procurement proand 73 (75) for retail. The scale of the survey to improve safety and access, and that also cess also affords the opportunity to place is from 1 to 100, where a score of at least 80 offer a diverse selection at night. The areas demands on suppliers and contractors to, corresponds to a grade of Very good. that have been certified are Fredstan, Nordinter alia, minimise the risk of corruption and stan and Lilla Bommen. human rights violations as well as reduce A more secure city their environmental impact. To support this It is important for everyone to feel safe and Systematic purchasing process, Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct for secure in their local surroundings. As To successfully conduct our business, we Suppliers is applied to all new supplier agreeemployers, our tenants want to ensure that need to work with various suppliers. Each ments. In 2018, the Vasakronan’s Code of their employees have a safe workplace and purchase must be conducted with profesConduct for Suppliers was signed for all new a safe journey to and from work. Vasakronan sional correctness, objectivity and honesty agreements entered into via the procurement regularly implements measures aimed at while observing good business practice. department. creating a safe and secure environment in Purchasing is also based on competitive tenOngoing audits are carried out to ensure and around our properties. An important dering. Quotes are evaluated and prioritised that suppliers live up to their obligations. part of this work is creating a mix of offices, on the basis of how they fulfil the specified Results from conducted audits show that our commerce and leisure, thereby creating a requirements in terms of expertise, sustainsuppliers fulfil our work environment and more lively environment during the evenings ability and work environment agenda, funchuman rights requirements in a satisfactory as well. In addition, measures are taken in tion, execution, design and price. We want manner. The business goal for 2019 includes What do you want to showcase from 2018? ence their own development. We have also made “The changes to the technical organisation great strides in many areas and can therefore that took effect in February. These will lead to offer exciting opportunities to do interesting changes in how many people work, not just things at the company. Many people appreciate those who are directly affected. It always takes the fact that we take a holistic approach. We try time for an organisational change to find its to take all perspectives into account as part of feet, but in general everything went very our work, both internally between units and smoothly. The new technical organisation is regions, but also when developing a shopping designed to tackle and manage developments precinct or premises situated in a building in an more effectively, and an important part of area of a city.” these efforts was to clarify roles, responsibiliWhat do you need to work on in 2019? ties and titles. For example, we now have a role “Digitisation has a major impact on our business we have named technological property developer. since it is breaking into every level and every This indicates clear progress and innovation. unit. Accordingly, we need curious and bold We are seeing that it creates pride among employees who are open to innovation and existing employees and greater interest from exploiting the opportunities afforded by digitistudents than was previously the case. That sation – not least in terms of technology. At the makes me proud!” same time, we are putting a lot of energy into What makes Vasakronan an developing places and environments – both attractive employer? indoors and outdoors – and this will require “The culture with deeply rooted values. We us to further develop our behavioural skills. believe in openness, sharing knowledge and To meet these needs we are working simultanedoing business in a fair and honest manner. ously on our own skills development as well as We take short decision-making paths and each on recruitment where necessary.” Cecilia Söderström employee has extensive opportunities to influSenior Vice President HR at Vasakronan VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 19 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT increasing the number of completed supplier Counsel. Employees and others can anonyyoung people in socially disadvantaged audits. For more information, see page 122. mously report any suspected incidents of lack areas, is one example of our involvement. of compliance with laws, rules or policies to Vasakronan contributes its expertise and Protection of employees her. There is also an external whistle-blower resources in various areas via an Advisory Vasakronan’s corporate culture is distinfunction that both employees and external Board and also makes a financial donation to guished by professionalism, flexibility and players can contact. the organisation every year. In Gothenburg, innovative thinking. Employees are encourCultivating employee participation, dediVasakronan partners with Mitt liv, an organiaged to be innovative and to test new, cation and satisfaction is not only the key to sation that promotes a more inclusive sociunproven alternatives. Our work is satisfaca successful business but also Vasakronan’s ety and advocates the value of diversity to tion-driven, and things are done in a fair and responsibility as employer. To retain skilled the labour market. This collaboration has trustworthy manner. Day-to-day work is employees and attract new talents, Vasa­ included, among other measures, a diversity defined by short decision-making paths, kronan offers far-reaching opportunities for course for all Gothenburg-based employees transparency and an all-inclusive perspective development and a good work environment. along with mentorship and internship prothat encompasses our stakeholders, properThe health of our employees is also regularly grammes. ties and the city. We strive to conduct our monitored, and much effort is devoted to Vasakronan is also involved in many business in a sustainable manner and we do wellness activities as well as preventing work contexts to promote positive developments our utmost to practise what we preach, for injuries and rehabilitating employees on in the property sector. Within environmental example when we design office environments, long-term sick leave. issues, the Sweden Green Building Council properties, blocks or entire neighbourhoods. and Byggvarubedömningen (a non-profit All employees and job applicants must be Commitment that makes a difference organisation owned by large developers and treated equally and given equal opportuniVasakronan’s vision is to “create future-proof property owners in Sweden) are examples ties for growth, development and promotion cities for everyone, where people and comof instances where Vasakronan was one of as well as equal pay for equal work. This panies thrive.” Therefore, we have a clear the initiators when both organisations were approach, combined with the principles of ambition to get involved in important social formed. Vasakronan also subscribes to the the United Nations Global Compact, is summatters, even if they are not directly associUN’s climate initiative Caring for Climate, marised in Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct, to ated with Vasakronan’s business. A prerequiKlimatpakten i Stockholm and Uppsala which all employees have access. site for Vasakronan’s involvement is that we klimatprotokoll as well as many different To ensure proper conduct within the comcan make a difference and that our employresearch and development collaborations pany, Vasakronan has a Compliance Officer ees perceive it as relevant. Löparakademin, within a range of different areas. and the role is filled by Vasakronan’s General a non-profit organisation that supports What is Vasakronan doing to Vasakronan scored highly in the Global reduce its environmental impact? Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark, “Since 2009 we have halved the energy conGRESB. How important was that? sumption of our properties and switched “We were ranked first in Europe for offices and to renewable energy, which has led to a signifithe ninth most sustainable property company cant reduction in our direct emissions. This in the world. This shows that we have a strong is not sufficient, however, so in 2018 we took position in the sector, but we want to be sure several major steps to further reduce our that our efforts are sufficient, which is why we impact.” had Science Based Targets (SBT) analyse our climate targets. SBT is an independent organiWhat were these steps? sation that reviews whether companies’ climate “Major emissions are produced during the targets are enough to achieve the goal of the construction process, so we established tarParis climate agreement to keep the average gets to reduce the impact of transportation, global temperature rise well below 2 degrees construction waste and materials. When we Celsius. Our targets are considered to be ambibuilt Hubben at Uppsala Science Park, we protious and entirely sufficient to achieve this.” duced a report that shows how much material was used and what types. More than a tonne of You have also continued to develop materials was used per square metre, and a your green financing – explain how? large proportion of this was steel and concrete “We issued the world’s first green commercial which generate major CO2 emissions. Wood, paper. Demand for green investments in the meanwhile, absorbs carbon dioxide and offers capital market remains high and supply is not several other environmental benefits. This is increasing at the same rate as demand. This why we are planning to build Sweden’s first means green financing is very interesting to wooden office property: Magasin X in Uppsala.” us and we are now working hard to achieve 100% green financing.” Anna Denell Head of Sustainability 20 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 TRIANGELN ATTRACTS THE TRIANGELN SHOPPING CENTRE IN MALMÖ Triangeln also added several new tenants, including has around 120 stores, restaurants and cafés, along Repeat gym, VILA and Hemmakväll. with plenty of services such as cobblers, dry cleaners At the end of the year, it was revealed that ICA and opticians. Some 100,000 people in total pass Nära will open in May 2019 and XXL in late June. through the area each day – largely thanks to the City ICA is a welcome addition as Triangeln did not previTunnel’s Triangeln station that means the shopping ously have any supermarkets. XXL’s store, which will centre has a railway station right outside its doors. cover 3,200 sq. m. on the upper level, is the first of its In 2018 Triangeln proved to be more popular than kind in Malmö. Thanks to these two new establishever. The number of visitors increased 7% – from ments, Triangeln’s occupancy rate is now over 95% almost 6.2 million to 6.6 million – compared with 2017. and there is extensive interest from other tenants to One reason behind this increase in visitors is that become established here. Triangeln altered its opening hours in early September: One of the centre’s challenges has been to attract on weekdays the doors are thrown open as early as Malmö residents to shop in the city centre instead seven a.m. The aim of this was to attract 1,000 visitors of in outer suburbs. Statistics show that the external between seven and ten in the morning – an aim that retail areas see peak visitor rates at the weekends was achieved quickly in late November. Since that and fewer visitors during the week. Triangeln, on the time, Triangeln has consistently surpassed that figure. other hand, has an even distribution throughout the This strong flow of visitors has proved to be posiweek – a Monday may see as much footfall as a Saturtive for retail. The cafés that now receive customers day. This indicates that customers see Triangeln as a early in the morning and Clas Ohlson that opens at natural place to come and shop – regardless of what nine a.m. instead of ten, have both seen a clear day it is. increase in turnover. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 21 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Construction Anna Nyberg SVP Property development, Stockholm that focuses on the environment What is happening in Stockholm City? “We are adopting a holistic approach to the area that forms the heart of Stockholm and which is going to be entirely remodelled. We are developing the area known as Sergelstan, containing Sergelhuset, Sergelgatan and Sergels torg, and connecting it to Reducing the environmental impact during the construction process Malmskillnadsgatan. This will create an is more important than ever, not least when it comes to what materials entirely new area and new flows of people.” are used, how they can be reused and recycled and our transportation Construction began on Sergelhuset methods. last year. How far have you come? “Production has been at full speed. In the autumn, the facades began to be installed and it is so exciting to start seeing the final As tenants’ demands change over time, Vasa­ tions are assessed to be good. This limits outcome emerge. We are continuing to kronan needs to create new types of premises any financial risk related to property developbuild in as sustainable a way as possible. For by way of new construction and upgrades to ment. At year end, ongoing property projects example, we use methods such as grouping existing properties. The properties should be had a total investment volume of SEK 10.6 deliveries and smart logistics for our transsurvivors in the rental market and remain in billion (9.4). The occupancy rate in major ongoportation. The vehicles run on fossil-free fuel. We have also recycled and made use of demand even during downturns. They should ing projects amounted to 41% (44) while the materials that have been torn down.” also be in line with Vasakronan’s sustainable rate of capitalisation was 33% (25). In 2018, business model and be produced with as little a total of SEK 3.3 billion (2.5) was invested in What is your plan for Sergelgatan? impact on the environment as possible. the development of properties and, over the “This was Sweden’s first pedestrian street. We want to restore its former glory and Vasakronan strives to have premises that past five years, SEK 2.5 billion on average has make it a place that people enjoy and where are general in terms of design and not solely been invested every year. The redevelopthey want to be. We are working closely customised to tenants’ current preferences. ments of Bohusgatan, Drivhuset and part of with the City of Stockholm and are now in Premises that can be modified with a miniLäppstiftet in Gothenburg were completed the process of obtaining planning permismum of effort to meet changing needs save sion. Our aim is to transform the street in time, money and the environment. two phases, and we hope the first phase When tenants make choices regarding An increasing share will begin in 2019.” of project waste is recycled premises, it is important that they are enviWhat challenges have you faced? ronmentally friendly. Vasakronan environ“There has been a lot of upheaval. Many mentally certifies all projects in accordance people moving around the city centre have been affected, so of course there has been with LEED and our aim is to achieve the highsome irritation when people find it harder est level – Platinum. For a building to obtain to get about. We have worked intensively to certification, there are requirements govdistribute information that explains to the erning new construction or redevelopment, public what is going on and what it will look the property’s impact on the environment like when it is finished. We have a continuous and on energy intensity during day-to-day dialogue with our tenants who are affected Recycling, 57% (21) management. in order to find positive solutions. Some will Energy reuse/incineration, 21% (47) be moving back, while others will receive Landfill, 19% (31) our help in finding alternatives.” Major investments in projects Hazardous waste, 2% (1) Vasakronan only invests in markets in which Biogas production, 1% (–) it has strong market insight and where condi22 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT in 2018, with a total investment of SEK 450 million. At the same time, the second phase was launched of the upgrade to the Strand office block in Solna, where a property covering 3,500 square metres is to be built to link together two buildings. The decision was taken in Stockholm to begin the redevelopment of Diktaren since a 15-year lease with Engelska Skolan was signed, with occupancy planned for the start of the 2021 school year. In additional to the development potential in existing properties, Vasakronan also has development rights and future potential development rights. At present, there are detailed development plans for approximately 310,000 sq. m. of office space. Efforts are constantly underway to identify new potential projects for the 1.6 million sq. m. of as yet unplanned development rights that are part of Vasakronan’s portfolio. Care for the environment During new construction, redevelopment, leasehold improvements and maintenance, large quantities of material are used that have an environmental impact when they are produced and transported. Therefore, it is essential to reduce the amount of materials and to opt for reused materials or materials produced from renewable or recycled products to a Curving beauty at Hubben. Hubben larger extent. We also need to be sure that at Uppsala Science Park, one of Sweden’s materials do not contain hazardous substances foremost innovation environments, was that can be spread in indoor environments opened during the year. 12,500 square metres of offices, labs, conference faciliand to the eco system outside. That is why ties and a restaurant are spread over every component built into our properties is four floors and an entrance space. always evaluated and documented. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 23 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Vasakronan has noted continuously increashad been reused. Compared with the previhelp create a better mix in the area along with ing demand from companies for long-term ous year, this reduction can primarily be a more vibrant place in the evening. sustainable solutions for premises. One explained by the fact that large amounts of As a property owner, it is also important to method of achieving the target of a fossil-free reused materials used in the redevelopment be able to offer premises with good public construction sector while concurrently meetof Sergelhuset in central Stockholm are transportation and local services. It faciliing tenants’ demands is to build with materials included in the results from last year. tates daily life for our tenants and contribthat have a lower climate impact than steel Waste workshops are arranged for all new utes to a reduced climate impact. This is why, and concrete. Therefore, Vasakronan is planconstruction and major renovation projects, when developing a property, Vasakronan proning to build an office block entirely from with the aim of identifying measures that duces a plan detailing the mixture of activities wood: Magasin X in Uppsala encompassing could reduce the amount of construction that should be available there. 11,000 sq. m. The aim is to start the project waste. Work is also underway within Vasa­ in the first quarter of 2019. kronan to reduce our climate impact from Safe construction sites Vasakronan has required all new constructransportation to and from our construction To manage project risks, Vasakronan places tion and major renovation projects to report sites. Requirements were tightened during great emphasis on quality-assuring processes the type and amount of material used for a the year, meaning all newly initiated projects that are to be implemented. We take responcouple of years now. 2017 was the first year must transport waste and materials using sibility for managing and monitoring projects, in which we were able to measure the actual renewable fuel. For more information about even when external project managers and materials used in a completed project – at Vasakronan’s material and waste managecontractors are hired for the actual work. Hubben in Uppsala. The results showed that ment within project development, see pages When we procure contractors, we ensure only 2% of the materials were renewable and 117 and 120. that they live up to our strict requirements the rest were non-renewable. Our ambition relating to professional correctness, objectivis to increase both the percentage of renewCreating safe environments ity and honesty while observing good busiable material and reduce the amount of mateIt is important for everyone to feel safe and ness practice. All suppliers must comply with rial per square metre in project development secure in their local surroundings. As our Code of Conduct. activities. No new construction projects were employers, our tenants want to ensure that Our suppliers sometimes perform high risk completed during the year. An estimation was their employees have a safe workplace and a work for Vasakronan, and our ambition is to made of materials used in the redevelopment safe journey to and from work. This is becomhave no accidents or severe injuries. We projects completed during the year, since the ing an increasingly important issue when therefore set stringent requirements for conrequirement to report material use was introselecting premises. From the moment we tractors in terms of occupational safety, and duced only after these projects had begun. plan new construction and redevelopment in 2018 we began sharpening our internal However, Vasakronan’s aim is to continue projects, we identify measures to create a procedures for reporting incidents and accimeasuring and evaluating the materials it secure space and a pleasing urban environdents. Vasakronan also participates in Håll uses and increase the share of materials proment. One example is the redevelopment of Nollan – an organisation that works to ensure duced from renewable or recycled products. Sergelhuset in central Stockholm, where dark common sector standards for a secure and During the year, we pursued our efforts to sections and narrow stairways have been safe work environment in the construction increase the percentage of reused material eliminated. Residential units are also being sector. and, at year end, 51 tonnes (116) of material developed in one part of the block, which will Large investments in property projects Total investCapitalised, Percentage Area of premEstimated date Occupancy Environmental City Property ment, SEK m SEK m capitalised, % ises, sq. m. of completion rate, %1) certification Stockholm Sergelhuset 3,700 1,495 40 56,500 Dec 2021 4 LEED Gothenburg Platinum 2,600 536 21 52,900 Dec 2021 47 LEED Stockholm Nattugglan, block 2 800 71 9 15,000 Jun 2021 80 LEED Stockholm, Solna Strand Nöten 5 phase 2 635 148 23 13,000 Sep 2020 51 LEED Malmö Priorn 5 580 323 56 13,200 Apr 2020 55 LEED Uppsala Kronåsen 1:1 Celsius 420 93 22 10,200 Dec 2020 82 LEED Stockholm, Frösunda Hilton 7 390 342 88 11,000 Sep 2019 26 LEED Stockholm Styrpinnen 15 190 95 50 3,650 Dec 2019 0 LEED Stockholm, Solna Diktaren 115 2 2 6,400 Aug 2021 100 LEED Gothenburg Bohusgatan 94 83 88 5,400 Dec 2018 100 LEED Total major property projects 9,524 3,188 33 41 Other projects 1,095 721 Total 10,619 3,909 1) Calculated based on area. 24 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 CLIMATE IMPACT THE CONSTRUCTION AND PROPERTY SECTORS With respect to the use of materials, it is primarily a account for 21% of climate emissions in Sweden. question of reducing the amount of materials being A large percentage of this occurs during the construcused and using more from renewable and recycled tion phase and consists of emissions from building sources. For the first time in 2017, the use of materials materials, transport to and from construction sites was measured for a new construction project at Huband construction waste. For this reason, Vasa­kronan ben in Uppsala. The results showed that more than a works to develop methods, models and new aptonne of material was used per square metre. A mere proaches to reduce these emissions and we have also 2% was produced from renewable products and 8% implemented several important measures to help us from recycled products. become climate-neutral within our operation and The goal now is for all major projects to report maintenance of our existing buildings. quantities and types for materials they have used. Transport to and from construction sites makes Follow-up will be carried out once the project is comuse of grouping deliveries, smart logistics and vehicles plete and the results will form the basis of our annual that run on fossil-free fuel as far as possible. One chalenvironmental report. lenge we face is obtaining reliable data about the disEfforts to reduce emissions are also about finding tances travelled and evidence to show that renewable alternatives. Steel and concrete generate major CO2 fuel was actually used. emissions. Wood is a renewable material, absorbs carIf parts of a building or an entire building is demolbon dioxide and has several other environmental benished, as much material is reused from that site as posefits, which is why Vasakronan is planning to build sible, for example doors, glazing and other interior Sweden’s first office property from wood: Magasin X building materials. One example is the redevelopment in Uppsala. Building with wood is not only climate-­ of Sergelhuset in central Stockholm, where Vasakronan smart; it appears we are also happier and healthier succeeded in drastically reducing the amount of conin wooden buildings. struction waste by way of building material reuse. The materials that cannot be reused are sorted carefully to ensure they can be recycled. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 25 TRANSACTION ACTIVITIES Investment strategy sets the course Buying and selling properties improves the quality of Vasakronan’s portfolio and increases long-term returns. Vasakronan’s property holdings are focused to enhance the quality of the portfolio and ysed in advance to ensure that the property on offices and city retail in Nordic growth thus increase long-term returns. meets Vasakronan’s high standards in terms areas. The investment strategy is reviewed Over the past five years, Vasakronan has of operating expenses, energy consumption annually and sets the course for whether the purchased properties for SEK 4 billion and and choice of materials. Vasakronan’s personcompany will divest, acquire, produce new sold for SEK 8 billion. This equals an average nel perform most of the analyses, which makes properties or develop existing ones. By way property turnover of close to SEK 2 billion it easier in the event that we take possession. of ongoing portfolio planning, Vasakronan’s each year. Properties are bought and sold to We also consult with external experts as existing property holdings are evaluated increase the returns, but this also entails a needed. against the investment strategy. The goal is level of risk. Any acquisition is carefully analA complement to the existing portfolio During the year the fully let Fenixhuset in Property divestments 2018 Purchase central Uppsala was acquired at a property Property City Buyer price, SEK m Transfer date value of SEK 285 million. The property, which Primus 1 Stockholm Oscar Properties/ 931 Mar 2018 encompasses 5,100 sq. m. of lettable area as Starwood Capital well as 50 garage and parking spaces, is in Solna Järva 2:28, 2:35, 2:36 Solna JM 129 Mar 2018 Uppsala’s prime store and office location. Solna Järva 2:29, 2:37, 2:38 Solna JM 126 Jul 2018 Vasakronan’s assessment is that the area will Gårda 18:23 and Gårda 18:24 Gothenburg Platzer 1,068 Sep 2018 continue to be attractive going forward; the Apotekaren 12, Repslagaren 31 Lund Stena Fastigheter 370 Nov 2018 company already owns four of the adjacent and Galten 25 buildings in the district, thus making the acquiTotal property value 2,624 sition a natural complement to the portfolio. Acquisition-related costs, such as stamp duty and other transaction costs, as well as deduction for deferred tax –103 Total purchase price 2,521 Sales in line with the strategy During the year, Vasakronan completed five divestments of properties at a total of nearly Agreed divestments to be completed SEK 2,500 million. In early 2018, the Primus Purchase Property City Buyer price, SEK m Transfer date property on Lilla Essingen in Stockholm was Dependent on detailed sold to one of Oscar Properties and Starwood Smedjan 13 and 15 Malmö Trianon 88 development plan Capital’s jointly owned companies. The propStockholm Telefonfabriken 7 Stockholm Einar Matsson Projekt 210 Dependent on demolition erty value amounted to some SEK 930 million. Total purchase price 298 During the autumn the Gårda 18:23 and Gårda 18:24 properties in Gothenburg were Property acquisitions 2018 sold to Platzer for a property value of some Purchase SEK 1,000 million. In Lund, the Apotekaren 12; Property City Seller price, SEK m Occupancy Galten 25; and Repslagaren 31 properties Priorn 5 Malmö The City of Malmö 78 Feb 2018 were sold to Stena Fastigheter and then Part of Midsommarkransen 1:1 Stockholm The City of Stockholm 31 Apr 2018 vacated at a property value of SEK 370 milSolna Järva 2:29, 2:37, 2:38 Solna Järvastaden 137 Jun 2018 lion. The Telefonfabriken 7 property at Dragarbrunn 18:3 (Fenixhuset) Uppsala SEB Trygg Liv 285 Aug 2018 Telefonplan in Stockholm was also sold for Boländerna 7:4 Uppsala Bil-Trean i Uppsala 45 Oct 2018 SEK 210 million. The sale pertained to develKungsängen 14:1 Uppsala Municipality of Uppsala 17 Dec 2018 opment rights for housing and the buyer, Total property value 592 Einar Mattsson, will take possession when Acquisition-related costs, such as stamp duty and other the demolition of the existing building has transaction costs, as well as deduction for deferred tax 2 been completed in 2019. Total purchase price 594 26 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 ACQUISITION IN UPPSALA A PLEASANT CITY CENTRE containing many stores and H&M’s café concept, It’s Pleat, are now also availwithin a comfortable distance. Vasakronan is the able here. largest commercial property owner in Uppsala, with Several new chains and stores are interested in 125 retail premises covering a total of 43,000 square establishing themselves in Uppsala. Hawaii Poké metres. restaurant will be moving during 2019 into DragarIn June, Vasakronan purchased another property brunnsgatan, next to the Royal cinema. Meanwhile, – Fenixhuset – on the Svartbäcksgatan pedestrian café chain Choco Mania will be opening in Espresso street. The purchase consideration was SEK 285 million. House’s previous premises in the Svava food court. The property is fully let and the three largest tenants A new addition to Svava in 2018 was the bakery are Zara, Dea Axelssons and Jensen secondary school. Leijon Stenugns-bageri & Konditori run by Frida Leijon. The area offers an attractive mix of stores, restaurants, The actual bakery is located outside the city centre, offices, services and housing. The block houses a total so the new sales outlet is one way to tap into the flow of six properties, of which Vasakronan owns five followof people there. Frida Leijon was even named ”Årets ing the purchase of Fenixhuset. This will lead to even stjärnskott” (Rising Star of the Year) in May by the greater opportunities to develop city retail. White Guide for having elevated one of Sweden’s best In late November, H&M reopened its redeveloped café cities by way of solid craftsmanship, exclusivity store in the block containing 3,000 sq. m. H&M Home and playfulness. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 27 FINANCING First to issue green commercial paper Strong owners combined with the high quality of our property portfolio and stable earnings give Vasakronan financial strength and a high rating. Work involving green financing continued with the company issuing the market’s first ever green commercial paper. Owning and managing properties is a capital-­ Financing strategy Stable position intensive business, making it important to According to its financing strategy, Vasakronan finances its activities through have access to financing on solid terms. Vasakronan strives for financial stability, owners’ capital or through external borrowVasakronan strives to create a capital struccost-effective borrowing and a broad boring. This division is decided by weighting the ture that fulfils both the owners’ expectations rowing structure, and aims to be a market requirements for returns and financial stabilof healthy returns on equity and financial staleader within green financing. First and foreity. External borrowing takes place in the bility requirements that ensure the company most, financial stability entails guaranteeing capital market by way of bonds or commercial is able to independently fulfil its financial future borrowing needs in good time. Addipaper or from banks. At the end of the year, commitments. tionally, loan maturities must also be spread the share of capital market financing was out to minimise financing risk and maintain 71% (68) and the share of bank financing Volatile credit market strong financial stability. was 29% (32). We had good access to capital market financTo achieve cost-effective borrowing, ing for most of the year, primarily thanks to Vasakronan strives to maintain an optimal Interest-bearing liabilities increased stable inflows from Swedish fixed-income fixed-interest structure and exploits the Interest-bearing liabilities, net of cash and funds. At year end, however, credit margins prevailing market situation. Vasakronan also cash equivalents, increased during the year increased in part due to outflows from fixed-­ has agreed credit limits with several banks and amounted to SEK 59 million (57), mainly income funds, lower central bank stimuli and investors to have the option to switch due to dividends paid to the owners and and global political unease. Turnover in the between different sources of financing. increased investments. The loan-to-value Swedish and Norwegian capital markets The risk of increased costs for refinancing ratio was 41% (43) at year end. As previously, remained strong, however, and in total or new borrowing is considerably limited low interest rates applied for borrowing and corporate bonds were issued in the Swedish through a broad borrowing structure in the average interest rate was 1.6% (1.7) at market for SEK 159 billion (155) and in the which the specific conditions of the financing year end. Net interest expense improved to Norwegian market for NOK 60 billion (87). sources can be utilised in different market SEK 1,043 million (expense: 1,165) as a result Conditions also changed in the interest-­ conditions. Maintaining the high rating of lower interest rates, and the interest covrate market during the year due to greater assigned to the company during the year is erage ratio increased to a multiple of 4.7 (3.9). volatility in long-term market rates in particualso vital in terms of gaining access to financNet interest-bearing liabilities in relation to lar. At year end, however, long-term market ing from different sources. EBITDA show net debt in relation to the rates had stabilised somewhat at roughly the Vasakronan has ambitious targets for its business’s earnings and amounted at year same level as the beginning of the year. sustainability efforts and works actively to end to a multiple of 11.8 (12.0). Our aim is Vasakronan remained one of the largest promote a sustainability perspective linked to prevent this key metric from exceeding issuers in the Swedish corporate bonds market to financing. Vasakronan was the first coma multiple of 10 over the long term. during the year, as well as the second largest pany to issue green bonds in 2013, while in the Norwegian market. The strong ownerduring the year we took the next step and Low average interest rate ship structure, combined with the high quality became the first again to issue green comof our property portfolio, gives Vasakronan mercial paper. Vasakronan’s strategy is to % 4 financial strength. Vasakronan also obtained actively contribute to the development of a public rating from Moody’s during the year green financing. 3 with the score A3, stable outlook, thus further This financing strategy is reflected in the 2 improving access to financing. company’s financial policy that helps ensure excellent risk management and internal control. 1 The financial policy is established annually by 0 the Board and financial risks are followed up 14 15 16 17 18 and reported to the Board on a quarterly basis. 28 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 FINANCING Sources of financing widely distributed Higher percentage of green financing –11 Bonds SEK, SEK 11.8 billion –5 Secured bank loans, SEK 12.9 billion –2 Commercial paper, SEK 6.2 billion 10 Green bonds, SEK 14.9 billion 5 Bonds, NOK and EUR, SEK 9.9 billion Inflation-linked bonds, SEK 0.7 billion 0 The NIB and EIB, SEK 4.8 billion 2 –12 –10 –8 –6 –4 –2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 % On balance-sheet date Changes in sources of financing 2017–2018 percentage of total borrowing bonds contain a change of control covenant ing to 21% (26) of the total debt portfolio. Green funding under the framework that allows lenders to terminate the loan Total secured bank loans declined to 9% (12) Amounts in SEK million unless the current owners collectively or of the Group’s total assets. The financial Green commercial paper 1,971 separately own at least 51% of Vasakronan policy states that collateralised loans must Green bonds 14,302 and the change in ownership simultaneously not exceed 20% of total assets. Green bonds, NOK 563 leads to a downgrade in the company’s rating In addition to secured bank loans, Vasa­ Total volume of Green Finance by one level. kronan had green unsecured loans with the Instruments 16,836 Nordic Investment Bank and the European Total volume of Green Assets — Green Pool 24,296 Green commercial paper Investment Bank that totalled SEK 4.8 million Remaining approved borrowing capacity 7,460 Vasakronan’s commercial paper enables (3.4) and had maturities of ten and nine years the company to issue commercial paper in respectively. The aim is to continue increasing Swedish krona or euros. The loan limit is the share of unsecured bank financing which High bond turnover SEK 25,000 million and the maturity is a increased during the year to 8% (6) of the During 2018, Vasakronan issued bonds for maximum of one year. Borrowing using com­ total loan portfolio. SEK 8.0 billion (10.3) in the Swedish capital mercial paper totalled SEK 6.2 million (6.9) Vasakronan’s bank loan agreement con­ market, and for NOK 3.3 billion (2.8) in the at year end, corresponding to 10% (12) of tains a change of control covenant that allows Norwegian capital market. Of the issued the total debt portfolio. lenders to terminate the loan unless the cur­ bonds, green bonds comprised SEK 7.4 billion, During the year, Vasakronan updated its rent owners collectively or separately own at thus making Vasakronan the Nordic region’s framework for green financing and this new least 51% of Vasakronan. In addition, there is largest issuer of green corporate bonds. framework now enables financing from all a covenant specifying that the interest cover­ To further diversify borrowing, Vasa­ types of sources. Vasakronan issued the age ratio may not fall below a multiple of 1.5. kronan established an Euro Medium Term world’s first green commercial paper during Agreements for unsecured loans also include Note programme (EMTN programme) during the year using this framework. The commer­ covenants stating that the LTV may not the year. The EMTN programme paves the cial paper is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s exceed 65%. way for financing in several currencies, and in green commercial paper list, and at year end December Vasakronan issued its first EUR green commercial paper outstanding 30 million bond with a tenor of six years. amounted to SEK 2.0 billion (–). The EMTN programme has a loan limit for all currencies of EUR 6,000 million, and Solid bank financing issues in foreign currencies are always Access to bank finance was solid during the hedged. With the establishment of the year, particularly the option to borrow with EMTN programme, Vasakronan’s future longer tenors. Secured bank loans amounted bonds will be listed on Euronext Dublin. The to SEK 13 billion (15) at year end, correspond­ VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 29 FINANCING Credit commitment from owners major renovation projects being financed To secure its access to capital, the company must have a minimum certification of LEED has a credit facility with the First, Second, Platinum or BREEAM Outstanding, and an Third and Fourth Swedish national pension energy intensity that is 25% below the funds that amounts to SEK 18 billion. The National Board of Housing, Building and agreement extends until further notice with Planning’s guidelines (BBR requirements). a notice period of two years. Cash and cash Borrowing through green bonds contributes equivalents of SEK 2.2 billion (1.4) and the to a diversified loan portfolio and thereby to Thomas Nystedt unutilised credit facility together correspond lower financing costs. Investments that qualiGroup Treasurer to 134% (152) of loans maturing over the fied for green bond financing under Vasa­ During the year, Vasakronan obtained a next 12 months or all loan maturities through kronan’s green framework amounted at year rating from credit-rating agency Moody’s. the next 21 months. end to SEK 24 billion (14) and total green Why is this a good thing? bonds and commercial paper outstanding “A large amount of investors, particularly Aiming for entirely green financing increased to SEK 17 billion (8.0). During the international ones, have investment rules requiring the companies to whom they lend A little over five years ago, Vasakronan was year, Moody’s completed an assessment of money to have a rating from a recognised first in the world to use green corporate bonds the green bonds, which resulted in the top credit-rating institution. The strong rating to offer the capital market the opportunity rating of GB1 (Excellent). For more informawe obtained from Moody’s therefore gives to invest in new construction and major tion, see Vasakronan’s investment report for us access to many more potential lenders, renovation projects that lead to lower energy green financing on page 128. some of whom may not have known about consumption and less climate impact. Since For a number of years, Vasakronan has us previously. We are well known in Sweden then, bonds totalling around SEK 19 billion obtained bank loans from the Nordic Investand the other Scandinavian countries, but outside the Nordic region we remain relahave been issued, making Vasakronan the ment Bank (NIB) and European Investment tively unknown. Put simply, the rating Nordic region’s largest issuer of green corpoBank (EIB), which finance projects that enhances and strengthens our opportunirate bonds. improve the environment in Nordic and ties for favourable borrowing.” During the year, Vasakronan drew up a new, Baltic countries. The loans will finance four What is the most important goal revised and expanded framework for green of Vasa­kronan’s projects, including the redeyou want to achieve? financing: Vasakronan — Green Finance Framevelopment of Sergelhuset in central Stockholm “Above all we want to be able to borrow work, which now includes all debt instruments. and the Platinan new build in Gothenburg. money with very long tenors, ideally up to The new framework follows the Green Bond The aim is for these properties to achieve 20 or 30 years, in order to replace some of Principle and states that all borrowing in line LEED Platinum certification, and it is preour short-term borrowing. Generally speakwith the framework is earmarked for green cisely this high environmental profile that ing, the Swedish capital market lends money with very short tenors, and before we investments. enables financing through the NIB and EIB. obtained our rating we were never able to The framework also establishes criteria for The percentage of green funding consisting borrow for longer than ten years.” classifying an asset as green. For an existing of green bonds, green commercial paper and property to qualify for financing within the green loans increased during the period to 35% Where are your new investors located? “We are first and foremost turning to invesframework, it must have a minimum rating of (20) of the total debt portfolio. Vasakronan’s tors in Asia and in non-Nordic European LEED Gold, and an annual energy intensity of ambition is to eventually have 100% green countries. Our expectation is that many under 100 kWh/sq. m. New construction and financing. investors in those regions will see Vasakronan as an attractive investment option.” You have also continued to develop Financial policy ensures balanced risks your green borrowing during the year. In what ways? Financial policy in brief Outcome 31 Dec 2018 “We have expanded our green framework to Financing risk ensure it now applies to all forms of green Loan-to-maturity min. 2 years 3.9 debt instruments. We have continued to Loans maturing, 12 months max. 40% 25% issue our green bonds while also introducing Credit commitments and cash/loans maturing 12 months at least 100% 134% green commercial paper that has shorter tenors. The green funds we borrow will be Interest-rate risk used to finance new green properties and to Interest coverage ratio at least 2.0x (LTM) 4.7 upgrade existing ones. Interest from Swedish Fixed-interest period min. 2 years 4.7 investors has been particularly strong, and Interest maturity within 12 months max 55% 43% green financing now accounts for 35% of our Credit risk total borrowing. In the very long term, 100% Counterpart’s rating min. A-, or BBB+ with CSAs Met of assets, that is to say our properties, and all of our borrowing is to be green, but we have Currency risk a bit of work left to do to get there.” Currency exposure No exposure Met The outcome was within the restrictions defined in the financial policy. 30 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 Photo reprinted with permission. ©2018 Nasdaq, Inc. All rights reserved. SUSTAINABLE VALUES FIRST IN EUROPE and ninth globally. These were the Paris climate agreement – to limit global warming to results Vasakronan obtained in the Global Real Estate below two degrees Celsius. Vasakronan’s target was Sustainability Benchmark, GRESB, for 2018. This means approved by SBT in December 2018, deeming our Vasakronan is one of the world’s most sustainable objective to be well under the two-degree target. property companies within the office segment. The This is good because research is beginning to revise GRESB index is used by investors to assess the risks the figures, which are now indicating that there is associated with property investments, and sustaina need to keep temperature increases below 1.5 ability initiatives for a total of some 900 property degrees Celsius. STB is a collaboration between the companies are evaluated. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), United Nations Vasakronan’s leading position can be explained Global Compact, the World Resources Institute in part by systematic efforts to save energy, the fact (WRI) and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). that 85% of properties are environmentally certified To climate-proof its returns, Vasakronan has also and our large share of green financing. During the analysed its business based on recommendations from year, the company issued the world’s first green comthe Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, mercial paper. TCFD. This initiative involves taking note of and reportOur ranking is a testament to Vasakronan’s ambiing climate-related risks within the business, for examtious goals. However, to ensure that our efforts are ple relating to buildings, energy, transport and vulnersufficient we had Science Based Targets, or SBT, analability in the face of a changing climate. The company’s yse our climate targets. SBT is an independent organioverall objective is for the business to be compatible sation that reviews companies’ climate targets to with the two-degree target. At the very least. ensure that their objectives are in line with the global VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 31 FINANCING Exploiting low interest rates specific conditions that can be utilised in value in the balance sheet. In the case of Changes in interest rates and credit margins different market conditions. The financing interest-rate derivatives, a surplus or deficit influence borrowing expenses. Therefore, strategy specifies that financing risk is to be value occurs if the agreed interest rate is the fixed-interest structure must be balanced limited by diversifying sources of financing higher or lower than the current market rate. to limit the effects of changes in interest and spreading out loan maturities over time. In the same manner, a surplus or deficit value rates or credit margins. A long fixed-interest Financing risk is limited within the financial occurs in the currency derivative of the tenor lowers interest rate risk but can entail policy since the average remaining tenors for agreed exchange rate deviates from the a higher average interest rate in the short interest-bearing liabilities may not be less than relevant exchange rate. The change in value term. two years and loan maturities within a twelveis recognised in profit or loss. The unrealised In accordance with Vasakronan’s financing month period must correspond to not more change in value has no effect on cash flow strategy, the company shall exploit the prethan 40% of interest-bearing liabilities. and will not impact earnings if the derivative vailing market situation to lock in low credit Financing risk in the loan portfolio declined is held to maturity. As currency derivatives margins and market rates and work actively during the year through increased borrowing are perfectly matched against underlying to maintain an optimal fixed-interest strucwith long tenors, including bonds in the loans, there is an opposite exchange rate ture. Vasakronan’s fixed-interest strategy is Norwegian market and new bank loans. At effect on the latter, meaning the currency to have about half of the loan portfolio with the same time, borrowings with short tenors effect is eliminated in profit or loss. floating interest and the remainder with fixed were reduced by a lower volume of commerAt year end, the value of the derivative interest rates at longer tenors. This allows the cial paper. The proportion of loans maturing portfolio amounted to SEK 62 million (64), company to benefit from low floating interest within the next 12 months amounted to 25% of which 82% comprised interest-rate derivrates while fixed interest rates protect against (23), while the share of loans maturing in five atives and 17% currency derivatives. The rising interest rates. There is a limitation years or more amounted to 27% (27) of remaining share of 1% consisted of inflation-­ within the financial policy which states that interest-­bearing liabilities. The average loanlinked derivatives. The value change in derivthe average fixed-interest tenor may not be to-­maturity increased during the year to 3.9 atives was SEK 13 million (468). Vasakronan less than 2 years, and that the amount of years (3.8) and average loan-to-maturity opted for early settlement of interest-rate interest maturities within 1 year may not taking into consideration unutilised credit derivatives for a nominal value of SEK 5,650 exceed 55% of interest-bearing liabilities. commitments totalled 4.4 years (4.4). million (3,200) during the year. With that, a Vasakronan uses interest-rate derivatives Vasakronan’s aim is to continue increasing previously recognised loss of SEK 484 million to achieve a preferred average fixed-interest loan-to-maturity primarily by replacing loan (loss: 359) was realised. At the same time, tenor. The cost of derivates is based on volume, maturities with loans with longer tenors. new interest-rate derivatives were entered maturity and market rates. During the year, into with longer maturities and at current the company continued to use the low interest Desired fixed-interest period interest rates. rate conditions through new derivatives with Vasakronan uses derivatives primarily to maturities of up to 15 years. The proportion adjust the fixed-interest structure in the of interest maturities within one year was debt portfolio. By combining a loan with 43% (41) and instruments with fixed-­interest floating interest and an interest-rate derivamaturities of five years or more amounted to tive, a pre-determined rate can be guaran47% (43) of interest-bearing liabilities. The teed over the term of the derivative. By fixing average fixed-interest tenor, taking derivarates over a longer period, the interest-rate tives into account, increased and was 4.7 risk linked to cash flow is limited. Currency years (4.5) at year end. derivatives are used in addition to interest-­ rate derivatives to eliminate currency expoIncreased loan-to-maturity sure on loans in NOK and EUR. The risk of The risk of increased costs for refinancing inflation is eliminated by derivatives when or new borrowing is considerably limited borrowing via inflation-linked bonds. through diversified financing sources, with All derivatives are recognised at market 32 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 PROPERTY HOLDINGS Rising property values in a strong lettings market Strong demand for modern and sustainable premises in prime locations is continuing to push up property values. During the year, the value of Vasakronan’s portfolio rose 8.5% (6.5) to SEK 139 billion (127). Vasakronan’s portfolio is currently concenlettable area of 2.4 million sq. m. (2.4). Of the Rising market rents trated in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and total area, 85% (84) was environmentally Trends in the regional property markets in Uppsala — metropolitan areas with strong certified. which Vasakronan operates were charactereconomic growth and high liquidity in the The total market value of the properties at ised in 2018 by a consistently strong economy transaction markets. Our holdings are focused year end amounted to SEK 139 billion (127), and high demand for modern office premises on modern, sustainable, flexible and centrally and the ten largest properties accounted in prime locations. located office and retail properties, with stores for 32% of the value. The largest property The value of the portfolio increased in 2018 primarily concentrated within city retail. Our in terms of value is Klara Zenit in central to SEK 139 billion (127). Excluding completed assessment is that these properties give high Stockholm, with an estimated market value investments, this means a change in value of long-term returns at carefully measured risk, of more than SEK 8 billion. The Stockholm-­ SEK 10.7 billion (8.0), corresponding to 8.5% even if the short-term return may vary. based properties account for 66% (65) of the (6.9). The increase in value is largely due to total value, which is around SEK 92 billion. rising market rents but also to a lower yield Larger environmentally certified area For a detailed description of the portfolio, requirement, particularly in Gothenburg. The At year end, Vasakronan’s property portfolio refer to the table on page 37 and the propvalue increase was greatest in Gothenburg, comprised 174 properties (179) and a total erty lists under each region section. followed by Stockholm, and amounted to Good distribution across sectors The ten largest properties account for 32% of the property value Property Known as Location Blåmannen 20 Klara Zenit City, Stockholm  ublic sector, 24% P Garnisonen 3 Garnisonen Östermalm, Stockholm Services, 21% Uggleborg 12 Klara C City, Stockholm Consumer goods, 19% Hästskon 12 Segelhuset City, Stockholm IT, 9% Telefonfabriken 1 Hus 01 Telefonplan Telefonplan, Stockholm Finance, 5% Spektern 13 Swedbankhuset City, Stockholm Telecom, 4% Industry, 3% Nordstaden 8:27 Part of Nordstan City, Gothenburg Other, 15% Jakob Större 18 Jakob Större City, Stockholm Gasklockan 3 Gasklockan Malmö Breakdown by sector, share of contracted rent Kronåsen 1:1 Uppsala Science Park Uppsala The ten largest properties based on market value. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 33 PROPERTY HOLDINGS 9.7% (4.9) and 9.3% (12.8) respectively. Change in value by region During the year, the value of development Contribution to change in properties rose 8.7% (7.9) and contributed Change in value, % value, percentage points 0.6 percentage points to the total increase Stockholm 9.3 6.1 in value. Gothenburg 9.7 1.8 Öresund 3.2 0.3 Total yield in focus Uppsala 5.5 0.3 To evaluate how well the operations and indiTotal 8.5 vidual properties are developing financially, total yields are followed up continuously. The evaluation is based on the average outcome over rolling ten-year periods in accorChange in value, by category dance with MSCI Sweden Annual Property Contribution to change in Change in value, % value, percentage points Index. The outcome for each separate year is also followed up and analysed. For 2018, the Investment properties 8.4 7.6 total yield was 12.5% (11.0) where the averDevelopment properties 8.7 0.6 age for the index not including Vasakronan Transactions – 0.3 was 10.4% (11.1). Total 8.5 Over the past ten-year period, Vasakronan’s total yield was 10.0% (8.6) a year, where the average for the index not including Vasakronan Factors impacting value1) was 9.1% (7.6). The direct yield for 2018 was SEK m Value impact, % 3.8% (3.9), compared with the index excluding Vasakronan of 3.7% (3.9). Yield requirement 1.9 Vasakronan values the property portfolio Market rents 6.6 each quarter in line with the established valuTotal 8.5 1) The increase in value was also due to investments and other factors impacting value ation policy. The valuation principles are the that have been allocated proportionally across yield requirements and market rents. same since 1997 and coincide with the RICS 34 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 PROPERTY HOLDINGS Red Book guidelines and MSCI Sweden and garages, amounted to approximately Annual Property Index. The valuations are 4,200 and the contracted rent amounted to Widely distributed over many tenants based on cash-flow projections over a period SEK 6.5 billion (6.3) on 31 December 2018. Share in % of at least ten years and calculation of future Of the total contracted rent, 74% (74) was Swedish Police Authority 3 residual values based on yield requirements. office premises and 18% (18) retail premises. Ericsson 3 At the start of the year and mid-year, all propThe remainder comprised flats, parking, H&M 3 erties are valued by external appraisers and hotels and other. Swedish Prison and Probation Service 2 valued internally for the other quarters. Försäkringskassan (Social Insurance Agency) 2 A more detailed description of the valuation Swedish National Courts Administration 1 methodology can be found on page 83. Åhléns 1 KPMG 1 Wide distribution lowers risk Region Uppsala 1 Risks linked to the lease portfolio are limited NetEnt 1 by ensuring a wide distribution over many Total 18 tenants active in various industries and a Largest tenants, share of contracted rent diversified maturity structure. No individual tenant accounts for more than 3 percentage Even distribution of rents to maturity points of the contracted total rent, while the SEK m No. of contracts Annual rent, SEK m % of total ten largest tenants account for only 18%. Of these ten, five are in the public sector. Broken 2019 1,402 1,118 16 down by sector, public sector tenants account 2020 932 1,116 16 for 24% of the contracted rent where the aver2021 759 1,171 17 age remaining term to maturity is 6.9 years. ≥2022 1,138 3,141 46 For the lease portfolio as a whole, the Total 4,231 6,547 average remaining term to maturity is 4.2 Residential 1,169 99 1 years (4.2). In 2019, 16% of the commercial Garage – 209 3 contracted rent will be subject to renegotiaTotal 5,400 6,854 tion. The number of leases, not including flats Maturity structure for contracted rent. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 35 PROPERTY HOLDINGS Broad selection Focus on office and retail Market concentration and the property portfolio’s high quality and flexibility provides vast opportunities to offer new and existing tenants a broad selection of premises. In 2018, Offices, 73% new leases corresponding to an annual rent Retail, 19% of SEK 510 million (613), or 146,000 sq. m. Other, 8% (167,000), were signed. In addition, renegotiations or lease extensions of existing contracts corresponding to an annual rent of SEK 990 million (1,036) were completed. Contracted rent by property type Based on the contracts up for renegotiation, 69% (64) of the tenants decided to remain in their premises. High long-term total yield Renegotiations and lease extensions during the years resulted in a new rent pay% able that on average surpassed the earlier 15 Värdeförändring amount by 12% (10). Net lettings for the year 12 Direktavkastning amounted to SEK 19 million (167), of which 9 SEK 19 million (23) was for lettings in new 6 construction projects. 3 The occupancy rate was 93.1% (93.1) on 0 31 December 2018. Of the total vacancies, Vasakronan IPD Vasakronan IPD Vasakronan IPD 2.0 percentage points (2.5) is attributed to 10 years 3 years 2018 ongoing projects and 0.5 (0.3) is attributed to Yield Change in value vacant development properties. The loss in Vasakronan’s total yield compared with MSCI Sweden income for the vacant properties amounted Annual Property Index (not including Vasakronan) to SEK 419 million (407). Property portfolio in growth cities Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala 66% 18% 9% 6% Following sales of its holdings in Lund, Vasakronan’s properties are located in four cities in Sweden distributed over four regions, of which 66% of the property portfolio’s value is in Stockholm. 36 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 Net Environ­ Area, Market Contracted operating Investmental Number of thousand value, rent, Occupancy income, ments, Change in certificaRegion/Property type properties sq. m. SEK m SEK m rate, % SEK m SEK m value, % tions2), % STOCKHOLM CENTRAL Offices1) 44 786 70,110 3,087 94 2,177 1,567 11.1 Other 2 9 20 –2 2 –10.8 Central Stockholm, total 46 795 70,130 3,087 94 2,175 1,569 85 INNER SUBURBS Offices 22 553 20,203 1,172 89 818.0 418 3.9 Other 11 47 1,284 58 100 37 17 4.1 Stockholm inner suburbs, total 33 601 21,487 1,230 90 855 435 76 Stockholm, total 79 1,395 91,617 4,317 93 3,030 2,004 9.3 81 GOTHENBURG Offices 23 254 13,476 669 96 498 579 11.9 Retail 11 148 12,154 588 95 475 152 7.2 Gothenburg, total 34 402 25,630 1,256 95 974 731 9.7 94 ÖRESUND Offices 22 240 9,058 495 87 346 329 5.1 Retail 10 95 3,836 249 95 136 81 –0.8 Other 3 4 302 14 100 11 2 0.0 Öresund, total 35 339 13,196 758 90 494 412 3.2 96 UPPSALA Offices 12 173 5,484 365 98 263 154 5.1 Retail 9 61 2,698 157 97 107 22 5.0 Other 5 2 309 1 5 1 13 22.7 Uppsala, total 26 236 8,491 523 97 371 189 5.5 77 TOTAL 174 2,372 138,934 6,854 93 4,869 3,335 8.5 85 The data in the tables are based on property category, see the definition on page 140. 1) Central Stockholm – Retail only comprises one property, which is why this has not been reported separately and is instead included in Central Stockholm – Offices 2) Share of the region’s area VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 37 Our regions Lower yield requirement, retail % 7 Lund A-lä Malmö C 6 Göteborg “The positive rental market trend continued in 5 Uppsala i 2018, with rising rents and extremely low Stockhol 4 vacancies. At the same time, the addition of new Stockhol office premises is limited in several markets,” 3 Stockhol 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Källa: DTZ informs Vasakronan’s Head of Research Rebecca Ernarp. Rising market rent, offices SEK/m²/year 8,000 Lund A-lä 7,000 Malmö C “The cost per work station 6,000 Göteborg 5,000 can remain unchanged 4,000 Uppsala i even though the rent per 3,000 Stockhol square metre is higher.” 2,000 Stockhol 1,000 Stockhol 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Källa: DTZ Rebecca Ernarp, Head of Research Lower yield requirement, office % 7 Lund A-lä What has driven demand for office premises over the year? Malmö C “The prime driver has been the continued strength of the economy. 6 Göteborg Many companies are performing well and need to recruit more employees, which in turn leads to needing new premises. And to 5 Uppsala i attract new employees, one has to offer modern premises, preferaStockhol bly in a city or with excellent communication links. This is increasing 4 Stockhol demand and driving up rent levels, particularly for space-efficient Stockhol premises in prime locations.” 3 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Källa: DTZ What characterises the premises in most demand? Stockholm’s CBD Central Stockholm (excl. CBD) “Aside from a prime location, our customers are looking for efficient, Stockholm Suburbs Central Uppsala Gothenburg’s CBD Malmö’s CBD Lund prime location ultra modern offices. New ways of working and technical solutions for IT and ventilation mean that physically, employees can work close together without feeling confined. This means that the cost per work station can remain unchanged even though the rent per square metre is higher. So even if a company grows with more Stable market rent, retail employees, the premises do not need to be larger.” SEK/m²/year 16,000 Lund A-lä What differentiates Vasakronan’s various regions? 14,000 “The trends are most positive in Stockholm and Gothenburg. Both Malmö C cities are experiencing strong demand, few vacancies and low new 12,000 Göteborg construction in central locations, all of which drive rents higher. 10,000 Uppsala i Stockholm accounts for the greatest rent increases with top rents 8,000 Stockhol of more than SEK 9,000 per square metre. Differences between 6,000 Stockhol locations and products have also widened. In Gothenburg, the lack of modern premises has most likely acted as a brake on this trend. 4,000 Stockhol 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Källa: DTZ In Uppsala, the trend has been very favourable and rents have caught up with the levels we are noting in Malmö. In Malmö, the Stockholm’s CBD Gothenburg’s CBD Malmö’s CBD rental market has also developed positively despite the large offering of centrally located development sites holding back rent levels.” Source for all diagrams: DTZ 38 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 Share of Vasakronan Share of Vasakronan 2018 2017 total1) the region1) Largest tenants, share2) % Market share % REGION STOCKHOLM CENTRAL Market value, SEK m 70,130 61,716 H&M 4 Central Stockholm, incl. CBD Rental revenue, SEK m 2,948 2,855 NetEnt 2 Vasakronan 12 Net operating income, SEK m 2,175 2,067 The Riksdag Administration 2 AMF 7 Occupancy rate, % 94 93 Tieto 2 Fabege 5 Number of properties 46 46 45% Offices, 77% KPMG 2 Hufvudstaden 5 Area, thousand sq. m. 795 796 Retail, 17% AFA 5 Environmental certification, % 85 84 Other, 6% Source: CBRE INNER SUBURBS Market value, SEK m 21,487 21,263 Ericsson 16 Stockholm inner suburbs Rental revenue, SEK m 1,208 1,171 Social Insurance Agency 8 Vasakronan 12 Net operating income, SEK m 855 835 University of Arts, Crafts and Design 4 Klövern 12 Occupancy rate, % 90 90 Swedish Transport Administration 3 Fabege 11 Number of properties 33 36 18% Offices, 86% JM 3 UnibailRodamco 6 Area, thousand sq. m. 601 629 Retail, 3% Humlegården 5 Environmental certification, % 76 73 Other, 11% Source: CBRE REGION GOTHENBURG Market value, SEK m 25,630 23,688 Prison and Probation Service 8 Gothenburg’s CBD Rental revenue, SEK m 1,280 1,246 Swedish Police Authority 8 Vasakronan 22 Net operating income, SEK m 974 957 Åhléns 5 Wallenstam 14 Occupancy rate, % 95 96 National Courts Administration 4 Hufvudstaden 9 Number of properties 34 36 18% Offices, 58% SEB 3 Balder 8 Area, thousand sq. m. 402 423 Retail, 36% SEB 7 Environmental certification, % 94 94 Other, 6% Source: Vasakronan via Datscha REGION ÖRESUND Malmö’s CBD Market value, SEK m 13,196 12,667 Swedish Police Authority 15 and Västra Hamnen Rental revenue, SEK m 761 755 Sony Mobile 8 Vasakronan 20 Net operating income, SEK m 494 498 Prison and Probation Service 4 Wihlborgs 14 Occupancy rate, % 90 90 Scandic Hotels 4 Balder 7 Number of properties 35 37 11% Offices, 62% Malmö University 2 Volito 5 Area, thousand sq. m. 339 353 Retail, 25% Midroc 4 Environmental certification, % 97 97 Other, 13% Source: Vasakronan via Datscha REGION UPPSALA Market value, SEK m 8,491 7,542 Region Uppsala 11 Central Uppsala Rental revenue, SEK m 521 463 Swedish Medical Products Agency 7 Vasakronan 20 Net operating income, SEK m 371 321 National Courts Administration 5 Skandia Fastigheter 10 Occupancy rate, % 97 96 National Food Agency, Sweden 5 Uppsala Univ. Foundations 8 Number of properties 26 24 8% Offices, 68% Municipality of Uppsala 3 Municipality of Uppsala 8 Area, thousand sq. m. 236 229 Retail, 22% Bonnier Fastigheter 6 Environmental certification, % 77 79 Other, 10% Source: Vasakronan via Datscha 1) Contracted rent 2) Share of the region’s contracted rent. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 39 REGION STOCKHOLM Increased focus on city office space “The new Sergelhuset will be a welcome addition to an office market where demand is still booming. At the same time, the renewal of the area around Sergels torg entails a boost that will create a new attractive retail precinct,” says Ronald Bäckrud. “Part of Sergelhuset will be dedicated to our own co-working offering, Vasakronan Arena” Ronald Bäckrud, Senior Vice President, Stockholm Region What do you want to showcase from 2018? been for an extended time. We have been able to “It has been a good year in which we continued to see this in our own city retail index for several develop our major projects. I am thinking primaryears. While the retail developments are a chalily about Sergelhuset but also about the lease to lenge, they also represent an opportunity. Instead the Swedish Council for Higher Education, which of large stores occupying two floors, smaller spaces resulted in us starting phase 2 of the Strand block at street level are now in demand. This means we in Solna. Phase 1 has been completed and is fully can convert the first floor to offices, which are in let to COWI. In 2020, they will be joined by the short supply, and the basement floor to uses such Swedish Council for Higher Education and Statisas logistics hubs. We have already done the latter tics Sweden. at Klara Zenit. Demand for modern centrally located offices In general, we are not concerned that city remains strong and we have noted considerable interretail space will be unlet. Even e-commerce needs est in Sergelhuset, which should be ready in 2020. physical stores in central locations. A good examIn the near future, we expect to sign leases with ple of this is Uniqlo, which has recently opened a one, or maybe two, major tenants. We can then add store with us on Hamngatan.” tenants with a need for smaller premises. Some of What is the status outside of the city centre? the office space at Sergelhuset will be dedicated to “Good! Over the year, many large customers have our own head office, our own co-working offering extended their contracts, such as TV4 on TegeluddsVasakronan Arena, and to Smart & klart which vägen, Bisnode in Frösunda and Ericsson in Kista. allows tenants to rent for shorter periods.” Demand at Garnisonen is high and the occupancy What is happening on Sergelgatan? rate is 96%. As regards the Nattugglan 14 develop“The vision is to create a new facade for Sergel­ ment property at Medborgarplatsen, it has long gatan, Sveavägen and Hötorgsterrassen, which will been the destination for Tyréns when it moves its become a safer, more vibrant area. The aim is to head office. It is leasing 80% of the building. We create the preconditions for new retail solutions. have emptied the existing building but the planning The entrance areas of the Hötorgshusen buildings process is taking a little longer than we had expected. will be renewed to become more efficient and we We have therefore solved Tyréns’ expansion needs will increase services. For example, we are making in the meantime by offering them premises in the space for a large restaurant on the corner facing Skrapan building on Götgatan.” the Konserthuset building. The details are essenWhat is the outlook for the office market tially in place and we are waiting for the City of in Stockholm during 2019? Stockholm to approve the building plans. The “Understanding of the need for flexible and challenge is to create good retail concepts and to effective premises is increasing. Technical complete the project while many tenants remain advances together with the design of premises in situ in the Hötorgshusen buildings.” enable new working methods that boost compaEvery day we read of the demise of another nies’ productivity. This means that utilisation store due to the increased e-commerce. rates for offices rise and that the cost per employee How does this affect you? is often lower. Despite rents rising dramatically in “The retail sector is in a process of change and has the last few years, as they have in Stockholm.” 40 REGION STOCKHOLM With Smart & klart we want to remove the worry for our tenants. Just move in and then move out. This little 70 square metre eagle’s nest offers eight work places and is located on the eighth floor of the second Hötorgsskrapan building in the centre of Stockholm city. 41 REGION STOCKHOLM CENTRAL STOCKHOLM Central Stockholm 25 4 7 18 31 34 32 12 13 8 26 6 19 30 24 35 27 2 14 22 3 21 9 28 23 11 29 17 10 33 15 1 4 BREMEN During the year, TV4 extended its contract at Tegeluddsvägen. The lease, which runs from 2020, is for seven years 20 and encompasses 13,500 square metres. 16 5 29 STYRPINNEN 15 Over the year, this property located adjacent to Kungsträdgården 9 SERGELHUSET The transformahas been emptied and work on rebuilding and strengthtion of Sergelhuset continued during ening the foundations has the year. The property comprises commenced. The project three buildings and a total of 60,000 encompasses 3,600 square square metres. Tenants will move in metres and should be comgradually starting in autumn 2020 pleted by December 2019. until the end of 2021. 42 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 CENTRAL STOCKHOLM REGION STOCKHOLM Central Stockholm Year of construction/ Environmost recent Lettable mental redeveloparea excl. Share, % certifiName of property Street address ment garage sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Argus 8 Skeppsbron 38/Packhusgränd 7/Tullgränd 4/Österlånggatan 47 1788/2002 5,717 LS 2 Beridarebanan 11 Sergelgatan 8–14/Sveavägen 5–9 Hitechbuilding/ 1961/2007 24,352 LG Mäster Samuelsgatan 42 2 Beridarebanan 4 Sergelgatan 16–18/Sveavägen 13/Läkarhuset 1962/2000 12,943 LG 2 Beridarebanan 77 Sveavägen 17/Sergelgatan 20–22/Hötorget 2–4 1958/1996 15,447 LG 3 Blåmannen 20 Drottninggatan 53/Mäster Samuelsgatan 50–60/ 2000–2003 65,526 LG Bryggargatan 1–9/Klara Norra Kyrkogata 14 4 Bremen 1 Tegeluddsvägen 3–9 1964/2008 21,334 – 5 Gamen 12 Götgatan 74–80/Vartoftagatan 21–51 1959/2006 31,192 LC 5 Gamen 8 Åsögatan 106A–108/Götgatan 72A 2000/2001 5,835 LG 6 Garnisonen 3 Karlavägen 96–112/Oxenstiernsgatan 15/Linnégatan 87–89/ 1886/2004–05 136,162 LG Banérgatan 16–30 7 Getingen 11 Sveavägen 163–167/Ynglingagatan 18 1955/2005 23,853 LG 8 Grönlandet Norra 1–5 Drottninggatan 96–98/Wallingatan 2/Holländargatan 17/ 1800/2001 15,572 LG Kammakargatan 15 9 Hästskon 12 Sveavägen 2–10/Hamngatan 24–32/Mäster Samuelsgatan 39A–B/ 1963/ 53,218 – Malmskillnadsgatan 13–17, 36–40/Sergelarkaden 2/Sergelgången 9 Hästskon 9 Hamngatan 22/Regeringsgatan 45 1935/ 9,667 – 10 Jakob Större 18 Jakobsgatan 2–8/Regeringsgatan 8–24/Västra Trädgårdsgatan 7 1975/2009 26,590 LG 11 Kungliga Trädgården 7 Hamngatan 25–27/Västra Trädgårdsgatan 10–12 1969 5,423 LS 12 Kurland 11 Holländargatan 21A/Kammakargatan 32 1884 2,274 LG 13 Lyckan 10 Lindhagensgatan 124–132/Hornsbergsvägen 17 1940/2005 23,718 LG 13 Lyckan 9 Lindhagensgatan 122/Nordenflychtsvägen 55 1936/2003 8,370 LG 14 Matrosen 4 Birger Jarlsgatan 2–4/Nybrogatan 1–3/Ingmar Bergmans gata 1–3 1893/1984 9,264 LS 15 Munklägret 21 Hantverkargatan 15/Parmätargatan 12 1958/2000 6,330 LG 16 Nattugglan 14 Västgötagatan 1–7/Folkungagatan 44 1978/2015 22,269 LP 17 Pennfäktaren 11 Vasagatan 7 1977/2009 12,010 LG 18 Riga 2 Hamburgsvägen 12–14/Fjärde Bassängvägen 11–19/ 2010 24,386 LG Malmvägen 7–13/Tredje Bassängvägen 2–14 19 Sejlaren 7 Sveavägen 25–29/Olofsgatan 6–8/Olof Palmes gata 7/ 1930/1995 10,232 LG Apelbergsgatan 44 20 Skjutsgossen 8 Krukmakargatan 15–21 1942/2008 12,275 LG 21 Skravelberget Hamngatan 2/Birger Jarlsgatan 1–5/Smålandsgatan 5 1903/1999 9,052 – Mindre 12–13 22 Skären 3 Mäster Samuelsgatan 11/Norrlandsgatan 12 1853/1984 1,758 LC 23 Spektern 13 Hamngatan 29–33/Regeringsgatan 26–32/ 1975/1995 28,192 LG Sergelgången/Västra Trädgårdsgatan 17 24 Sperlingens Backe 45 Stureplan 2 1897/1959 3,905 – 24 Sperlingens Backe 47 Birger Jarlsgatan 16/Grev Turegatan 1 1935/1993 8,222 – 25 Starkströmmen 2 & 4 Midskogsgränd 1–5 1965 9,192 – 26 Stuten 12 Kungsgatan 25–27/Regeringsgatan 67–71/Oxtorgsgatan 2–4 1925/2002–05 14,888 LS 27 Styckjunkaren 11 Birger Jarlsgatan 6D & 10 1891/1984 1,615 LS 27 Styckjunkaren 7 Birger Jarlsgatan 14/Grev Turegatan 2/Riddargatan 2 1900/1987 2,244 LS 28 Styrpinnen 12 Hamngatan 13 1979/1995 2,223 – 29 Styrpinnen 15 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 16/Näckströmsgatan 1 1901/1990 3,647 LG 30 Sumpen 14 Lästmakargatan 6/Norrlandsgatan 22 1856/1985 2,046 LS 30 Sumpen 15 Stureplan 17–19/Birger Jarlsgatan 19/Kungsgatan 1 1895/1980 3,981 LC 30 Sumpen 16 Stureplan 13/Lästmakargatan 2–4 1862/1988 3,010 – 31 Svea Artilleri 14 Valhallavägen 117 Bldg 81–Bldg 87 1877/2013 22,088 LG 32 Tre Vapen 2 Valhallavägen 185–215/Lindarängsvägen 1–7/Borgvägen 6–22 1959/2005 38,473 LG 33 Uggleborg 12 Vasagatan 14–18/Klara Västra Kyrkogatan 9–15/ 1934/2016 33,157 LP Klara Vattugränd 1/Klarafaret 4 34 Uppfinnaren 2 Östermalmsgatan 87/Artillerigatan 62 A–B/Skeppargatan 61–63 1914/2003 16,819 LG 35 Vildmannen 6 Biblioteksgatan 11/Lästmakargatan 1 1925/1981 4,809 LS 35 Vildmannen 11 Lästmakargatan 3 1897/1998 1,511 LS Total Central Stockholm 794,791 1) LP=LEED Platinum LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver LC=LEED Certified MBG=Miljöbyggnad Gold VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 43 REGION STOCKHOLM STOCKHOLM’S INNER SUBURBS Stockholm’s inner suburbs 8 HEKLA 1 In the last quarter of the year, Ericsson extended 8 16 its lease at Hekla 1. 12 10 The agreement encom13 3 passes 20,000 square metres and extends for 11 three years. 24 21 20 19 4 9 6 14 15 1 18 17 5 2 18 STRAND During the year, an agreement was 23 signed with UHR for 6,600 square 22 metres at the Strand 7 property and phase 2 was started, which encompasses 26,000 25 square metres over six floors in three 5 DIKTAREN In September, the Internationella buildings. Phase 1 has Engelska Skolan signed an agreement for 6,600 square been completed and metres at the Diktaren development property. The is fully let to COWI. investment corresponds to SEK 115 million and the project is scheduled for completion in August 2021. 44 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 STOCKHOLM’S INNER SUBURBS REGION STOCKHOLM Stockholm’s inner suburbs Year of construction/ Environmost recent Lettable mental redeveloparea excl. Share, % certifiName of property Street address ment garage sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Albydal 3 Sundbybergsvägen 1–3/Solna Access 1979/2003 28,246 LG 2 Alvik 1:18 Gustavslundsvägen 129–145 1987 47,986 – 3 Bredbandet 1 Isafjordsgatan 2–4/Dalviksgatan/Grönlandsgatan/Kistavägen – – – 4 Bromsten 9:1 Sulkyvägen 1–31/Sulkyvägen 2–32 – – – 5 Diktaren 1 Terminalvägen 32–40 (Tegelhuset) 1965 6,751 – 6 Godset 4 Sturegatan 3–9/Fabriksgränd 1/Järnvägsgatan 2–10/Lysgränd 2 1977 21,722 LG 7 Hammarby Gård 12 Hammarby Kaj 10A/Hammarby Kaj 10D 2017 12,457 LP 8 Hekla 1 Isafjordsgatan 14–16/Blåfjällsgatan/ 1975/2001 36,119 LG Grönlandsgången/Kistagången (part of) 9 Hilton 7 Gustav III:s Boulevard 48–52 – – – 10 Hårddisken 1 Isafjordsgatan 10/Hans Werthéns Gata/ – – – Grönlandsgatan/Dalviksgatan 11 Järvafältet Järva Dammtorp/Sjövägen/Mellersta Järvafältet 1929 2,084 – 12 Katla 1 Kista Science Tower/Färögatan 33 (Main entrance)/ 2003 48,804 LG Hanstavägen 11, 21, 27, 29 13 Knarrarnäs 2 Knarrarnäsgatan 1–11/Hanstavägen 2/ 2002 42,652 LG Isafjordsgatan 1/Kista Entrance 14 Kronan 1 Sturegatan 2–4 B/Ekensbergsvägen/ 1981 23,075 LG Prästgårdsgatan 1–3/Tallgatan 15 Magasinet 1 Sturegatan 1/ Fabriksgränd 2 2009 12,340 LS 16 Modemet 1 Isafjordsgatan 10–12/Hans Werthéns Gata 1/ 2008/2015 58,667 LS, LG Grönlandsgatan 31/Blåfjällsgatan 4/Modemgatan 10–12 & LP 17 Nöten 3 Solna strandväg 96–122 1949/2000 35,800 LG 18 Nöten 5 Solna strandväg 62–86 1986 27,918 – 19 Rosenborg 1 Gustav III:s Boulevard 54–58 2007 10,306 LG 20 Rosenborg 2 Gustav III:s Boulevard 62–66 2009 10,921 LG 21 Rosenborg 3 Rosenborgsgatan 2–12 2014 17,106 LP 22 Rosteriet 6 & 8 Rosterigränd 2–16 1959/1999 17,421 LG 23 Sicklaön 37:49 Kvarnholmsvägen 56 1972/2002 33,769 – 24 Sundbyberg 2:44 Torshamnsgatan – – – 25 Telefonfabriken 1 Telefonvägen 22A–30, LM Ericssonsväg 12–32 and others 1939/2010 106,506 LS & LG Total, Stockholm inner suburbs 600,650 1) LP=LEED Platinum LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 45 REGION GOTHENBURG New establishments have made their way to the city Platinan has started to take form and Fredstan was put on the map. This is where Barry’s Bootcamp and Holy Greens, two brands new to Gothenburg, chose to move in. Premises lettings exceeded expecta­ tions for both offices and stores. “Rent levels have risen and top rents for offices are around SEK 4,000 per square metre.” Kristina Pettersson Post, Senior Vice President, Gothenburg Region What do you want to showcase from 2018? Brunnsparken. This represents an investment to “That Platinan is starting to rise from the ground create a safe and welcoming park with more by the new Hisingsbron and to take form. We greenery, benches and improved lighting. have finished piling and the next stage is to cast I am also proud that, together with Hufvud­ the stair enclosure and thereafter raise the frame. staden among others, we have put Fredstan on Scandic, the largest tenant, has expanded the the map, the area enclosed by Vallgraven, Östra hotel by 5,000 square metres to a total of 25,000 Hamngatan and Brunnsparken. We have worked square metres and 450 rooms. Platinan is expected for a long time here to create a new destination to be completed around the end of 2021. for shopping, service, cafés, restaurants and The final result of the redevelopment of the experiences. One goal has been to create more Läppstiftet property was another highlight. Space life in the side streets. It was therefore very pleas­ on the west side has been increased, a new glass ing that Barry’s Bootcamp and Holy Greens, two facade has been built and a new entrance opened brands that are new to Gothenburg, chose to move up facing the river. Collector Bank has now moved in on Kyrkogatan. Another strong brand that made into one of Gothenburg’s finest premises with its first establishment in Gothenburg was & Other fantastic views. Stories. They open on Kungsgatan in spring 2019. In terms of lettings, our expectations have I also want to showcase Art Made This, an art been surpassed for both offices and stores. There project that allows female artists add lustre to the has been particularly intense demand for modern street environment. Most recently in Vasakronan’s office premises. Rent levels have risen and top parking garage P-hus City in Fredstan. Ten art­ rents for offices of around SEK 4,000 per square works have been completed and work is continuing metre have been recorded.” in 2019. The idea is to install artwork on all five floors, creating an art gallery in a highly unex­ What was the largest transaction? pected environment.” “We sold two properties in Gårda, Gårdatorget and Drivhuset, which we totally renovated in 2018. What are the main challenges in 2019? The sales created scope for increased focus on “To continue to drive our projects and contribute projects, for example, in the Central area where to the city’s development to ensure it remains an we have a number of development rights that we attractive place to visit and to set up shop. It is intend to develop.” exciting to watch a long-term project starting to take form. What are you particularly proud of? The retail sector is undergoing a bit of a “That together with other parties, we succeeded firestorm as digitisation tests business models in gaining Purple Flag certification for Fredstan, and creates needs to identify new concepts. Nordstan and Lilla Bommen. There have been a Despite this, there is still demand for retail prem­ lot of participants in the process and I would like ises, not least for city retail in attractive locations, to congratulate everyone who has contributed to but the processes for new establishments are an action plan to create a safer and more secure protracted. We will now continue to develop the city. One tangible measure is the City of Gothen­ preconditions for retail and together with other burg’s commitment to investing SEK 20 million in participants, create a vigorous city centre.” 46 REGION GOTHENBURG During the year, Holy Greens, among others, established operations in Gothenburg. The chain’s first restaurant in the city is located on Kyrkogatan in Fredstan. 47 REGION GOTHENBURG Gothenburg 3 PLATINAN The development of Platinan continues. The project is Vasakronan’s second largest and encom­ passes 60,000 square metres of office, hotel and retail space. In December 11 2021, everything is to be completed. 2 3 1 29 30 27 28 25 26 23 FREDSTAN In late 12 23 7 9 22 summer 2018, two new 13 14 8 5 companies established 21 10 19 operations with Vasa­ 20 16 17 6 18 15 4 kronan in Gothenburg. These were Barry’s 24 Bootcamp and Holy Greens, and both chose premises on Kyrkogatan in Fredstan. 17 MEETHSHUSET In September, a contract was signed with & Other Stories who established their first store in Gothenburg. The store is 900 square metres and opens in spring 2019. 48 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 REGION GOTHENBURG REGION GOTHENBURG Year of construction/ Environmost recent Lettable mental redeveloparea excl. Share, % certifiName of property Street address ment garage sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Gullbergsvass 1:16 Lilla Bommen 1–2/Hamntorget 1/Lilla Bommens Torg 11 1989 31,869 LG 2 Gullbergsvass 16:1 Gullbergs Strandgata 2–8 1984/1986 22,831 LG 3 Gullbergsvass 3:3 Vikingsgatan 1–5/Gullbergs Strandgata 3–7 – – – 4 Heden 22:19 Bohusgatan 13–15/Skånegatan 9 1984/2018 24,176 LG 5 Heden 42:1 Ernst Fontells Plats 15 1964/2005–12 52,916 LG 6 Heden 42:2 – – – – 7 Heden 42:4 Ullevigatan 11 2010 20,550 LG 8 Heden 42:5 – – – – 9 Heden 46:1 Ullevigatan 15 2009 16,534 LG 10 Heden 46:3 Skånegatan 1–3 2015 20,276 B 11 Högen 3:1 Knipavägen 21/Råhult Partille 1984/2006 1,395 – 12 Inom Vallgraven 11:6 Arkaden/Fredsgatan 1–3/Drottninggatan 38–48/ 1970/2002 21,003 LG Södra Hamngatan 37–43/Östra Hamngatan 36 13 Inom Vallgraven 17:3 Drottninggatan 13/Västra Hamngatan 10/Kyrkogatan 20–22 1813/1994 4,125 LS 14 Inom Vallgraven 19:18 Kyrkogatan 44/Östra Hamngatan 31 1905/1987 2,760 LS 14 Inom Vallgraven 19:7 Drottninggatan 37/Östra Hamngatan 29 1864/1966 2,183 LS 14 Inom Vallgraven 19:9 Östra Hamngatan 33/Kyrkogatan 46 1810/1940 1,769 LS 14 Inom Vallgraven 20:14 Kungspassagen/Kungsgatan 48/Kyrkogatan 23 1930/2002 3,979 LG 14 Inom Vallgraven 20:6 Kungsgatan 50/Kyrkogatan 25 1850/1960 3,690 LS 14 Inom Vallgraven 20:7 Östra Hamngatan 35/Kyrkogatan 27 1800/1944 1,755 LS 15 Inom Vallgraven 22:3 Kungsgatan 31–33 1930 1,568 – 16 Inom Vallgraven 22:15 Kungsgatan 27–29/Västra Hamngatan 12–16/Vallgatan 12–14 1936/2006 9,371 – 17 Inom Vallgraven 22:16 Kungsgatan 35–39/Vallgatan 16–24 1910/2008 10,806 LC 18 Inom Vallgraven 33:10 Magasinsgatan 22 & 24 1978/1995 3,146 LG 19 Inom Vallgraven 59:14 Ekelundsgatan 8–10/Kungsgatan 26–32/ 1844/2009 10,295 LG Magasinsgatan 7A–C & 9/Kyrkogatan 1–7 20 Inom Vallgraven 61:11 Kungsgatan 12–18/Käppslängareliden 1/Otterhällegatan 12 1972/2008 10,028 LG 21 Inom Vallgraven 7:5 Centrumhuset/Östra Hamngatan 52/Östra Larmgatan 15–21/ 1939/1996 8,885 LS Kungsgatan 61–67 22 Inom Vallgraven 8:18 Kompassen/Kungsgatan 58–60/Kyrkogatan 35&39/ 1974/2015 11,530 – Östra Larmgatan 9–13/ Fredsgatan 9–11, 12–14 23 Inom Vallgraven 9:13 Fredsgatan 6–10/Drottninggatan 49–65/Kyrkogatan 56–60/ 1967/2013 8,290 LG Östra Larmgatan 3–7 24 Lorensberg 45:16 Storgatan 53/Södra vägen 3–5 1957/2009 6,917 LG 25 Nordstaden 10:20 Köpmansgatan 9/Norra Hamngatan 18/Östra Hamngatan 30–34 1930 6,520 LS 26 Nordstaden 10:23 Köpmansgatan 11 –25/Götgatan 13–15 &14–16/ 1986 27,524 LG Norra Hamngatan 20–34 27 Nordstaden 17:6 Kronhusgatan 9–13, Torggatan 16 1862/2003 4,611 LS 28 Nordstaden 21:1 Kronhusgatan 2A/Packhusplatsen 2/Smedjegatan 1 A 1901/2008 5,125 LG 29 Nordstaden 31:1 S:t Eriksgatan 3/Nedre Kvarnbergsgatan 3 1787/2005 2,317 LG 30 Nordstaden 8:27 Östra Hamngatan 18–24/Nordstadstorget 1–7/ 1974 43,138 LC Spannmålsgatan 11–15/ Postgatan 22–24 Total Region Gothenburg 401,882 1) LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver LC= LEED Certified MB= Miljöbyggnad B=BREEAM VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 49 REGION ÖRESUND Shopping precincts linked together All the puzzle pieces are in place along Södra Förstadsgatan, where Willys Hemma has also opened a store. Triangeln and Södertull are increasingly linked by Södra Förstadsgatan and form an area with a lively street life, both day and night. “We are particularly proud of receiving the Property Company of the Year award for our work with Södra Förstadsgatan.” Anna Stenkil, Senior Vice President, Öresund Region What do you want to showcase from 2018? pancy rate of slightly more than 95% and that “The successes in city retail. We have been work­ footfall has risen 6% over the year. The increase ing with the portfolio and the tenant mix along in footfall is a direct result of the expanded store Södra Förstadsgatan since 2013. We started an offering and the more generous opening hours.” area analysis, which was very successful, and now What is happening in Södertull? all the properties have been let. In March 2018, “The most exciting development is our new tenant Willys Hemma opened its doors and this has DevHub, which has moved in on Torggatan by already resulted in the area’s pulse rising for a Gustaf Adolfs torg. The address now houses a longer part of the day. We are proud that at shared building for different game developers, “Real Estate Öresund,” the property sector’s the first in Sweden. Game development is an given meeting place in the region, we received incredibly expansive industry in Malmö and the the Property Company of the Year award for our aim is for some one hundred people to work at work with Södra Förstadsgatan. DevHub by summer 2019. These are often younger We have also had a number of exciting new people who work later in the day and evening, store openings in Triangeln during the year. In and create life and movement during this part of combination with the weak Swedish krona, which the day. DevHub makes a good complement to has even attracted customers from Denmark and Entreprenörcenter, an adjacent office hotel.” Germany, this has contributed to making 2018 a positive year for city retail. This is good for life What are you looking forward to in 2019? and movement in the city. “To continuing to develop and link our areas. To a On the office front, I would like to mention great extent, this is about creating good, secure the letting to the Swedish Agency for Accessible flows the entire way from Triangeln to Stortorget. Media (MTM). The contract was signed just On the development front, it is Priorn in the before Christmas and encompasses 1,700 square city centre that is in focus. Priorn encompasses metres in the Bylgia block in Nyhamnen near the 13,000 square metres allocated over seven central station. This is a government agency that floors and a garage. Lettings are progressing well is moving from Stockholm, which means we are and already amount to 60% for the building. gaining 100 new job opportunities in Malmö.” Already prior to the project start, it was clear that COWI and Region Skåne are renting 2,600 and How will you continue with Triangeln? 3,550 square metres, respectively. Just before “Just over a year ago, we raised the bar for the Christmas, the architect bureau Sydark Konstru­ shopping centre. The goal is to turn Triangeln into era finalised its lease of the entire sixth floor of Malmö’s smartest shopping destination and we 1,000 square metres. In the second quarter of are well on our way. Efforts with lettings have 2020, Priorn will be completed. been very successful and we have expanded the In Nyhamnen too, around the central station, opening hours, which has turned out positive. we are taking additional steps together with other Lettings included contracts with Repeat Gym stakeholders to develop the next major city district and ICA, and most recently, 3,200 square metres of Malmö. We look forward to this with enthusiasm.” to XXL. This means that Triangeln now has an occu­ 50 REGION ÖRESUND During the year, a lease was signed with Willys Hemma for 1,300 square metres on Södra Förstadsgatan. This agreement means that the entire portfolio at street level on Södra Förstadsgatan is fully let. 51 REGION ÖRESUND Öresund Malmö 25 3 21 23 12 17 11 5 18 6 10 22 16 4 24 7 26 9 1 8 19 PRIORN Work with 2 Priorn is continuing and 13 just before Christmas 14 another contract was 15 signed. The architect bureau 19 13 14 TRIANGELN Letting Sydark Konstruera is rent­ efforts over the year have been ing 1,000 square metres. successful, and include a lease This means the project has of 3,200 square metres to XXL reached an occupancy rate on the second floor. This means of 60%. In the second an occupancy rate of 95%. quarter of 2020, Priorn will be completed. 20 Lund 1 52 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 REGION ÖRESUND REGION ÖRESUND MALMÖ Year of construction/ Environmost recent Lettable mental redeveloparea excl. Share, % certificaName of property Street address ment garage sq. m. Offices Retail tion1) 1 Björnen 1 Södra Förstadsgatan 17/Kärleksgatan 2/Davidshallsgatan 14 1903/2001 3,864 LG 2 Björnen 38 Södra Förstadsgatan 25–27/Davidshallsgatan 26 1904/1999 5,269 LG 3 Bylgia 1 Hans Michelsengatan 2A, 2B/Skeppsbron 17 1957/2004 8,855 LG 4 Carl Gustav 5 Södra Tullgatan 4/Kanalgatan 3–5/Stenhuggaregatan 2–4/ 1961/2000 15,194 LG Södra Vallgatan 3 A–C 5 Claus Mortensen 26 Södergatan 14 1967/2009 3,237 LS 6 Claus Mortensen 35 Södergatan 20/Baltzarsgatan 43 1898/2009 1,993 LS 7 Delfinen 12 Södra Förstadsgatan 2/Drottninggatan 38 1908/2004 5,380 LG 8 Elefanten 23 Södra Förstadsgatan 22–24/Södra Långgatan 25/Lugna gatan 38 1938/1988 5,888 LS 9 Elgen 14 Södra Förstadsgatan 9–11/Davidshallsgatan 10/Storgatan 22 1937/1998 5,723 LS 10 Gasklockan 3 Porslinsgatan 6/Malmgatan 1/Drottninggatan 7 1993/2013 54,898 – 11 Hans Michelsen 9 Adelgatan 1–3/Bruksgatan 1–3/Norra Vallgatan 51–52 1974/2013 2,003 LS 12 Jungmannen 1 Skeppsgatan 9 2004 5,114 LG 13 Kaninen 26 Södra Förstadsgatan 33–47/Rådmansgatan 10/Triangeln 2–4 1989/2013 36,678 LS 14 Kaninen 27 Södra Förstadsgatan 49–51/Friisgatan 2/ 1958/2013 19,428 LS S:t Johannesgatan 1 A/Triangeln 15 Kaninen 30 & Rådmansgatan 12 A–C/Rådmansgatan 18 A–C/ 2012 11,551 LS & BVG Innerstaden 6:149 S:t Johannesgatan 1 E, 2C, 3 N–W 15 Kaninen 32 Rådmansgatan 16 2012 4,701 LG & BVG 16 Magnus Stenbock 2 Gustav Adolfs Torg 12/Torggatan 2 1894/2007 5,254 LG 16 Magnus Stenbock 4 Södra Tullgatan 3/Torggatan 4/Södra Vallgatan 5 1963/2010 10,477 LG 17 Nereus 1 Neptuniplan 7–9/Matrosg 1/Styrmansg 2/Bassängkajen 10–12 2012 16,678 LP 18 Oscar 1 Stortorget 31/Södergatan 1–3 1903/2004 2,997 LS 18 Oscar 17 Stortorget 27–29/Stortorget 19–23/Lilla Torg 2–4/ 1910/2001 14,222 LG Skomakaregatan 7–11 19 Priorn 2 Rådmansgatan 13/S:t Johannesgatan 2–6 1944/2010 8,171 LG 19 Priorn 5 Pildammsvägen/S:t Johannesgatan 20 Regndroppen 1 Hyllie/Bures gata – – 21 Relingen 1 Propellergatan 1/Västra Varvsgatan 10 2000 5,117 LG 22 Sankt Jörgen 7 Södergatan 28/Kalendegatan 27 1929/2012 5,590 LG 23 Sirius 1 Jörgen Kocksgatan 9/Navigationsgatan 3 1992 7,114 – 24 Smedjan 13 & 15 Celsiusgatan 33–35/Östra Farmvägen 5 1937/2004 11,231 – 25 Stapelbädden 3 Stora Varvsg 13A, Södra Stapelgränd 4 2012 8,100 BE 26 Tigern 1 Södra Förstadsgatan 1/Regementsgatan 2 1893/2008 2,508 LS 26 Tigern 7 Södra Förstadsgatan 7/Storgatan 37 1894/2006 2,335 LS Total Malmö 289,570 LUND² 1 Nya Vattentornet 2 Mobilvägen 8–10/Sölvegatan 51 1999 24,494 LG 1 Nya Vattentornet 4 Mobilvägen 4–6 2007/2008 25,089 LG Total Lund 49,583 Total Region Öresund 339,153 1)LP=LEED Platinum LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver LC=LEED Certified BVG=BREEAM Very Good BE=BREEAM Excellent 2) The properties in Lund were divested at the start of 2019. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 53 REGION UPPSALA The first building in wood is being constructed The building that will house the National Food Agency is slowly taking shape. And plans to build Magasin X, Sweden’s first office property constructed in wood are on track for becoming a reality. Uppsala has plenty of drive and energy for creating a more attractive city. “ Vasakronan constantly strives to identify new ways to develop methods, models and approaches to reduce the company’s negative climate impact.” Jan-Erik Hellman, Senior Vice President, Uppsala Region What do you want to showcase from 2018? What was the largest transaction? “We have considerable focus on projects. At “We purchased the Fenixhuset building on the Uppsala Science Park, Celsius is cautiously rising Svartbäcksgatan pedestrian precinct. The three from the ground. In the new building, the National largest tenants are Zara, Dea Axelssons and Jensen Food Agency will move into around 8,000 square upper secondary school. The block houses a total metres. It will be an office and an advanced laboof six properties, of which Vasakronan owns five ratory. Occupancy is planned for the transition following this purchase. This will lead to even around the end 2020. Celsius will boost the greater opportunities to develop city retail. It was attractiveness of the area as one of Sweden’s positive that H&M opened its refurbished store in foremost innovation environments. We have also the same block at the end of November. The store received approval for the detailed development encompasses 3,000 square metres and now plan encompassing the construction of our first also contains H&M Home and the café concept office block built of wood, Magasin X, by the It’s Pleat, which previously only existed in Stocktravel centre in central Uppsala. Magasin X comholm. The new concept has given a strong boost prises seven floors and a total of 11,000 square to the precinct.” metres of lettable area. What are you particularly proud of? Another positive is the general high demand in “That we are driving development in terms of terms of lettings – we have very few vacancies.” wood constructions. Before Vasakronan decided Magasin X could be Sweden’s first office block it wanted to build Magasin X, we made a thorough built of wood, why has it taken so long? analysis of wooden buildings. We made study vis“The construction industry has ingrained its, attended seminars and contacted many difworking methods, people like to continue busiferent industry actors. We concluded that there ness as usual and build in concrete and steel. It is were no obvious disadvantages to building with difficult to break this pattern. Wood is perceived wood. As I see it, this is about why, not why not. as unknown territory, it will be more difficult to From a business perspective it feels on point. assess the requirements of the material and the I have noted considerable interest from tenants, costs entailed. other property owners and Uppsala municipality, Vasakronan constantly strives to identify new as well as from others.” ways to develop methods, models and approaches What are the main challenges in 2019? to reduce the company’s negative climate impact. “Realising Magasin X and continuing to develop One way is to identify alternative construction city retail. I feel a strong, positive drive in the city, methods and materials. It is therefore particularly where many people work together to create a pleasing to pave the way for, hopefully, more initiavibrant and attractive city centre.” tives to build commercial buildings in wood. Building using wood is not only climate-smart; it gives a different dimension and it appears we are also healthier in wooden buildings.” 54 REGION UPPSALA In central Uppsala, adjacent to the travel centre, Magasin X is planned. The detailed development plan was approved during the year and encompasses 11,000 square metres over seven floors. When completed, it will be Vasakronan’s first property in wood. 55 REGION UPPSALA Uppsala 3 DRAGARBRUNN 18:3 During the year, Vasakronan 17 MAGASIN X During the year, the acquired the Fenixhuset detailed development plan for Vasakronan’s building from SEB Trygg first office building in wood was approved. Liv for SEK 285 million. The property encompasses 11,000 square The property comprises metres allocated over seven floors. The con­ 5,100 square metres and 20 struction start is planned for 2019. is fully let. 2 3 4 6 8 7 10 5 9 13 12 14 19 17 21 11 1 22 16 18 15 15 CELSIUS 2018 marked the con­ struction start for Celsius. The prop­ erty encompasses a total of 10,000 square metres and the largest tenant is the National Food Agency, which leases 8,000 square metres. The investment corresponds to SEK 420 million and the building will be com­ pleted at the end of 2020. 56 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 REGION UPPSALA REGION UPPSALA Year of construction/ Environmost recent Lettable mental redeveloparea excl. Share, % certifiName of property Street address ment garage sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Boländerna 7:4 Säbygatan 3/Östunagatan 1 1937/1999 1,710 – 2 Dragarbrunn 14:5 Svartbäcksgatan 8/S:t Persgatan 6 1970 5,140 – 3 Dragarbrunn 18:1 Gamla Torget 5 1990/2001 1,435 LS 3 Dragarbrunn 18:3 Gamla Torget 7/S:t Persgatan 5/Svartbäcksgatan 6 1977/2010 5,135 – 4 Dragarbrunn 18:2, Gamla Torget 1–3/Östra Ågatan 25–27 1973/1991 6,131 LS 18:7 5 Dragarbrunn 18:9 Stora Torget 4/Svartbäcksgatan 4 1978/2001–04 6,026 LG 6 Dragarbrunn 19:10 Dragarbrunnsgatan 35/Påvel Snickares Gränd 1 1966/2005 4,198 – 7 Dragarbrunn 19:11 Svartbäcksgatan 1B–5/S:t Persgatan 7/Påvel Snickares Gränd 3 1918/1978 9,173 LG 8 Dragarbrunn 20:3 Dragarbrunnsgatan 38–40/Vaksalagatan 8 1966/1999 3,433 LC 9 Dragarbrunn 23:4 Dragarbrunnsgatan 39/Vaksalagatan 5 1961/2006 2,716 LC 10 Dragarbrunn 24:5 Vaksalagatan 7–13/Dragarbrunnsgatan 42–44/Kungsgatan 49 1974/2000 15,352 LG 11 Dragarbrunn 26:3 Bredgränd 4/Kungsängsgatan 5 B/Kungsängsgatan 7 1962/2006 4,261 LG 12 Dragarbrunn 26:4 Kungsängsgatan 3–5A/Smedsgränd 3 1962/1994 4,998 – 13 Dragarbrunn 28:5 Kungsgatan 53–55/Bredgränd 14–18/Dragarbrunnsgatan 46–48 1895/2011 21,041 LG 14 Dragarbrunn 31:1 Dragarbrunnsgatan 50–52/Bangårdsgatan 10–28/ 1860/2011 19,852 LG Bredgränd 15–19/Kungsgatan 57 A–D 15 Kronåsen 1:1 Dag Hammarskjölds väg 10–14, 26–54, 58–60 1910/2017 69,851 LG 16 Kungsängen 1:25 Kungsgatan 79/Dragarbrunnsgatan 78/ 2006 10,974 LG Samaritergränd 5/Strandbodgatan 10 17 Kungsängen 14:1 Fjalars gränd 4 – – – 17 Kungsängen 14:2 Suttungs gränd 3 1885/2008 1,747 LS 17 Kungsängen 14:5 Suttungs gränd 3A – – – 18 Kungsängen 16:6 Hamnesplanaden 1–5/Kungsängsgatan 43/ 1975/2008 30,650 – Strandbodgatan 2–4/Ebba Boströms gata 7 19 Kungsängen 4:4 Bangårdsgatan 5–9/Kungsängsgatan 18 A/ 1972/2013 6,728 LG Dragarbrunnsgatan 51–53 20 Kvarngärdet 1:19 Ljusbärargatan 2 1959/1990 5,160 LG 21 Årsta 11:233 Haeggströmsgatan 1 – – – 22 Årsta 64:1 Haeggströmsgatan 1 – – – Total Region Uppsala 235,711 1) LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver LC=LEED Certified VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 57 Buzzing with life on the roof of the Garnisonen property. Together with Bee Urban, Vasakronan has created a green oasis for urban gardening. Bee Urban Evolution Lab doesn’t just positively impact people’s well-being, it is also a significant boost to ecosystem services in the city. 58 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 CONTENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Administration Report 60 Consolidated income statement incl. comments 62 Consolidated balance sheet incl. comments 66 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 69 Consolidated cash-flow statement incl. comments 70 Parent Company financial statements 72 Proposed appropriation of profits 74 NOTE 1 GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.1 General information 75 1.2 Accounting policies 75 NOTE 2 REVENUE, INCOME AND EXPENSES 2.1 Segment reporting 76 2.2 Rental revenue 77 2.3 Costs 77 2.4 Employees, personnel costs and remuneration to the Board 78 2.5 Financial income and expenses 81 NOTE 3 TAX Tax 81 3.1 Summary of tax expense/income 82 3.2 Deferred tax 82 3.3 Market value of deferred tax 82 3.4 Depreciation 82 NOTE 4 ASSETS 4.1 Intangible assets 83 4.2 Investment properties 83 4.3 Equipment 84 NOTE 5 OPERATING RECEIVABLES AND LIABILITIES 5.1 Accounts receivable 85 5.2 Other current receivables, prepaid expenses and accrued income 85 5.3 Other current liabilities, accrued expenses and deferred income 85 NOTE 6 FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE 6.1 Goals for financial operations 85 6.2 Breakdown of funding sources, share of total loan portfolio 86 6.3 Financial risks 87 6.4 Derivatives 88 6.5 Financial instruments 89 6.6 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 89 6.7 Adjustment for non-cash items 89 NOTE 7 GROUP STRUCTURE 7.1 Shares and participations in subsidiaries 90 7.2 Shares and participations in joint ventures 92 7.3 Related parties 92 NOTE 8 PARENT COMPANY Parent Company 93 8.1 Intra-Group transactions 93 8.2 Profit from participations in subsidiaries 93 8.3 Appropriations and untaxed reserves 93 NOTE 9 DIVIDEND PER SHARE Dividend per share 93 NOTE 10 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE-SHEET DATE Events after the balance-sheet date 93 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 59 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Administration Report The Board of Directors and CEO of Vasakronan AB (publ), corporate registration number 556061-4603, hereby present the 2018 Annual Report for the Group and Parent Company. Rental market Operations Property market trends in the regions and sub areas in which Vasakronan owns, manages and develops centrally located office and Vasakronan operates were characterised in 2018 by the continued retail properties in Stockholm, Uppsala, Gothenburg, Malmö and Lund. strength of the economy. Demand for modern office premises in After the end of the period, the entire Lund portfolio was divested. At central locations or in areas with good communications has remained year end, the property portfolio comprised 174 properties (179) with high in the office rental market. a total lettable area of 2.4 million sq. m. (2.4). Of the total area, 85% (84) The strongest trend was posted in Stockholm’s CBD and central was environmentally certified. The total market value of the properties Stockholm, where rents rose around 7%. Rent levels have risen in at year end amounted to SEK 139 billion (127), and the ten largest Gothenburg also, and increased by about 3%. properties accounted for 29% of the value. For central locations in Vasakronan’s markets, office vacancies have remained relatively still at low levels during the year, rising from 3% to not quite 5%. Malmö is the exception where office vacancies Contracted rent Contracted rent were approximately 9% in 2018. by property type by geographic market Property market The property market in Sweden has performed well over the last few years as was the case in 2018 due to the economic boom, low interest rates and good access to capital. Aside from the development of the economy and employment, there are primarily three trends that affect the property market: digitisation, expanding e-commerce and new patterns of demand for offices. Parallel to these three aspects, the sector – along with society as a whole – is also affected by a greater Offices, 73% Stockholm, 63% Retail, 19% Gothenburg, 18% focus on sustainability topics, first and foremost driven by the increasOther, 8% Öresund, 11% ingly obvious effects of ongoing climate change. Increasing interest Uppsala, 8% and awareness of health issues, not least how employees’ health is affected by workplace conditions and environment, is also having considerable influence on how property companies plan premises The occupancy rate was 93.1% (93.1) on 31 December 2018. Of total and their surrounding environments. vacancies, 2.5 percentage points (2.8) were attributable to ongoing During the year, completed transactions amounted to SEK 165 bilprojects and development properties. At year end, Vasakronan had lion, compared with SEK 157 billion in 2017. Office properties property projects encompassing new construction, extensions or accounted for almost 40% of the above. The majority of the transacredevelopments valued at SEK 10.6 billion (9.3). of which SEK 3.9 biltions were conducted in Stockholm and most of the buyers were lion (2.7) was capitalised. The occupancy rate for major projects was Swedish operators. 41% (44) at the end of the period. Vasakronan improves its property The market is characterised by continued healthy access to capital portfolio by buying and selling properties, thereby creating the preand low interest rates. Market requirements for yields have declined conditions for an increased long-term return. During the year, properin all of Vasakronan’s sub-markets over several years, and this trend ties for SEK 0.6 billion were acquired, of which Dragarbrunn 18:3 was continued in 2018. In the CBDs of Stockholm and Gothenburg, the the largest and five properties were divested for a total of SEK 2.5 bilrequirements for yields are 3.5% and 3.7% respectively, and in Stocklion, where at SEK 1.1 billion the sale of Gårda was the largest. holm’s inner suburbs, Öresund and Uppsala from 4.2–5.7%. 60 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Personnel Sustainability reporting At 31 December 2018, the number of employees was 309 (349). In accordance with Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Annual Accounts Act, Vasakronan strives to be a company where the diversity of society is Vasakronan has chosen to prepare its sustainability report separately reflected in the composition of its personnel. All employees and job from its Annual Report. The Sustainability Report can be found on applicants will be treated equally, and no discrimination will be pages 112–127 in this printed document. accepted. Further information related to staff composition can be found on pages 122–123 of this printed document. Appropriation of profit A dividend of SEK 4 billion has been proposed to the General Meeting. The Board finds that the proposed dividend is justifiable in terms of Distribution, women and men the assessment criteria stipulated in Chapter 17, Section 3, second and third paragraphs of the Swedish Companies Act regarding operaAll employees Management Team Board of Directors tions, scope and risks as well as consolidation requirements, liquidity and general position. Refer to page 93. Events after the balance-sheet date In addition to the above proposed dividend, after the end of the financial year, Vasakronan signed a ten-year lease with the Swedish Tax Agency for 42,000 square metres at the Nya Kronan property in Sundbyberg. The letting encompasses two buildings and one existing building undergoing renovation. Occupancy is scheduled for the end of 2021. The agreement with the Swedish Tax Agency means the Women, 46% (42) Women, 46% (46) Women, 56% (44) Men, 54% (58) Men, 54% (54) Men, 44% (56) property is now fully let. Future performance The assessment for 2019 is for the rental market to remain strong, with continued strong demand for office premises in good locations. This means excellent prerequisites for improving net operating income and a slightly higher occupancy rate. The targets for 2019 are an increase in net operating income in comparable property holdings of 6% and an occupancy rate of not less than 94% at year end. The healthy rental market also creates favourable prerequisites for the continued development of Vasakronan’s property holdings. Planning of additional projects is in progress, and the assessment is that approximately SEK 4 billion will be invested in 2019. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Consolidated income statement Amounts in SEK million 2018 2017 Note Rental revenue 6,718 6,490 2.1–2 Operating expenses –711 –662 Repairs and maintenance –108 –110 Property administration –357 –331 2.3 Property tax –527 –544 Ground rents –146 –165 Total property expenses –1,849 –1,812 2.3 Net operating income 4,869 4,678 Earnings from services 0 – Central administration –101 –97 2.3 Result from participations in joint ventures 159 –3 Interest income with effective interest method 3 2 2.5 Interest expense –1,046 –1,167 2.5 Profit before value changes and tax 3,884 3,413 Change in value of investment properties 10,651 7,973 4.2 Change in value of financial instruments 13 468 6.5 Divested/impaired goodwill –62 –26 4.1 Profit before tax 14,486 11,828 Current tax –120 –95 3.1 Deferred tax –1,464 –2,464 3.1 Profit for the year 12,902 9,269 Other comprehensive income Items that may not be reclassified Pensions, revaluation –18 –14 2.4 Restriction for surplus in pension plan with asset cap 8 3 2.4 Income tax on pensions 2 2 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax –8 –9 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR1) 12,894 9,260 Key metrics Surplus ratio, % 73 72 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 4.7 3.9 1) Since there are no minority interests, the entire profit is attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders. The absence of any potential shares means there is no dilutive effect. 62 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the consolidated income statement Rental revenue Rental revenue increased during the year to SEK 6,718 milEven distribution of rents to maturity lion (6,490). In comparable property holdings, the increase No. of Annual rent, contracts SEK m % of total was 5% and was mainly attributable to higher gross rents 2019 1,402 1,118 16 from new lettings contracted and from renegotiated leases 2020 932 1,116 16 as well as from rent adjustment for inflation. New lettings corresponding to 146,000 sq. m. (167,000) and annual rent 2021 759 1,171 17 of SEK 510 million (613) were contracted, of which 20% (18) ≥2022 1,138 3,140 46 impacted on revenue in 2018. Notice of termination was Total 4,231 6,546 received during the year (tenant will be vacating) correResidential 1,169 99 1 sponding to annual rent of SEK 491 million (446), whereby Garage – 209 3 net lettings amounted to SEK 19 million (167). Total 5,400 6,854 Renegotiations and lease extensions during the year Maturity structure for contracted rent. encompassed 324,000 sq. m. (369,000) and corresponded to annual rent of SEK 990 million (1,036), resulting in an increase on the previous rent payable of 12% (10). Of all Widely distributed over many tenants the contracts up for renegotiation over the last 12 months, Share in % 69% (64) of the tenants decided to extend their contracts. Swedish Police Authority 3 Contracted rent at the end of the year amounted to Ericsson 3 SEK 6,854 million (6,638) and the average remaining matuH&M 3 rity was 4.2 years (4.2). The closing occupancy rate was Swedish Prison and Probation Service 2 93.1% (93.1). Of total vacancies, 2.0 percentage points (2.5) Försäkringskassan (Social Insurance Agency) 2 were attributable to ongoing projects and 0.5 percentage Swedish National Courts Administration 1 points (0.3) to vacant development properties. Åhléns 1 KPMG 1 Region Uppsala 1 NetEnt 1 Total 18 Largest tenants, share of contracted rent Rising rental revenue Stable occupancy rate Public sector comprises largest share of tenants SEK m SEK/m² % 7,000 5,000 95 6,000 4,000 93 5,000 3,000 91 4,000 2,000 89 3,000 1,000 87 Public sector, 24% Finance, 5% 2,000 0 85 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Services, 21% Telecom, 4% Consumer goods, 19% Industry, 3% Rental revenue, SEK m IT, 9% Other, 15% Rental revenue SEK/sq. m. Breakdown by sector, January–December At 31 December share of contracted rent VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 63 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADMINISTRATION REPORT Property expenses Year-on-year, the total number of employees declined to Property expenses amounted to SEK 1,849 million (expense: 309 (349) at the end of the period. The decrease was due to 1,812) for the year. For comparable property holdings, the the restructure completed in February whereby a number increase in property expenses was 4% (4). The increase was of employees in Vasakronan’s technical organisation transprimarily due to higher costs for electricity and district coolferred employer to Coor. The cost of these personnel is recing, but also due to increased property administration costs. ognised as an operating expense, both prior to and after the The portfolio’s energy intensity improved to 103 kWh/sq. m. restructure. (100) at the end of the period, mainly due to the cold winter and extremely warm summer. Result from participations in joint ventures During the year, a total of SEK 162 million (0) was received Net operating income from the joint venture Järvastaden AB, which Vasakronan Net operating income increased during the period to SEK owns in partnership with Skanska. 4,869 million (4,678) due to rising market rents. For comparable property holdings, the increase in net operating Net interest income was almost 6% (6). The surplus ratio increased to Net interest expense improved to SEK 1,043 million 73% (72) due to higher rental revenue. (expense: 1,165) due to lower interest rates and credit marMkr % gins over the year. The average interest rate for loans and Administration 5000 100 derivatives decreased to 1.6% (1.7) at the end of the period. Property administration costs were SEK 357 million (expense: The average fixed-interest tenor increased to 4.7 years 331) and4000 central administration costs were80SEK 101 million (4.5). The proportion of loans with fixed-interest maturities (expense: 300097). The increase was attributable 60 to the number within one year increased to 43% (41) and loans with of employees whose salaries were charged to administration fixed-interest maturities of five years or more increased to 2000 40 during the year and which averaged 241 (230). 47% (43) of interest-bearing liabilities. 1000 20 Sensitivity 0 analysis 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Change Impact on profit before tax, SEK m Economic occupancy rate +/– 1% +/– 61 Ggr Rental revenue +/– 1% +/– 67 4 Price change for renegotiated expiring leases +/– 1% +/– 11 Property expenses 3 +/– 1% –/+18 Net interest with current fixed-interest tenors and changed interest +/–1 percentage point –/+ 229 Value of interest-rate derivatives if average interest rates change1) 2 +/–1 percentage point –/+1,902 Market value of properties2) +/– 1% +/– 1,389 1) The unrealised appreciation in value of interest-rate derivatives can be realised to meet the effect of1cash flow from increased borrowing expenses. 2) The market value is in turn impacted by other factors, refer to the sensitivity analysis on page 84. 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 High surplus ratio Improved interest coverage ratio SEK m % Multiple 5,000 100 5 4,000 80 4 3,000 60 3 2,000 40 2 1,000 20 1 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net operating income, SEK m Surplus ratio, % January–December January–December 64 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The LTM interest coverage ratio increased to a multiple of The value change in derivatives was SEK 14 million (468). 4.7 (3.9) as a result of an improved net operating income and Vasakronan opted for early settlement of interest-rate lower net interest expense. The policy for the interest covderivatives for a nominal value of SEK 5,650 million (3,200) erage ratio does not permit it falling below a multiple of 2.0 during the year. With that, a previously recognised loss of over a rolling 12-month period. SEK 484 million (loss: 359) was realised. At the same time, new interest-rate derivatives were entered into with longer Profit before value changes and tax maturities and at current interest rates. Profit before value changes and tax was SEK 3,884 million (3,413), up 14%. Tax The Group reported a total tax expense of SEK 1,584 milChange in value of investment properties lion (expense: 2,559). Of the tax expense, SEK 120 million At 31 December 2018, the entire property portfolio had (expense: 95) was current tax and SEK 1,464 million been valued by external appraisers Cushman & Wakefield (expense: 2,464) was deferred tax resulting from tempoor Forum Fastighetsekonomi. rary differences primarily attributable to investment propAltogether, the change in the property value amounted to erties and financial instruments. The change in deferred SEK 10,651 million (7,973), which corresponded to an 8.5% tax between the years was due to the restatement of the (6.9) increase in value. The increase was primarily attributdeferred tax liability at the tax rate of 20.6% in accordance able to rising market rents, particularly in the Stockholm with the government’s decision to change the corporate tax portfolio, but was also due to lower yield requirements, rate from 1 January 2019. The restatement entails a posimainly in Gothenburg. tive nonrecurring impact of SEK 1.1 billion on deferred tax. On average, the yield requirement for the portfolio was After adjustment for the nonrecurring effect, the effective 4.4%, compared to 4.5% for corresponding properties at tax rate amounted to 18.3% (21.6). The lower tax rate is an the end of 2017. effect arising from completed sales of companies. Vasakronan has a tax policy that has been established by Change in value of financial instruments the Board to ensure that tax issues are managed in a social Derivatives are primarily used to adjust the maturity strucresponsible way. For more information on Vasakronan’s tax ture in the loan portfolio and to hedge borrowings in foreign policy, please see Vasakronan’s website. currencies. At the end of the period, the derivative portfolio At the end of the period, Vasakronan was not involved in amounted to SEK 62,088 million (63,727). any tax litigation. Change in value by region Change in value, by category Contribution to Contribution to change in value, change in value, Change in value, % percentage points Change in value, % percentage points Stockholm 9.3 6.1 Investment properties 8.4 7.6 Gothenburg 9.7 1.8 Development properties 8.7 0.6 Öresund 3.2 0.3 Transactions – 0.3 Uppsala 5.5 0.3 Total 8.5 Total 8.5 Factors impacting value1) Value change in the total portfolio Value impact, % % 15 Yield requirement 1.9 Market rents 6.6 12 Total 8.5 9 1) The increase in value was also due to investments and other factors impacting value that have been allocated proportionally across yield requirements and market rents. 6 3 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet Amounts in SEK million 2018 2017 Note ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 2,089 2,145 4.1 Property, plant and equipment (PPE) Investment properties 138,934 126,875 4.2 Equipment 44 46 4.3 138,978 126,921 Financial assets Shares and participations in joint ventures 365 368 7.2 Receivables from joint ventures 165 – Derivatives 214 242 6.4 Other non-current receivables 270 313 6.4 1,014 923 Total non-current assets 142,081 129,989 Current assets Accounts receivable 29 20 5.1 Receivables from joint ventures 0 1 Derivatives 39 33 6.4 Other current receivables, prepaid expenses and accrued income 837 817 5.2 Cash and cash equivalents 2,215 1,423 6.3 Total current assets 3,120 2,294 TOTAL ASSETS 145,201 132,283 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 4,000 4,000 Other contributed capital 4,227 4,227 Retained earnings 52,044 43,150 Total equity 60,271 51,377 Non-current liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 45,956 44,711 6.2 Deferred tax liability 18,286 16,824 3.2 Derivatives 2,200 2,699 6.4 Other non-current liabilities 76 55 6.4 Provision for pensions 91 86 2.4 Total non-current liabilities 66,609 64,375 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 15,131 13,710 6.2 Accounts payable 118 124 Liabilities joint ventures 151 17 Current tax liabilities 42 80 Derivatives 20 3 6.4 Other current liabilities, accrued expenses and deferred income 2,859 2,597 5.3 Total current liabilities 18,321 16,531 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 145,201 132,283 Key metrics Net interest-bearing liabilities, SEK m 58,872 56,998 Equity/assets ratio, % 42 39 LTV, % 41 43 66 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the consolidated balance sheet Intangible assets and investments. Consideration has also been taken for any Intangible assets primarily consist of goodwill. Goodwill has assessed changes in market rents and yield requirements. arisen from the recognition of deferred tax on property at A more comprehensive description of Vasakronan’s property the nominal tax rate on the date of the business combination, valuation methodology is available in Note 4.2 on page 83. while the tax rate applied when calculating the purchase Vasakronan has set high goals for environmental certifiprice for the acquisition was lower than the nominal rate. At cation of its property portfolio. It aims to eventually obtain 31 December, goodwill was SEK 1,982 million (2,045), and certification for all of its properties and at year end, 85% (84) the decline was primarily due to the sale of properties. of the portfolio had environmental certification. The remaining portion of intangible assets comprised the During the quarter, Vasakronan sold and transferred value of the Vasakronan brand, which amounted to SEK 100 three properties in Lund: Apotekaren 12; Galten 25; and million (100). The SEK 7 million invested in a new technical Repslagaren 31 to Stena Fastigheter at a property value of platform to develop the digital property language Real SEK 370 million. The Telefonfabriken 7 property at TelefonEstate Core was also recognised as an intangible asset. plan in Stockholm was also sold for SEK 210 million. The sale pertained to development rights for housing and the buyer, Investment properties Einar Mattsson, will take possession of the property when At 31 December 2018, based on external appraisals the the demolition of the existing building has been completed. estimated market value of Vasakronan’s property portfolio was SEK 138,934 million compared with SEK 126,875 million at year-end 2017. The change in value during the period was SEK 10,651 million (7,973) and the remaining change in Higher property values the market value comprised net investments. A change in the yield requirement of +/– 0.25 percentage points would have SEK m 2018 2017 a negative impact of 5.2/5.9% on the value of the current Opening value, 1 January 126,875 115,922 property portfolio. Investments 3,335 2,543 The valuations were performed pursuant to the RICS Red Acquisitions, consideration 594 1,049 Book and apply the same methodology as previous valuations. Sales, consideration –2,521 –612 Market value is influenced by property-specific events, such Change in value 10,651 7,973 as new and renegotiated leases, properties being vacated Closing value, 31 December 138,934 126,875 Large investments in property projects Total inShare Area of Estimated Environ­ vestments, Capitalised, capitalised, premises, completion Occupancy mental City Property SEK m SEK m % sq. m. date rate, % certification 1) Stockholm Sergelhuset 3,700 1,495 40 56,500 Dec 2021 4 LEED Gothenburg Platinum 2,600 536 21 52,900 Dec 2021 47 LEED Stockholm Nattugglan, block 2 800 71 9 15,000 Jun 2021 80 LEED Stockholm, Solna Strand Nöten 5 phase 2 635 148 23 13,000 Sep 2020 51 LEED Malmö Priorn 5 580 323 56 13,200 Apr 2020 55 LEED Uppsala Kronåsen 1:1 Celsius 420 93 22 10,200 Dec 2020 82 LEED Stockholm, Frösunda Hilton 7 390 342 88 11,000 Sep 2019 26 LEED Stockholm Styrpinnen 15 190 95 50 3,650 Dec 2019 0 LEED Stockholm, Solna Diktaren 115 2 2 6,400 Aug 2021 100 LEED Gothenburg Bohusgatan 94 83 88 5,400 Dec 2018 100 LEED Total major property projects 9,524 3,188 33 41 Other projects 1,095 721 Total 10,619 3,909 1) Calculated based on area. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADMINISTRATION REPORT Property projects All borrowing in the capital markets is unsecured. At the Ongoing property projects have a total investment volume of end of the period, the share of capital market financing was SEK 10,619 million (9,397), of which SEK 3,909 million (2,663) 71% (68) and the share of bank financing was 29% (32). had been capitalised as of 31 December. The occupancy rate To further diversify borrowing, Vasakronan established an for major projects was 41% (44) at the end of the period. Euro Medium Term Note program (EMTN program) in the During the quarter, a six-year lease was signed for 6,600 last quarter. Under the program, Vasakronan issued an initial sq. m. with the Swedish Council for Higher Education (UHR) EUR 30 million bond with a tenor of six years in December. at the Nöten 5 property which is part of the Strand office During the year, the company issued bonds for SEK 8.0 billion development in Solna Strand. The redevelopment and (10.3) in the Swedish capital market and for NOK 3.3 billion modernisation of Nöten 5, which comprises four buildings, (2.8) in the Norwegian capital market. It also raised secured is being conducted in several stages. Phase 1, which encombank loans of SEK 2 billion (3.2). At the end of the year, total passes 4,400 square metres, was completed in autumn bank loans outstanding secured against mortgage deeds 2017 and is fully let to tenants including Cowi. declined to 9% (12) of the Group’s total assets. Total propThe agreement with UHR means that the scope of phase 2 erty deeds pledged as collateral for the Group’s interest-­ is being extended to encompass an additional 13,000 square bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 13,049 million (15,455) metres and an increase in investment to SEK 420 million. at year end. In phase 2, a building to link the four existing buildings will To secure its access to capital, the company has a credit be constructed at an investment cost of slightly more than facility with the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish SEK 200 million. national pension funds that amounts to SEK 18 billion. The agreement extends until further notice with a notice period Deferred tax of two years. Cash and cash equivalents of SEK 2,215 million From and including mid-2018, deferred tax is calculated (1,423) and the unutilised credit facility together correspond using a nominal rate of 20.6% on differences between to 134% (152) of loans maturing over the next 12 months or the carrying amount and tax base of assets and liabilities. all loan maturities through the next 21 months. At 31 December 2018, the deferred tax liability was SEK 18,286 million (16,824) and pertained primarily to investment properties. The main reason for the change was the higher market value of the properties. In parallel, Diversified funding with healthy reserves the tax liability has declined SEK 1.1 billion now that the Amount tax is calculated at 20.6% rather than 22%. SEK m Loan limit utilised Share, % Commercial paper 25,000 6,157 10 Liabilities, and cash and cash equivalents Bonds, SEK 1) 60,919 26,729 44 Interest-bearing liabilities, net of cash and cash equivalents, Bonds, NOK 2) 10,162 16 increased to SEK 58,872 million (56,998). The average loan­Bonds, EUR 3) 305 1 -to-maturity increased to 3.9 years (3.8) and the average Secured bank loans 12,907 12,907 21 loan-to-maturity taking into consideration unutilised credit NIB and EIB 4,827 4,827 8 commitments amounted to 4.4 years (4.4). The proportion Credit facility from owners 18,000 0 0 of loans maturing within the next 12 months increased to Total 61,087 100 25% (23), and the share of loans maturing in five years or 1) Joint loan limit for EUR, SEK and NOK. 2) The amount corresponds to NOK 9,700 million and is fully hedged. more rose to 27% (27) of interest-bearing liabilities. 3) The amount corresponds to EUR 30 million and is fully hedged. Vasakronan strives to diversify borrowing by allocating across several different sources of funding and markets. 68 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other contributed Amounts in SEK million Share capital capital Retained earnings Total equity Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2017 4,000 4,227 37,890 46,117 Profit for the year – – 9,269 9,269 Other comprehensive income – – –9 –9 Comprehensive income for the year – – 9,260 9,260 Dividend – – –4,000 –4,000 Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2017 4,000 4,227 43,150 51,377 Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2018 4,000 4,227 43,150 51,377 Profit for the year – – 12,902 12,902 Other comprehensive income – – –8 –8 Comprehensive income for the year – – 12,894 12,894 Dividend – – –4,000 –4,000 % Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2018 4,000 40 4,227 52,044 60,271 % 35 50 30 25 Equity 40 20 Equity 30 increased during the period to SEK 60,271 million 15 (51,377) due to positive comprehensive income of SEK 10 20 5 12,902 million (9,269). The equity/assets ratio was 42% (39) 10 0 and the LTV was 41% (43). 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Lowered LTV Strengthened solvency % % 60 50 50 40 42 40 46 44 38 38 39 43 43 41 36 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 At 31 December At 31 December VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED CASH-FLOW STATEMENT Consolidated cash-flow statement Amounts in SEK million 2018 2017 Note Operating activities Net operating income 4,869 4,678 Central administration –101 –97 Add back amortisation and depreciation 12 15 Adjustment for other non-cash items –9 –7 6.7 Cash flow from operating activities before interest and tax 4,771 4,589 Interest paid –1,069 –1,193 Interest received 3 2 Taxes paid –138 –15 Cash flow before changes in working capital 3,567 3,383 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating receivables –190 22 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities 258 63 Cash flow from operating activities 3,635 3,468 Investing activities Investments in existing property –3,335 –2,543 4.2 Property acquisitions –634 –1,049 4.2 Property divestments 2,526 612 Other PPE, net –9 –5 Acquisition of intangible assets –7 – Dividends from joint ventures 162 – Cash flow from investing activities –1,297 –2,985 Cash flow after investing activities 2,338 483 Financing activities Dividends and Group contributions –4,000 –4,000 7.3 Raised debt: interest-bearing liabilities1) 34,908 40,853 Repayment of debt: interest-bearing liabilities1) –32,223 –37,344 Change in collateral2) 253 –357 Redemption of financial instruments –484 –359 Cash flow from financing activities –1,546 –1,207 Cash flow for the period 792 –724 Opening balance, cash and cash equivalents 1,423 2,147 Cash flow for the period 792 –724 Closing balance, cash and cash equivalents 2,215 1,423 6.3 1) From Q1 2018, commercial paper issued or redeemed is recognised gross. The comparative figures have been restated. 2) From Q2 2018, credit support annexes (CSAs) have been reclassified from working capital to financing activities. The comparative figures have been restated. 70 VASAKRONAN ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments to the consolidated cash-flow statement Cash flow from operating activities before interest and taxes activities of SEK 484 million (outflow: 359). In total, cash and increased SEK 184 million to SEK 4,771 million (4,589). The cash equivalents increased SEK 792 million (decreased: 724) increase was primarily attributable to higher net operating and totalled SEK 2,215 million (1,423) at the end of the period. income. Cash flow from operating activities after changes in working capital increased to SEK 3,635 million (3,468). Investments in existing properties rose during the period Stable cash flow from operating activities to SEK 3,335 million (2,543) due to increased investments SEK m in projects. Cash flow from the purchase and sale of proper4,000 ties posted a net improvement of SEK 1,892 million (outflow: 3,000 437) due to increased property sales. During the quarter, SEK 40 million was disbursed to NCC and pertained to the 2,000 remainder of the purchase consideration for the Bärnstenen 1,000 property in Gothenburg that was acquired in 2015. Cash flow after investing activities thus amounted to SEK 2,338 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 million (483). In total, net borrowing for the year amounted to SEK Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 2,685 million (3,509). The redemption of financial instruCash flow after investing activities January–December ments had a negative impact on cash flow from financing Property divestments 2018 Property City Buyer Purchase price, SEK m Transfer date Primus 1 Stockholm Oscar Properties/ 931 Mar 2018 Starwood Capital Solna Järva 2:28, 2:35, 2:36 Solna JM 129 Mar 2018 Solna Järva 2:29, 2:37, 2:38 Solna JM 126 Jul 2018 Gårda 18:23 and Gårda 18:24 Gothenburg Platzer 1,068 Sep 2018 Apotekaren 12, Repslagaren 31 and Galten 25 Lund Stena Fastigheter 370 Nov 2018 Total property value 2,624 Acquisition-related costs, such as stamp duty and other transaction costs, as well as deduction for deferred tax –103 Total purchase price 2,521 Agreed divestments to be completed Property City Buyer Purchase price, SEK m Transfer date Smedjan 13 and 15 Lund Trianon 88 Dependent on detailed development plan Stockholm Telefonfabriken 7 Stockholm Einar Matsson Projekt 210 Dependent on demolition Total purchase price 298 Property acquisitions 2018 Property City Seller Purchase price, SEK m Occupancy Priorn 5 Malmö The City of Malmö 78 Feb 2018 Part of Midsommarkransen 1:1 Stockholm The City of Stockholm 31 Apr 2018 Solna Järva 2:29, 2:37, 2:38 Solna Järvastaden 137 Jun 2018 Dragarbrunn 18:3 Uppsala SEB Trygg Liv 285 Aug 2018 Boländerna 7:4 Uppsala Bil-Trean i Uppsala 45 Oct 2018 Kungsängen 14:1 Uppsala Municipality of Uppsala 17 Dec 2018 Total property value 592 Acquisition-related costs, such as stamp duty and other transaction costs, as well as deduction for deferred tax 2 Total purchase price 594 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company financial statements INCOME STATEMENT BALANCE SHEET Amounts in SEK million 2018 2017 Note Amounts in SEK million 2018 2017 Note Net sales 484 453 ASSETS Operating expenses –605 –565 2.3–4 Non-current assets Capital gain on sales 341 – 4.2 Equipment 11 19 4.3 EBIT 220 –112 Shares and participations in subsidiaries 30,660 30,610 7.1 Receivables from subsidiaries 9,820 9,196 Financial items Shares and participations in joint ventures 1 1 7.2 Profit from participations in subsidiaries 7,192 3,500 8.2 Receivables from joint ventures 165 – Result from participations in joint ventures 0 0 Deferred tax assets 137 246 3.2 Interest income 67 57 2.5 Derivatives 214 242 6.4 Interest expense –1,107 –1,184 2.5 Other non-current receivables 267 309 6.4 Profit before value changes and tax 6,372 2,261 Total non-current assets 41,275 40,623 Change in value of financial instruments 13 468 6.5 Appropriations – –142 8.3 Current assets Profit before tax 6,385 2,587 Accounts receivable 0 0 5.1 Receivables from subsidiaries 32,448 29,897 Tax –109 –326 3.1 Receivables from joint ventures 0 150 Profit for the year 6,276 2,261 Current tax assets 78 – Derivatives 39 33 STATEMENT OF Other current receivables, prepaid COMPREHENSIVE INCOME expenses and accrued income 470 396 5.2 Profit for the period recognised Cash and cash equivalents 2,212 1,420 6.3 in profit or loss 6,276 2,261 Total current assets 35,247 31,896 Other comprehensive income – – Total comprehensive income for the year 6,276 2,261 TOTAL ASSETS 76,522 72,519 CHANGE IN EQUITY Retained Amounts in SEK million Share capital1 earnings Total equity Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2017 4,000 6,939 10,939 Profit for the year – 2,261 2,261 Comprehensive income for the year – 2,261 2,261 Dividend – –4,000 –4,000 Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2017 4,000 5,200 9,200 Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2018 4,000 5,200 9,200 Profit for the year 6,276 6,276 Comprehensive income for the year 6,276 6,276 Dividend –4,000 –4,000 Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2018 4,000 7,476 11,476 1) 40,000,000 shares with a quotient value of SEK 100 per share. 72 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET CASH-FLOW STATEMENT Amounts in SEK million 2018 2017 Note Amounts in SEK million 2018 2017 Note EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Operating activities Equity EBIT 220 –112 Restricted equity Add-back of amortisation, Share capital 4,000 4,000 depreciation and impairment 4 30 4,000 4,000 Adjustment for other non-cash items –342 –3 6.7 Unrestricted equity Cash flow from operating activities before interest and tax –118 –85 Retained earnings 1,200 2,939 Interest paid –1,117 –1,180 Profit for the year 6,276 2,261 Interest received 67 57 7,476 5,200 Taxes paid –138 –15 Total equity 11,476 9,200 Cash flow before changes in working capital –1,306 –1,223 Untaxed reserves 186 186 8.3 Increase (–)/decrease (+) Non-current liabilities in operating receivables –1,584 –5,660 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 45,956 44,711 6.2 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities –565 –757 Derivatives 2,200 2,699 6.4 Cash flow from operating activities –3,455 –7,640 Other non-current liabilities 72 54 6.4 Provision for pensions 7 3 Investing activities Total non-current liabilities 48,235 47,467 Acquisitions of equipment –1 –7 Divestments of equipment 3 4 Current liabilities Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries 0 0 Current interest-bearing liabilities 15,131 13,710 6.2 Divestment of shares in subsidiaries 328 – Accounts payable 7 4 Dividends received from subsidiaries 5,463 8,124 Current tax liabilities – 80 Cash flow from investing activities 5,793 8,121 Liabilities to subsidiaries 790 1,415 Cash flow after investing activities 2,338 481 Derivatives 20 3 6.4 Other current liabilities, accrued expenses and deferred income 677 454 5.3 Financing activities Total current liabilities 16,625 15,666 Dividends and Group contributions to Parent Company –4,000 –4,000 7.3 Raised debt: interest-bearing liabilities 34,908 40,853 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 76,522 72,519 Repayment of debt: interest-bearing liabilities –32,223 –37,344 Change in collateral 253 –357 Parent Company Redemption of financial instruments –484 –359 The operations of the Parent Company, Vasakronan AB Cash flow from financing activities –1,546 –1,207 (publ), consist of Group-wide functions and providing an Cash flow for the period 792 –726 organisation for the management of properties owned by subsidiaries. The Parent Company does not directly own Opening balance, cash and any properties. cash equivalents 1,420 2,146 The Parent Company’s revenue for the period was Cash flow for the period 792 –726 SEK 484 million (453), which primarily consists of the Closing balance, cash and cash equivalents 2,212 1,420 6.3 Parent Company’s invoices to the subsidiaries for services rendered. The change in the value of financial instruments was SEK 13 million (468). Profit before tax was SEK 6,385 million (2,587) and was attributable to increased dividends from subsidiaries. Closing cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 2,212 million (1,420). VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS Proposed appropriation of profits The consolidated income statement and balance sheet and the Parent Company’s income statement and balance sheet will be subject to adoption by the AGM on 7 May 2019. The following profit is at the disposal of the AGM: The Board proposes that the earnings be appropriated as follows: Retained earnings SEK 1,199,886,400 Dividend to shareholders, SEK 100 per share SEK 4,000,000,000 Profit for the year SEK 6,276,547,183 To be carried forward SEK 3,476,433,583 Total SEK 7,476,433,583 Total SEK 7,476,433,583 A dividend of SEK 4 billion has been proposed to the General Meeting. The Board finds that the proposed dividend is justifiable in terms of the assessment criteria stipulated in Chapter 17, Section 3, second and third paragraphs of the Swedish Companies Act regarding operations, scope and risks as well as consolidation requirements, liquidity and general position. 74 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes Notes, pertaining to the Group and Parent Company. All amounts are given in SEK million, if not otherwise stated. NOTE 1 General information and accounting policies 1.1 General information Joint ventures The Vasakronan Group’s operations comprise the ownership, All joint arrangements are classified as joint ventures since the agreemanagement and development of properties with the aim of providing ment terms or the entities’ legal forms entitle the participants to the net owners with a high and stable long-term return. The Parent Company assets of the related arrangement. Joint ventures are companies where, Vasakronan AB (publ) has personnel employed to manage and administer through partnership agreements with one or more parties, Vasakronan the Group’s properties. The Parent Company’s assets mainly comprise shares controlling influence with one or more parties. shares and participations in the companies that own the properties. Holdings in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method. This means that the consolidated carrying amount of the holding is adjusted Parent Company domiciled in Stockholm; Vasakronan AB (publ) with Vasakronan’s share of profit for the year and any dividends received, Corp. Reg. No: 556061-4603 and accordingly, the Group’s participation in joint ventures is thus recAddress: Mäster Samuelsgatan 56, Box 30074, SE-104 25 Stockholm, ognised in the consolidated income statement. When losses in a joint Sweden venture exceed the Group’s share, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of Vasakronan AB is owned by Vasakronan Holding AB, corporate registrathe joint venture. tion number 556650-4196, which is owned in turn in equal shares by the Intra-Group gains and losses as a result of transactions with these First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds. companies are eliminated in relationship to the Group’s holding. AdjustThe annual accounts and consolidated accounts were approved by ments have been made where the accounting policies of joint ventures the Board for publication on 25 March 2019 and will be submitted to do not correspond with those of the Group. the Annual General Meeting for adoption on 7 May 2019. Leases 1.2 Accounting policies Leases in which essentially all significant risks and benefits of ownership This section provides an overview of the policies applied in the preparaare retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Under this tion of these financial statements. Refer to the respective note for inforbasis, all of the Group’s lease agreements are classified as operating mation about specific items. All amounts are stated in SEK million, unless leases. Properties leased out under operating leases are included in otherwise stated. Amounts pertain to the 1 January to 31 December investment properties. See Note 2.2 for the accounting policy relating period for income-statement items and 31 December for balance-sheet to rental revenue. items. Payments made under operating leases, where Vasakronan is the lessee, are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the Basis for preparation of the financial statements period of the lease. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as deterProvisions mined on 31 December 2018 and as adopted by the EU together with the Provisions comprise reliable estimates of amounts that reflect formal interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), or constructive obligations for the Group as a result of earlier events. and in accordance with the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recomProvisions are classified as current liabilities if payment can be mendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for Corporate deferred for up to 12 months after the balance-sheet date, otherwise Groups and the Annual Accounts Act. These policies were consistently provisions are classified as non-current liabilities. applied for all years presented, unless otherwise stated. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared applying Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies a historical cost convention, except for the measurement of investment The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally properties, and certain financial assets and liabilities, which are measured accepted accounting principles requires that the management and at fair value. The areas involving a higher degree of complexity, or areas Board make judgements and assumptions that affect the amounts recwhere assumptions and estimates are significant, are disclosed in more ognised for assets, liabilities, income and expenses, as well as other detail in the respective note. information disclosed. These judgements are based on experience and assumptions that are considered reasonable in view of the prevailing Consolidated accounts circumstances. The most significant in preparing the company’s finanGroup companies are entities over which Vasakronan exercises a concial reports are as follows: trolling influence. Subsidiaries are companies owned directly by Vasa­ • Fair value of investment properties, Note 4.2 on pages 83–84 kronan AB (publ). A “controlling influence” entails that the Parent Com• Criteria for business combinations and asset acquisitions, page 75 pany is exposed to, or is entitled to, variable returns from its investment, • Recoverable amount for goodwill, Note 4.1 on page 83 and can also affect the returns from the subsidiary by means of its influence. Group companies are consolidated from the date on which conNew or amended accounting standards trolling influence is transferred to the Group, and they are deconsoliIFRS16 Leases applies from 1 January 2019 and replaces IAS17 Leases dated from the date that control ceases. and the related interpretations IFRIC 4, SCI-15 and SIC-27. Under the Initial recognition of Group companies in the consolidated financial new standard, assets and liabilities must be recognised for all leases statements follows the acquisition method. Any surplus comprising the unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a difference between compensation paid and the fair value of the Group’s low value. From 1 January 2019, Vasakronan will recognise ground rent share of identifiable acquired net assets is recognised as goodwill. and land lease agreements of around SEK 5 billion as assets with a correWhen a company is acquired, the acquisition meets the criteria for sponding liability. Fundamental assumptions in conjunction with detereither an asset acquisition or a business combination. A transaction mination of the amount of the debt were that the leasehold rights are qualifies as an asset acquisition if it pertains to properties, with or withexpected to be used indefinitely and that the fees are recognised at net out leases, but excluding an organisation and the administrative propresent value using the applicable interest rates in the ground rent agreecesses required for property management. Other acquisitions are busiments. Ground rent and land lease expenses linked to these agreements, ness combinations. The management determines for each acquisition which were previously recognised in net operating income, will be recwhich criteria have been met. The assessment is that all acquisitions in ognised as financial expenses under net financial items. Expenses for 2018 and 2017 were asset acquisitions. 2019 are estimated at around SEK 180 million. For further information Intra-Group transactions, balances, and any unrealised gains and about the Group’s obligations pertaining to ground rent agreements, losses arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated in preparing refer to Note 2.3. the consolidated financial statements. There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES NOTE 2 Revenue, income and expenses 2.1 Segment reporting § Accounting policies – segment reporting Segmentation is based on how the management and the chief operatThe management is responsible for allocating resources and assessing decision-maker (CODM) monitor and control operations. Vasa­ ing the performance of the operating segments. Vasakronan has kronan conducts operations in four regions: Stockholm, Gothenburg, determined that the CODM is the CEO of the Parent Company and Öresund and Uppsala, which correspond to the operating segments the Group’s management collectively as the Management Team. reported. The allocation of results by segment is conducted down to net operating are not allocated by segment. Items directly attributable to investment income level, and thereafter only items pertaining directly to investment properties are also segmented in the balance sheet. Other assets, and properties. Other revenue and costs are assessed as Group-wide and equity and liabilities, are assessed as essentially Group-wide. Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala Group-wide Total Income statement 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rental revenue 4,156 4,026 1,280 1,246 761 755 521 463 – – 6,718 6,490 Operating expenses –414 –387 –108 –99 –120 –114 –69 –62 – – –711 –662 Repairs and maintenance –63 –64 –16 –14 –15 –17 –14 –15 – – –108 –110 Property administration –178 –167 –75 –67 –63 –58 –41 –39 – – –357 –331 Property tax –342 –358 –98 –100 –61 –60 –26 –26 – – –527 –544 Ground rents –129 –148 –9 –9 –8 –8 0 0 – – –146 –165 Property expenses –1,126 –1,124 –306 –289 –267 –257 –150 –142 – – –1,849 –1,812 Net operating income 3,030 2,902 974 957 494 498 371 321 – – 4,869 4,678 Central administration – – – – – – – – –101 –97 –101 –97 Result from participations in joint ventures – – – – – – – – 159 –3 159 –3 Interest income – – – – – – – – 3 2 3 2 Interest expense – – – – – – – – –1,046 –1,167 –1,046 –1,167 Profit before value changes and tax 3,884 3,413 Change in value of investment properties 7,625 6,325 2,231 1,067 380 20 415 561 – – 10,651 7,973 Change in value of financial instruments – – – – – – – – 13 468 13 468 Divested/impaired goodwill –36 –10 –16 –16 –4 – –6 – – –62 –26 Profit before tax 14,486 11,828 Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala Group-wide Total Balance sheet 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Investment properties 91,617 82,978 25,630 23,688 13,196 12,667 8,492 7,542 – – 138,935 126,875 of which, investments during the year 2,004 1,339 731 644 412 182 188 378 – – 3,335 2,543 of which, acquisitions/ sales during the year –990 1,016 –1,020 –170 –263 –141 345 –267 – – –1,928 438 Goodwill 1,047 1,083 435 446 420 436 80 80 – – 1,982 2,045 Other assets – – – – – – – – 4,284 3,363 4,284 3,363 Total assets 92,664 84,061 26,065 24,134 13,616 13,103 8,572 7,622 4,284 3,363 145,201 132,283 76 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.2 Rental revenue 2.3 Costs Accounting policies – costs § Accounting policies – rental revenue The Group’s costs mainly encompass direct property expenses and The Group’s revenue primarily consists of rental revenue and addiadministration costs. tional rental charges, which are invoiced in advance and allocated Group over a straight line so that only the portion that falls due during the Costs recognised in profit or loss 2018 2017 period is recognised as revenue. IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers entered force 1 January 2018. The Group’s reveProperty expenses excl. admin. –1492 –1,481 nue is essentially rental revenue, which is recognised pursuant to Property administration –357 –331 IAS 17 Leases. Vasakronan has chosen to view media, property tax Central administration –101 –97 and other expenses as an integrated part of rental revenue, since they are not independent services. In those cases where Vasakronan Total –1,950 –1,909 acts as the tenant’s representative, the services are invoiced for separately. When applicable, recognised revenue is reduced by the Group cost of incentives. For lease agreements with reduced rent, larger Expenses allocated by category 2018 2017 amounts are allocated in a straight line over the term of the agreement. Surrender premia paid by tenants in conjunction with vacating Repairs and maintenance –108 –110 leases prior to lease expiry are recognised as revenue in conjuncProperty tax –527 –544 tion with the termination of the agreement and when no commitGround rents –146 –165 ments remain for Vasakronan, which generally arises on vacation of the premises. Other direct property expenses –706 –657 Personnel costs –415 –391 Depreciation –12 –16 Rental agreements classified as operating leases and properties leased Other external expenses –36 –26 out under operating leases are included in investment properties. Total –1,950 –1,909 Change in the Group’s rental revenue Income statement 2017 6,490 Ground rent agreements in subsidiaries are the Group’s only operating leases where Vasakronan is the lessee. Expected outcomes have been Change in comparable property holdings 289 forecast for ongoing negotiations. Development properties –93 Group Acquired properties 47 Ground rent agreements’ maturity structure 2018 2017 Properties sold –15 Expires <1 year 0 4 Income statement 2018 6,718 >1 year but <5 years 255 6 >5 years 949 1,104 Lease portfolio expiry structure Total 1,204 1,114 No. of contracts Annual rent The operations of the Parent Company consist of Group-wide functions Expires within 1 year1) 2,571 1,186 and management of properties owned by other Group companies. The 2020 933 1,116 property management costs are invoiced to the property-owning Group 2021 759 1,172 companies as property administration. Central administration costs are recognised in the Parent Company and relate to the costs associated with 2022 405 898 the Group management, property investments, financing and central 2023 182 754 marketing. More than 5 years 662 1,729 Group Total 5,512 6,855 Administration 2018 2017 1) Of which, 1,169 residential leases with annual rents amounting to SEK 99 million. Personnel costs –289 –285 At year end, the average remaining term to maturity for the lease portProcured services –79 –49 folio was 4.2 years (4.2). Of contracted rents, 95% (95) pertained to IT –43 –45 commercial leases and 5% (5) to leases for residential and parking faciliMarketing –14 –14 ties. There are some 4,250 commercial leases (4,300) allocated across tenants in a number of different industries, no single tenant accounts Depreciation, equipment –7 –11 for more than 3% of rental revenue. Public sector tenants account for Other –26 –24 24% (24) of contracted rents. Credit loss exposure is reduced through Total –458 –428 analysis of tenants’ credit ratings for new lettings and on an ongoing basis; when needed, requirements are set for collateral. Central administration includes auditors’ fees. Group/ Parent Company Auditors’ fees 2018 2017 Audit engagement 1.4 1.1 Audit activities other than the audit engagement 0.3 0.1 Tax advice 0.1 0.1 Other 0.4 0 Total 2.2 1.3 The audit engagement refers to the statutory audit required of the auditors in order to be able to submit an auditors’ report. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES 2.4 Employees, personnel costs and remuneration to the Board § Accounting policies – Employee compensation Remuneration of employees as vested and comprises salaries, paid The recognised commitment for defined-benefit obligations is holiday, paid sick leave and other benefits as well as pensions. Pencalculated by an independent actuary at the present value of future sions are based on defined-contribution or defined-benefit pension disbursements discounted by the interest rate on high-quality mortplans. For defined-contribution pension plans a fixed premium is paid gage bonds with corresponding maturities to the term of the actual to a separate legal entity and the Group expenses the resulting cost pension obligation. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other as the benefit is vested. For defined-benefit pension plans, the comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. employee is guaranteed an amount on retirement. Vasakronan applies IAS 19 for these. Employees Group/ All of the Group’s staff are employed by the Parent Company, Salaries, other benefits Parent Company Vasakronan AB. In 2018, the average number of employees was 313 and social security costs 2018 2017 (345), of these 143 (141) were women and 170 (204) men. More details Senior executives 30 29 regarding the number of employees is available in the Group’s sustainability reporting. Other employees 194 193 Vasakronan’s senior executives refers to the 12 individuals who, Total salaries and benefits 224 222 together with the CEO, comprise the Management Team, refer to page Pension costs 88 70 105. At the balance-sheet date, the gender breakdown of the Group’s senior executives was as follows: 6 (6) women and 7 (7) men, and for the Social security costs 95 90 Board: 5 (4) women and 4 (5) men. Total 407 382 Salaries and other benefits Remuneration to the Board Salaries and other benefits for the CEO and other senior executives Remuneration to the Board is determined by resolution of the AGM. consist only of fixed salaries. Variable compensation can be paid to other From the 2018 AGM, Board fees are paid as salary, previously it was employees based on the operational focus areas, which for 2018 were possible for Board members to invoice as a sole trader or through their net operating income, cost of leasehold improvements and customer companies. Board members employed at one of the Swedish national satisfaction. The Group has a standardised model for variable compenpension funds or at Vasakronan receive no Board fees. sation, whereby the maximum outcome is capped at two months’ salary. A provision has been made in the annual accounts for an estimated outcome corresponding to one month’s salary and was established on an individual basis in Q1 2019. Variable compensation for the 2017 financial year was distributed during the year and was also capped at two months’ salary. The average outcome corresponded to 1.4 months’ salary. Basic salary/Board Senior executives 2018 (SEK 000) and committee fees1) Other benefits2) Pension costs Total Chairman of the Board Ulrika Francke3) 359 – – 359 Mats Wäppling4) 348 – – 348 Other Board members Jan-Olof Backman 265 – – 265 Ann-Sofi Danielsson 291 – – 291 Christel Kinning 265 – – 265 Rolf Lydahl 328 – – 328 1,856 1,856 Chief Executive Officer, Fredrik Wirdenius 6,310 57 1,791 8,158 Other senior executives 21,963 373 11,060 33,396 28,273 430 12,851 41,554 Total 30,129 430 12,851 43,410 78 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Basic salary/Board Senior executives 2017 (SEK 000) and committee fees1) Other benefits2) Pension costs Total Chairman of the Board Mats Wäppling 695 – – 695 Other Board members Jan-Olof Backman 260 – – 260 Ann-Sofi Danielsson5) 130 – – 130 Christel Kinning 260 – – 260 Rolf Lydahl 320 – – 320 Per Uhlén6) 125 – – 125 1,790 1,790 Chief Executive Officer, Fredrik Wirdenius 6,130 57 1,800 7,987 Other senior executives 21,494 367 9,352 31,213 27,624 424 11,152 39,200 Total 29,414 424 11,152 40,990 1) Remuneration to employees pertains to remuneration paid in 2018, while remuneration to the Board pertains to Board fees as adopted by the AGM. 2) Other benefits pertain primarily to costs for group health insurance and group life insurance. 3) Ulrika Francke was elected to the Board at the May 2018 AGM. Board fees amount to SEK 660,000 per year, Audit Committee fees to SEK 26,000 per year and fees as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to SEK 32,000 per year. 4) Pertains to fees paid in 2018. Mats Wäppling stepped down from the Board in conjunction with the May 2018 AGM. 5) Ann-Sofi Danielsson was elected to the Board at the May 2017 AGM. Board fees amount to SEK 260,000 per year and Audit Committee fees to SEK 25,000 per year. 6) Pertains to fees paid in 2017. Per Uhlén stepped down from the Board in conjunction with the May 2017 AGM. Pensions If the CEO or other senior executives receive remuneration from other The pension rights of salaried employees are covered pursuant to the employment, the severance pay is reduced by a corresponding amount. defined-benefit BTP pension plan (the occupational pension plan for If the employment is terminated by the CEO or other senior executive, Swedish bank employees), which is financed through payments to SPP no severance pay is due. and, according to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board UFR 10, this comprises a multi-employer plan. Other employees Provision for pensions are covered by defined-contribution pension solutions with AMF. From The pension solutions primarily encompass retirement, disability and February 2018, all of the Group’s employees are salaried. survivors’ pensions, and are held in either defined-contribution or The CEO’s employment contract extends until the age of 62. The pendefined-benefit pension plans. Defined-contribution pension plans sion terms and conditions adhere to the defined-benefit BTP plan, and consist of BTPK and ITPK, and defined-benefit plans comprise BTP are calculated based on a pension age of 65. During the contracted which is secured through insurance with SPP, as well as a number of employment period, a supplementary and defined-contribution pension retirement and survivors’ obligations secured with Skandia. provision is also made. Should the provision amount to less than 30% of When Vasakronan was founded as a company in 1993, it took over the pensionable monthly salary, a supplementary payment is made up to defined-benefit pension obligations from Byggnadsstyrelsen, which were that level. Settlement should be carried out by the end of February, the administered by the National Government Employee Pensions Board year after the settlement year. (SPV) and have mainly been secured with KPA. Moreover, Vasakronan Other senior executives have a “10-pointer” pension solution through has a defined-benefit ITP secured through insurance with Alecta, which the BTP plan, and are calculated based on a retirement age of 65. is recognised in accordance with the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s statement UFR10 as a defined-contribution pension. The obligation in Terms and conditions Alecta has been agreed previously and no new premiums or fees were The CEO must give notice of six months. In the event that notice is given paid. At the end of the financial year, Alecta had a consolidation ratio of by the company, the notice period is 12 months and the CEO will receive 154 (148). severance pay corresponding to 12 months’ salary. Other senior execuUnder IAS19, all defined-benefit pension rights are vested on a tives are subject to a mutual notice period of six months. If employment straight-line basis over the period of employment. This means that the is terminated by the company, the senior executive is entitled to severpension costs in the consolidated income statement consist of an estiance pay of 12 months’ salary, unless the executive is aged over 50 at mated value which could differ from the actual paid-up pension premithe time, in which case severance pay is increased to 18 months’ salary. ums recognised in the Parent Company. The present value of pension obligations and the fair value of plan assets are recognised net in the consolidated balance sheet. Group Parent Company Pension costs in the income statement 2018 2017 2018 2017 Pension costs, defined-contribution 70 54 38 32 Pension costs, defined-benefit 13 12 50 39 Separate payroll tax on pension costs 18 16 20 17 Total pension costs in the income statement 101 82 108 88 Of which recognised as property administration 80 66 Of which recognised as central administration 21 16 Pension costs in other comprehensive income, excl. tax Actuarial gains(–)/losses(+), incl. payroll tax 18 14 Restriction for surplus in pension plan with asset cap, incl. payroll tax –8 –3 Total pension costs in other comprehensive income, excl. tax 10 11 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Group Net debt defined-benefit pensions, Group 2018 2017 Change in the defined-benefit obligation Present value of the pension obligation, opening balance 419 401 Pension rights vested through service1) 12 10 Interest on pension obligation1) 9 10 Pension disbursements –19 –20 Actuarial gains(–)/losses(+) on pension obligations2) 12 18 Present value of the obligation, closing balance3) 433 433 419 419 Change in plan assets Fair value of plan assets, opening balance –370 –359 Interest income1) –8 –9 Paid-in premiums –20 –16 Pension disbursements 19 20 Return on plan assets excluding interest income2) 2 –6 Fair value of plan assets, closing balance –377 –377 –370 –370 Restriction for surplus in pension plan with asset cap 11 17 Other pension obligations 6 3 Separate payroll tax on net pension debt 18 17 Net debt, defined-benefit pensions 91 86 1) Recognised in profit or loss. 2) Recognised in other comprehensive income. 3) Expected weighted-average duration for the obligation’s present value at 31 December 2018 is 17.21 years (16.95). The plan assets mainly comprise shares, interest-bearing securities and Net actuarial gains and losses after tax amounted to SEK 8 million (9) and participations in funds. were recognised in other comprehensive income under the alternative The difference between the actual and the expected return amounted rule in IAS 19. to negative SEK 2 million (6) and was recognised as the return on plan The Group’s payments to defined-benefit plans are expected to assets excluding interest income. amount to SEK 22 million in 2018. Actuarial and financial assumptions (%): Group 2018 2017 Discount rate 2.1 2.2 Inflation 2.0 2.0 Expected annual wage growth 3.5 3.5 Expected annual increase in pension disbursements 2.0 2.0 Expected annual increase in income base amount 3.0 3.0 The discount rate assumption has the largest impact on the size of the would, for example, result in a SEK 66 million change in the present pension obligation. A 1 percentage point change in the discount rate value of the pension obligation. 80 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.5 Financial income and expenses Net financial items § Accounting policies – Financial income and expenses Net financial items is not affected by the market values of contracted Financial income encompasses interest income on bank funds, interest-rate derivatives, which are used to adjust fixed-interest periods, receivables, financial investments and dividend income. Expenses since they are recognised as changes in value under their own item. consist of interest expense and other costs arising in conjunction Refer to Note 6.4 for more information. with borrowing, such as arrangement fees and administrative expenses. The net effect of exchange-rate differences on financial items is recognised as an income or expense depending on the outcome. Financial income and expenses are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. Financial expenses pertaining to major new construction, extensions or redevelopments are capitalised in the balance sheet as investments during the production period. Group Parent Company Financial income and expenses 2018 2017 2018 2017 Interest income 3 2 3 2 Interest income from subsidiaries – – 64 55 Other financial income 0 0 0 0 Total financial income 3 2 67 57 Interest expense –1,042 –1,122 –1,041 –1,122 Capitalised interest 62 47 – – Other financial expenses –66 –92 –66 –62 Total financial expenses –1,046 –1,167 –1,107 –1,184 Net financial items –1,043 –1,165 –1,040 –1,127 The average interest rate for the loan portfolio over the period is used for capitalising interest expense. In 2018, the average interest rate was 1.69% (1.89). NOTE 3 Tax § Accounting policies – Tax Deferred tax is recognised according to the balance sheet method, The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. and deferred tax liabilities and tax assets are recognised in the balance Tax is recognised in the income statement, except where the undersheet for all temporary differences that arise between the carrying lying transaction is recognised in other comprehensive income or amount and the tax base of an asset or liability. The carrying amounts directly in equity, in these cases the accompanying tax effect is also for deferred tax assets and tax losses are tested at each reporting included. date and reduced if it is no longer likely that sufficient taxable profits The current income tax charge is calculated on the taxable income will be available to be utilised fully or in part. for the period and recognised as an expense or income in profit or loss. Deferred income tax is calculated based on tax rates and tax laws Taxable income differs from profit in the form of adjustments for non-­ that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance-­ taxable income and non-deductible items. sheet date and, which are expected to apply when the related Current tax is tax that is to be paid or received in the current year deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. adjusted with any current tax attributable to previous periods. The temporary difference that arises from the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in an asset acquisition is not recognised as deferred tax. Group Parent Company Tax on profit for the year 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current tax –120 –95 0 –94 Deferred tax –1,464 –2,464 –109 –232 Total tax on profit for the year –1,584 –2,559 –109 –326 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES 3.1 Summary of tax expense/income Group Parent Company Tax expense 2018 2017 2018 2017 Recognised profit before tax 14,486 11,828 6,385 2,587 Tax on profit according to current tax rate, 22% –3,187 –2,602 –1,405 –569 Tax attributable to previous fiscal years 0 0 0 Tax effect of: Non-taxable sale of subsidiaries 323 52 102 – Divested goodwill –13 –6 – – Non-taxable dividend 35 – 1,202 247 Impairment of participations – – 0 –4 Other non-taxable income/non-deductible costs –1 –2 –1 0 Effect of lowered tax rates on deferred tax 1,259 – –7 – Other adjustments 0 –1 0 0 Tax expense recognised –1,584 –2,559 –109 –326 Effective tax rate, % 10.9% 21.6% Current tax for 2018 has been calculated based on a nominal tax rate of the corporate tax rate from 1 January 2019. In 2017, the calculations of 22%, while deferred tax has been calculated using a lower corporate tax current and deferred tax were based on a tax rate of 22%. rate of 20.6% in accordance with the government’s decision to change 3.2 Deferred tax Recognised Recognised Opening balance in profit or loss directly in equity Closing balance Deferred tax liability 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Group Derivatives –480 –662 133 182 – – –347 –480 Investment properties 17,247 15,024 1,303 2,223 – – 18,550 17,247 Untaxed reserves 53 31 27 22 – – 80 53 Tax losses –1 –37 0 36 – – –1 –1 Other temporary differences 5 6 1 1 –2 –2 4 5 Total deferred tax 16,824 14,362 1,464 2,464 –2 –2 18,286 16,824 Parent Company Derivatives –480 –662 133 182 – – –347 –480 Investment properties 234 216 –24 18 – – 210 234 Tax losses – –32 – 32 – – – – Total deferred tax –246 –478 109 232 0 0 –137 –246 3.3 Market value of deferred tax 3.4 Depreciation The deferred tax liability is calculated in the balance sheet using a nominal Vasakronan recognises investment properties at fair value in the consoltax rate and in the case of a market valuation of the deferred tax liability idated accounts. However, tax legislation permits depreciation of 2–5% would probably result in a lower value than the carrying amount in the for buildings, 5% for land improvements and 20–30% of the fixtures and balance sheet. When calculating the EPRA triple net asset value (NNNAV), fittings of a building or of the type of land improvement that constitutes the fair value is calculated at 30% of the nominal tax rate of 22%, in other the building and land inventory. Land may not be depreciated. words 6.6%, which results in deferred tax of SEK 5,465 million. For more Properties can be divested directly or indirectly through the divestguidance, refer to the key metrics on page 138 and the definition for ment of the property-owning subsidiary. Gains from the sale of property NNNAV on page 139. are taxable while gains from the sale of companies are in most cases free of taxes. 82 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 4 Assets 4.1 Intangible assets § Accounting policies – intangible assets Other intangible assets Goodwill In addition to goodwill, the Group’s intangible assets include brands The goodwill that arises when preparing the consolidated accounts acquired through business combinations that are valued at fair value comprises the difference between any consideration paid and the at the acquisition date as well as investments during the year in a new fair value of the net assets acquired. The Group’s goodwill mainly technical platform for the digital property language RealEstateCore. arose from business acquisitions performed by Vasakronan and is recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations. In the Impairment testing Group, goodwill is mainly attributable to the difference between The useful lives for goodwill and the brand have been assessed as nominal and calculated tax for business combinations and is thus indefinite and therefore not subject to amortisation. Instead, their entirely linked to the deferred tax. This item changes if a property values are tested annually or on any indication of a need for impairwith goodwill is divested. When a property is sold, or alternatively if ment. Goodwill arising on acquisitions that are not considered asset a need for impairment arises, goodwill attributable to the property acquisitions is tested for each property or balance-sheet item for is eliminated and recognised as “divested/impaired goodwill.” which goodwill was allocated at the acquisition date. Goodwill Other intangible assets The value of goodwill is tested each quarter to ensure the carrying The value of the brand is tested annually or on any indication of a decline amount for the property does not exceed the recoverable amount. The in value to identify any need for impairment and to then recognise the recoverable amount is mainly impacted by the assessed market value of brand at cost less any accumulated impairments. deferred tax. The company management bases its assessment mainly on observable market data for completed transactions. When establishing the fair value for goodwill at the end of 2018, when marked-to-market deferred tax averaged 6.2% (5.5). Group Other intangible Goodwill assets Total Intangible assets 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening balance 2,045 2,071 100 100 2,145 2,171 Divested/impaired goodwill –62 –26 0 0 –62 –26 Acquisitions for the year 0 0 7 0 7 0 Amortisation for the year 0 0 –1 0 –1 0 Closing balance 1,983 2,045 106 100 2,089 2,145 Goodwill decreased SEK 62 million (11) in conjunction with the sale of sible to reverse a previously recognised impairment loss in a later properties and companies in 2018. The remaining SEK 0 million (15) period. pertained to the impairment of goodwill down to fair value. It is not pos4.2 Investment properties § Accounting policies – investment properties On initial recognition, property is recognised at cost, including directly Vasakronan’s properties are held to generate rental revenue and attributable transaction costs, and thereafter at fair value at each capital appreciation, and are therefore classified as investment propreporting date. erties. The term investment properties includes land and buildings, Subsequent expenditure is capitalised when it is probable that future land improvements, building and land installations, and ongoing projeconomic benefits associated with the expenditure will accrue to the ects. Investment properties are recognised at fair value in the balance Group, in other words, when the expenditure adds value. Other repairs sheet, which is determined by the management based on the properand maintenance costs are expensed when incurred. ties’ market values. Changes in the fair value are recognised as realIn the case of major new construction, extensions or redevelopised and unrealised value changes in profit or loss. Vasakronan ments, interest expense during the production period is capitalised in applies IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement – Level 3 Unobservable accordance with IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, see Note 6.2. inputs for the asset or liability. Measurement Valuation assumptions Fair value comprises the market value based on the most likely outcome The market values are assessed using a yield-based valuation method of a sale with a normal marketing period in the open property market. that utilises cash-flow statements with a horizon of at least ten years. To establish the properties’ fair value at each reporting date, market The cost of capital and requirements for yields are based on the valuvaluations are conducted for all properties. The valuation process is ers’ experience-based assessments of market return requirements for governed by a valuation policy under which all properties are valued by comparable properties. The projections of future cash flows take into external parties at year end and mid year, and valued internally at the end consideration the use of the object, its age and maintenance status. Rent of the first and third quarters. If an agreement has been signed regarding payments are based on existing rental contracts and on their expiry, rent the purchase and sale of a property, the agreed property value is used as levels at market rates are assumed. Cost for operation, maintenance and the market value in the next quarterly accounts. administration are based on actual costs in combination with projections External valuations are conducted pursuant to RICS Valuation – and experience from comparable objects. Future investments have been Global Standards [the Red Book]. In parallel with the external valuation, assessed based on actual requirements. The external valuers inspect an internal control of the reasonableness of this valuation is carried out. each property every three years. In 2018, the external valuation was conducted by Cushman & Wakefield or Forum Fastighetsekonomi. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES 2018 Group Valuation assumptions average Change in value of investment properties 2018 2017 Inflation assumption 2.0% Development properties 834 1,000 Cost of capital – cash flow 6.14% Transactions 369 346 Cost of capital – residual value 6.37% Investment properties: Yield – residual value 4.35% Changed yield requirement 2,219 2,278 Long-term vacancy rate 4.72% Change in market rents 7,229 4,349 Operating and maintenance costs, year 1 SEK 403 sq. m. Total change in value 10,651 7,973 Investments, year 1 SEK 1,653 sq. m. The properties sold in 2018 are detailed on page 71. The total rental Market rent (at zero vacancies) SEK 3,290 sq. m. value for properties sold was SEK 77 million. Over the year, sales in a corporate wrapper have resulted in a gain of SEK 341 million (–) in the Parent Company. Yield requirement – residual value per sub-market Lowest–Highest Average Group Investment properties 2018 2017 Central Stockholm 3.50–5.40 4.02 Opening balance 126,875 115,922 Stockholm’s inner suburbs 4.25–7.50 5.08 Investments 3,335 2,543 Gothenburg 3.75–4.80 4.27 Acquisitions, consideration 594 1,049 Malmö 4.10–5.50 4.86 Sales, consideration –2,521 –612 Lund 5.60–5.90 5.73 Change in value 10,651 7,973 Uppsala 4.70–5.75 5.13 Closing balance 138,934 126,875 Fiscal values 46,234 45,708 Sensitivity analysis The following table illustrates the effects on the market value of changes in each factor. Sensitivity analysis Change in assumption Value impact, SEK m Value impact, % Yield requirement and cost of capital +1 percentage point –25,000 –18.0 Yield requirement and cost of capital –1 percentage point 39,909 28.7 Long-term vacancy rate +/–1 percentage point –/+1,545 –/+1.1 Operating and maintenance costs +/– SEK 25 sq. m. –/+1,201 –/+ 0.9 Market rents +/– SEK 50 sq. m. +/–2,402 +/–1.7 Undertakings 2018 2017 Capital expenditure investment properties 6,325 6,286 Acquisitions – – 4.3 Equipment § Accounting policies – equipment Equipment mainly comprises office equipment, which is recognised Assets that are subject to depreciation are reviewed for impairment at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. whenever an indication arises that the carrying amount may not be Equipment is depreciated using the straight-line method over a fiverecoverable. The impairment is established as the difference between year period and residual values are assessed as negligible and not the carrying amount and the recoverable amount. The recoverable taken into consideration. Depreciation is calculated from the time amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and the asset is taken into use. value in use. Group Parent Company Equipment 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cost: Opening balance 124 122 70 70 Acquisitions 12 10 1 7 Sales and disposals –5 –8 –5 –7 Closing balance – cost 131 124 66 70 Depreciation: Opening depreciation –78 –68 –51 –45 Depreciation for the year –12 –16 –7 –11 Sales and disposals 3 6 3 5 Closing balance – depreciation –87 –78 –55 –51 Closing balance 44 46 11 19 84 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 5 Operating receivables and liabilities NOTE 6 Financing and capital structure Accounts receivable are recognised net after provisions for doubtful 6.1 Goals for financial operations receivables and the amount reflects the sum expected to be recovered Owning and developing properties is a capital-intensive business. based on the circumstances known at the balance-sheet date. The payInterest expense is one of the Group’s major cost items and access to ment period for accounts receivable is short and fair value corresponds cost-efficient financing is strategically important. Vasakronan finances to amortised cost less accumulated impairment. its activities through owners’ capital or through external borrowing, Other current receivables, prepaid expenses and accrued income are the division being decided by weighting the requirements for returns recognised at carrying amounts as the payment period is short. and financial stability. Vasakronan’s financial objective is, within set frameworks and with Group Parent Company restrictions, to diversify its financing structure in terms of tenors and 5.1 Accounts receivable 2018 2017 2018 2017 financing sources to thereby secure its required funding at the lowest possible cost. Tenant receivables 60 48 0 0 Provision for doubtful receivables –31 –28 0 0 Credit rating Closing balance 29 20 0 0 In May 2018, Moody’s set a rating of A3 with a stable outlook. The rating is based on the high quality of the property portfolio, healthy financial metrics and the links to the company’s owners, the First, Second, Third The Group reported losses of SEK 12 million (4) for the impairment of and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds. tenant receivables. 5.2 Other current receivables, Group Parent Company § Accounting policies – Financial instruments prepaid expenses and accrued income 2018 2017 2018 2017 Financial instruments Financial instruments are defined as any form of agreement or Accrued interest income 173 107 173 107 contract that gives rise to a financial asset or liability. Financial Accrued rent discounts 103 126 – – assets in the balance sheet are: accounts receivable, receivables Deposit account 271 231 271 231 from joint ventures, cash and cash equivalents, and derivatives. Financial liabilities comprise: accounts payable, borrowings and Prepaid financing costs – 84 – – derivatives. VAT adjustment 18 20 – – The Group’s financial assets are assigned the following cate­ Prepaid operating expenses 37 11 – – gories in accordance with IFRS9: • Equity instruments: measured at FVTOCI Other items 235 238 26 58 • Derivatives: measured at FVTPL Closing balance 837 817 470 396 • Debt instruments: measured at FVTPL, or through the other comprehensive income alternative, in accordance with the cost, 5.3 Other current liabilities, since the aim of the instrument is the basis for its classification. accrued expenses and deferred Group Parent Company income 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fair value estimation Prepaid rental revenue 1,206 1,140 – – The fair value of financial instruments traded on an active market Accrued interest expense 324 294 324 294 is based on market valuations obtained from current market data. The bid price is used for financial assets and the put price for finanAccrued expenses for cial liabilities. ongoing projects 394 290 – – VAT 197 181 12 10 Method and decision data Deposits 271 231 1 2 • Derivatives are calculated by discounting future contracted cash flows with the actual market interest rate for the respective Accrued operating expenses 43 41 – – tenor. Property tax 36 45 – – • Financial liabilities are calculated by discounting future conVacation pay, social security tracted cash flows at the current market interest rate. expenses and employee • Accounts receivable and accounts payable are based on their withholding taxes 50 45 50 45 nominal values, in other words, consideration is taken to any estimated credits. Other items 338 330 290 103 Closing balance 2,859 2,597 677 454 Impairment of financial assets IFRS 9 entails new principles for the classification of financial assets, hedge accounting and credit loss allowances. Vasakronan’s business model is based on rents being invoiced and paid in advance, and with minimal credit losses, so the transition has had no material impact on Vasakronan’s financial statements as a whole. Financial risks and reporting Financing and financial risks are managed pursuant to guidelines set by Vasakronan’s Board. The Group is exposed to financing risk, interest-­ rate risk, credit risk and currency risk in its financing operations. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Financial policy Goals, governing principles and allocation of responsibilities across action. Authority to conclude business transactions is regulated through treasury operations are set in Vasakronan’s financial policy. The policy powers of attorney with the respective counterparty. The financial policy regulates the risk mandate and the principles for calculating, reporting, is evaluated on an ongoing basis and adopted each year by the Board. following up and controlling financial risks. In accordance with the policy, All financial operations are conducted by a central finance function to the duality principle applies in conjunction with transactions in so far as ensure efficient management and control of the company’s financial the individual who conducts and registers a transaction does not have risks and to enable the utilisation of economies of scale. authority to control and administer the funds pertaining to the trans­ Summary, compliance with financial policy Policy 31 Dec 2018 Financing risk Loan-to-maturity min. 2 years 3.9 Loans maturing, 12 months max. 40% 25% Credit commitments and cash/loans maturing 12 months at least 100% 134% Interest-rate risk Interest coverage ratio at least 2.0x (LTM) 4.7 Fixed-interest period min. 2 years 4.7 Fixed-interest maturity within 12 months max. 55% 43% Currency risk Currency exposure No exposure met Credit risk Counterpart’s rating min. A-, or BBB+ with CSAs met 6.2 Breakdown of funding sources, share of total loan portfolio Loan limit Amount utilised Share, % Commercial paper 25,000 6,157 10 Bonds, SEK 60,9191) 26,729 44 Bonds, NOK – 10,1622) 16 Bonds, EUR – 3053) 1 Secured bank loans 12,907 12,907 21 NIB and EIB 4,827 4,827 8 Credit facility from owners 18,000 – – Total 61,087 100 1) The amount corresponds to EUR 6 billion and encompasses all currencies. 2) The amount corresponds to NOK 9,700 million and is fully hedged. 3) The amount corresponds to EUR 30 million and is fully hedged. Breakdown of funding sources, share of total loan portfolio. Summary of liabilities arising from financing activities — Commercial Bonds, Bonds, Bonds, Secured Unsecured Group paper SEK NOK EUR bank loans bank loans Total Opening balance 6,948 26,137 6,660 – 15,290 3,386 58,421 Loan repayments –20,313 –7,510 – – –4,400 – –32,223 New borrowings 19,522 8,076 3,538 307 2,024 1,441 34,908 Repayment premiums/discounts – 26 – – –7 – 19 Exchange-rate differences – – –36 –2 – – –38 Closing balance 6,157 26,729 10,162 305 12,907 4,827 61,087 Exchange-rate differences and Repayment premiums/discounts are non-cash items. Loan terms and conditions Carrying amount • A greements for commercial paper and bank loans contain an ownerInterest-bearing liabilities are recognised at amortised cost, which is ship covenant that allows lenders to terminate the loan and require reported in the above tables. repayment unless the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds collectively or separately own at least 51% of Vasakronan. A similar ownership covenant is included in bond agreements whereby the bondholder can require repayment if a change in ownership, as above, should lead to a downgrade of the company’s rating by at least one level • The bank loan agreements also contain a covenant specifying that the interest coverage ratio may not fall below a multiple of 1.5 • Unsecured loan agreements also include covenants stating that the LTV may not exceed 65% 86 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Financial risks Currency risk whereby the owners commit to supply the company with liquidity. Currency risk pertains to unfavourable changes in exchange rates that The agreement has a volume of SEK 18 billion and a notice period of impact the Group’s financial position. When borrowing, all currency risk 24 months. is to be eliminated and the exchange rate for interest payments and loan Cash and cash equivalents are recognised at nominal values and repayments of foreign currency loans hedged using currency swaps. include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other shortAt 31 December 2018, borrowing in foreign currency amounted to term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less. NOK 9,700 million (6,650) and EUR 30 million (–). Liquidity risk pertains to Vasakronan’s risk of having insufficient cash funds or credit to meet its payment obligations. The risk is balanced Financing and liquidity risk since the relationship between credit commitments, cash funds and Financing risk pertains to the long-term risk that fulfilling the Group’s loans maturing within 12 months must be not less than 100%. capital requirements and refinancing loans outstanding becomes more The maturity analysis is based on amounts for future undiscounted difficult or expensive, for example through limitation to several different cash flows related to financial receivables and liabilities, including intertypes of financing sources. This risk is limited since the average remainest, allocated over the period until the contractual maturity date. The ing tenors for interest-bearing liabilities may not be less than two years. closing interest rates for the respective loans and derivatives form the Vasakronan has a credit facility that extends indefinitely from the basis for estimating future cash flows for all liabilities. The closing First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds, exchange rate is used for currency derivatives. Liquidity risk – maturity analysis Group 2018 2017 0–1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years >5 years 0–1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years >5 years Assets Accounts receivable 29 – – – 20 – – – Other receivables 837 – – – 817 – – – Cash and cash equivalents 2,215 – – – 1,423 – – – Total 3,081 – – – 2,260 – – – Liabilities Bonds –8,349 –7,543 –17,120 –6,494 –6,035 –9,906 –14,331 –3,806 Bank loans –1,209 –619 –7,209 –9,465 –1,105 –2,163 –4,989 –11,173 Commercial paper –6,155 – – – –6,945 – – – Interest-rate derivatives –587 –610 –1,856 –2,053 –508 –538 –1,587 –1,345 Currency derivatives — inflows 786 1,282 4,149 6,540 103 100 243 186 Currency derivatives — outflows –611 –1,143 –3,752 –5,927 –22 –23 –61 –41 Accounts payable –118 – – – –124 – – – Total –16,243 –8,633 –25,788 –17,399 –14,636 –12,530 –20,725 –16,179 Group Parent Company Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 2,215 1,423 2,212 1,420 Closing balance 2,215 1,423 2,212 1,420 Group/Parent Company Maturity structure current and non-current interest-bearing liabilities Fixed-interest Loan-to-maturity in the Group and Parent Company Amount Share, % Amount Share, % 1 26,565 43 15,1311) 25 2 964 2 7,597 13 3 1,652 3 9,975 16 4 1,501 2 5,061 8 5 years or more 30,405 50 23,323 38 Closing balance 61,087 100 61,087 100 of which Interest-bearing liabilities – floating rate 26,661 Interest-bearing liabilities – fixed rate 34,426 1) The credit facility from owners of SEK 18,000 million and cash and cash equivalents of SEK 2,215 million corresponded to a total of 134% of loans maturing in the next 12 months, see page 68 for more information. Interest-rate risk Changes in market interest rates and credit margins influence borrowing expenses. Vasakronan’s finance function limits the risk by maintaining an average fixed-interest tenor of at least two years. Interest-rate risk is reflected by the interest coverage ratio which, pursuant to the financial policy, should always exceed a multiple of 2.0 over the last 12 months. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES 6.4 Derivatives Counterparty risk – derivative contracts Derivative contracts As part of managing counterparty risks in derivative contracts, the Derivatives are recognised in the balance sheet at the contract date Group has entered into credit support annexes (CSAs) to International and are measured on an ongoing basis at fair value pursuant to Level 2 in Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreements. The annexes are IFRS 13. All derivatives are recognised as assets when fair value is posimutual and both parties undertake to post cash collateral for deficit and tive and as liabilities when negative. Gains or losses arising from changes surplus values in derivative contracts outstanding. As of 31 December in value are recognised in profit or loss. Derivatives may only be used for 2018, the Group has received and posted such collateral. At 31 Decemrisk management within the framework of the financial policy and the ber 2018, collateral posted for deficits was SEK 213 million (255). electricity trading policy, and are used primarily for controlling fixed-­ Vasakronan has also received collateral of SEK 19 million (–) for surplus interest tenors and balancing the following risk areas: values in derivative contracts outstanding. Risk area Derivative contracts Group Parent Company Non-current receivables 2018 2017 2018 2017 Interest-rate risk Interest-rate swaps, inflation-linked swaps Deposits, CSAs 213 255 213 255 Currency risk Currency swaps Other non-current receivables 57 58 54 54 Price risk – electricity Electricity forwards Closing balance 270 313 267 309 Derivative contracts in the consolidated and Group Parent Company Parent Company balance sheets Other non-current receivables 2018 2017 2018 2017 Deposits, CSAs 19 – 19 – Derivatives – financial assets 2018 2017 Other non-current liabilities 57 55 53 54 Interest-rate swaps 185 246 Closing balance 76 55 72 54 Currency swaps 35 23 Electricity derivatives 33 6 Closing balance 253 275 Derivatives – financial liabilities 2018 2017 Interest-rate swaps –2,147 –2,388 Currency swaps –73 –311 Swaptions – –3 Closing balance –2,220 –2,702 Net Derivatives –1,967 –2,427 To reflect counterparty risk, derivatives are adjusted to fair value through the CVA (Credit Value Adjustment) and DVA (Debt Value Adjustment) components. The CVA shows Vasakronan’s credit risk in the event of the counterparty defaulting while the DVA reflects the company’s own risk of default. Calculation of the valuation adjustment is based on the expected exposure, probability of default and recovery rates for exposed credits. At 31 December 2018, the net value was SEK 24 million (24) and is included in the value of interest-rate swaps. Credit risk Credit risk pertains to the risk that Vasakronan’s counterparty is unable to discharge its commitments in conjunction with liquidity management and using financial derivatives. This risk is limited by working with a number of different counterparties. The financial policy also states that: • Derivative agreements are signed with counterparts that have a credit rating of at least A– on Standard & Poor’s rating scale or BBB+ with CSAs; • Cash and cash equivalents may only be invested with counterparties that have a credit rating of at least A– on Standard & Poor’s rating scale or alternatively with stateor municipality-owned companies; • The duration of liquidity investments may not exceed six months; and • ISDA agreements are required that allow offsetting of payables and receivables from the same counterparty. 88 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.5 Financial instruments Fair value corresponds to carrying amounts for the following financial which currently results in a lower interest rate than that contracted for instruments: accounts receivable, accounts payable, derivatives and the loan. Recognition at fair value would increase the Group’s liabilities cash and cash equivalents. Fair value for other instruments is estabby SEK 362 million and reduce equity by SEK 282 million. All investlished using the current yield curve along with a borrowing margin, ments in financial instruments are intended to be held till maturity. Loans and Financial assets/ accounts liabilities at Other financial Total carrying Classification of financial receivable FVTPL liabilities amount Fair value instruments, Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Financial assets Accounts receivable 29 20 – – – – 29 20 29 20 Deposits, CSAs 213 255 – – – – 213 255 213 255 Derivatives – – 253 275 – – 253 275 253 275 Cash and cash equivalents 2,215 1,423 0 0 – – 2,215 1,423 2,215 1,423 Total 2,457 1,698 253 275 – – 2,710 1,973 2,710 1,973 Financial liabilities Bonds – – – – 37,196 32,797 37,196 32,797 37,401 33,087 Bank loans – – – – 17,734 18,676 17,734 18,676 17,895 18,836 Commercial paper – – – – 6,157 6,948 6,157 6,948 6,153 6,948 Accounts payable – – – – 118 124 118 124 118 124 Deposits, CSAs – – – – 19 – 19 – 19 – Derivatives – – 2,220 2,702 – – 2,220 2,702 2,220 2,702 Total – – 2,220 2,702 61,224 58,545 63,444 61,247 63,806 61,697 Group/ Parent Company Change in value of financial instruments 2018 2017 Interest-rate derivatives 470 824 Early settlement of derivatives –484 –359 Valuation allowances for foreign currency loans 38 160 Valuation allowances for currency derivatives –38 –160 Electricity derivatives 27 3 Total 13 468 6.6 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Property deeds are pledged as collateral for the Group’s interest-­ Group’s general and limited partnerships in which the Parent Company bearing liabilities. is a partner. Vasakronan is a limited partner in Stora Ursvik KB and its responsibilFor the Järvastaden AB joint venture, Vasakronan has issued surety ity for the company’s undertakings is limited to an amount equivalent to of SEK 241 million (241) for the performance of the implementation the invested capital of SEK 46 million (46). The Parent Company’s conagreement with Svenska Kraftnät. tingent liabilities of SEK 488 million (502) pertain to liabilities at the Group Parent Company Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 Property deeds 13,049 15,455 None None Contingent liabilities 287 287 488 502 6.7 Adjustment for non-cash items Group Parent Company Adjustment for non-cash items 2018 2017 2018 2017 Estimated defined-benefit pension costs –8 –5 – –1 Sales/discontinuation of Group companies – – –341 – Equipment sales –1 –2 –1 –2 Total –9 –7 –342 –3 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES NOTE 7 Group structure 7.1 Shares and participations in subsidiaries Parent Company Shares and participations in subsidiaries 2018 2017 Opening balance 30,610 30,698 Settlement of earnings shares 35 – 69 Sales 13 0 Impairment – –19 Reversed impairment 2 – Closing balance 30,660 30,610 Of which, assets 30,660 30,610 Carrying amount in Shares/ Share of Parent Company Companies in the Vasakronan AB Group participations1) equity, %2) 2018 2017 Civitas Holding AB, 556459-9164, Stockholm 2,750,000 100 24,685 24,685 Vasakronan Fastigheter AB, 556474-0123, Stockholm 4,000,000 100 – – Vasakronan Holdingfastigheter AB, 556611-6850, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Inom Vallgraven 22:3 AB, 556879-7012, Gothenburg 500 100 – – Vasakronan Malmöfastigheter AB, 556376-7267, Stockholm 3,601,125 100 – – Handelsbolaget Gotic, 969622-2844, Trelleborg 100 100 – – Ankarspik 115 AB, 559122-1519, Stockholm 50 100 – – Fastighets AB Luxor, 556059-7139, Stockholm 2,000 100 – – Vasakronan IC AB, 556497-7279, Stockholm 100,050 100 – – Vasakronan Vattenled A, 556577-9088, Malmö 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Lundafastigheter AB, 556137-8562, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Priorinnan 5 AB, 559073-2151, Stockholm 500 100 – – Mabrabo AB, 556339-0227, Stockholm 10,000 100 – – Vasakronan Kista Science Tower AB, 556649-8043, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Kymlinge Utvecklings A, 556647-7583, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Kista Science Tower KB, 969660-7820, Stockholm 100 100 – – Vasakronan Uppsalafastigheter AB, 556651-1092, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Kungspinnen I AB, 556701-4278, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Frösunda Hus I AB, 556704-9183, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Frösunda Hus II AB, 556704-9175, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Frösunda Hus III AB, 556704-6213, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Priorinnan AB, 556675-2423, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Ängen AB, 556637-3550, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Hakberget AB, 556745-5695, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Trähus AB, 556715-4850, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Regndroppen 1 AB, 559010-6000, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Hammarby Gård 12 AB, 556766-4007, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Boländerna 7:4 AB, 556297-1696, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Ankarpik 113 AB, 556870-5783, Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarpik 116 AB, 559172-8950, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Fastighetsutveckling AB, 556532-9108, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Järvatorget AB, 556548-5546, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Utvecklings AB, 556611-6900, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Ullevifastigheter Holding AB, 556718-7884, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Ullevifastigheter AB, 556718-6704, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Ullevi Park Holding 1 i Göteborg AB, 556718-6688, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Ullevi Park 1 i Göteborg AB, 556718-6621, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Skånegatan AB, 556870-5791, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Hekla AB, 559088-2196, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Hekla Fastigheter AB, 559091-2340, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Markholding AB, 556675-1771, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Diktaren 1 AB, 556943-7584, Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 41 AB, 556761-8763, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – 1) Pertains to the Group’s total number of shares and participations. 2) Pertains to the Group’s total share of equity. 90 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Carrying amount in Shares/ Share of Parent Company Companies in the Vasakronan AB Group participations1) equity, %2) 2018 2017 Fastighets AB Gesimsen Grön, 556011-7698, Stockholm 23,526,807 100 1,778 1,778 Fastighets AB Svava, 556268-6658, Uppsala 500,000 100 – – Vasakronan Uppsala City AB, 556057-0896, Uppsala 75,000 100 – – Aktiebolaget Nepos, 556238-9105, Stockholm 10,000 100 – – Uppsala Science City AB, 556250-5346, Uppsala 300,000 100 – – Uppsala Science Park KB, 916512-8126, Uppsala 200 100 – – AP Fastigheter AB, 556417-5858, Stockholm 100,000 100 593 593 Vasakronan Ankarspik 47 AB, 556772-0676, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Idun Real Estate Solutions AB, 559016-1245, Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 98 AB, 559016-1559, Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 99 AB, 559016-1450, Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 100 AB, 559016-1427, Stockholm 500 100 – – Fastighets AB Skjutsgossen nr 8 & Co KB, 916502-7971, Stockholm 105 100 550 471 Fastighets Aktiebolaget Telefonfabriken, 556577-4535, Stockholm 1,000 100 322 322 Ankarspik 17 AB, 556761-8961, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Ankarspik 117 AB, 559183-0129, Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 118 AB, 559180-1104, Stockholm 500 100 – – Nisseshus Nr 1 HB, 916587-3424, Stockholm – 100 310 315 KB Positionen 2, 969666-7485, Stockholm 1,000 100 278 278 RTB Reval KB, 969635-4886, Stockholm 200 100 – – Vasakronan Bassängkajen AB, 556696-1362, Stockholm 1,000 100 214 214 Fastighets Aktiebolaget Bodega, 556031-4246, Stockholm 3,000 100 213 213 Fastighets AB Gesimsen, 556482-7318, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – KB Radio Östra, 916625-7007, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Inom Vallgraven 22:16 AB, 556865-4163, Stockholm 500 100 180 180 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 63 KB, 969646-7522, Stockholm 200 100 173 172 Vasakronan Magasinet 1 AB, 556692-9146, Stockholm 1,000 100 151 151 Förvaltningsbolaget Alvikshus HB, 916501-8004, Stockholm – 100 147 173 Position Stockholm AB, 556577-3818, Stockholm 1,000 100 120 120 Vasakronan Värtan Exploatering AB, 556984-3963, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Heden 22:19 AB, 556859-5291, Stockholm 500 100 113 113 Vasakronan Nordstaden 10:20 AB, 556865-4205, Stockholm 500 100 99 99 Ankarskruv 1 AB, 556339-0839, Stockholm 1,000 100 98 98 KB Inom Vallgraven 22:15 Göteborg, 916445-7039, Stockholm 200 100 – – Agilia Förvaltnings AB, 556651-1852, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Arkaden Göteborg KB, 969646-3448, Stockholm 200 100 – – Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 53 KB, 969646-3836, Stockholm 200 100 – – Vasakronan Kaninen 32 AB, 556740-3612, Stockholm 1,000 100 97 97 AB Studentskrapan, 556611-6868, Stockholm 1,000 100 95 95 Vasakronan Stapelbädden 3 AB, 556740-2614, Stockholm 500 100 75 75 Fastighetsbolaget Brödtorget & Co KB, 989200-4418, Stockholm 100 100 63 49 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 12 KB, 969646-4016, Stockholm 200 100 61 64 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets AB, 556355-6835, Stockholm 501,000 100 60 60 Vasakronan Inom Vallgraven 20:14 AB, 556865-4361, Stockholm 500 100 59 59 Vasakronan Nordstaden 21:1 AB, 556875-2918, Stockholm 500 100 52 52 Vasakronan Jungmannen 1 AB, 556646-7089, Stockholm 1,000 100 50 50 Vasakronan Kaninen 30 AB, 556740-3604, Stockholm 1,000 100 15 15 Gotic AB, 556708-2101, Stockholm 100,000 100 0 0 Vasakronan Nedo AB, 556772-2805, Stockholm 1,000 100 0 0 Vasakronan Starkströmmarna AB, 556771-7920, Stockholm 1,000 100 4 2 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 59 KB, 969646-4032, Stockholm 200 100 – – Vasakronan Blåmannen AB,556825-9302, Stockholm 500 100 3 3 Nacka Strand Förvaltnings Aktiebolag, 556034-9150, Stockholm 20,000 100 2 2 Vasakronan Stockholmsstuten AB, 556820-7798, Stockholm 500 100 0 0 Vasakronan Gårda 18:23 Kommanditbolag, 916635-8946, Stockholm 1,000 100 – 12 Total 30,660 30,610 1) Pertains to the Group’s total number of shares and participations. 2) Pertains to the Group’s total share of equity. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES 7.2 Shares and participations in joint ventures Group Parent Company Shares and participations in joint ventures 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening balance 368 372 1 1 Settlement of earnings shares –3 –4 0 0 Contributed capital – 0 – 0 Closing balance 365 368 1 1 Shares/ Share of participaCarrying Joint ventures Corp. Reg. No. Reg. office equity, % tions amount Other owners Companies that pursue the long-term development of development rights at Järvafältet. Järvastaden AB 556611-6884 Solna 50 500 285 Skanska Ursvik Exploaterings AB 556611-6892 Stockholm 50 5,000 0 Bonava Stora Ursvik KB 969679-3182 Stockholm 50 50 79 Bonava Companies for property development at Värtahamnen Värtan Fastigheter AB 556678-0267 Stockholm 50 1,000 0 Fabege Värtan Fastigheter KB 969601-0793 Stockholm 50 1 1 Fabege Companies for marketing and collaboration regarding the research village Ideon in Lund Ideon AB 559033-2598 Lund 33 166 0 Fastighets AB Briggen and Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Total 365 7.3 Related parties Related parties Transactions Parent Company An ordinary dividend of SEK 4,000 million was paid to the Parent Company. Parent Company shareholders The First and Third Swedish national pension funds lease premises under market terms and conditions. Vasakronan has a subscription commitment from the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds for its commercial paper, refer to page 68. At the end of 2018, the Third Swedish National Pension Fund had bond holdings with Vasakronan of SEK 390 million. Board of Directors Refer to Note 2.4 for details of remuneration. No Board member has participated directly or indirectly in any business transaction with Vasakronan. The Board is presented on page 104. Management Team Refer to Note 2.4 for details of remuneration. No senior executive has participated directly or indirectly in any business transaction with Vasakronan. The management are presented on page 105. Subsidiaries Specified in Note 7.1 Group companies Specified in notes 7.1 and 8.1. Joint Ventures Specified in Note 7.2 92 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 8 Parent Company NOTE 9 Dividend per share The dividend distributed in 2018 for the previous year amounted to The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group SEK 4,000 million (SEK 100 per share). in accordance with RFR 2, Accounting for Legal Entities. This means that At the AGM on 7 May 2019, the Board will propose a dividend of the IFRS are applied together with the deviations presented in the Parent SEK 4,000 million (4,000), corresponding to SEK 100 (100) per share. Company’s accounting policies. • The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish krona (SEK), which is also the reporting currency for the Parent Company and the Group. NOTE 10 Events after the balance-sheet date • Shares in subsidiaries are recognised using the cost method. Should After the end of the financial year, Vasakronan signed a ten-year lease the carrying amount exceed the consolidated fair value of the subsidwith the Swedish Tax Agency for 42,000 square metres at the Nya iaries, impairment is charged to profit or loss. Investment properties Kronan property in Sundbyberg. The letting encompasses two buildings are measured at fair value when calculating the consolidated value, and one existing building undergoing renovation. Occupancy is schedrefer to Note 4.2. Earlier impairment is reversed when it is no longer uled for the end of 2021. The agreement with the Swedish Tax Agency justified. Carrying amounts are tested each quarter against the submeans the property is now fully let. sidiaries’ equity. • Dividends are recognised when the entitlement to receive payment is considered certain. • Income from the sale of subsidiaries is recognised when the risks and benefits associated with the holding in the subsidiary have transferred to the buyer. • Group contributions received and paid from and to subsidiaries are recognised as profit from participations in subsidiaries in profit or loss. 8.1 Intra-Group transactions Of the Parent Company’s purchases during the financial year, 5% (12) pertained to purchases from Group companies. Intra-Group costs mainly comprised rent. Of the Parent Company’s sales during the financial year, 99% (97) pertained to sales to Group companies. Intra-Group revenue comprises the property management costs invoiced by the Parent Company to the property-owning Group companies. 8.2 Profit from participations in subsidiaries Parent Company Profit from participations in subsidiaries 2018 2017 Group contributions received and paid 1,037 1,734 Dividends from participations in subsidiaries 5,463 1,124 Profit from participations in subsidiaries 689 661 Impairment and reversal of impairment in participations in subsidiaries 3 –19 Total 7,192 3,500 Profit from participations in subsidiaries pertains to earnings generated by general and limited partnerships owned by Vasakronan AB. 8.3 Appropriations and untaxed reserves Parent Company Appropriations and untaxed reserves 2018 2017 Appropriations Provision to tax allocation reserve – –142 Total – –142 Untaxed reserves Tax allocation reserve, 2015 fiscal year 44 44 Tax allocation reserve, 2017 fiscal year 142 142 Total 186 186 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 93 ADMINISTRATION REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Reasonable and desirable levels for risk assumption Vasakronan has been tasked by its owners with delivering a high and stable, long-term return. At the same time, the operations should take people, ethics and the environment into consideration. To best achieve these goals, all the opportunities and risks that impact operations must be managed. All business operations are associated with Ultimately, it is the Board’s responsibility to tee for internal control that, in addition to the risks, which when managed correctly can give establish appropriate and effective systems CEO, comprises the CFO, General Counsel rise to opportunities. When managed incorfor risk management and internal control. and Group controllers. The steering commitrectly, risks can have considerable negative The Board has delegated day-to-day respontee’s responsibilities include follow up and consequences in the form of lower revenue, sibility to the CEO and has established guideongoing development of internal control. higher costs or reduced credibility. Efforts to lines in terms of how to conduct these efforts Vasakronan’s day-to-day risk efforts involve identify, analyse, manage and follow up risks as well as the risk levels that are acceptable. all employees and follow a structured process. are therefore a prioritised area at Vasakronan. The CEO is supported by a steering commitRisk management process Risk inventory Risk assessment Risk management Follow-up An inventory is made The Management Team Allocation of responsibility, Ongoing follow-up by of new and existing risks assesses the risks priorities and proposed the Management Team. by conducting workshops included in the inventory remedial measures. Yearly reporting of risk and interviews with based on likelihood and Preparation of overall efforts to the Audit representatives from impact. action plans. Committee and Board. various parts of the Material risks are reported Risks are broken down to organisation. to the Audit Committee unit level and business and the Board. plans are coordinated across all levels. Vasakronan has divided identified risks into four categories: MARKET AND BUSINESS RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Risks related to external factors and market developments that Risks related to our funding, our financial reporting and inadequate Vasakronan is unable to directly influence, but still needs to relate compliance with ordinances, laws and regulations. to, and where the negative effects can be mitigated. These risks also include risks linked to the ownership, management and development SUSTAINABILITY AND REPUTATIONAL RISKS of properties. Risks connected with environmental impact, climate change, work environment and reputation. OPERATIONAL RISKS Risks in operating activities that result from insufficient or inadequate internal processes or routines, human error or system error. All of the risks are ranked based on their financial impact on operations, the company. A description of the risks and their rankings is presented the likelihood of the risk occurring after taking into account the comin the tables on pages 95–97. The tables also describe how the compapany’s internal controls, preventive measures and level of priority in ny’s risk focus has changed compared with last year. 94 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION REPORT MARKET AND BUSINESS RISKS Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Political decisions Political decisions and regulatory changes are • Competitive intelligence and monitoring Impact Political decisions can lead to changed generally outside Vasakronan’s control, but could of developments in the areas that concern Likelihood prerequisites for Vasakronan’s operations, negatively impact future investment opportunities, Vasakronan both positive and negative. For example, value growth, returns and cost levels. The effects • Participate in debate via appropriate forums Priority this could pertain to decisions regarding can be limited through proactive monitoring of • Analysis of the effects and of possible Focus new tax legislation, the relocation of governplausible decisions, analysis of consequences and proactive measures ment agencies or energy-related decisions. action plans for the various alternatives. • Dialogue with the Board and owners about impact and actions Value decline in properties In the short term, the single largest impact on the • Competitive intelligence and close dialogues Impact Negative market trend due to raised yield company’s financial performance is from changes with tenants Likelihood requirements, lower market rents, increased in the value of the properties, even if it does not • Clear strategy for each property vacancies and higher property expenses directly affect cash flow. Vasakronan has chosen to • Structured process for decisions regarding Priority leading to a downturn in property values. concentrate its portfolio in markets with strong new construction, extensions or redevelopFocus economic growth. The long-term assessment is ments that these properties have the best prerequisites • Portfolio focused on central and desirable for generating a favourable value trend even if, in locations the short term, they may be the most volatile in • Keeping at the forefront in terms of sustainterms of yield. ability and technical developments • Quarterly valuations of the property port­ folio Changing macro environment Vasakronan aims to be at the forefront as regards • Competitive intelligence Impact The pace of technical development is rapid. the use of modern technical solutions and of • Organisation structure that focuses on Likelihood Digital solutions are replacing old technology, service offerings. This requires the company to and promotes change and development new participants are entering the market with diligently monitor the market to identify trends • New innovative energy solutions Priority a wider offering and customers are demandand demand. Vasakronan strives to ensure it has • Collaboration with relevant parties Focus ing new solutions and services. Those who the right skills in combination with close partner• Increased flexibility in the customer offering are unable to adapt their operations and ships with customers, suppliers and other com­ offerings to these new conditions risk losing panies. customers, suppliers and employees. Information and data security If critical information is lost or falls into the wrong • Continuously follow developments by Impact In pace with increasing property sector digihands as a result of a computer crash, data hacking participating in seminars, etc. Likelihood talisation, there is an accelerating need for or inadequate IT security, the financial conse• IT and communication policy well-functioning information and data secuquences could be considerable and the company’s • High degree of awareness of IT security-­ Priority rity. Development in these areas is rapid and credibility may be damaged. Vasakronan has priorrelated risks through, inter alia, internal Focus is becoming increasingly complex. itised this issue highly and actively monitors develand external courses opments in the area. • Ongoing information via internal channels Increased e-commerce Lower demand for Vasakronan’s store space will • Competitive intelligence Impact Increased e-commerce will lead to fewer result in lower rental revenue and higher vacancy • Offer flexible solutions Likelihood purchases in physical stores, which will rates. Vasakronan’s portfolio mainly comprises • Plan for each property and ongoing evaluaresult in stores closing, entering receiverstores in central locations with considerable natution of alternative uses for premises Priority ship or demanding smaller premises. ral flows of people. Vasakronan believes demand • Follow-up and analysis of sales statistics Focus will remain firm for these types of properties, reported by store tenants even for other uses, which will reduce the nega• Close dialogues with existing tenants tive effect. • Clear concepts for shopping precincts Employees The continued development of operations and • Strong brand and industry market leader Impact Employees are the company’s most important remaining relevant for the market requires com• A sustainable company in every dimension Likelihood assets, since they create and nurture the panies to continuously add competence. Compe• Development plans for personnel company’s culture and develop its operations. tition is fierce for the best employees. Vasakronan • Collaboration with universities Priority If it is not possible to keep the right employees actively strives to be an employer that attracts • Succession planning for key personnel Focus or sufficient employees, the business will qualified personnel. The strong brand together • Strong corporate culture that promotes underperform. with the innovative, values-driven corporate curiosity, diversity and flexibility. culture engender considerable interest in the company. Low impact, likelihood or priority Medium impact, likelihood or priority High impact, likelihood or priority Increased focus compared with the preceding year. Unchanged focus compared with the preceding year. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 95 ADMINISTRATION REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATIONAL RISKS Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Project operations Vasakronan has substantial project volumes. • Quality assurance of internal processes Impact Redevelopments, extensions and new conMost of the projects are complex, extend over including risk analysis, project reviews and Likelihood struction projects are associated with risk a long period of time and involve many different exchanging experiences across all phases, and risks increase in line parties. Calculation errors, delivery delays or • Highly skilled project organisation Priority with complexity. Moreover, in economic increased expense due to unforeseen events or • Contractual agreements with partners Focus booms, when demand is high, risk increases carelessness can lead to substantial negative • Code of conduct for suppliers due to the lack of suppliers and employees, financial consequences. • Clear supplier procurement process among other factors. Investments Through its size and focus, Vasakronan has excel• Clear investment strategy subject to Impact Investments are made through new conlent market knowledge of the regions and sub-­ continuous evaluation Likelihood struction, extensions or redevelopments markets in which it operates. Long lead times • Clear decision process in terms of risk and as well as through the acquisition of existing apply when starting larger new or redevelopment opportunities Priority properties. Risk exists of investing in unprofprojects, which always entail market risk. However, • Highly skilled in property investment Focus itable projects or properties. Vasakronan never starts new projects in weaker • Active dialogues with municipalities sub-markets without having first leased out the • Continuous follow-up of ongoing projects majority of the premises. • Frequent dialogue between project organisation and the letting organisation. The acquisition of existing properties always includes a risk of the property not generating the desired yield due to a poorer than expected location, condition or tenant structure. Vasakronan’s market insight and its experience and expertise in property acquisitions means such risks are minimised. Rental revenue Rental revenue is affected by many different • Focused holding at central locations in Impact Negative trend for rental revenue as a result factors such as economic downturns with lower growth areas. Likelihood of lower market rents or higher vacancies demand, lower willingness to pay, increased insol• Mix of sectors, tenants, lease durations leading to poorer cash flow, which negatively vencies and as a consequence, higher vacancies. and premises types in each property/area Priority impacts the value of properties. Rental revenue can also be negatively impacted • Close, proactive dialogues with tenants Focus by excessive supply in the market, a dated prodto understand customers’ needs uct or dissatisfied customers. Vasakronan strives • Structured procurement process for actively to limit exposure to any one sector or accepting new tenants tenant in combination with an even spread of • Annual Customer Satisfaction Index – lease durations. measurement Property expenses Property expenses are impacted, inter alia, by the • Structured and focused efforts to optimise Impact Risk linked to property expenses pertains consumption of electricity and water, the price and streamline energy consumption Likelihood mainly to increases that Vasakronan cannot trends for goods and services, and the utilisation • Maintenance plans for all properties offset through rent increases, index adjustlevel of resources. Active efforts are ongoing at • Optimise property administration Priority ments or onward invoicing. The risk primarVasakronan to optimise and streamline operations • Terms and conditions for green financing Focus ily resides in those costs that the company at each property from both a sustainability and linked to energy consumption has limited ability to influence, such as a cost perspective. • Actively negotiate with municipalities ground rents or unforeseen costs, mainly regarding ground rents related to repairs and maintenance. Vasakronan has a number of ground rent agree• Profit sharing linked to net operating ments. The company actively drives negotiations income with municipalities to limit the negative effects of ground rent increases. Counterparty risk Vasakronan is exposed to counterparty risk in • Structured procurement process for supImpact All business relationships entail a risk of the terms of its suppliers, tenants and transaction pliers and accepting new tenants, including Likelihood counterparty not meeting its obligations. counterparties. To limit risk, diligent evaluations credit checks and taking references are always conducted prior to entering into con• Consequences from non-delivery are conPriority tracts. tractually regulated Focus • When necessary, a deposit is required FINANCIAL RISKS AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Financing Vasakronan has an LTV of 41% and a strong finan• Use several different sources of finance Impact Property is a capital intensive industry and cial position. The company’s rating from Moody’s • The average maturity of interest-bearing Likelihood it is important to secure access to borrowed widens access to financing with longer tenors. liabilities is not permitted to be lower than capital to ensure the survival of the operaIn combination with a stable owner structure, this two years Priority tion. When capital is scarce, risk arises that reduces refinancing risk. • Not more than 40% of interest-bearing Focus the cost of new financing or refinancing will liabilities are permitted to mature within be high or impossible. the next 12 months. • Rating A3 from Moody’s • Strong balance sheet 96 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION REPORT Interest-rate risk Vasakronan has relatively long fixed-interest peri• Financial policy with conservative goals for Impact Interest on borrowed capital is a large cost ods of 4.7 years. The share of fixed-interest maturinterest coverage ratio, fixed-interest tenors Likelihood item in profit or loss and a change in interest ities within one year was 43% of interest-bearing and fixed-interest maturities rate can have a considerable impact. liabilities, which limits exposure to interest-rate • Interest-rate derivatives aimed at achieving Priority changes. If the interest rate increases 1 percentthe desired fixed-interest structure Focus age point, the interest expense will rise by SEK 229 million. Financial reporting Awareness of financial reporting risks is created • Policies with clear allocation of responsibility Impact Financial reporting comprises important by discussion between the employees concerned. and authorities Likelihood decision-data and shortcomings can lead to The risk of errors in the financial reporting are • Good internal control with preventive and erroneous decisions for Vasakronan, as well limited due to Vasakronan having a centralised follow-up controls Priority as for external parties such as lenders and accounting and finance function with clear alloca• External audit Focus investors. tion of responsibility and follow-up. • Highly skilled accounting and finance function • Continuous monitoring and analysis of regulatory changes Regulatory compliance Regulations can be complex to interpret and • Continuously follow developments in Impact Vasakronan has to adapt to numerous differcomply with. Vasakronan continuously strives terms of laws, rules and regulations in Likelihood ent rules, regulations and laws. Non-complito stay updated vis-à-vis current regulations as relevant areas ance with regulations can lead to economic well as regulatory changes to ensure regulatory • Proactive analysis of the possible effects Priority consequences, sanctions or damaged conficompliance. of changes in rules and acting with the Focus dence. above in mind • Active participation in debates to the extent possible in the relevant forums • Dialogue with politicians or other influential individuals, for example SUSTAINABILITY AND REPUTATIONAL RISKS Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Climate changes Vasakronan’s single largest asset comprises prop• Follow research and development in susImpact Global climate change is leading to higher erties. Climate change poses new demands on tainability and the consequences of climate Likelihood temperatures, extreme weather events and Vasakronan’s properties, which the company has change rising in sea levels. For property companies, to address when making investments. If Vasa­ • Make an inventory of the entire portfolio Priority this means increased risk of property damage kronan does not work proactively and monitor to identify where any risk of a major impact Focus due to temporary flooding, of buildings/mateclimate issues, there is a considerable risk that, in exists and to prepare action plans rial not coping with the new weather condithe future, some properties will be unusable and/ • Risk analyses for new construction and tions or temperature changes. In areas that or the cost of rectifying the damage will be high. acquisitions, preventive measures are close to the sea, this also entails permanent risks in the long term. Negative environmental impact Vasakronan has a goal of delivering a high and • Environmental policy with clear aims for Impact The property sector has a high environ­ stable long-term return, but never at the cost of sustainability efforts Likelihood mental impact and accounts for around the environment. Environmental initiatives • Clear targets for reducing energy consump40% of society’s energy consumption, 21% should not be seen as an isolated area but rather tion and waste, increasing recycling of matePriority of climate impact and creates a lot of waste. as a natural and integral part of business activirials and reducing environmental impact from Focus ties. The company has a high percentage of green Vasakronan’s and suppliers transportation funding (also refer to page 32), which sets strin• Installation of solar photovoltaic panels gent requirements on sustainability work. • Environmental certification of properties • Preparation and review of a sustainability report Reputation As Sweden’s largest property company, there is • Active valuation efforts involving all Impact Decreased confidence in Vasakronan among considerable public interest in Vasakronan’s operemployees Likelihood the company’s stakeholders due to unethical ations. This, in combination with the ownership • Policies with clear allocation of responsibehaviour or breaches of laws and regulastructure and the listing of the company’s bonds bility and authorities Priority tions could harm the brand. on the Stockholm Stock Exchange, means strin• Codes of conduct for employees and for Focus gent requirements are set for the company’s suppliers behaviour. Lack of confidence in Vasakronan • Whistle-blower mechanism could lead to substantial economic damage in the form of lost business or partnerships. Work environment The employees’ occupational health is a strategi• Collaboration between employees, safety Impact All activities are associated with risk for both cally important issue for Vasakronan. An unsafe officers, managers, company management Likelihood physical and mental injury. The construction work environment and a negative work climate and suppliers industry is particularly closely associated lead to an ineffective organisation. Vasakronan • Training in physical and mental health Priority with major occupational health risks. works actively to minimise the risk of employees, • Clear goals linked to worksite accidents and Focus contractors or tenants suffering physical or mental health as well as their follow-up mental injury in and around Vasa­kronan’s offices, • Wellness measures projects or properties. • Codes of conduct for employees and suppliers • Whistle-blower mechanism • Work climate that provides the prerequisites and takes responsibility for a healthy working life VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 97 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Clear structure provides control Vasakronan’s corporate governance efforts are based on clearly formulated goals and strategies as well as sound values. Vasakronan AB is a public limited company. In view of the general interest in the compaImportant external regulations: Important internal regulations: ny’s operations, and since the company’s bonds • The Swedish Companies Act • The Articles of Association are listed on the Stockholm stock exchange, • Accounting policies, legislation and • The Rules of Procedure for the Board the Swedish Corporate Governance Code has recommendations of Directors and committees, and the been applied. The company also has bonds • Nasdaq Stockholm Rule Book for Issuers CEO’s Instruction listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange and Euro­ • The Issuer Rules for Oslo Børs • Internal guidelines and policies that next Dublin, and has chosen Ireland as its • Euronext Dublin’s Rule Book for Issuers cover all Vasakronan’s employees and home Member State. Accordingly, the Central • The Prospective Directive under Irish law are characterised by business values Bank of Ireland is responsible for supervision • The EU Market Abuse Regulation (MAR) such as a financial policy, decision-­ pursuant to the Transparency Directive. • The Swedish Corporate Governance making and delegation processes, Clear internal structures and processes Code an anti-corruption policy, an environalso ensure that operations are conducted • UN Global Compact mental policy and a Code of Conduct efficiently and appropriately. • Framework for green bonds Our framework Corporate governance at Vasakronan is Deviations from the Code based on both internal and external rules As a consequence of its small group of owners, Vasakronan deviates from the Code in two ways: the Nomination Committee’s proposals for Board members and notices of General Meetings and and regulations. The Board of Directors has minutes from General Meetings are not published on the company’s website. None of the members adopted policy documents based on the of the Nomination Committee are independent in relation to the owners. values that ought to characterise operations, in order to guide employees at Vasakronan. Governance structure Appoints Nomination Committee Election of auditor Shareholders through Nomination 5 Auditor 1 2 General Meeting Committee Examines the company’s Proposes Board of financial reporting, Elects Board Directors and auditors for coming year administration and of Directors internal control 3 Board of Directors Audit and Remuneration 4 Committees Goals, strategies, responsibility for the company’s organisation and administration CEO and Steering group 6 Group Management for internal control Support for the CEO, tasked with developing the work on corporate governance, internal control and risk. 7 98 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 1 Shareholders and General Meeting 2 Nomination Committee Board is to comprise at least three and at most ten members, excluding any employee Vasakronan is owned in equal shares by the The task of the Nomination Committee is representatives. The owners can, but do not First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish to present proposals regarding: need to be, represented on the Board. In national pension funds. Shareholders exer• The number of Board members addition to the owner representatives, the cise their influence through participation in • Election of Board members and Chairman ambition of the owners is that the Board of the Annual General Meetings (AGMs), which of the Board Directors also consist of members who are are the highest decision-making body. Under • Fees for the Board of Directors and independent in relation to the company and the Articles of Association, the AGM of sharemembers of the Board committees the owners. The independent members will holders must be held within six months of the • Auditors and auditors’ fees supplement the Board with specific industry end of the financial year. The Companies Act • Instruction for the Nomination Committee competence. The AGM on 3 May 2018 and the Articles of Association regulate what elected Ulrika Francke as the new Chairman is to be resolved at the AGM. Extraordinary The Nomination Committee consists of of the Board. The other eight members were general meetings are held if any of the owners one representative from each of the owners, re-elected. The CEO is not a member of the so request, or if the Board of Directors conwho are appointed in accordance with the Board, but is present at all Board meetings. siders there is reason to do so. instructions for the Nomination Committee The tasks of the AGM include: as adopted by the AGM. The Nomination Tasks and responsibilities of the Board • Adopting the income statement and Committee met four times in 2018. The overall task of the Board is to be responbalance sheet In the Committee’s work on producing sible for organisation and administration of • Discharging the Board members and proposals for Board members, an equal genoperations, and financial reporting. It also CEO from liability der distribution must be taken into account, decides on the company’s strategy, estab• Resolving on the proposed distribution and that the Board in general should be charlishes financial, social, and environmental of profit acterised by diversity based on competence, targets, and is responsible for establishing • Resolving on fees for the members of experience and background. The Nomination efficient and appropriate systems for goverthe Board and the committees, as well Committee has studied the internal evaluanance, internal control and risk management. as the auditors tion of the work of the Board, the Chairman’s The work is regulated through rules of proce• Electing Board members, members of account of the work of the Board and the dure that are established at the statutory the Audit and Remuneration committees, company’s strategy, and interviewed individBoard meeting every year. These rules and auditors ual Board members as part of its work. The include instructions on the Board’s areas of • Establishing principles for remuneration goal of the Committee is to propose a comporesponsibility and limitations in relation to and other employment terms and condisition of Board members that complement the committees and the CEO. tions for senior executives each other as regards experience, personaliThe Chairman of the Board monitors the ties and knowledge, in order to thereby create Board’s performance of its tasks. The ChairThe latest AGM was held on 3 May 2018 at the best value for Vasakronan. No fees were man also monitors operations in dialogue Vasakronan’s head office in Stockholm. All paid to the Nomination Committee in 2018. with the CEO and is responsible for ensuring shares were represented and the auditors the other members receive the information were present. 3 Board of Directors necessary to maintain a high level of quality in discussions and decisions. The Chairman Composition of the Board is also responsible for evaluating the work of The Articles of Association stipulate that the both the Board and the CEO. Composition of the Board ATTENDANCE Indep. of Indep. of Board and Committee Board Audit Remuneration Elected company major owners fees, KSEK meetings Committee Committee Mats Wäppling1) 2010 Yes Yes 348 2/2 1/2 2/2 Ulrika Francke2) 2018 Yes Yes 359 10/10 3/3 1/1 Jan-Olof Backman 2011 Yes Yes 265 12/12 Ann-Sofi Danielsson 2017 Yes Yes 291 12/12 5/5 Niklas Ekvall 2016 No No No remuneration 11/12 Eva Halvarsson 2006 No No No remuneration 12/12 5/5 Kerstin Hessius 2004 No No No remuneration 11/12 Christel Kinning 2014 Yes Yes 265 11/12 Rolf Lydahl 2007 Yes Yes 328 12/12 5/5 Johan Magnusson 2008 No No No remuneration 11/12 2/3 1) Stepped down May 2018. 2) Elected May 2018. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 99 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance structure Standing items on the Board’s agenda comprise market and business conditions, ongoing projects and transactions, market valuations, financing, ongoing disputes and reporting from the Audit and Remuneration Committees. In addition to these items, the following items were addressed at the past year’s Board meetings. Scheduled Board meeting Scheduled Board meeting Report on the strategic plan, review of the Board evaluation, information Report on the strategic plan, report from auditors, decisions about the company’s sustainability efforts, focus area HR. on year-end report, report from the Compliance Officer, Dec Jan review of risk inventory. Scheduled Board Meeting Nov Feb Decision on Q3 interim report Oct Q4 Q1 Mar Statutory Board Meeting Decisions on authorised signatories, establishment of Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors, the Audit and RemuQ3 Q2 Sep Apr neration Committees, and the Instructions for the CEO. Scheduled Board meeting Decision on Q1 interim report, decision on rating and EMTN Scheduled Board meeting Aug May prospectus, focus area Technical Operations & Development. Decision to revise the financial policy, Jul Jun focus area Region Gothenburg. Annual General Meeting Ratification of income statement and balance sheet, decisions on appropriation of profit and discharge of Board and CEO from liability, establishment of remuneration for Board and auditor, election of Board and auditor. Scheduled Board meeting Decision on Q2 interim report. Scheduled Board meeting Focus area Project Sergelhuset. Work of the Board of Directors in 2018 In total, the Board had eight scheduled external party. The results of the survey were The work of the Board of Directors follows an meetings in 2018, one of which was statutory. presented to the full Board and were thereafannual cycle of scheduled meetings on fixed Issues of strategy and risk management are ter followed up by the Chairman interviewing dates, adjusted for such matters as the Board always high on the agenda. Over the past year, each Board member. The purpose of the evalneeding to adopt the financial reporting. the focus has been on developments in the uation is to ensure that the Board is focused The CEO, CFO and General Counsel (in property sector, primarily regarding the entry on the correct area, that the Board has the the capacity of the secretary of the Board) of new market participants and the impact of correct competence and that it is correctly attended the scheduled meetings. Other digitalisation. Considerable focus was also composed. The results of the evaluation are persons from the organisation such as dedicated to larger ongoing new construction also used as the basis for the Nomination regional Senior Vice Presidents and SVPs and renovation projects at Vasakronan. Four Committee’s work with bringing forward for Finance and Property Development extra Board meetings were held during the new candidates for the Board of Directors participate as needed, presenting reports on year and took decisions on the MTN proand as a basis for improving the Board’s work. particular cases. Vasakronan’s Compliance gramme and the dividend policy. In addition Officer (the company’s General Counsel) to the Board meetings, the Board also conRemuneration to the Board also reports annually to the Board on cases ducted two strategy conferences that were The AGM passes resolutions on remuneration that have come in to the company’s whistle-­ held together with the Management Team. to the Board. Board fees are not paid to memblower function. For more information, refer to the section bers who are employed by any of the owners. The Board meetings follow a fixed agenda CEO and Management Team. For the period until and including the 2018 on which the CEO’s information on general The auditors were present at the Board General Meeting, the AGM resolved that the operations are a standing point. In cases meeting held in February where the yearChairman will receive SEK 660,000 and the where committee meetings have been held, end report was adopted. other independent members SEK 265,000 in the chairpersons of the respective commitfees. For the Audit Committee, it was resolved tees also report on their work. Evaluation of the Board of Directors that a fee to its Chairman of SEK 63,000 and Meetings in addition to the scheduled According to the Rules of Procedure, the to independent members of SEK 26,000 Board meetings are also held as needed, for Board of Directors must conduct an annual would be paid, and a fee of SEK 32,000 to example when a business decision requires evaluation of its work. In 2018, this was conthe Remuneration Committee. the approval of the Board. ducted using a written survey prepared by an 100 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 4 The committees the Committee studying the auditor’s written cedure established by the Board and consists reporting and the auditor being present at primarily of: In order to enhance the efficiency of its work, certain Committee meetings. • Preparing the work of the Board of Directhe Board has established an Audit Committee For 2018, the Audit Committee consisted tors on remuneration for senior executives and a Remuneration Committee. The primary of Rolf Lydahl, who was also the chairman, and in the profit-sharing programme for task of these committees is to prepare the Eva Halvarsson, Ann-Sofi Danielsson and other employees. decisions of the Board in these two areas. Mats Wäppling, who was replaced in May • Monitor and evaluate compliance with by Ulrika Francke. All members have the the “Guidelines for Terms of Employment Audit Committee competence in accounting required under for Senior Executives in state-owned The Board of Directors has appointed an the Annual Accounts Act. Companies” that Vasakronan is to comply Audit Committee consisting of four Board The Committee held five meetings during with as regards remuneration and other members. The Committee’s areas of responthe year. The company’s auditor was present terms of employment for company mansibility are regulated in the rules of procedure at three of them to report on the audit. In agement (refer to Point 6 below for more established by the Board. The overall responaddition to this, the Committee primarily disinformation). sibilities of the Audit Committee include: cussed the company’s financial statements • Preparing the work of the Board on quality and the work of the Management Team on For 2018, the Remuneration Committee assurance of the financial reporting, which risk and internal control. The CEO, the CFO consisted of Mats Wäppling, who was also in turn includes addressing material and SVP for Group Control (the secretary of the Chairman, until he stepped down in May, accounting issues. the committee) participated in the meetings. and thereafter of Ulrika Francke as Chairman • Monitoring the work of company manageOver the year, the Committee also comand Johan Magnusson. During the year, the ment on internal control, tax management pleted an evaluation of its work with the Committee held three meetings at which and risk and corporate governance issues. aim of ensuring the right questions were issues of remuneration for senior executives • Evaluating the audit work and preparing addressed within the Committee. At least and principles for profit-sharing for other the election of an auditor. once each year, the Committee meets with employees were primarily discussed. The • Issuing guidelines concerning the advance the auditor without the participation of work of the Committee was also evaluated approval of non-audit related services percompany management. at the meeting in January. The CEO and the formed by the elected external auditor. SVP for Human Resources, who is the secreRemuneration Committee tary of the Committee, participated in all the The Audit Committee meets with the auditor The Board of Directors has appointed a meetings and the company’s auditor submiton a continual basis in order to obtain inforRemuneration Committee consisting of two ted their report from the review of remunermation about the orientation, scope and Board members. The Committee’s areas of ation for senior executives at the meeting results of the audit. This take place through responsibility are regulated in a rules of proin May. Organisation CEO Business development Property investments Business support Property development Region Gothenburg Region Öresund in Stockholm Technical Operations Region Stockholm Region Uppsala & Development VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 101 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 5 External audit Ten meetings were held in 2018. At four of reporting maintains a good level of quality, them, the interim reports and operational and that applicable laws and regulations are In accordance with the Articles of Association, monitoring were discussed, and two were observed. the general meeting must appoint at least one longer strategy meetings. One strategy Planning, governance and monitoring of and at most two authorised public accounmeeting is held in the spring, and focuses on operations follows the organisational structants with an equal number of deputies. If an the trends and operating environment factors ture, with a clear delegation of responsibilities auditing company is appointed as auditor, that impact the company. The other strategy and authorisations. The business planning deputies will not be appointed. The auditor is meeting is held in the autumn, and the strateconducted every year creates clear, well-­ elected for one year at a time. The Board of gic portion of the business plan is developed supported plans for how operations are to Directors has decided that the selection of an with focus areas and key issues for operations. be pursued in all sections. Business planning auditor will be preceded at least once every Vasakronan’s operations are organised in starts with the Management Team’s strategy four years by a procurement to be prepared four regions, with a special unit for property days in the spring and concludes with the by the Audit Committee. development in Stockholm. Technical OperaBoard of Directors deciding on the plan at its In addition to issuing the Auditors’ Report, tions & Development are organised sepaDecember meeting. In between, business the selected auditor examines the annual rately, with central support functions and plans are developed for both underlying units accounts, the consolidated financial statelocal staffing. As support for the organisation, and for the company as a whole. The plans ments and accounting records, the Board’s there are central units for property investformulate both shortand long-term financial, and the CEO’s administration of the company ments and business support, which included environmental and social goals. The business and the annual accounts of the subsidiaries. finance, communications and IT, legal and plan is thereafter monitored continually The audit will take place in accordance with HR. A Head of Sustainability has been during the subsequent year. the Annual Accounts Act, international auditappointed to govern and monitor the compaA risk inventory and risk assessment are ing standards and generally accepted auditing ny’s work on sustainability topics. conducted every year in conjunction with principles in Sweden. The AGM passes resolutions on principles business planning. The material risks identiAt the 2018 AGM, Pricewaterhouse­ of remuneration for the CEO and the Managefied are managed in the business plans for Coopers was elected as auditor for the comment Team. Salaries and other benefits for the units. The work on risk management is ing year, with Helena Ehrenborg as Auditor the Management Team, including the CEO, described in more detail on pages 94–97. A in Charge. In addition, Daniel Algotsson was consist only of fixed salaries with no variable framework of guidelines, policies and instrucelected as auditor. More information about remuneration. In addition, Vasakronan applies tions established by the Board of Directors the auditors can be found on page 104. Inforthe Government’s “Guidelines for Terms of and the CEO govern the organisation and its mation about the auditors’ fees can be found Employment for Senior Executives in stateemployees for the purpose of ensuring longin Note 2.3 on page 77. owned Companies” as regards remuneration term value creation. The framework is to be and other terms of employment for company followed by all employees, and monitoring 6 CEO and Management Team management. The company can, however, occurs annually. deviate from the guidelines if there is reason As support for the CEO, a special steering The CEO is appointed by the Board of Directo do so. Vasakronan deviates from the group has been established in order to develop tors and is responsible for daily operations in Government’s guidelines in two aspects. The the work on corporate governance, internal Vasakronan, in accordance with the Board’s CEO’s period of notice totals twelve months control and risk. In addition to the CEO, the instructions established each year. The CEO instead of the six indicated by the guidelines, group consists of the General Counsel, the is responsible for keeping the Board continuand remuneration for the Management Team, CFO and the SVP for Group Control. The ally updated on operations and ensures that exclusive of remuneration for the CEO, is not work is conducted in close collaboration with the Board is provided with the necessary basis recognised at the individual level in the the Audit Committee, which is responsible for for decisions in order to take well-founded Annual Report. risk work, and internal control is continually decisions. Fredrik Wirdenius has been the tested and evaluated. Since existing structures CEO of Vasakronan since 2008. 7 Governance and control for evaluation and monitoring have so far been The CEO has formed a Management Team deemed sufficient to provide a basis for evaluthat, in addition to the CEO, consists of twelve The Board of Directors is responsible for the ation by the Board, no special unit for internal directly subordinate Senior Vice Presidents; company having satisfactory and relevant risk auditing has been established. The decision is, refer to the presentation on Page 105. The management and internal control. The purhowever, taken up annually for re-examination. Management Team meets regularly in order pose is to ensure that operations are pursued to handle Group-wide and strategic issues. efficiently and sustainably, that external 102 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal control of financial reporting This report was prepared in accordance with Based on the steering documents that conInformation and communication the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish cern accounting and financial reporting, the Employees’ understanding of Vasakronan’s Corporate Governance Code, and is limited CEO is responsible for formulating internal risk situations is an important part of the work to describing how internal control regarding processes and for establishing policies and of internal control. Awareness of the risks in financial reporting is organised. Vasakronan’s instructions. the financial reporting is created through goals for internal control regarding financial The CFO is responsible for guidelines for discussion and dialogue with employees being reporting are to make it relevant and efficient, financial reporting and ensuring that they a natural element both in annual business and that is results in reliable reports, and that it are prepared in accordance with applicable operations planning and in routine work. ensures that relevant laws and regulations are accounting standards, and the legal and listThis communication is facilitated by a observed. The report contains no statements ing requirements in force. centralised finance function, with which on how well internal control functioned during employees are in close contact on a daily the past financial year, and it has not been Risk assessment basis. Guidelines and instruction of essential audited by the company’s auditors. As part of business and operations planning, importance for financial reporting are rouVasakronan annually conducts an overall tinely updated and communicated to the Control environment risk evaluation. Risks in all the company’s employees concerned. All the routine The basis for internal control in Vasakronan key processes are then evaluated based on descriptions and tools needed are available consists of a control environment with a clear likelihood and impact. For more detailed on Vasakronan’s intranet together with organisation, clear decision-making paths information on the company’s risk evaluation Group-wide policies and instructions. and a clear allocation of responsibilities. process, refer to page 94. In addition, risks Vasakronan’s Board of Directors has overall are continually assessed based on the comMonitoring of internal control responsibility for internal control of financial pany’s income statement and balance sheet, The Board of Directors of Vasakronan has reporting. The Board annually ratifies a numwhere every item is evaluated based on its overall responsibility for monitoring internal ber of steering documents such as the Rules existence, appraisal and completeness. control. The Audit Committee has particular of Procedure for the Board of Directors, Risks linked to tax, legal issues or other non-­ responsibility for preparing quality assurance instructions for the CEO, and financial policy current transactions are evaluated regularly by the Board of the financial reporting. Moniin order to establish and clarify the allocation for preventive purposes. These risks are toring of the financial reporting takes place of responsibilities and authorisations in the described separately on pages 95–97 in the continually through the controls and analyorganisation. The Board has also appointed Annual Report. Risks are built on management’s ses performed by the Board of Directors, an Audit Committee with particular responbest assessment of impact and likelihood. The the Audit Committee, management and the sibility for preparing quality assurance by risks in the financial reporting are routinely finance function. These controls and analythe Board of the financial reporting as well discussed with the company’s auditors. ses also capture the need for measures or as monitoring the work of company manageproposals for improvements. Monitoring also ment on internal control. The control enviControl activities takes place through the audit performed by ronment also encompasses the culture and Control activities are formulated based on the the company’s external auditors. The observavalues that both the Board and company risk assessments. At Vasakronan, there are tions from this audit are reported to the Board management communicate and work from controls built into all key processes through of Directors, the Audit Committee and comas conveyed by such documents as Vasa­ standardised system solutions, documented pany management as well as to the employees kronan’s Code of Conduct, which is ratified and well-established routines and a clear concerned. yearly by the Board of Directors. A whistle-­ allocation of responsibilities in a centralised The company’s external auditors regularly blower function has been established to financial function. Control activities comprise report back on the results of their audit to the which the company’s employees or other a mix of preventive and monitoring functions CFO and to the Audit Committee. stakeholders can turn with suspicions of that can be both manual and automatic. improper conduct or crime. A Compliance The financial reporting process is constantly Officer (Vasakronan’s General Counsel) is reviewed. The finance function has a clear tasked with managing issues of improper responsibility for adapting the process as conduct and deficient compliance with reguneeded to ensure quality in the reporting lations in the company. Reporting to the and that laws and external requirements are Board of Directors takes place annually. observed. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 103 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board of Directors and auditors Ulrika Francke Kerstin Hessius Chairman, since 2018. Board member since 2004. Born: 1956 Born: 1958 Education: University studies Education: Master of Business AdministraOther assignments: Chairman of Knightec, tion and Economics Deputy Chairman of Swedbank. Board Other assignments: CEO, Third National member of Hexagon, SIS (Swedish Standards Pension Fund. Board member of Hemsö, Institute) and avd III IVA. Trenum, Handelsbanken, SVEDAB and Previous experience: President and CEO Öresund Konsortiet. of Tyréns AB, CEO SBC (Sveriges BostadsPrevious experience: CEO of the Stockholm rättscentrum AB), Director of AdministraStock Exchange, Deputy Governor of tion and City Commissioner City of StockSwedish Central Bank, executive positions holm, President and CEO of Fastighets AB at Östgöta Enskilda Bank and Alfred Berg. Ulrika Francke Jan-Olof Backman Brommastaden Chairman of Finansmarknadsrådet. Independent: Independent in relation to Independent: Owner representative. the owners, the company and company management. Christel Kinning Board member since 2014. Jan-Olof Backman Born: 1962 Board member since 2011. Education: Finance and marketing Born: 1961 Other assignments: Own operations. Education: M.Sc. in civil engineering. Board member of Stadium, Reima, Zound­ Other assignments: Own operations. Board industries, Venue Retail Group and Björn assignments at Microsystemation, Logent, Borg. 24Storage and Tagehus. Previous experience: CEO of Polarn O. Pyret, Previous experience: Executive positions CEO of RNB Retail and Brands and executive in Coor Service Management, McKinsey & positions at Kellermann Scandinavia. Company and Byggnads AB O. Tjärnberg. Independent: Independent in relation to Independent: Independent in relation to the owners, the company and company Ann-Sofi Danielsson Niklas Ekvall the owners, the company and company management. management. Rolf Lydahl Ann-Sofi Danielsson Board member since 2007, Chairman of Board member since 2017. the Audit Committee since 2011. Born: 1959 Born: 1945 Education: Master of Business AdministraEducation: Master of Business Administration and Economics tion and Economics Other assignments: CFO and Head of IR at Other assignments: Own operations. Board Bonava. Board member of Pandox AB. assignments at various smaller entreprePrevious experience: CFO and other execuneurial driven companies. tive positions at the NCC Group. Previous experience: CEO at finance comIndependent: Independent in relation to pany Probo, Vice President of Nordstjernan, the owners, the company and company executive positions at Retriva and represenmanagement. tative of Credit Suisse. Eva Halvarsson Kerstin Hessius Independent: Independent in relation to Niklas Ekvall the owners, the company and company Board member since 2016. management. Born: 1963 Education: Ph.D. Financial Economics and. Johan Magnusson M.Sc Industrial Engineering Board member and member of the Other assignments: CEO, Fourth National Remuneration Committee since 2008. Pension Fund. Board member of the Hans Born: 1959 Dalborg Stiftelse för Bankoch FinansforskEducation: Graduate in Economics ning and the KVA Investment Committee. Other assignments: CEO of the First Swedish Previous experience: CEO of Nordea InvestNational Pension Fund. ment Management; Vice President, Third Board member of Willhem National Pension Fund; executive positions Previous experience: Executive positions at in Nordea, Carnegie and Handelsbanken. SEB Wealth Management, SEB Private Independent: Owner representative. Banking and ABB Investment Management. Independent: Owner representative. Christel Kinning Rolf Lydahl Eva Halvarsson Board member since 2006 and member of the Audit Committee since 2008. AUDITORS Born: 1962 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Education: Master of Business Administration and Economics Helena Ehrenborg Other assignments: CEO, Second National Auditor in charge Pension Fund. Board member of UN-PRI, Born: 1965 the Swedish Royal Opera, IWF, Finans­ Other important assignments: Auditor at KompetensCentrum and WIN WIN Award. Pandox, Jernhusen, HSB and Akademiska Previous experience: Tax auditor and head Hus. of State ownership administration. Independent: Owner representative. Daniel Algotsson Authorised Public Accountant Born: 1982 Johan Magnusson Mats Wäppling Other important assignments: Auditor at Stepped down from the Board Avida Finans, FCG Fonder, Catella and at the 2018 AGM Proventus. 104 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Senior executives Fredrik Wirdenius Kristina CEO Pettersson Post Born: 1961 SVP, Gothenburg Region Employed: 2008 Born: 1964 Joined Management Team: 2008 Employed: 1993 Education: Civil Engineer Joined Management Team: 2011 Previous experience: Skanska Education: Civil Engineer Other assignments: Board assignPrevious experience: Byggnadsments at Scandic Hotels. styrelsen. Other assignments: Board member Ronald Bäckrud of Nordstans Samfällighet, Trophi SVP, Stockholm Region Fastighets AB, CMB Chalmers and Born: 1958 the non-profit organisation GöteEmployed: 1995 borg citysamverkan. Fredrik Wirdenius Ronald Bäckrud Sheila Florell Joined Management Team: 2008 Education: Civil Engineer Johanna Skogestig Previous experience: J&W, SVP, CIO Vattenbyggnadsbyrån, Skandia Born: 1974 and Arne Johnson Förvaltning. Employed: 2015 Other assignments: Board member Joined Management Team: 2015 of Byggherrarna. Education: Civil Engineer Previous experience: AP Fastig­ Sheila Florell heter, Sveafastigheter and Areim SVP, General Counsel Other assignments: Board member Born: 1965 of Fastighets AB Regio and Cibus. Employed: 2005 Joined Management Team: 2006 Anna Stenkil Education: B.Law and estate SVP, Öresund Region agent exam. Previous experience: If Born: 1968 Jan-Erik Hellman Christer Nerlich Anna Nyberg Employed: 2011 Skadeförsäkring and Association Joined Management Team: 2016 of Swedish Real Estate Agents. Education: Graduate in Economics Other assignments: Board Previous experience: Proffice, assignments at SSM Holding. Newsec, Wihlborgs. Other assignments: Board member Jan-Erik Hellman of Fastigheter and Ideon Open. SVP, Uppsala Region Born: 1975 Cecilia Söderström Employed: 2010 SVP, Human Resources Joined Management Team: 2017 Born: 1962 Education: Civil Engineer Employed: 2008 Other assignments: Board Joined Management Team: 2008 assignments at Citysamverkan AB Education: B.Sc. Sociology Previous experience: JLL, ICA Previous experience: Svenska Fastigheter. Spel and Ericsson. Kristina Pettersson Post Johanna Skogestig Anna Stenkil Other assignments: Board member Christer Nerlich of Almega Fastighetsarbetsgivarna. SVP, CFO Born: 1961 Per Thiberg Employed: 1995 SVP, Business Development Joined Management Team: 1998 Born: 1959 Education: Master of Business Employed: 2002 Administration and Economics Joined Management Team: 2010 Previous experience: Newsec Education: Civil Engineer and FastighetsRenting. Previous experience: JM and Other assignments: Board Newsec. assignments at Akademiska Hus. Nicklas Walldan Anna Nyberg SVP, Technical Operations & SVP, Property development Development Cecilia Söderström Per Thiberg Nicklas Walldan Stockholm Born: 1971 Born: 1973 Employed: 2001 Employed: 2007 Joined Management Team: 2008 Joined Management Team: 2015 Education: Civil Engineer Education: Civil Engineer Previous experience: Tyréns. Previous experience: Hufvud­ Other assignments: Board member staden, Ericsson, Dalkia and of Svensk Byggtjänst and Samhälls­ Stadshypotek. byggnadslänken at KTH Royal University of Technology. Peter Östman SVP, Corporate Communications Born: 1961 Employed: 1998 Joined Management Team: 1998 Education: Master of Business Peter Östman Administration and Economics Previous experience: Storstaden. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD OF DIRECTORS SIGNATURES Signing by the Board of Directors The Board and CEO affirm that the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and RFR2, and provide a fair and accurate overview of the Parent Company’s financial position and results. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and provide a fair and accurate overview of the Group’s financial position and results. The Administration Report for the Group and Parent Company provides a fair and accurate overview of the Group and Parent Company’s operations, position and results, and describes material risks and uncertainties faced by the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. Stockholm, 25 March 2019 Ulrika Francke Jan-Olof Backman Ann-Sofi Danielsson Chairman of the Board Board Member Board Member Niklas Ekvall Eva Halvarsson Kerstin Hessius Board Member Board Member Board Member Christel Kinning Rolf Lydahl Johan Magnusson Board Member Board Member Board Member Fredrik Wirdenius Chief Executive Officer Our Auditors’ Report was submitted on 25 March 2019 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Helena Ehrenborg Daniel Algotsson Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Lead partner 106 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 AUDITORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Vasakronan AB (publ), corporate identity number 556061-4603 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants Opinions in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsiWe have audited the annual accounts and consolidated bilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes accounts of Vasakronan AB (publ) for the year 2018 except that, based on the best of my (our) knowledge and belief, no for the corporate governance statement on pages 98–105. prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the com(537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited pany are included on pages 60–97 and 106 in this document. company or, where applicable, its parent company or its In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared controlled companies within the EU. in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of parent sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. company as of 31 December 2018 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance Audit scope with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts Vasakronan is the leading property company in Sweden have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts with investment properties valued at SEK 139 billion. The Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial company’s strategy is to manage and develop commercial position of the group as of 31 December 2018 and their investment properties in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended and Lund. in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Our audit has a group approach which includes audits of (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. all the significant investment properties within the group. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance stateThis group approach means that the significant business ment on pages 98–105. The statutory administration report processes for the financial reporting in the group, such as is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts rental income, purchasing, payroll and valuation process is and consolidated accounts. audited centrally from a group perspective even though the We therefore recommend that the general meeting of investment properties legally is in several legal entities. As shareholders adopts the income statement and balance 96% of the group assets consist of investment properties sheet for the parent company and the group. that are valued at fair value, the audit’s main focus is to evalOur opinions in this report on the annual accounts and uate if the Annual report reflects the investment properties’ consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of book value according to the company’s valuation principles the additional report that has been submitted to the parent and that these principles are according to IFRS. company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit We designed our audit by determining materiality and Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. assessing the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where Basis for Opinions management made subjective judgements; for example, in We conducted our audit in accordance with International respect of fair value of investment properties that involved Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing making assumptions and considering future events that are standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those staninherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed dards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities the risk of management override of internal controls, includsection. We are independent of the parent company and the ing among other matters consideration of whether there was Our audit approach Materiality Overall group materiality: SEK 720 million, representing 0.5% of the group’s Materiality total assets. Scope Our audit has a group approach. In this approach, we focus on the central Scope business processes and on the audit of the valuation of investment properties from a group perspective. The overall purpose of the audit is to evaluate that Vasakronan’s financial statements have been prepared and presented Key audit according to IFRS. matter Key Audit Matter Valuation of investment properties. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDITORS’ REPORT evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstateOverall group ment due to fraud. materiality SEK 720 million We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufHow we determined A threshold representing 0.5% of the ficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolithis level Group’s total assets. dated financial statements as a whole, taking into account Rational for the We chose total assets as the benchmark the structure of Vasakronan, the accounting processes and due to the fact that, in our view, this is materiality benchmark the benchmark against which the perforcontrols, and the industry in which the group operates. applied mance of a group, over time, is most commonly measured. We have chosen 0.5% of total assets and this is a generally accepted Materiality benchmark and is in our view an acceptThe scope of our audit was influenced by our application of able overall materiality level. materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. to them misstatements identified during our audit above They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, 50 MSEK as well as misstatements below that amount that, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. Key audit matter Based on our professional judgement, we determined cerKey audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our tain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overprofessional judgment, were of most significance in our all group materiality for the consolidated financial statements audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with the current period. These matters were addressed in the qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procethe annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, dures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individbut we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. ually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Valuation of investment properties Amongst other things, our audit has focused on the company’s internal control and We refer to the Administration Report and the description of the Vasakronan group’s quality assurance as regards the externally executed valuations as at 31 December summary of important accounting and valuation principles in Note 2, as well as refer2018. The audit team, including our valuation specialists, have obtained copies of ring to Note 4.2, Changes in the values of investment properties. and examined a selection of the valuation reports and have ensured that the valuaAs at 31 December 2018, The value of the investment properties totaled SEK 139 tions comply with Vasakronan’s guidelines for valuations and with the correct valuabillion. Investment properties comprise a significant portion of the balance sheet and tion methods. the valuation of these properties is inherently subjective and is the object of company The external valuers’ work are based on the same calculation model as applied by management’s judgements as regards, for example, the location of the specific propVasakronan, which implies that the company’s quality assurance of the external erty, its condition and future rental income. Valuation objects incurring a major devaluations is facilitated. We have assessed the external valuers’ competence and gree of uncertainty in terms of their market value assessment are comprised of ongoexperience and have also studied the groups’ valuation agreements with the extering development projects properties. nal valuers to determine if there are any circumstances in the agreements which The valuation of all of the investment properties is executed at the end of each year and could impact the valuers’ objectivity or if there are any limitations to their work. every six months by external valuers, Cushman & Wakefield and Forum Fastighets­ In addition, we have tested, on a sample basis, company management’s input data ekonomi. At the end of the other quarters, the properties are valued internally. The valuregistered in the valuation models and taken from the company’s systems. This was ations are executed on the basis of The Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors’ (”RICS’ ”) done to ensure that the information for the investment property valuations applied valuation standards and processes which are based on an adopted, established valuain the external valuations is correct and fair. tion policy. In addition, Vasakronan has an internal process for the quality assurance of We have had meetings with the individuals responsible for the valuations in which the external valuations as at year-end and after the first six months of the financial year. important assumptions and judgments have been discussed. Our work has focused These internal quality assurance processes include an analysis and control of the data on the largest investment properties in the portfolio, development project properties taken from the company’s systems and registered in the valuation models as regards, for and on the properties incurring the largest variations in value compared with previexample, rental levels, surface area, vacancy levels and also includes an overall analysis ous quarters. We have assessed the applied yield requirements used by the external of the value development of each property. These valuations are assessed both centrally valuers by comparing the estimated intervals of the expected yield requirements and in consultation with the respective property managers. and thresholds with the available market data for the current markets. We have also In determining the fair value of the properties, the valuers consider current informaassessed the reasonableness of other assumptions which are not directly comparation regarding the specific property, such as the rental agreements in place, rental inble based on available public data. In the case the assumptions and parameters have come and operating costs. In order to achieve a final valuation, the valuers apply asbeen outside our initial expectation, these deviations have been discussed with represumptions and undertake judgements on future yields, net operating expenses and sentatives of the company and additional audit evidence has been obtained as supestimated market rents, and these assumptions and judgments are impacted by the port for the applied assumptions. direct yield requirements in place and by comparable market tranasactions. The valuations are based on assessments and incur, inherently, a degree of uncerThe significance of the estimations and judgments applied in establishing the fair value tainty. Based on our audit, it is our assessment that the assumptions applied by of the investment properties, together with the fact that the amounts are significant, Vasakronan are within a reasonable interval. Based on our audit, we have not identiimplies that the valuation of the investment properties comprises a Key Audit Matter fied any significant observations to report to the Audit Committee. in the audit. 108 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 AUDITORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other information than the annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility and consolidated accounts Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about This document also contains other information than the whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due on pages 1–59, 111–126, 128–132, 134–141. The Board of to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level this other information. of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing accounts does not cover this other information and we do standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatenot express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this ment when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or other information. error and are considered material if, individually or in the In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the inforthe economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these mation identified above and consider whether the informaannual accounts and consolidated accounts. tion is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and A further description of our responsibility for the audit consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and available on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditor’s website assess whether the information otherwise appears to be www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This materially misstated. description is part of the auditor’s report. If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of Report on other legal and regulatory requirements this other information, we are required to report that fact. Opinions We have nothing to report in this regard. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the administration of Responsibilities of the Board of Directors the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Vasa­ and the Managing Director kronan AB (publ) for the year 2018 and the proposed The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concernproposal in the statutory administration report and that ing the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the ManagDirector be discharged from liability for the financial year. ing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Basis for Opinions annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free We conducted the audit in accordance with generally from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the company and the group in accordance with professional group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulas applicable, matters related to going concern and using the filled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of requirements. accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board Responsibilities of the Board of Directors of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among and the Managing Director other things oversee the company’s financial reporting The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for process. appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDITORS’ REPORT the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which The auditor’s examination of the the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and corporate governance statement risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and governance statement on pages 98-105 has been prepared position in general. in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s Our examination of the corporate governance statement organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. is conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard This includes among other things continuous assessment of RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate goverthe company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensurnance statement. This means that our examination of the ing that the company’s organization is designed so that the corporate governance statement is different and substanaccounting, management of assets and the company’s finantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance cial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. with International Standards on Auditing and generally The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing adminisaccepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the tration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our instructions and among other matters take measures that opinions. are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accorA corporate governance statement has been prepared. dance with law and handle the management of assets in a Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the reassuring manner. second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law Auditor’s responsibility are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to Annual Accounts Act. obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB was elected auditor or the Managing Director in any material respect: of Vasakronan AB by the general meeting of the shareholders • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission on the 3 May 2018 and has been the company’s auditor since which can give rise to liability to the company, or the 28 April 2016. • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Stockholm 25 March 2019 Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed approÖhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB priations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is Helena Ehrenborg Daniel Algotsson not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Authorized Public Authorized Public generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always Accountant Accountant detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the Lead Partner company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is available on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors’ website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/ revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor’s report. 110 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 In December, the property Sirius in Nyhamnen, Malmö was reopened following extensive renovation. Windows have been replaced, floors sanded and the interior spruced up. The glazed atrium offers excellent opportunities for tenants to meet. SUSTAINABILITY About Vasakronan’s sustainability report 2018 Vasakronan’s sustainability report follows the Global Reporting InitiaBased on the stakeholders’ expectation inventory and on competitive tive (GRI) guidelines and is prepared in accordance with the GRI intelligence, an internal prioritisation of which sustainability topics were Standards: Core option. In addition to GRI Standards, Vasakronan considered material was performed. When setting priorities, Vasakhas chosen to recognise the sector-specific indicators that were preronan took into account the actual impact on people, the environviously recognised in accordance with GRI G4. ment, economy and society, and consideration was also given to Vasakronan aims to run its entire business in a sustainable way. Vasakronan’s vision and business strategy. Prioritised sustainability Consequently, reporting of our sustainability agenda has been intetopics were then validated by Vasakronan’s Management Team. The grated into the company’s annual report. The GRI index contains refsustainability topics deemed material are as follows: economic perforerences to where the information can be found in the annual report. mance, anti-corruption, materials, energy, climate impact through In individual cases, all of the information the GRI framework requires emissions, waste, water, safe work environments at suppliers, occupacould not be reported. These exceptions are presented in the GRI tional health and safety, diversity, tenants’ safety and security, public index on pages 114–115. transport and local services, and customer satisfaction. Information on boundaries, responsibility, monitoring and governance In 2018, the materiality analysis was evaluated to assess whether for each material sustainability topic can be found in the sustainability it was still relevant. It showed that all of the sustainability topics previnotes on pages 116–126. The information is described in accordance ously identified continued to be material. At the same time, the evaluawith Standard 103, and all standards used were published in 2016. tion showed that certain issues had increased in significance compared The sustainability report has been prepared pursuant to the proviwith previous years, of which climate impact was one. sions in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act Chapter 6 Section 11. Part of the information submitted pursuant to these provisions is described TCFD in other sections of the annual report. A description of the company’s In June 2017, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures business model can be found on pages 8–9, and further information (TCFD) presented its recommendations for climate-related discloon Vasakronan’s risk management can be found on pages 94–97. sures. The recommendations are aimed at companies and investors The sustainability report is produced once per year, and 2018 was its and include supplements for certain types of sectors. tenth year of publication. The report is reviewed in summary by Öhrlings Reporting in accordance with TCFD should encompass a descripPricewaterhouseCoopers AB, and their limited assurance report can tion of the company’s governance and strategy for climate change, but be found on page 127. The sustainability report covers the Parent it is primarily aimed at providing investors with information about the Company and all wholly owned subsidiaries. Joint venture companies risks and possibilities that will impact the company in conjunction with co-owned by Vasakronan are not covered, and are not considered to a transition to a society with lower carbon emissions and a changing constitute a significant part of operations. Nor does the sustainability climate. report cover operations controlled by individual tenants or suppliers. During the year, Vasakronan started to implement the TCFD’s Planning, governance and monitoring of sustainability efforts folrecommendations. Much of this information was already included in low the organisational structure, with a clear delegation of responsithe annual report. Pages 117–121 detail how we work with and bilities and authorisations via a management system consisting of polimeasure our climate impact in the areas of energy, material, waste cies, guidelines, general measurable targets and detailed action plans. and emissions. In recent years, we have focused strongly on direct There are also a number of external laws, guidelines and regulations climate emissions and, since 2009, we have more than halved energy including the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The consumption among other achievements. The results of our annual SDGs that Vasakronan’s operations contribute to are detailed on climate accounting show that our focus in the future should primarily pages 116–126. be on reducing indirect emissions, an area where construction activities are one of the largest emission sources. Stakeholder dialogue and prioritised areas As regards adapting the property portfolio based on climate Surveying and analysing the expectations of our stakeholders for changes, we have worked since 2012 on identifying actions that need Vasakronan’s operations is a prerequisite for attaining our goals and to be taken in existing buildings, new construction projects and portcreating sustainable value. That is why we are in continual dialogue folio composition to be able to manage warmer, windier and more with our most important stakeholders. The forms for the continual humid weather and increased risk of flooding. For example, we have dialogue are illustrated in the image on page 113. reviewed our building design requirements to ensure that buildings In addition to the continuing dialogue with our stakeholders, a are adapted to the climate conditions that will prevail later in the buildworkshop was conducted as recently as 2017, in which some 30 repreing’s lifecycle. sentatives distributed among the various stakeholder categories took During the year, more risks related to the environment and climate part. The aim was to identify which sustainability topics stakeholders change were added to the company’s risk analysis. For more informaexpect Vasakronan to report on. tion on Vasakronan’s climate-related risks, refer to page 97. 112 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS DIALOUGE OPPORTUNITIES • Long-term property management that offers premises that provide good service and a good work • Customer meetings environment • Customer satisfaction survey • Collaboration aimed at minimising negative environmental impact Tenants • Customer service and ongoing dialogues regarding property management • Low energy consumption in the buildings • Theme lectures • Access to public transportation and local service • Circular material use and selection • During procurement processes for • Specifier in terms of specifications concerning the framework agreements, when placing supplier’s work conditions and work environment Suppliers orders and in meetings with suppliers • Collaboration for greater sustainability • Regular reviews/audits • Long-term and stable financial management • Individual meetings with banks and • Customer satisfaction investors in the capital market • Measures to adapt the properties due to climate changes Lenders • Financial statements • Low energy consumption in the buildings • Capital market presentations • Responsible and ethical business practices • Performance appraisals • Stable, long-term employer that offers good • Employee survey employment terms Employees • Workshops • Good work environment • Engagement in local communities • Business planning • Advocate more eco-system services in • Attending and participating in meetings the planning phase and in the operations with stakeholders and industry • Circular material use and selection Communities organisations as well as other forums • Transportation and emissions • Network meetings • Board meetings, one of which each year • A long-term stable yield where consideration is given to people, ethics and the environment is a strategy meeting • Transparent reporting Owners • Meeting with owner representatives for specific discussions on corporate • Customer satisfaction governance VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 113 SUSTAINABILITY GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments 102-1 Name of the organisation. Front cover of the Annual Report 102-2 Primary brands, products, and services. Page 1 102-3 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. Page 75 102-4 Number of countries where the organisation operates. Vasakronan only conducts operations in Sweden. 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form. Inside front cover; page 75 102-6 Markets served by the organisation. Inside front cover 102-7 Scale of the organisation. Pages 28–32, 37, 78 102-8 Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent Pages 122–123 and temporary), and by gender. 102-9 A description of the organisation’s supply chain. Page 122 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, No significant changes during the year. or supply chain. 102-11 Whether and how the organisation applies the Precautionary The precautionary principle forms Principle or approach. the basis of how environmental work is designed. 102-12 A list of external guidelines endorsed by the organisation. Page 98 102-13 Membership of associations. Page 20 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker. Pages 4–7 102-16 A description of the organisation’s values, principles, standards, Pages 8, 19 and norms of behaviour. 102-18 Report on the governance structure of the organisation. Pages 98–103 102-40 List of stakeholder groups. Page 113 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining Page 122 agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders. Pages 112–113 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement. Page 113 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Page 113 engagement. 102-45 Organisation structure, entities, business areas, subsidiaries and Pages 90–92, 101 joint ventures. 102-46 The process for defining the materiality analysis. Page 112 102-47 List of material topics. Page 112 102-48 The effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports, No corrections have been made to and the reasons for such restatements. previous reports. 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of No significant changes. material topics and topic Boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period. Cover 102-51 Date of most recent report. The report for 2017 was published in March 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle. Published annually in connection with the release of the Annual Report. 102-53 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Anna Denell, Head of Sustainability 102-54 The reporting level pursuant to the GRI Standards. Page 112 102-55 A table, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all Page 114 disclosures included in the report. 102-56 A description of the organisation’s policy and current practice with Page 112 regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary. Pages 116–126 103-2 The management approach and its contents. Pages 116–126 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Pages 116–126 114 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 SUSTAINABILITY Material topic Disclosure Page UN SDGs Comments Economic topics Economic performance 201-1, Direct economic value generated and distributed. Page 116 17 Fiscal management1) – Page 116 17 Anti-corruption 205-3 Number of confirmed incidents of corruption Page 116 16 and actions taken. Environment Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight. Pages 24, 117, 134 3, 8, 12 Information on the amount of material in renovation projects is not available, and are therefore estimated. Work is in progress on being able to gather and report this information over the long term. Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation. Pages 16–18, 117, 134 7 CRE1, Building energy intensity. Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source. Page 118 6 CRE2, Building water intensity. Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. Pages 18, 20, 118–119, 134 11, 12, 13 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. CRE3, Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings. Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method. Pages 18, 22, 24, 120, 134 11, 12 The amount is based partly on estimations owing to absence of data. Work is under way to be able to eventually gather this information. Product labeling, CRE8, Number of sustainability certified buildings. Pages 18, 121, 134 environment1) Supplier environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Pages 20, 122, 134 5, 8, 10 assessment environmental criteria. Social Occupational health 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Pages 20, 24, 125 3, 8 Reporting covers sick leave and and safety diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of accidents concerning Vasakronan’s work-related fatalities. employees. There is also an ambition to report accidents at our construction work sites in the future. Diversity and equal 405-1 Composition of the Board of Directors, Management Pages 78–79, 104–105, 123 5, 8, 10 opportunity Team and other employees according to age and gender. Supplier social assessment 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Pages 19, 124, 134 3, 5, 8 using social criteria and human rights. Customer health and safety 416-A Measures taken to maintain a high level of safety Pages 19, 24, 126 5, 10, and security in and around properties. 11, 16 Public transportation Measures taken to create opportunities for public Pages 24, 126 9, 11 and local services transportation to and from our properties and proximity to local services. Customer satisfaction Results of customer surveys. Pages 19, 126 1) Areas that have not been prioritised in the materiality analysis but are still deemed important to report based on stakeholder expectations. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 115 SUSTAINABILITY Financial responsibility 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Taking financial responsibility for our operations and having stable, sound finances Taxes are fundamental to be able to deliver on the assignment of long-term, stable returns Tax is a statutory expense in our operations that affects the return, and at the same to our owners. This is also important to be able to act with a long-term horizon and time it is also a responsibility issue that can impact the company’s reputation and meet the financial expectations of our other stakeholders. standing. Tax is defined as income tax, VAT, property tax, stamp duty, advertising tax and withholding tax. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for managing Boundaries taxes. The Board of Directors has established a tax policy to ensure tax issues are The reporting only covers the economic value created at Vasakronan. The value is managed in alignment with fulfilling the requirement of achieving a high return, and impacted partly by factors that Vasakronan controls but also by external factors of the company meeting the requirements set for being a responsible social actor. such as the state of the market and interest rates, as well as our owners’ decisions For more information on the company’s tax policy, visit www.vasakronan.se. about the distribution of the dividend. Vasakronan’s operations are conducted only in Sweden. Country-by-country reporting of taxes paid is therefore not applicable. Vasakronan is not currently the Responsibility and monitoring subject of any tax cases. More information about recorded taxes can be found on Vasakronan’s CEO and Management Team have overall responsibility for steering pages 81–82. operations toward the financial targets. The outcome is monitored on a quarterly basis in connection with interim reports and through internal steering parameters Donations and sponsorship established for the operations. During the year, voluntary contributions and investments in the community in the form of gifts and donations were presented to various organisations. The two largest Governance and objectives contributions in 2018 totalled SEK 350,000 (750,000). The overall financial objective is a return that, in relation to risk, is greater than the return our owners could obtain from other comparable investment alternatives. The overall financial objective is a total yield of at least 6.5% per year. In addition, the total yield must be at least 0.5 percentage points higher than the outcome for 205-3 Number of confirmed incidents the rest of the industry, measured as the average according to the MSCI Swedish of corruption and actions taken Property Index (excluding Vasakronan). The average outcome is evaluated over rolling ten-year periods, together with monitoring and analysis of the outcome for Corruption in the Swedish property and construction industries, in which a large each individual year. In addition, a number of key financial indicators are set for the amount of products and services is sold every year, is regarded as being widespread coming year. These are monitored on a quarterly basis in connection with internal and extensive. We must therefore have a process that eliminates the risk of corrupreview and in the quarterly reports to the Board of Directors. For more information in all situations. tion, refer to page 134. Boundaries Outcomes The anti-corruption work pertains firstly to our efforts to prevent corruption within Detailed information on Vasakronan’s financial position can be found in the compathe company, but we also set requirements on our suppliers having a systematic prony’s financial reports on pages 62–73. The economic value created totalled SEK cess to counteract corruption in their operations. 20.7 billion (17.5) in 2018 and comprises rental revenue, investments and changes in the values of properties. The remaining value totalled SEK 9.6 billion (7.1). The Responsibility and monitoring value distributed to the owners pertains to the dividend presented to the owners, The efforts toward counteracting corruption and bribery are being led by the which is also to be regarded as a value to the public. The “Public sector” item includes company’s General Counsel in the capacity of Compliance Officer. Violations are property tax, ground rent and VAT. In 2018, property tax was an expense of SEK not acceptable and may result in disciplinary measures, termination or legal pro527 million (expense: 544), of which SEK 491 million (497) was invoiced to tenants. ceedings. There is also a whistle-blower function to make it easier for employees and those outside the company to report suspicions of corruption or other impropriety. Economic value distributed Governance and objectives Internally, operating activities are governed by policies and guidelines for purchasing, communication, equal treatment and the environment, among other factors. Owners, 36% (39) Our policies, routines and training work together with our Code of Conduct to counteract all forms of corruption and improprieties. All of Vasakronan’s employees Suppliers, 37% (32) and suppliers are expected to comply with the internal regulations as well as with Public sector, 15% (16) the laws in force. All employee-related policies are available on the intranet, and the Lenders, 10% (12) organisation is monitored continually to ensure compliance. Employees, 2% (2) The goal is zero tolerance for all forms of corruption. Outcomes No suspicions of corruption were reported in 2018. 116 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 SUSTAINABILITY Environmental responsibility 301-1 Materials used by weight over the year to decrease costs for leasehold improvements, which also resulted in lower material costs. The audits conducted during the year show that the Byggvarubedömningen Large amounts of materials are used in new construction, redevelopment and leasesystem was used in all major projects. hold improvements of properties. The materials used in our projects give rise to major environmental impact when they are extracted and produced, and in addition they generate considerable transportation needs. That is why it is important to reduce the 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation  amount of material used and to use renewable raw materials, and recycled or reused material to much greater extents. In addition, we need to ensure that the materials CRE 1 Building energy intensity used do not contain hazardous substances that are spread into indoor environments or into ecosystems outside our buildings. That is why all the construction material The property sector accounts for almost 40% of society’s energy consumption. used in our buildings is always evaluated and documented. The Byggvarubedöm­ Therefore, Vasakronan’s efforts to decrease energy consumption and only use ningen system is applied in this work. renewable energy is an important environmental issue. Low energy consumption is also a prerequisite for environmentally certifying buildings with high ratings, someBoundaries thing that is in demand by many tenants and is a prerequisite for being able to issue The reporting covers the material used in new construction and renovation projects, green bonds. as well as improvement work on the premises. The impact lies primarily with our suppliers, since they are the ones purchasing and using the materials when they perBoundaries form services for us. The materials Vasakronan purchases and uses internally — As a property owner, Vasakronan can impact the energy consumption in properties, office and consumables, as well as construction material for operational and for example through the investments made in HVAC-systems and in the building maintenance work, for example — have been deemed to be without significance. envelope of the properties. Another part of the impact comes from tenants, and is determined by the type of operation they conduct and their preferences as regards Responsibility and monitoring indoor climate, for example. The Regional SVPs are responsible for the materials used in project development. The reporting covers energy consumption from the whole portfolio of properThis responsibility covers how much, and what type, of material is used and for using ties, and fuel used in vehicles owned by Vasakronan. Only building-related energy the Byggvarubedömningen system in all projects. consumption is reported (i.e. energy consumption related to heating, air conditionThe amount of materials used is monitored during each project and is reported ing and the building’s electrical needs). Tenants’ own electricity consumption is not when the project is completed. Used material per square metre, the proportion of included, but an estimate of that is taken into account when reporting our scope 3 renewable and non-renewable raw materials, and the proportion of recycled mateemissions. rial are then all compiled. The proportion of reused material is also monitored. This monitoring is performed on a quarterly basis in each region. Responsibility and monitoring The technical organisation is responsible for the energy consumption of the existing Governance and objectives buildings and type of energy source. The regions are responsible for designing for The environmental impact of the project is governed by the environmental certificalow energy consumption in the development projects. tion scheme, and the “Miljöprogram för projekt” (Environmental Programme for Energy consumption is monitored on a monthly basis at the property, regional, Projects) an internal policy document, which is followed by all project designers and and company level by an energy monitoring system in which all the values measured contractors. The programme states that we must save materials, only use materials are recorded and processed. Energy consumption for new construction and major that are possible to reuse or recycle, and to build proactively and as flexibly as possirenovation projects is monitored against calculated values in connection with a ble to reduce the need for future redevelopment. Environmental certification of the project being finalised and occupied. project also steers towards reduced used of materials and a larger proportion of reused and recycled material. The Environmental Programme also prescribes using Governance and objectives the Byggvarubedömningen system for selecting and documenting construction The energy efforts are governed by the company’s energy strategy and environmaterials. That is checked both through internal audits and supplier audits. The mental policy. For new construction and major renovation projects, the goal is to requirement for using the Byggvarubedömningen system is also found in the majorcome in at least 25% under the BBR requirements (National Board of Housing, ity of lease agreements, which is important since tenants sometimes renovate under Building and Planning’s regulations for new construction). For major renovations their own management. not covered by the BBR requirements, the aim is to halve energy consumption comPrior to 2018, a goal was set for all new construction and renovation projects to pared with prior to the renovation. report their use of materials. At year end, it was noted that all projects that had begun Reducing energy consumption in existing buildings also requires close collaboraconstruction during the year had started reporting material use. For more information with our tenants. Since 2017, there is a clause in all rental agreements that tion, refer to page 134. entails, inter alia, collaboration with tenants around reduced energy consumption and mutual reporting of energy data. This also requires tenants to procure renewOutcomes able energy if tenants have their own energy supply contracts. No new construction project was completed during the year, and accordingly, mateVasakronan only purchases electricity from renewable resources (hydro and rial used in new construction totalled zero tons (17,819), equivalent to zero kg/sq. m. wind power), and in all our agreements with suppliers of district heating and district (1,018). 2017 was the first year that the use of material in new construction projects cooling there are requirements for renewable and/or climate neutral energy. was based on actual measurement. The use of materials in that new build was based Ahead of 2018, a target was set to reduce energy intensity by 3%, which correon actual measurements over the course of the entire project and reporting used a sponds to an energy intensity of 99 kWh/sq. m. Moreover, a target was set to web-based tool that all contractors and subcontractors had access to. The use, for increase the number of solar photovoltaic systems to 60 by the end of the year. example, of concrete, rebar, steel and wood are based on the actual amounts reported. The outcome and comments on the target are available on page 118 and 134. Of the material used, 2% consisted of renewable raw material and the remaining 98% of non-renewable raw material. Of the non-renewable material, 8% consisted Outcomes of recyclable material. The aim is for material use over time to be reported in the same manner in both renovation and new construction projects, and ahead of 2018, a goal was set for the company for all major projects to report their material use. Energy consumption A total of three renovation projects were completed during the year. Used material GWh 2018 2017 in renovations is reported as the cost of material purchased and shows that, in these three projects, Vasakronan purchased construction material for SEK 124 million Cooling 49.2 38.1 (706), which corresponded to SEK 4,430/GFA (13,201) where the area is based on Property electricity 86.0 85.6 the gross area for the project. The difference between the years was mainly attribHeating 154.9 158.8 utable to the scope of the renovations completed. Material use in leasehold improvements is also based on an estimate, and during Vehicle fuel consumption 0.1 0.1 the year totalled SEK 299 million (387), corresponding to SEK 1,369/sq. m. (2,282). Total 290.2 282.6 The year-on-year decline is the result of work conducted within the organisation VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 117 SUSTAINABILITY technical systems. This impact consists primarily of our tenants, the type of operaEnergy intensity tions they conduct and how they choose to act. The reporting covers water use in all properties. It does not cover any water use kWh/m² where tenants have their own water supply contracts. 150 Responsibility and monitoring 120 124 The technical organisation has primary responsibility for the water use of the exist112 110 ing properties. The regions are responsible for designing all new construction and 90 100 103 redevelopment so that their water use is low. Water efficient equipment is selected during planning — low flush lavatories and low flow fixtures, for example. Any land60 scaping adjacent to the buildings is planned to reduce the need for irrigation. Water use is monitored on a monthly basis at the property, regional, and company level via 30 an operations monitoring system in which all the values measured are recorded and processed. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Governance and objectives Water use is governed by the company’s environmental policy, and is included as a requirement in environmental certification of buildings. In 2018, energy intensity averaged 103 kWh/sq. m. (100).The increase compared Outcomes with previous years is explained by the cold winter and hot summer. The total amount of water consumed during 2018 amounted to 1,162,908 cubic The fuel used during the year consisted primarily of petrol and diesel, pertained metres (1,211,187), equivalent to a water intensity of 0.5 m3/sq. m. per year (0.5). to fuel in company-owned vehicles, and totalled 0.1 GWh (0.1). Fuel consumption is not included in energy intensity data, but in the climate calculations (Scope 1). Tenants’ own energy consumption is not included in energy intensity, but is included 305-1 – 305-3 and CRE 3 in the climate impact reporting (Scope 3). For definitions of energy intensity and temperate area, refer to pages 140–141. Direct and indirect emissions In 2018, an additional 6 solar photovoltaic systems (12) were put into operation in the property portfolio; in total, 2,944 MWh (2,060) of electrical energy was proBuildings use large amounts of energy in the operations phase, which may result in duced in our solar photovoltaic systems. A total of 55 solar photovoltaic systems emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, our operations generate emissions from (49) were in operation at year end and these are estimated to generate a total of own vehicles, business travel and commuting. Operations also generate large 3,700 MWh (3,200) per year. The installations are located throughout the entire amounts of indirect emissions in the form of use of building materials, waste and property portfolio; Stockholm has the most with 24 installations followed by construction-related transportation. Uppsala with 16, Öresund with 9 and Gothenburg with 6. Boundaries Climate impact within our own organisation (Scope 1) is marginal, since we do not Energy from solar photovoltaic systems have our own central heating boilers in the buildings and since the majority of vehiMWh cles we own are electric cars. What we can largely impact is energy consumption in 4,000 the properties as well as with what type of energy we choose to supply our buildings. Owing to low average energy consumption and agreements on renewable and/ 3,669 or climate-neutral energy, the indirect emissions from energy consumption (Scope 2) 3,000 3,185 have already been decreased drastically. We have therefore chosen to focus our work on emissions that occur outside our own organisation, indirect emissions 2,336 (scope 3). We are primarily trying to reduce are emissions from tenants’ own elec2,000 tricity contracts and waste. We also strive to reduce emissions from our construc1,656 tion activities, where building materials, waste and transportation to and from con1,000 struction sites are the greatest contributors. Our greenhouse gas reporting covers the aspects identified as material based on 626 scope of the emissions and our ability to influence. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Responsibility and monitoring The responsibility for the materials used (301-1), energy consumption (302-1) and waste (306-2) forms the basis for the responsibility for our emissions. In addition, the Management Team is responsible for creating the conditions and guidelines for reducing emissions from employees’ business travel and commutes. 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Annual monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions is conducted under the GHG protocol, and in 2018 the greenhouse gas report was prepared by the consultants CRE 2 Building water intensity 2050 AB. Water consumption is an important issue from a global perspective. Over the last Governance and objectives few years, even in Sweden, access to drinking water has been restricted in certain Efforts to reduce the company’s emissions are mainly governed through systematic parts, including Uppsala where Vasakronan owns properties. Vasakronan uses work to reduce our material and energy consumption, waste from our tenants and water from municipal systems, and even though a shortage has only arisen in one our own construction waste. To reduce climate impact from transportation, a deciof the locations where we operate, we are working continually on monitoring and sion was taken to phase out all our fossil-fuel vehicles by 2019, and to set requireon cost-efficient measures to reduce consumption. Low water use is a prerequisite ments for 100% renewable fuel for all transportation in new construction projects. for environmentally certifying buildings with high ratings. Therefore, supplements were made to Vasakronan’s internal policies for project completion, which are to be adhered to in all major projects, with the requirement of Boundaries using renewable fuel for transporting material and waste. As a property owner, we have a great opportunity to impact the amount of water In 2018, we analysed our climate goals in accordance with Science Based Targets. used in our buildings, since we are the ones who decide and make investments in The analysis showed that our goals are well below the level we need to reach by 2030, if our operations are to be deemed in line with the requirements of the Paris climate agreement. 118 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 SUSTAINABILITY Outcomes Compilation of total greenhouse gas emissions, 2006 and 2014–2018 Vasakronan has been reporting its greenhouse gas emissions since 2006, which is the proportion of property electricity not purchased by Vasakronan has decreased. the base-line year for our reporting. For purposes of comparison, the emissions for In Scope 3, part of the report is based on actual data and part on estimated values. 2006 have been adjusted so that AP Fastigheter’s emissions are also included. Since Emissions from the production and distribution of energy fuel increased during the the base year, emissions have decreased approximately 98% (comparable emissions, year. These emissions are based on actual data, and the increase is explained by i.e. Scope 1, Scope 2 and emissions from air travel). The tremendous decrease is due changes in the shares of wind and hydro power over the year. Of the emissions in to reduced energy consumption and a transition to renewable or climate-neutral Scope 3 that are largely built on estimated values, emissions from construction energy sources. activities have decreased. This was mainly due to the completion of fewer projects Over the past few years, a gradual improvement of input data — as well as in the year. The reason that emissions from tenants’ own use of electricity has amended accounting principles — have led to an increase in the scope of which decreased is that the assumption of how much electricity the tenants consume has emissions are included in the reporting. Since 2012, the reports relate not only to changed. emissions of carbon dioxide but to all greenhouse gases that impact the climate. Vasakronan undertakes climate compensation for the remaining direct emissions During the year, Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions decreased 38%. The largest – as well as certain indirect emissions – by purchasing shares in compensation decreases took place in the categories of district heating and electricity. One reason is projects. that one of the district heating suppliers has switched to climate neutral fuels, and that All amounts in the table below refer to tons, if not otherwise stated. Base year 20061) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 Oil 3,335 14 0 0 0 0 Own vehicles 67 19 11 21 20 22 Private vehicles used for business and service vehicles 236 21 2 16 11 10 Refrigerants – 555 371 280 256 215 Total Scope 1 3,638 609 384 317 287 246 Scope 2 District heating 25,740 267 187 189 182 69 District cooling 606 229 179 121 4 6 Electricity2) 30 2,404 626 415 314 164 Total Scope 2 26,376 2,900 992 725 500 239 Climate compensated Scope 3 emissions Air travel 303 92 201 118 130 206 Rail travel – 0 0 0 0 0 Taxis – 6 0 6 6 3 Hotels – 4 4 7 2 4 Commutes – 232 181 157 159 118 Production and distribution of vehicle fuels (in Scope 1) – 12 3 9 7 6 Production and distribution of energy fuels (in Scope 1 and 2)3) – 1,282 1,131 1,451 862 922 Total Climate compensated Scope 3 emissions 303 1,629 1,521 1,748 1,166 1,259 Other Scope 3 emissions4) Waste from tenants – 880 2,523 1,727 1,840 1,649 Waste in construction projects5) – 670 598 1,157 1,795 1,329 Transportation in construction projects5) – 1,279 1,853 1,013 596 393 Materials in construction projects5, 6) – 40,321 59,031 30,175 37,602 28,055 Electricity consumed by tenants7) – – 41,047 24,830 25,294 20,738 Total Other Scope 3 emissions – 43,150 105,052 58,901 67,127 52,164 Sum total of compensated emissions – 5,137 2,896 2,791 1,954 1,744 Sum total of emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) 30,318 48,287 107,948 61,693 69,080 53,908 Emissions intensity, Scope 1 and 2 (kg per lettable sq. m.) 8.14 1.4 0.55 0.38 0.32 0.20 Emissions intensity, Scope 1 and 2 (after climate compensation) 8.14 0 0 0 0 0 1) Including AP Fastigheter’s emissions before the merger with Vasakronan. Only Scope 1, 2 and air travel, and only CO2. 2) As of 2012, temporary agreements without certificate of origin are included. 3) This category includes emissions that occur upstream of production of water power, wind power, biopower, other power, district heating and district cooling and the extraction, refinement and distribution of oil. 4) New categories since 2014 for waste, materials and transportation and since 2015 for tenants’ electricity use. 5) Emissions for entire construction projects, for projects concluded during the reporting year. 6) As of 2016, new methods are applied for calculating emissions from leasehold improvements. The equivalent emissions for 2015 have been re-calculated using the same method. However, corrections further back in time have not been made. 7) Electricity procured by tenants themselves. For 2018, all comparative figures were restated after taking into consideration the area of vacant projects when estimating tenant electricity consumption. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 119 SUSTAINABILITY 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Large amounts of waste arise in new construction and renovation projects, and Governance and objectives a large portion of that waste currently goes to incineration or landfill. Moreover, The EU waste hierarchy governs our waste policy. Vasakronan strives to minimise there is a national target that by 2020, 70% of all construction and demolition waste, to increase the proportion that is recycled or reused, and minimise the share waste should be reused or recycled. that goes to landfill or incineration. Vasakronan’s long-term goal is that neither our In addition to construction waste, we also take care of large amounts of waste own nor our tenants’ operations should generate waste that cannot be recycled or from our tenants’ operations. Most of the time, we are the ones who determine how reused. well the waste is sorted since we are responsible for the waste recycling facilities in To reach this long-term goal, Vasakronan collaborates with tenants and suppliers to: the buildings. 1. Reduce the total amount of waste by resource efficiency practises 2. Create conditions for reuse of waste Boundaries 3. Manage waste so that it goes from being waste to being a new resource Our influence is mainly exercised outside the organisation at our construction con4. Hazardous waste that arises will be properly taken care of tractors, who do the work in our construction projects, and at our tenants when they conduct operations at our properties. The waste that arises owing to our own All new construction and major renovation projects should conduct waste minimisadministrative operations is not deemed to be material in relation to the waste from ing workshops to decrease the amount of waste and setting tangible waste reducproject development and tenant waste. Since we are tenants at our own properties, tion goals for the project. Ahead of 2018, the company set a goal to increase the the reporting also covers our own waste from operations, included in the tenant’s amount of reused material in construction work, and to reduce waste generated in waste. construction works. The outcome and comments on the target are available under Reporting covers the waste that we help our tenants take care of, but not any waste the heading “outcome.” for which the tenant is responsible for removal. This could encompass hazardous waste and confidential papers, for example. Construction waste includes the waste Outcomes that arises in direct connection with construction work at the construction site. In 2018, tenant waste totalled 10,044 tons (10,101). Construction waste amounted to a total of 3,955 tons (5,346) and pertained to three renovation projects comResponsibility and monitoring pleted during the year as well as waste from leasehold improvements. The breakThe technical organisation is responsible for meeting the tenant’s waste target. The down into different fractions is set out in the following diagram. regional SVPs are responsible for meeting our construction waste targets. In 2018, the amount of reused materials was 51 tons (116). The year-on-year Tenant waste and construction waste are monitored annually in connection with decline was due to reused material in project Sergel, where volumes were unusually preparing the sustainability and impact reports. The project waste monitored perhigh, being included in the outcome for the preceding year. Waste from renovation tains to projects that were finalised during the current year. projects averaged of 77 kg/sq. m. (43). The outcome refers to the major renovation projects that were completed during the current year. No new construction projects were completed during the year. Tenant waste, 2018 Tenant waste, 2017 Tons Tons 6,000 6,000 5,000 5,000 4,970 4,000 4,321 4,000 4,058 3,000 3,000 3,390 2,000 2,000 1,446 1,532 1,000 1,000 154 119 15 158 39 12 0 0 Recycling Energy recovery/incineration Composting/biogas production Recycling Energy recoveryw/incineration Composting/biogas producLandfill Hazardous waste Destruction without heat production tion Landfill Hazardous waste Destruction without heat production 120 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 SUSTAINABILITY Construction waste, 2018 Construction waste, 2017 Tons Tons 3,000 3,000 2,517 2,261 2,000 2,000 1,632 1,000 1,000 1,138 823 763 51 57 59 0 0 Recycling Energy recovery/incineration Recycling Energy recovery/incineration Landfill Hazardous waste Biogas Landfill Hazardous waste Reporting the amount of waste generated by us and our tenants is built partly on In construction waste, there are detailed statistics from the larger projects. Inforestimates. Part of the waste in the category of tenant waste (‘household’ waste or mation about how much waste arises in smaller projects — the “leasehold improvecomparable thereto) may only be collected by contractors appointed by the respecments” — is data that is not systematically collected at present. The waste originattive municipalities. It is often difficult, and sometimes even impossible, to get data ing from this type of project has therefore been estimated by calculating a key from the municipalities on how much waste is collected in each building. Portions of metric per krona expended, based on a smaller number of reference projects with the waste have therefore been estimated, based on key metrics per square metre actual data. from the actual information that could be obtained. CRE8 Number of environmentally certified buildings Environmental certification of both existing buildings and new construction projOutcomes ects is important from several perspectives. It is proof from a third party that our At the end of 2018, 85% (84) of our property portfolio was environmentally certiproperties have low environmental impact, which means we can meet our tenants’ fied. Vasakronan counts only BREEAM, LEED and Miljöbyggnad as satisfactory growing environmental requirements.Environmental building certification is also certifications; GreenBuilding is excluded as it only encompasses the environmental a prerequisite for our green financing. topic energy. Boundaries Many aspects are assessed when environmentally certifying buildings, and we Environmental certifications cannot always have full control over some of them. However, it is always the organi% sation that takes decisions on which buildings will be certified, which certification 100 will be chosen and which rating we will have as an objective. Reporting covers all properties. 80 85 84 77 Responsibility and monitoring 71 60 Responsibility for environmentally certifying our new construction and major renovation projects projects lies with the regional SVPs; responsibility for existing buildings lies with the Technical Operations & Development Unit. 40 44 Governance and objectives 20 The environmental intensity of the project is governed by the environmental certification scheme chosen and the “Miljöprogram för projekt” (Environmental Pro0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 gramme for Development Projects) an internal policy document. The environ­ mental programme for the project indicates that all projects are to be certified Share of total area. under LEED, with the goal of reaching Platinum certification. Information on the choice of certification and the level set as a goal must also be indicated in the decision Area, thousand memoranda produced for the respective projects. sq. m. Share, % From 2018, almost all existing properties have been certified. In some cases we have chosen to wait with certification since the building was awaiting a major renoBREEAM Excellent 28 1 vation or other extensive measures. Instead, the work now aims to recertify all LEED Platinum 126 6 existing buildings, since certification normally expires after five years. RecertificaLEED Gold 1,486 74 tion is planned for 51 buildings in 2019. The technical organisation is responsible for certification work with the existing properties. LEED Silver 276 14 For 2018, the goal was to increase the proportion of environmental certifications. LEED Certified 97 5 The outcome and comments on the target are available under the heading “outcome.” 2,013 100 To the extent the property is environmentally certified under several systems, it has been counted as LEED certified in the table above. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 121 SUSTAINABILITY 102-9 A description of the organisation’s supply chain 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social criteria  In order to successfully conduct our operations, we need to engage suppliers of Governance and objectives various types. Each purchase must be conducted with professional correctness, Environmental requirements for our suppliers — environmental programmes for objectivity and honesty while observing good business practice. Additionally, purdevelopment projects, for example — are placed in specific appendices to the agreechasing must take place through competitive procurements where suppliers and ment. General environmental requirements are summarised in our environmental tenders are assessed and prioritised based on how well they meet the requirements policy and in our Code of Conduct for suppliers. The agreements with new suppliers set, taking into consideration competence and efforts toward quality, sustainability, always include the Code of Conduct for Vasakronan’s suppliers; as of 2017, all new and health and safety as well as risk function, performance, design and price. Since suppliers under framework and service agreements will be evaluated as regards the a large part of our environmental impact arises in the supply chain, assessing supplienvironment, working conditions and human rights. Ahead of 2018, a target was set ers based on how they conduct their environmental work is of great importance. for all suppliers to accept our Code of Conduct and we completed several supplier audits. Refer below to the heading “Outcome” for more information on how the Boundaries target was met. We ourselves are the ones who determine which demands we will place on our Audits are conducted to check that our suppliers are living up to their commitsuppliers. Whether the demands are met is determined by our suppliers. ments in the Code and additional specifications, if any. Selection for audit takes into Reporting covers the supplier agreements signed by the purchasing department. consideration how much we buy from the supplier, as well as particular risks and focus areas. Responsibility and monitoring The work on signing agreements with our suppliers is managed by a central purchasOutcomes ing division. The Purchasing Director reports to the SVP for the technical organisaThe total number of suppliers engaged directly by Vasakronan totals approximately tion. The purchasing division is responsible for purchases meeting strict require2,587 (2,632). In turn, these suppliers often have subcontractors. The number of ments for quality and sustainability and that they take place at the lowest possible subcontractors is difficult to estimate, since the number per supplier varies drasticost, and for procurement of new suppliers. Prior to every tender, an evaluation of cally. The suppliers that are primarily engaged are contractors (mainly construction potential suppliers is conducted based on several criteria. The purchasing division contractors), consultants (technical consultants and architects, for example), utility continually monitors the proportion of new suppliers who have signed the Code of suppliers (electricity, district heating and district cooling), and service suppliers. Conduct for suppliers. Vasakronan works continually to reduce the number of Since Vasakronan conducts operations exclusively in Sweden, our suppliers most suppliers engaged and to have all supplier agreements managed directly by the often are also based in Sweden. purchasing division. Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct for suppliers is applied to all new supplier agreements, and is now included in all supplier agreements signed by the purchasing division. In 2018, a total of two (three) major supplier audits were conducted. In addition to these, eight (nine) smaller supplier audits were conducted and one factory visit. The outcomes of these audits show that the audited suppliers met our environ­ mental requirements in a satisfactory manner. Social responsibility 102-8 Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), and by gender 405-1 Composition of the Board of Directors, management and other employees according to age and gender We want to be a company that reflects the society we operate in. We believe we will and harassment. In addition, there is an internal Code of Conduct for employees and be more successful if we avoid entirely overly homogeneous groups, since groups Board members. with a more heterogeneous composition are often more innovative, solving probPrior to 2018, a target was set for the entire operation that all employees should lems more efficiently. know how to prevent discrimination and harassment. Targets for increasing the number of employees with non-Swedish backgrounds were also set. See more inforBoundaries mation on targets and fulfilment on pages 134–135. The impact within our own organisation occurs only in connection with recruitment of new employees. Reporting covers only individuals employed at Vasakronan, and Outcomes not individuals who perform work under conditions similar to employment. At 31 December 2018, the number of employees was 309 (349), of which 308 (343) were permanent employees and the remainder on time-limited contracts. One Responsibility and monitoring employee in the organisation had a part-time contract. All employees are covered The work on diversity and equal treatment is managed by the company’s SVP for by collective agreements. Of these employees, 309 (274) were salaried employees Human Resources, but responsibility for creating groups marked by diversity and and none (75) were employed under a collective agreement at year end. At the end for no employees being discriminated against lies with the respective directors. of the year, around 230 consultants were employed in operations. Of these, about Any cases of discrimination are captured by one of the following channels: half were hired in as external project managers in new construction and renovation employee surveys, immediate supervisors, the HR division, union parties, the comprojects. Other consultants were hired primarily as replacements for existing perpany’s Compliance Officer or our external whistle-blower function. sonnel, for example in connection with parental leave or sick leave. In addition to the To ensure that no unreasonable differences in pay occur at Vasakronan, wage consultants hired in, contractors are engaged for project operations. As the extent surveys are conducted annually. The survey is performed by a third party to ensure of these contractors varies markedly over time, no estimates have been made of the highest possible level of objectivity. their proportions. From the 2018 salary survey, it emerged that women earned 90% (99) of what Governance and objectives men earned. The decrease was mainly due to the technical organisation being reorAll employees and job applicants will be treated equally, and no discrimination is ganised during the year and to a skills shift. The organisational changes mean that permissible. Women and men must be given equal opportunities for development the average salary for those men remaining at the company increased somewhat and advancement, as well as equal pay for equal work. The purpose and goal of year-on-year. Moving forward, efforts will increasingly focus on identifying unwarefforts around equal treatment are summarised in an equal treatment policy that ranted pay differences and taking actions. clearly explains that all the company’s operations must be free from discrimination 122 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 SUSTAINABILITY Age distribution Distribution, women and men All employees Management Team Board <29, 7% (7) 30–49, 54% (53) >50, 39% (40) Women, 46% (42) Women, 46% (46) Women, 56% (44) Age distribution among all employees. Men, 54% (58) Men, 54% (54) Men, 44% (56) Distribution, women and men Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala Women, 47% Women, 38% Women, 46% Women, 53% Men, 53% Men, 62% Men, 54% Men, 47% At the end of the year, the number At the end of the year, the number At the end of the year, the number At the end of the year, the number of employees in Stockholm was 193. of employees in Gothenburg was 47. of employees in Öresund was 35. of employees in Uppsala was 34. Share of employees with a non-Swedish background, 2018 Share of employees with a non-Swedish background, 2017 % % 50 50 48 47 40 40 37 36 37 36 36 35 30 30 29 27 20 20 18 16 12,5 14 10 12 10 11 8 4 6 4 0 0 Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala Total Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala Total Vasakronan 2018 Population, aged 20–67 Vasakronan 2017 Population, aged 20–67 Share of employees with a foreign background in Vasakronan 2018 compared Share of employees with a foreign background in Vasakronan 2017 compared with non-Swedish background in the population (20–67) in the same locations. with non-Swedish background in the population (20–67) in the same locations. Source: Statistics Sweden Source: Statistics Sweden VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 123 SUSTAINABILITY 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social criteria In order to successfully conduct our operations, we need to engage suppliers of Governance and objectives various types. Each purchase must be conducted with professional correctness, Through its Code of Conduct for suppliers, Vasakronan places demands on its supobjectivity and honesty while observing good business practice. Additionally, purpliers regarding such aspects as working conditions and human rights. The agreechasing must take place through competitive procurements where suppliers and ments with new suppliers always include the “Code of Conduct for Vasakronan’s tenders are assessed and prioritised based on how well they meet the requirements suppliers;” as of 2017, all new framework and service agreement suppliers will be set, taking into consideration competence and efforts toward quality, sustainability, evaluated as regards the environment, working conditions and human rights. To and health and safety as well as risk function, performance, design and price. reinforce the opportunity for employees or external parties to anonymously report suspicions of breeches of laws and regulations regarding working conditions or Boundaries human rights, there is a whistle-blower function. Vasakronan’s Compliance Officer We ourselves are the ones who determine which demands we will place on our (who is also the General Counsel) receives and investigates the reports that come suppliers. Whether the demands are met is determined by our suppliers. in. Since 2015, there has also been an external whistle-blower function to provide Reporting covers the supplier agreements signed by the purchasing department. the opportunity for reporting suspicions of any impropriety to an external party. Audits are conducted to check that our suppliers are living up to their commitResponsibility and monitoring ments in the Code and additional specifications, if any. Selection for audit takes into The work on signing agreements with our suppliers is managed by a central purchasconsideration how much we buy from the supplier, as well as particular risks and ing division. The Purchasing Director reports to the SVP for the technical organisafocus areas. tion. The purchasing division is responsible for purchases meeting strict requirements for quality and sustainability and that they take place at the lowest possible cost, and Outcomes for procurement of new suppliers. Prior to every tender, an evaluation of potential Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct for suppliers is applied to all new supplier agreesuppliers is conducted based on several criteria. ments, and is now included in all supplier agreements signed by the purchasing The purchasing division continually monitors the proportion of new suppliers division. who have signed the Code of Conduct for suppliers. A number of agreements are In 2018, a total of two (three) major supplier audits were conducted. In addition not signed by the purchasing division, however, which is why it is difficult to estimate to these, eight (nine) smaller supplier audits were conducted and one factory visit. how many agreements and suppliers have the relevant environmental requirements The outcomes of these audits show that the audited suppliers met our work enviin their contracts. Vasakronan works continually to reduce the number of suppliers ronment and human rights requirements in a satisfactory manner. engaged and to have all supplier agreements managed directly by the purchasing No suspicions of deviations from laws or regulations regarding working condidivision. tions or human rights were reported in 2018. 124 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 SUSTAINABILITY 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities The health and safety of our employees is of the greatest importance, since sick Monitoring of sick leave and long term illness absence is conducted monthly, over leave leads both to direct costs in the form of sick pay and to indirect costs in the a rolling twelve months. The number of workplace accidents is monitored on a form of loss of output and unnecessary human suffering. yearly basis. Boundaries Governance and objectives It is the employers’ responsibility to ensure a good physical and psychosocial work Great emphasis is placed on activities that promote health, such as preventing environment. Therefore, a lot of impact arises within the organisation. However, workplace accidents and rehabilitating people on long-term sick leave. Vasakronan some impact arises outside the organisation since other factors also impact employoffers health insurance to all its employees. ees’ health. As the employer, we can help prevent ill-health by, for example, offering Incidents and accidents are reported in the “Kris och incidenter” (Crisis and incident) wellness activities, such as massage, an exercise subsidy and an active personnel tool, which currently covers only Vasakronan’s employees. association that offers interesting activities. The greatest impact from the perspecAs regards the contractors operating on our construction work sites, requirements tive of accidents occurs outside the organisation at the construction work sites in for work environment and safety are set in our contractor agreements. our project activities. In addition, work is in progress on improving the routine for reporting accidents Reporting covers sick leave and accidents concerning persons employed at and in 2018, it was included as a company-wide goal. Refer to pages 134–135 for Vasakronan. There is also an ambition to report accidents at our construction more information. work sites. A uniform system for this reporting currently does not exist, but will be introduced. Outcomes Total sick leave in 2018 amounted to 1.9% (3.1); the distribution by region and genResponsibility and monitoring der is shown in the diagram below. In 2018, a total of four accidents were reported The SVP for Human Resources is responsible for providing access to measures that for Vasakronan’s employees, of which two were near misses, which mean that no promote health and the opportunity for rehabilitation. The respective directors are injury was sustained. None of the reported injuries resulted in any absentee days. responsible for reviewing employees’ work situations, since a portion of sick leave is For those projects completed during the year, a total of six accidents over the durarelated to burnout syndrome. tion of the projects were reported. In these cases, no information has been provided The regional SVPs are responsible for the company’s project development, and by the contractors regarding any absentee days the accidents may have led to. thereby also for the working environment for the contractors operating at our construction work sites. The equivalent responsibility for operation and maintenance contracts lies with the technical organisation. Sick leave 2018 Sick leave 2017 % % 6 6 6.0 5.7 5 5 4.9 4 4 3 3 3.0 2.6 2.5 2.5 2 2 1 1.4 1.5 1 1.4 1.2 1.1 0.9 0.9 0.3 0.6 0 0 Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala Stockholm Gothenburg Öresund Uppsala Women Men  Women Men VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 125 SUSTAINABILITY 416-A Measures taken to maintain a high level of safety and security in and around properties It is important for everyone to feel safe and secure in their local surroundings. As Other measures include pruning trees and bushes to create better visibility, reviewemployers, our tenants want to ensure that their employees have a safe workplace ing security alarms and introducing safer entry systems. and a safe commute. This is becoming an increasingly important issue when selectVasakronan’s long-term objective is for the design of our properties to contribute to ing premises. the safety, security and health of our tenants. Ahead of 2018, the goal was to carry out at least 50 measures to create security in our properties and our development projects. Boundaries Impact occurs within the organisation as a result of the fact that this indicator perOutcomes tains to measures we ourselves have taken. Over the year, numerous measures were implemented in all of Vasakronan’s regions Reporting covers only the measures Vasakronan takes. to increase security in and around the properties. Examples in the existing portfolio include improved lighting, more frequent security patrols, pruning of trees and the Responsibility and monitoring preparation of a strategy for camera surveillance. The responsibility for ensuring that day-to-day safety routines in and around the Purple Flag certification continued during the year of the areas Fredstan, Nordproperties is maintained lies with the technical organisation. stan and Lilla Bommen in Gothenburg. Purple Flag is a collaboration with the SwedIn connection with project development, responsibility lies with the respective ish Property Federation that aims to showcase sites that have successfully worked regions for taking action at the start, during the planning of new construction and to improve safety and access, and that also offer a diverse selection at night. renovation projects. In its project activities, Vasakronan focused right from the design phase on having the area perceived as being secure and safe. For example, in project Sergel in StockGovernance and objectives holm City, Malmskillnadsgatan will transform from what was previously a dark back Vasakronan continually takes measures to create a safe, secure environment in and street that people avoided at night to a central inner-city street with a dynamic and around our properties. An important part of this work is creating a mix of offices, vibrant city life. The area will contain restaurants, cafés with outdoor seating, stores commerce and leisure, thereby creating a more lively environment during the eveon the ground floor and housing on the upper floors, which will create round-thenings as well. In addition, measures are taken in administration to increase lighting clock activity and security. Another part was removing unsafe alleys, dark sections in darker areas such as parking, or in the area around our development properties. and narrow staircases in the area. Measures taken to increase accessibility to public transportation and local services As a property owner, being able to offer premises with good connections to public Governance and objectives transportation and proximity to various types of social services is important. We work continually on ensuring that the properties we own are located so that It facilitates daily life for our tenants and contributes to a reduced climate impact, public transportation is already good, or where there are plans to expand it. We are which will be increasingly important when choosing location. also working actively on trying to improve public transportation with regard to frequency and locations of stops. Boundaries Many of our properties are located in city centres where the level of local services Impact occurs within the organisation as a result of the fact that this indicator is often already high. We also own properties in more peripheral locations, where pertains to measures we ourselves have taken. we work actively on ensuring that there is a varied offering of restaurants and cafés, Reporting covers only the measures Vasakronan takes. gyms, hairdressers and other types of services that our customers demand in proximity to their workplaces. We also offer access to dry cleaners and shoemakers in Responsibility and monitoring many of our properties. The organisations for project development in the respective regions are responsible for ensuring during the planning phase that we choose to develop properties with Outcomes good public transport links and create conditions for a mix of different operations In Uppsala, Vasakronan worked actively over the year with the Municipality of in the property. The transaction division is responsible for including access to public Uppsala and Akademiska Hus to plan stops for forthcoming tram traffic to Uppsala transportation and local services when considering any potential acquisition. The Science Park where around 140 companies and government agencies operate. regions are responsible for ongoing dialogue with municipalities and public transporIn Gårda, in Gothenburg, Vasakronan is working together with other property tation companies in terms of factors such as tour frequency and locations of stops. owners in the area to expand Västtrafik’s public transport services to the area. Monitoring of the effect of the measures occurs in continual dialogue with our In the same area, Vasakronan expanded the range of local services during the year tenants and through the surveys of travel habits performed in conjunction with through lettings, including one to a restaurant. Moreover, electrical charging staenvironmental certification of our properties. tions were installed in the square in Gårda. Customer satisfaction To succeed at the task of a high level of return over the long term, a high level of cusGovernance and objectives tomer satisfaction is a must. The more satisfied the customers, the greater their To have satisfied customers, good customer relations are needed. This work includes loyalty towards us. routines for communication, meetings and surveys for monitoring. Boundaries Outcomes The results of customer surveys pertain to our own evaluation of our tenants’ satisThe latest survey was conducted at the beginning of 2019, where the outcome was faction. a score of 76 (76) for offices and 73 (75) for shops. The scale of the survey is from 1 to 100, where a score of at least 80 corresponds to a grade of Very good. Responsibility and monitoring Customer initiatives are managed by the company’s four regions, and the regional SVPs have overall responsibility for customer satisfaction. Customer satisfaction surveys are carried out regularly to monitor how we are perceived and to identify areas for improvement. This occurs primarily through Vasakronan’s own customer survey, Tyck om Vasakronan, which is conducted at the beginning of every year, and also using event-governed customer surveys. 126 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 SUSTAINABILITY Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report and Opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report To the annual general meeting of shareholders of Vasakronan AB (publ), Corp.ID 556061-4603 Introduction The audit firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) We have been engaged by the Group Management of Vasakronan AB and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control (“Vasakronan”) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance Vasakronan’s Sustainability Report for the year 2018. The Company with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal has defined the scope of the Sustainability Report on page 112 in the and regulatory requirements. We are independent in relation to Annual Report 2018. The Sustainability Report also constitutes the Vasakronan in accordance with professional ethics for accountants Statutory Sustainability Report. in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Group Management The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement and The Board of Directors and Group Management are responsible for an examination according to RevR 12 do not allow us to obtain such a preparing the Sustainability Report, including the Statutory Sustainlevel of assurance that we become aware of all significant matters that ability Report, in accordance with applicable criteria and the Annual could have been identified if an audit was performed. Consequently, Accounts Act. The criteria are described on page 112, and consist of the conclusion based on a limited assurance engagement and an the parts of the framework for sustainability reporting published by examination in accordance with RevR 12 does not provide the same GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) that are applicable to the Sustainabillevel of assurance as a conclusion based on an audit. ity Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Company has developed. This responsibility includes the internal conDirectors and Group Management as described above. We consider trol relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free these criteria as suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Responsibilities of the Auditor appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have perConclusion formed and to provide an opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, Report. nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance Sustainability Report is not, in all material respects, prepared in accorwith ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews dance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Group of Historical Financial Information published by IAASB. A limited assurManagement. ance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons A Statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. We have Stockholm, March 25, 2019 conducted our examination of the Statutory Sustainability Report in accordance with FAR’s recommendation RevR 12, The Auditor’s OpinÖhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB ion on the Statutory Sustainability Report. A limited assurance engagement and an examination according to RevR 12 have a different focus and a considerably smaller scope compared to the focus and scope of Helena Ehrenborg Fredrik Ljungdahl an audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and Authorised Public Accountant Sustainability Expert other generally accepted auditing standards. Member of FAR VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 127 IMPACT REPORT, GREEN FINANCING Impact Report – green financing Vasakronan issued the world’s first green corporate bond in November 2013, to major environmental and climate impact when they are extracted and produced, and remains the largest issuer of green bonds in Sweden. In 2018, Vasakronan and in addition generate considerable transportation needs. That is why it is importlaunched a revised and expanded framework, which encompasses all debt ant to reduce the amount of material used and to use renewable raw materials, and instruments. The framework has been reviewed by the Center for International recycled or reused material to much greater extents. In addition, we need to ensure Climate Research (CICERO) and has received the highest rating, Dark Green. that the materials used do not contain hazardous substances that are spread into indoor environments or into ecosystems outside our buildings. That is why all the Vasakronan’s total investments approved for financing with green bonds totalled material built into our buildings is always evaluated and documented. The Byggvaru­ SEK 24.3 billion (14.2) at the end of 2018. Of these, SEK 23.4 billion (13.8) combedömningen system is applied in this work. prised investments in existing properties, of which SEK 5.5 billion (5.1) consisted Large amounts of waste arise in new construction and renovation projects, and of properties that had previously undergone new construction or redevelopment. a large portion of that waste currently goes to incineration or landfill. We also take Investment in ongoing projects totalled SEK 0.9 billion (0.4). care of large amounts of waste from our tenants’ operations. Frequently, we are the In 2018, Vasakronan issued SEK 7.4 billion in green bonds and SEK 2.0 billion in ones who determine how well the waste is sorted since we are responsible for the green commercial paper. The total volume of green bonds and commercial paper waste recycling facilities in the buildings. The EU waste hierarchy governs our work outstanding at year end was SEK 16.8 billion (8.0), equivalent to 28% (14) of the with both types of waste, and the goal is to minimise landfill and incineration and to total interest-bearing liabilities. increase the proportion that is recycled or reused. Properties account for nearly 40% of energy consumption in Sweden. Continuing Water consumption is an important issue from a global and a local perspective. the work on reducing energy consumption in our properties is therefore self-evident Vasakronan uses water from municipal systems, and even though no shortages to us. Through investments and close collaboration with our tenants, we have manhave yet arisen in the locations where we operate, we are working continually on aged to halve our energy consumption since 2009, and by providing our properties monitoring and on cost-efficient measures to reduce consumption. Low water use with renewable or climate-neutral energy we have reduced our carbon dioxide is also a prerequisite for environmentally certifying buildings with high ratings. emissions in Scope 1 and 2, and emissions from air travel in Scope 3 by 98% since Each year, the company prepares business plans and financial, environmental, and 2006. social goals are set based on these business plans. For more information on our enviLarge amounts of materials are used in new construction, redevelopment and ronmental goals for 2018 and how well we achieved them, refer to page 134. leasehold improvements of properties. The materials used in our projects give rise Energy intensity Reduced CO2-emissions kWh/m² Tons 150 4,000 3,600 120 124 3,000 112 110 90 100 103 2,000 60 1,576 1,000 1,161 30 918 691 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Pertains to Scope 1 and 2 and emissions from air travel in Scope 3. Larger share of waste recycling Greater focus on water use m3/m2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.51 0.49 0.4 0.2 Recycling, 57% (49) 0,0 Energy recovery through incineration, 40% (49) 2017 2018 Landfill and hazardous waste, 2% (2) Pertains to tenant waste for 2018, where tenant waste totalled 10,044 tons (10,101). Water intensity 128 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 IMPACT REPORT, GREEN FINANCING Criteria under the framework As a basis for the selection of assets that can be financed with Green Finance Instruments, there is a framework that has been reviewed by the Center for International Approved investment amount green bonds, Climate Research (CICERO), a Norwegian climate research institute. Since 2017, 31 Dec 2018, SEK m Vasakronan’s framework also allows for investments in existing properties. The criteria to be met for financing an existing property is that the building must be certiEligible investments in ongoing projects 852 fied according to LEED for existing buildings on a Gold level or higher and have an energy intensity below 100 kWh/sq. m. per year. Existing properties 23,444 The financing of new construction and renovation projects requires that they be – of which previously new construction and renovation projects 5,489 certified according to LEED for new construction or renovation at Platinum level, Total approved investment amount 24,296 or BREEAM-SE at Outstanding level, and have an energy intensity 25% below the National Board of Housing, Building and Planning’s guidelines (BBR requirements). Volume outstanding, green bonds 14,865 The framework and CICERO’s report can be found at www.vasakronan.se. Volume outstanding, green commercial paper 1,971 Vasakronan has a special account for transactions attributable to the issue of Remaining approved investment amounts 7,460 green debt instruments. If the approved investment amount is less than the volume of green debt instruments outstanding, Vasakronan has undertaken to place a corresponding amount in this special account. At year end, the approved investment amount exceeded the volume of green debt instruments outstanding, and the account balance was therefore zero. Ongoing new construction and major renovation projects forming basis for investment Estimated Estimated Energy Energy reduction emissions performance (F), intensity BBR2) , in energy avoided (annual), Waste, Materials, Property Location Certification kWh/sq. m. kWh/sq. m. consumption, % tons kg/sq. m. kg/sq. m. Kronåsen 1:1 (Hubben)1) Uppsala LEED Platinum (F) 30 115 74 465 38 1,018 Hilton 71) Stockholm LEED Platinum (F) 50 80 38 107 – – Priorn 5 Malmö LEED Platinum (F) 33 45 27 130 – – Kronåsen 1:1 (Celsius) Uppsala LEED Platinum (F) 51 96 47 284 – – Total 41 84 51 986 1) The project is financed in part by green bank loans via the NIB. See page 30, for more information. 2) Maximum permitted energy intensity under National Board of Housing, Building and Planning guidelines. (F) = Forecast Waste and materials are not reported for the Hilton 7, Priorn 5 and Kronåsen 1:1 (Celsius) projects, as these were not completed as of 31 December 2018. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 129 IMPACT REPORT, GREEN FINANCING Existing properties forming basis for investment Energy Energy Reduction Reduction performance, performance, in energy in climate Water intensity, kWh/sq. m. kWh/sq. m. consumption impact (annual), m3/sq. m. Property Location Certification at 31 Dec 2018 at 31 Dec 20091) 2009–2018, % tons 2) at 31 Dec 2018 Lorensberg 45:16 Gothenburg LEED Gold 82 126 35 111 0.24 Heden 22:19 Gothenburg LEED Gold 62 102 39 577 0.20 Heden 42:4 Gothenburg LEED Gold 81 125 36 386 0.83 Inom Vallgraven 11:6 Gothenburg LEED Gold 90 114 21 362 0.62 Inom Vallgraven 20:14 Gothenburg LEED Gold 73 135 46 132 0.51 Inom Vallgraven 33:10 Gothenburg LEED Gold 74 102 28 60 0.36 Inom Vallgraven 59:14 Gothenburg LEED Gold 91 104 12 176 0.46 Inom Vallgraven 61:11 Gothenburg LEED Gold 91 108 16 178 0.49 Gullbergsvass 16:1 Gothenburg LEED Gold 89 113 21 358 0.32 Gullbergsvass 1:16 Gothenburg LEED Gold 69 81 14 586 0.28 Björnen 1 Malmö LEED Gold 90 122 26 125 0.24 Kaninen 32 Malmö LEED Gold 60 124 52 168 0.39 Magnus Stenbock 4 Malmö LEED Gold 95 119 20 153 0.23 Nereus 1 Malmö LEED Platinum 73 124 41 440 0.20 Priorn 2 Malmö LEED Gold 91 103 12 149 0.59 Jungmannen 1 Malmö LEED Gold 81 133 39 97 0.13 Bylgia 1 Malmö LEED Gold 75 125 40 235 0.10 Uggleborg 12 3) Stockholm LEED Platinum 66 127 48 796 0.49 Rosenborg 3 3) Stockholm LEED Platinum 54 105 49 453 0.35 Riga 2 Stockholm LEED Gold 47 104 55 525 0.35 Hekla 1 Stockholm LEED Gold 31 62 50 242 0.24 Albydal 3 Stockholm LEED Gold 72 89 19 143 0.25 Tre Vapen 2 Stockholm LEED Gold 93 115 19 438 0.19 Dragarbrunn 24:5 Uppsala LEED Gold 91 145 37 609 0.51 Modemet 1, Hus 83) Stockholm LEED Platinum 34 105 68 763 0.36 Dragarbrunn 18:9 Uppsala LEED Gold 86 168 49 333 0.27 Dragarbrunn 28:5 Uppsala LEED Gold 66 80 18 471 0.45 Dragarbrunn 31:1 Uppsala LEED Gold 84 125 33 870 1.07 Kvarngärdet 1:19 Uppsala LEED Gold 70 189 63 295 0.37 Hammarby Gård 12 Stockholm LEED Platinum 72 94 23 85 0.39 Kurland 11 Stockholm LEED Gold 78 127 38 52 0.51 Skjutsgossen 8 Stockholm LEED Gold 68 111 39 132 0.38 Total 74 116 36 10,500 0.39 1) Pertains to the properties’ energy intensity as of 31 December 2009, alternatively the energy intensity at the time the property was acquired. In the case of newly constructed or renovated properties, the highest permitted energy consumption under the BBR requirements at the completion date has been applied. 2) Pertains to the difference between the annual GHG emissions that the property would have had in 2018, without improvement to the energy intensity (compared with 31 Dec 2009) or agreements for renewable/climate neutral energy, and the property’s actual emissions in 2018 (based on measured energy consumption in 2018 and taking into account Vasakronan’s renewable/climate neutral energy agreements). 3) Properties that underwent new construction or renovation, and were financed over the course of the project in accordance with the criteria for new construction and renovation projects. After the project was finished, the property was reclassified to the existing properties category. As of 31 December 2018, these properties comprised SEK 5.5 billion out of a total SEK 23.4 billion. For further information, see Other information. Other information erties category includes properties that previously underwent new construction or The Impact Report has been prepared in accordance with the guidelines in the renovation, and were financed over the course of the project in accordance with the framework for Green Finance Instruments. The framework was produced in accorcriteria for new construction and renovation projects. In connection with the comdance with the Green Bond Principles, and has been reviewed by CICERO, the indepletion of new construction or redevelopment, an evaluation was conducted against pendent climate and environmental research institute. The framework is available the criteria set for investment in existing properties. Reclassifying a property from at www.vasakronan.se. The environmental data reported was produced in accornew construction and renovation projects to the category for existing properties dance with the same principles and methods as the Sustainability Report and is requires that the new build or renovation is reported to the Board of Directors, that shown on page 112. final certification has been obtained and that energy intensity has been measured Investments in new construction and renovation projects corresponded to the over at least a rolling twelve-month period. amount that as of the balance-sheet date had been invested in the property. Existing In addition to funding with green commercial paper and bonds, Vasakronan has properties are recognised at market value. The market value is updated mid-year green unsecured loans with the Nordic Investment Bank and the European Investand at the end of the year in connection with external evaluations being performed. ment Bank that totalled SEK 4,827 million at year end. The loans will finance the Reporting of market value and amounts invested follows the accounting policies redevelopment of Sergelhuset in central Stockholm, the Platinan new build in indicated on page 83. Gothenburg, the new build of Kronåsen 1:1 (Hubben) in Uppsala and the new build The emissions reported for existing properties pertain to emissions attributable of Hilton 7 in Stockholm. The aim is for these properties to achieve LEED Platinum to energy consumption in buildings after taking into consideration the agreements certification.The percentage of green funding consisting of green bonds, green comcontracted by Vasakronan with the respective energy suppliers. Tenant electricity mercial paper and green loans increased during the period to 35% (20) of the total is not included in energy intensity and the emission calculations.The Existing propdebt portfolio. 130 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 IMPACT REPORT, GREEN FINANCING Celsius was started in 2018 and will comprise 10,000 square metres of offices and advanced laboratories. CELSIUS The building is being raised at New build Uppsala Science Park and will provide workplaces for around 600 people. The largest tenant will be the National Food Agency, which will lease around 8,000 square metres. A few examples of environmental measures: • Environmental certification LEED Platinum • Projected energy intensity of 51 kWh/sq. m., which is 47% lower than the regulatory requirement • Water saving by catching rainwater to use for flushing toilets • Solar photovoltaics Priorn was started in 2017 and will comprise 13,000 square metres of offices. The property is located a few minutes walk from PRIORN New build the Triangeln’s railway station. A few examples of environmental measures: • Environmental certification LEED Platinum • Projected energy intensity of 33 kWh/sq. m., which is 27% lower than the regulatory requirement • Installation of geo-energy plant to supply the property with heating and cooling • Solar photovoltaics • Green roofs • Parking and other facilities for bicycles • Electric vehicle charging stations Bohusgatan was built in 1984 and is located by Heden BOHUSin central Gothenburg with GATAN good public transportation Renovation links. The property was renovated from 2013–2018. A few examples of environmental measures: • Environmental certification LEED Gold • An average energy intensity of 62 kWh/sq. m. • Parking and other facilities for bicycles, including recharging stations • Tree planting and green facades • New external sunshades to reduce solar irradiation and cooling needs VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 131 IMPACT REPORT, GREEN FINANCING Skjutsgossen in Södermalm, Stockholm was constructed from SKJUTS­ 1942–1944 and initially contained GOSSEN 8 a clothing factory. The property Existing was renovated and modernised from 2009–2010. The building is located close to Mariatorget’s metro station. A few examples of environmental measures: • Environmental certification LEED Gold • An average energy intensity of 68 kWh/sq. m. • Solar photovoltaics • Electric car rechargers • Parking and other facilities for bicycles Björnen 1 on Södra Förstads­ gatan in central Malmö was built in 1903 using period architecture. In 2001, the property unBJÖRNEN 1 Existing derwent a major renovation and today it contains office and retail premises. The property is located walking distance from Triangeln’s railway station. A few examples of environmental measures: • Environmental certification LEED Gold • An average energy intensity of 90 kWh/sq. m. • Improved ventilation and a new fan room Oxen, or Dragarbrunn 28:5, comprises a number of buildings. The oldest section is OXEN from 1889 and one of the Existing other sections was built in 1948 and houses the Uppsala City Theatre. The property is located in central Uppsala only a few minutes walk from Uppsala railway station and within easy reach of a plethora of local services and public transportation links. A few examples of environmental measures: • Environmental certification LEED Gold • An average energy intensity of 66 kWh/sq. m. • Parking and other facilities for bicycles 132 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 IMPACT REPORT, GREEN FINANCING Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Green Finance Investor Report To the annual general meeting of shareholders of Vasakronan AB (publ), Corp. ID 556061-4603 Introduction applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We are independent We have been engaged by the Group Management of Vasakronan AB in relation to Vasakronan in accordance with professional ethics for (“Vasakronan”) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical Vasakronan’s Green Finance Investor Report (“the Investor Report”) responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. for the year 2018. The Investor Report consists of pages 128–132 in The limited assurance procedures performed do not enable us to the Annual Report. obtain such a level of assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit engagement. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Group Management Consequently, the conclusion based on a limited assurance engageThe Board of Directors and the Group Management are responsible ment does not provide the same level of assurance as a conclusion for the preparation of the Investor Report in accordance with the based on an audit. applicable criteria, as explained on page 128 of the Annual Report Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board and consists of the parts of Vasakronan’s Green Finance Framework of Directors and the Group Management as described above. We which are applicable to the Investor Report, as well as the accounting consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Investor and calculation principles that the Company has developed. This Report. responsibility includes the internal control relevant to the preparation We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and of an Investor Report that is free from material misstatements, appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. whether due to fraud or error. Conclusion Responsibilities of the Auditor Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Investor Report nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. Investor Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accorwith the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Group dance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Management. Reviews of Historical Financial Information. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Investor Report, and applying analytical and Stockholm, March 25, 2019 other limited assurance procedures. A limited assurance engagement has a different focus and a considerably smaller scope compared to Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB the focus and scope of an audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards. The audit firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality Helena Ehrenborg Fredrik Ljungdahl control including documented policies and procedures regarding Authorised Public Accountant Sustainability Expert compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and Member of FAR VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 133 TARGETS AND FULFILMENT Financial targets 2018 Target fulfilment 2018 Targets 2019 A total yield of at least 6.5% per year The total yield was 12.5% for 2018, and 10.0% on and on average over a rolling ten-year average over the latest ten-year period. Read more • A total yield of at least 6.5% per year period. on page 34. and on average over a rolling ten-year period A total yield of at least 0.5 percentage The total yield for the industry was 10.4% for 2018, points higher than the industry per and 9.1% on average over the latest ten-year period. • A total yield of at least 0.5 percentage year and on average over a rolling Read more on page 34. points higher than the industry per ten-year period. year and on average over a rolling ten-year period An increase in net operating Net operating income for comparable property income for comparable property holdings was 6%. Read more on page 64. • An increase in net operating income holdings of 5% compared with 2017. for comparable property holdings of 6% compared with 2018 An occupancy rate of at least 93.5% The occupancy rate was 93.1% at the end of the year. at the end of 2018. Read more on page 63. • An occupancy rate of at least 94% at the end of 2019 A 10% decrease in the percentage of The percentage of premises with long-term vacancies premises with long-term vacancies. was on par with last year. • A 10% decrease in the percentage of premises with long-term vacancies The cost of leasehold improvements The cost of leasehold improvements in conjunction in conjunction with new with new office lettings declined to less than • The cost of leasehold improvements office lettings should average less SEK 2,454 per square metre. in conjunction with new office letthan SEK 3,000 per square metre. tings should average less than SEK 2,900 per square metre Price changes in conjunction with rePrice changes in conjunction with renegotiations negotiations should exceed the result totalled 12.4% (10.6). • Price changes in conjunction with refor 2017 of 10.6%. negotiations should exceed 9.5% Environmental targets 2018 Target fulfilment 2018 Targets 2019 Energy intensity to be improved 3% Energy intensity increased to an average of 103 kWh/ compared with the results for 2017. sq. m. (100) at year end due to the extremely hot • Energy intensity to be improved 3% summer and cold winter. Read more on page 18 and compared with the results for 2018 pages 117–118. • 60% of the buildings should have an Increase the percentage of buildings The share of environmentally certified buildings energy intensity of less than 100 with environmental certification. increased to 85% (84). Read more on page 121. kWh/sq. m. and year 60% of the buildings should have an At the end of the year 47% of the buildings had an • At the end of the year, at least 70 soenergy intensity of less than 100 energy intensity below 100 kWh/sq. m. lar photovoltaic systems should be in kWh/sq. m. operation At the end of the year, 65 solar photoAt the end of the year, 55 solar photovoltaic systems • We have completed at least eight voltaic systems were in operation. were in operation. Read more on page 118. projects that have led to a reduction in energy consumption Introduce new solutions to cut peak Over the year, a number of new solutions were impleloads. mented to cut peak loads. During the year, a strategy • The share of tenant waste sent for for adaptation of ventilation was prepared, among other incineration has decreased actions. Moreover, Vasakronan has entered into a col• Waste generated from project devellaboration to prepare control algorithms for heating. opment activities must decrease Increase reuse of materials in conIn 2018, the amount of reused materials was 51 tons • We have used recycled material in struction activities. (116). The year-on-year decline was due to reused at least 10 leasehold improvements material in project Sergel, where volumes are unusually high, being included in the outcome for the pre• We have set requirements for the ceding year. reporting of the share of renewable fuel used for transportation in all new Decrease the amount of construction Waste from renovation projects averaged 77 kg/sq. m. Board-approved projects waste generated. (43). The outcome refers to the Board-approved projects that were completed during the current year. • All Board-approved new construction No new construction projects were completed during and renovation projects will report the year. Read more on pages 120–121. their use of materials We have specified the use of During the year, supplements were made to • At least half of financing should be renewable fuel for the transportation Vasakronan’s internal policies for projects with the green of materials and waste in all new requirement of using renewable fuel for transporting • The share of properties certified in Board-approved construction projmaterial and waste for all new major projects. accordance with LEED Gold or higher ects. should have increased All Board-approved new construcAll new construction and renovation projects that • Better ranking in the global sustaintion and renovation projects report started in 2018 have begun to report on their use of ability survey, GRESB their use of building materials. materials in the project. Increase the percentage of green fiThe share of green financing increased and was 35% nancing. (20) at year end. Better ranking in the global Vasakronan raised its number of points in GRESB, and sustainability survey, GRESB. was ranked as the most sustainable property company in Europe within the office segment. 134 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 TARGETS AND FULFILMENT Social targets 2018 Target fulfilment 2018 Targets 2019 All employees act in accordance The year’s employee survey showed that 98% of the with our values and comply with employees know our values and 88% believe they • All employees act in accordance with our internal Code of Conduct. permeate our operations. our values and comply with our internal Code of Conduct All employees know how to In this year’s employee survey, the psychosocial index prevent stress and contribute (PAI) scored 82, compared with the benchmark of 77. • Our employees feel that stress levels to a good work environment. PAI evaluates the psychosocial work environment at work are reasonable and that they with the aim of identifying early signals of any workhave an opportunity to recover place factors that could lead to ill-health. between workdays All employees know how to The score in this year’s employee survey regarding • All employees perceive that our workprevent discrimination and whether the workplace was free from discrimination places are free from discrimination harassment. was 97 out of a maximum of 100. The benchmark was 92. • We have completed another 50 security measures in our properties and We have carried out at least Some 60 security measures were carried out at our projects 50 security measures in our properties and projects during the year. Measures • We have assessed at least 50 of our properties and projects. implemented included improved lighting, pruning of suppliers with respect to compliance trees, more frequent security patrols and increased with our Code of Conduct surveillance. Read more on page 126. • Uniform accident reporting at our All suppliers accept our Code Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct for suppliers is applied major projects of Conduct and we have to all new supplier agreements, and is now included completed more supplier audits. in 100% of the supplier agreements signed by the • Increase the percentage of employees purchasing division. A total of 11 (12) supplier checks with foreign backgrounds were conducted during the year. Our projects will issue correct and Efforts continued in 2018 with the implementation of uniform accident reporting. an accident reporting methodology and will continue in 2019. Increase the percentage of women The percentage of employees with a foreign backand the percentage of employees ground was 13% (14) and the percentage of women with foreign backgrounds. was 46% (42) at the end of the year. Read more on page 123.  VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 135 Not always taking the lift is good for your health and the environment. But if we are honest, how much fun is it to walk up a drab, white staircase? At Mäster Samuelsgatan 56 in Stockholm, some of Sweden’s best street artists have transformed each floor into an urban art gallery, #WayUpArt, which makes the effort worthwhile. 136 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 QUARTERLY OVERVIEW Quarterly overview Amounts in SEK million Q4 2018 Q3 2018 Q2 2018 Q1 2018 INCOME STATEMENTS Net sales 1,712 1,673 1,690 1,643 Operating expenses and property administration –277 –256 –255 –280 Maintenance costs –26 –25 –28 –29 Property tax –127 –126 –137 –137 Ground rents –29 –46 –30 –41 Net operating income 1,253 1,220 1,240 1,156 Earnings from services 0 – – – Central administration –31 –19 –28 –23 Result from participations in joint ventures 161 –2 1 –1 Net interest –230 –277 –265 –271 Profit before value changes and tax 1,153 922 948 861 Change in value of investment properties 3,959 900 4,084 1,708 Change in value of financial instruments –157 162 32 –24 Divested/impaired goodwill –16 –10 0 –36 Profit before tax 4,939 1,974 5,064 2,509 Tax –939 –347 184 –482 Profit for the period 4,000 1,627 5,248 2,027 BALANCE SHEETS Investment properties 138,934 134,303 133,518 128,339 Equity 60,271 56,279 54,652 53,404 Interest-bearing liabilities 61,087 61,244 62,315 58,903 Total assets 145,201 140,469 140,123 135,382 KEY METRICS Property-related information Closing area, thousand sq. m. 2,372 2,382 2,400 2,400 Closing number of properties 174 176 180 176 Closing market value of property, SEK m 138,934 134,303 133,518 128,339 Net investments, SEK m 707 –115 1,095 –244 Closing economic occupancy rate, % 93.1 92.8 92.9 92.8 Surplus ratio, % 73 73 73 70 Financial metrics Closing average interest rate, % 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.7 Average fixed-interest tenor, years 4.7 4.4 4.2 4.3 Interest coverage ratio for the period, multiple 6.0 4.3 4.6 4.2 Closing equity/assets ratio, % 42 40 39 39 Other metrics Closing number of employees 309 310 312 314 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 137 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW Five-year overview Amounts in SEK million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 INCOME STATEMENT Rental revenue 6,718 6,490 6,251 6,009 5,899 Operating expenses and property administration –1,068 –993 –981 –998 –982 Maintenance costs –108 –110 –105 –106 –112 Property tax –527 –544 –544 –474 –492 Ground rents –146 –165 –162 –157 –141 Net operating income 4,869 4,678 4,459 4,274 4,172 Earnings from services – – – – – Central administration –101 –97 –87 –88 –93 Result from participations in joint ventures 159 –3 –3 –1 –1 Net interest –1,043 –1,165 –1,152 –1,121 –1,256 Profit before value changes and tax 3,884 3,413 3,217 3,064 2,822 Change in value of investment properties 10,651 7,973 12,056 10,212 3,519 Change in value of financial instruments 13 468 –764 598 –2,956 Divested/impaired goodwill –62 –26 –18 –71 –21 Profit before tax 14,486 11,828 14,491 13,803 3,364 Tax –1,584 –2,559 –3,019 –2,859 –642 Profit for the year 12,902 9,269 11,472 10,944 2,722 BALANCE SHEETS Investment properties 138,934 126,875 115,922 103,894 91,889 Equity 60,271 51,377 46,117 41,245 35,094 Interest-bearing liabilities 61,087 58,421 55,240 50,750 46,839 Total assets 145,201 132,283 122,056 109,786 97,184 KEY METRICS Property-related information Closing area, thousand sq. m. 2,372 2,430 2,426 2,509 2,509 Closing number of properties 174 179 179 180 185 Closing number of apartments 1,169 1,168 1,161 1,164 1,163 Closing market value of property, SEK m 138,934 126,875 115,922 103,894 91,889 Closing market value, SEK/sq. m 58,573 52,212 47,783 41,409 36,624 Net investments, SEK m 1,407 –2,980 –28 1,753 1,243 Acquisitions, SEK m 594 1,049 58 916 4 Divestments, SEK m –2,521 –612 –2,121 –1,387 –1,574 Investments in projects, SEK m 3,335 2,543 2,035 2,224 2,813 Closing rental value, SEK m 7,403 7,190 6,949 6,783 6,621 Closing economic occupancy rate, % 93.1 93.1 94.2 92.6 92.0 Closing surplus ratio, % 73 72 71 71 71 Environmental certification of properties, share of total area, % 85 84 77 71 44 Energy intensity on closing date, kWh/sq. m. 103 100 110 112 124 Yield, total holdings, % 3.8 3.9 4.1 4.5 4.7 Value change in the total portfolio, %1) 8.5 6.9 11.7 11.1 4.2 Total yield, total holdings, % 12.5 11.0 16.3 16.0 9.1 1) Outcome in accordance with MSCI Swedish Property Index. 138 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW Amounts in SEK million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Financial metrics Closing average interest rate, % 1.6 1.7 2.0 2.1 3.3 Average fixed-interest tenor, years 4.7 4.5 4.3 4.3 5.1 Closing interest coverage ratio, multiple 4.7 3.9 3.8 3.7 3.2 Closing equity/assets ratio, % 42 39 38 38 36 1) Closing NAV, SEK m 78,542 68,581 61,333 53,416 44,852 Closing NNNAV, SEK m2) 70,823 60,872 55,083 47,927 39,225 Closing debt/equity ratio, multiple 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.3 Return on equity, % 23.1 19.0 26.3 28.7 7.6 Cash flow metrics Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital, SEK m 3,567 3,383 3,137 2,855 2,789 Cash flow from operating activities, SEK m 3,635 3,468 3,439 3,210 2,902 Cash flow from investing activities, SEK m –1,297 –2,985 23 –1,775 –1,273 Cash flow from financing activities, SEK m –1,546 –1,207 –3,616 –891 –2,442 Cash flow for the year, SEK m 792 –724 –154 544 –813 Other metrics Average number of employees 313 345 338 348 356 Closing number of employees 309 349 339 346 353 Basis for key metrics 1) NAV, SEK m Equity 60,271 51,377 46,117 41,245 35,094 Add back goodwill –1,982 –2,045 –2,071 –2,088 –2,159 Add back derivatives 1,967 2,426 2,925 2,903 3,385 Add back recognised deferred tax 18,286 16,824 14,362 11,356 8,532 78,542 68,581 61,333 53,416 44,852 2) NNNAV, SEK m Equity 60,271 51,377 46,117 41,245 35,094 Add back goodwill –1,982 –2,045 –2,071 –2,088 –2,159 Add back recognised deferred tax 18,286 16,824 14,362 11,356 8,532 Deferred tax at fair value –5,4654) –4,9334) –3,2193) –2,5333) –1,6723) Adjustment of interest-bearing liabilities to fair value –287 –351 –106 –53 –570 70,823 60,872 55,083 47,927 39,225 3) Calculated on the basis of a 25% current tax rate, i.e. 5.5%. 4) Calculated on the basis of a 30% current tax rate, i.e. 6.6%. VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 139 DEFINITIONS Definitions Area, sq. m. Property divestments, SEK m Lettable area, not including garages and parking Divestment of investment properties. Intended as spaces on the closing date. an indication of the company’s divestments during the period. Return on equity, % Earnings after tax divided by the average of openProperty category ing and closing equity. Intended as an indication of The primary use of the property based on rental the return on equity. revenue. Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio, % FFO/net debt, % Net interest-bearing liabilities divided by total Cash flow from operating activities before change assets on the closing date. Intended as an indicain working capital for the last 12 months divided tion of the company’s financial risk. by average interest-bearing liabilities, net. It measures the portion of the company’s net liabilities Central administration, SEK m that can be paid by its cash flow from operating Costs at the Group level that are not directly activities. related to property management, such as costs associated with the Group management team, Average loan-to-maturity, years property investments, financing and central The volume-weighted remaining maturity on marketing. interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives on the closing date. Intended as an indication of Yield, total holdings, % the company’s financial risk. Net operating income as a percentage of the sum of the properties’ opening market value, plus half Average interest rate, % of the year’s investments and less half of net operThe volume-weighted interest rate on interest-­ ating income during the year. Calculated accordbearing liabilities and derivatives on the closing ing to the same method as the MSCI Swedish date. Intended as an indication of the company’s Property Index and pertains to the entire propcost of capital. erty portfolio including projects and transactions. Intended as an indication of the return on current Average fixed-interest tenor, years earnings from the properties. The volume-weighted remaining maturity on fixed-interest rates on interest-bearing liabilities Net operating income, SEK m and derivatives on the closing date. Intended as Rental revenue less operating expenses, repairs an indication of the company’s interest-rate risk. and maintenance, property administration, property tax and ground rent. Intended as an indicaAverage remaining term to maturity, years tion of the current earnings in property manageThe total contract value of commercial facilities ment activities. divided by contracted rent for commercial facilities. Energy intensity kWh/sq. m. Rental value, SEK m The annual total for energy consumption, Contracted rent plus the assessed market rent for adjusted to the level of a normal year, from heatvacant premises. ing, comfort cooling and property electricity, divided by the temperate area (indoor area for all Investments in existing projects, SEK m floors of a building that are heated to more than Investments in ongoing projects. Intended as an 10°C). Reported energy intensity also includes indication of the company’s investment volume. some tenant electricity and process cooling which, for technical reasons, is not possible to Comparable property holdings remove from the calculation. Properties included in holdings during the entire reporting period, and during the entire compariProperty acquisitions, SEK m son period. Properties that were classified as Acquisition of investment properties. Intended as development properties, or that were acquired or an indication of the company’s acquisitions during sold during the reporting period or comparison the period. period are not included. Addresses and website VASAKRONAN AB REGION GOTHENBURG REGION ÖRESUND Box 30074, SE 104 25 Stockholm Box 11264, SE-404 26 Gothenburg Box 334, SE-201 23 Malmö Street address: Street address: Street address: Mäster Samuelsgatan 56 Götgatan 15 Rådmansgatan 16 Tel: +46 8 566 20 500 Tel: +46 31 743 42 00 Tel: +46 40 691 71 00 REGION STOCKHOLM REGION UPPSALA CORP. REG. NO. Box 30074, SE 104 25 Stockholm Box 1050, SE-751 40 Uppsala 556061-4603 Street address: Street address: Mäster Samuelsgatan 56 Dragarbrunnsgatan 38 WEBSITE Tel: +46 8 566 20 500 Tel: +46 18 489 20 00 www.vasakronan.se 140 VA S A K RO N A N A N N UA L R EP O R T 2 018 Contracted rent, SEK m Profit before value changes and tax, SEK m Value change in the total portfolio, % Total annual rent from contracts in effect as of Net operating income less central administraValue change in SEK, divided by market value the closing date. tion, profit (loss) from participations in joint for the entire property portfolio (i.e. including ventures and net interest. Intended as an indicaprojects and transactions at the start of the Contracted rent by property type tion of current earnings in the operations. period). In the five-year overview, the value Contracted rent categorised according to the change is reported according to the same assigned premises use, for each lease, broken Net interest-bearing liabilities, SEK m method as the MSCI Swedish Property Index. down as offices, retail and other. The category Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash Intended as an indication of the value change “other” includes residential space, parking and equivalents. Intended as an indication of the in the property portfolio. hotels. company’s financial risk. Annual rent, SEK m Cash and cash equivalents, SEK m Net interest, SEK m Base annual rent plus indexation and suppleCash and bank balances, along with current Interest income less interest expenses. ments. investments with maturities of less than three months. Intended as an indication of the compaInterest coverage ratio, multiple Surplus ratio, % ny’s liquidity. Net operating income plus central administraNet operating income divided by rental revenue. tion and profit (loss) from participations in joint Intended as an indication of the current earnEnvironmental certification, % ventures divided by net interest. Intended as an ings in property management activities. Total area of properties that have obtained cerindication of the company’s sensitivity to fluctutification in accordance with BREEAM, LEED or ations in interest rates. Miljöbyggnad, divided by the area for the entire property portfolio, on the closing date. Debt/equity ratio, multiple Interest-bearing liabilities divided by equity. NAV (Net asset value), SEK m Intended as an indication of the company’s Recognised equity, adding back goodwill, derivfinancial risk. atives and deferred tax. The metric shows the company’s EPRA NAV; refer to the calculation Equity/assets ratio, % on page 138. Equity divided by total assets on the closing date. Intended as an indication of the company’s NNNAV (Triple net asset value), SEK m financial stability. Recognised equity adding back goodwill and the fair value of loans, and adjusted for estimated Capital employed, SEK m actual deferred tax. Calculated on the basis of Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. a 30% current tax rate. The metric shows the company’s actual NAV, refer to the calculation Temperate area, sq. m. on page 138. Indoor area for all floors of a building that are heated to more than 10°C. Net investments, SEK m The purchase price for property acquisitions, Total yield, total holdings, % along with investments in property projects, Sum total of yield and change in value, including less the consideration received from property projects and transactions. Calculated according divestment. Intended as an indication of capital to the same method as the MSCI Swedish Propinvested in properties. erty Index. Intended as an indication of the return on total assets. Net lettings, SEK m Contracted rent for new lettings during the Total contract value, SEK m period less contracted rent for leases where Contracted rent multiplied by the period of notice of termination for move-out was maturity of the leases. received during the period. Economic occupancy rate, % Contracted rent divided by the rental value on the closing date. Financial Calendar Production Cover REPORTS Vasakronan and Springtime-Intellecta. Hubben, a meeting place and innovation hub within Interim report Jan–Mar 2019 7 May 2019 Photography: Tina Axelsson, Anders Fredriksen, Uppsala Science Park. People are able to meet and Mid-year report Jan–Jun 2019 12 July 2019 Gonzalo Irigoyen, Gustav Kaiser, Pelle T Nilsson, Interim report Jan–Sep 2019 30 October 2019 Martin Olson, Johan Persson, Dino Soldin, exchange knowledge here. Entrances in multiple locaYear-end report 2019 30 January 2020 Peter Svensson and Karin Taawo Bektasevic. tions make the building accessible and give the park’s Annual Report 2019 March 2020 Vision images: Tomorrow AB, Walk the room companies the opportunity to be seen and showcase and White Arkitekter. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Printing: BrandFactory AB 2019. their ideas. The building encompasses 12,500 sq. m. Annual General Meeting 7 May 2019 and was opened on 7 February 2018. In addition to the entrance area with its conference space and restaurant, there are an additional four floors adapted for offices and laboratories. Address: Box 30074, SE 104 25 Stockholm Street address: Mäster Samuelsgatan 56 Tel: +46 8 566 20 500, Fax +46 8 566 20 501 www.vasakronan.se Corp. Reg. No. 556061-4603
