“A leading operator in the French and international temporary employment and airport services sectors, our Group is actively committed to upholding the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on a daily basis. Respect for human rights, compliance with international labour standards, employee health and safety, protection of the environment and the prevention of corruption are all major considerations deeply enshrined in our Group’s strategy. Accordingly, once again this year we reiterate our commitment to uphold and promote these principles that form an integral part of our Company’s corporate social responsibility policy. These promises can only be fulfilled through the actions of every single employee. For this reason, we promote these values among all our employees, as well as our corporate clients and service providers, and seek to ensure their tangible commitment to this cause. We regularly inform the public of our actions and commitments through clear statements, notably via our annual business report. An overview of our commitments under the UN Global Compact is set out in this communication on progress.” Nathalie Jaoui Chairman 2 CONTENTS Principles of the Global Compact Page 4 Overview of Groupe CRIT Page 5 Policies and measures in defence of human rights Page 7 > Occupational health and safety Page 7 > Skills development Page 9 > Partnerships providing access to employment Page 11 > Anti-discrimination policy Page 13 Policy and measures related to international labour standards Page 13 > Anti-discrimination policy Page 13 > Industrial relations Page 15 Policy and measures to protect the environment Page 17 > Managing our environmental impact Page 17 Policy and measures to prevent corruption Page 19 > Business ethics Page 19 Recognised CSR policy Page 21 3 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should contribute to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4 GROUPE CRIT TWO BUSINESS DIVISIONS TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND OUR MISSIONS AIRPORT SERVICES OUR MISSIONS RECRUITMENT Support and advise clients Support and advise clients Group ranked 18th in the world No.1 operator in France with regard to their human by proposing innovative and resources requirements No. 1 independent group in France 15 airport hubs worldwide sustainable solutions 580 agencies worldwide including 406 4,500 permanent employees Establish long-term in France 143 airlines Maintain high standards of relationships and help qualification among 50,000 temporary workers (FTE) €356m sales employees temporary workers to build their careers 3,300 permanent employees 35,000 corporate clients Consolidate global and local Develop innovative tools and partnerships with €2.2bn sales services stakeholders Continue to set an example Encourage the emergence of to the industry by the way talent in a powerful we manage our organisation environmental impact 5 GROUP LOCATIONS OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY Groupe CRIT pursues a group-wide health and safety policy aimed at preventing workplace accidents and occupational illnesses, maintaining proper working conditions and complying with legal, regulatory and other requirements regarding employee health and safety. Groupe CRIT has specific departments in charge of these issues, backed by a network of local officers designed to ensure hands-on management and efficiency. 7 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MEASURES 2018 INDICATORS (FRANCE) TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT Implementation of prevention, information and awareness schemes among permanent agency staff, temporary employees and corporate clients. Special attention is paid to raising awareness among TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES temporary employees working in “exposed” sectors; Industrial accident frequency rate: +3% Regular discussions with corporate clients on preventing health and safety risks: workstation Industrial accident severity rate: stable inspections, joint analysis of workplace accidents, sharing of good practices; 220,000 temporary employees trained in safety Periodic certification renewal: OHSAS 18001 and MASE for 10 agencies, mainly concerning the chemicals and petrochemicals industries, and CEFRI for 24 agencies assigning work in the nuclear PERMANENT EMPLOYEES sector. Industrial accident frequency rate: -22% Industrial accident severity rate: -19% AIRPORT SERVICES AIRPORT SERVICES Implementation of a Safety Management System (SMS) to instil a daily safety culture among all employees; Industrial accident frequency rate: -19% Provision of flight and airport safety training to all operational employees via initial induction training followed by refresher courses every 3 years; Industrial accident severity rate: -3% 100% of training courses provided to employees cover Working groups seek ways of reducing employee exposure to risk factors and arduous work; the safety aspects of the topics covered Periodic renewal of OHSAS 18001 and ISAGO certification. 8 SKILLS DEVELOPMENT POLICY Training plays a key role in the Group’s policy of providing support to its permanent and temporary employees and fostering their professional development. Groupe CRIT provides training to all of its employees with a view to enhancing their skills and developing the employability of temporary employees. 9 SKILLS DEVELOPMENT MEASURES 2018 INDICATORS (FRANCE) The Group has implemented measures aimed at: • helping employees to integrate within their company, region and team; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT • fostering the acquisition and development of occupational skills; PERMANENT EMPLOYEES • providing training and raising awareness of general issues; +15% employees trained (change vs. 2017) • anticipating employees’ future career paths by providing each one with an annual career review and +8% hours of training (change vs. 2017) prioritising internal promotion. TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT +5% temporary employees trained (change vs. 2017) Our policy is underpinned by major investments in training, a dedicated nationwide team tasked with +7% hours of training (change vs. 2017) providing support and advice to the agencies, designing training courses and monitoring their execution, and an in-company training organisation, RHFormation. 90% employment rate among our temporary employees within 12 months following training AIRPORT SERVICES AIRPORT SERVICES The airport services division has an in-house training institute (IFMA), which provides training courses to employees of the Group’s airport services subsidiaries and trains around 15,000 people from inside and outside the company every year. +7% employees trained (change vs. 2017) 62,200 hours of training 10 PARTNERSHIPS PROVIDING ACCESS TO EMPLOYMENT POLICY Groupe CRIT seeks to facilitate access to employment for all via a partnership policy geared towards individuals isolated from the employment market and aimed at developing their employability and safeguarding their career paths. This policy is implemented by a national supervisor backed by regional officers. 11 PARTNERSHIPS PROVIDING ACCESS TO EMPLOYMENT MEASURES 2018 INDICATORS (FRANCE) TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT CRIT works alongside local and national partners: Pôle Emploi employment centres, the National Union of Local Missions (UNML), AGEFIPH for disabled job-seekers, local councils, recognised public Over 260 partner organisations associations, including the regional clubs of inclusion partner companies (CREPI), schools and training centres. 69 agencies have signed formal partnerships with the Partnership initiatives take a variety of forms: hiring campaigns with strong corporate involvement, Missions Locales network training schemes, support services (coaching, job dating, job presentations) to foster the professional integration of underemployed population segments, with a focus on young job-seekers. National agreement signed with EPIDE to promote the employment of underqualified youth AIRPORT SERVICES AIRPORT SERVICES For several years now, the airport services division has worked alongside JEREMY, an association for young people in search of employment at Roissy and Orly, to help underqualified job-seekers find 30% of the staff of the airport services division’s employment in the aviation sector. maintenance subsidiary consist of apprentices and The division is actively involved in helping young people find jobs and providing assistance to adult former apprentices on permanent or fixed-term workers undergoing redeployment. Since 2010, the division has expanded its workforce by taking on contracts. apprentices who have completed special school courses at apprenticeship or vocational colleges. Apprentices are mentored by permanent members of the department to which they are assigned. 12 POLICY For years now Groupe CRIT has been strongly committed to preventing all forms of discrimination and promoting diversity and equal opportunities among all of its permanent and temporary employees. The Group has appointed a national supervisor tasked with providing advice and raising awareness of this issue, as well as a Diversity and Equal Opportunities Mediator. An initiative called Mission Emploi & Handicap is also rolled out locally by regional officers with the aim of helping disabled people find employment and integrate the workplace. 13 ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY MEASURES 2018 INDICATORS (FRANCE) TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT Raising employees’ awareness of discrimination, in particular managers and recruiters regarding issues 73% of recruiters trained in non-discrimination related to their business line, via internal procedures; +12% hours’ work assigned to disabled workers Implementation of a professional equality action plan aimed at eliminating unequal pay and promoting (change vs. 2017) gender equality and female representation in senior management positions; +9% number of disabled worker assignments (change With regard to disability: vs. 2017) in-company and external awareness campaigns conducted via in-house training schemes and +16% number of corporate clients to which CRIT has special events organised throughout the year; assigned workers recognised as disabled (change vs. employment retention schemes (workstation adaptation); 2017) access to our agency network; Participation in around 40 disability-related events support for corporate clients. 18 employment agencies involved in a training program to receive physically disabled workers. 14 SOCIAL DIALOGUE POLICY CRIT seeks to foster social dialogue across the whole Group in order to promote regular discussion of issues related to employee health and safety, proper working conditions for all and the definition of Group strategies. 15 SOCIAL DIALOGUE MEASURES 2018 INDICATORS (FRANCE) TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT A special corporate affairs department rigorously oversees the organisation of social dialogue and the tangible fulfilment of commitments agreed with staff representatives. 12 meetings with the Works Council Staff representatives are allocated a given number of hours for holding meetings (staff delegates; 6 meetings with the Health, Safety and Working Works Council; Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee) as well as additional hours over and Conditions Committee above their official allowance in which to prepare these discussions in advance. Groupe CRIT has staff representative bodies covering Group management involves staff representatives in its strategy development planning processes. all of its entities 15,000 employees have enjoyed subsidised access to leisure activities under Works Council schemes AIRPORT SERVICES The airport services division has appointed an Industrial Relations Officer who liaises permanently with the Group legal department, subsidiary managers and staff representatives. AIRPORT SERVICES Collective bargaining procedures at subsidiary level focused on a variety of issues such as pay, 16 Works Councils worktime organisation, profit-sharing schemes, the pre-election MOU and agreements on the establishment of the Social and Economic Committee, as a result of which a number of agreements were signed in 2018. 16 MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT POLICY Since 2005, CRIT has been committed to a proactive policy to manage and reduce the environmental impact of its operations. This policy is implemented by the Quality Safety Environment departments of each business division and is supported by ISO 14001 management system certification covering the two main business activities in France. 17 MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MEASURES 2018 INDICATORS (FRANCE) TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT Raising environmental awareness among permanent and temporary employees; Measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions: 62% of permanent employees have joined the digital Selection of low-emission vehicles for the company car fleet, Reduction of travel: development of e-learning, use of conference calls. safe scheme and receive their pay slips in digital form Renewal of ISO 14001 certification Treatment and recycling of computer and office equipment at nationwide level; Measures to reduce paper consumption: digitisation of pay slips, contracts, etc.; Energy audits at agencies and head office. AIRPORT SERVICES AIRPORT SERVICES Raising employee awareness of measures to reduce the company’s carbon footprint; Measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions: optimisation of ground support equipment Reducing fuel consumption per passenger assisted: movements, purchasing of electric luggage conveyor belts and other equipment upon replacement; 12% (litres/passenger) Treatment of hazardous waste: maintenance operations on airport machinery and equipment generate waste and residue that are monitored and recycled; Hazardous waste: -18% (g/flight) Recycling: paper is recycled by a number of firms, including one disability-friendly company, transport agent uniforms are collected and recycled for use as building insulation material. 18 BUSINESS ETHICS POLICY Groupe CRIT strives to promote economic activity in keeping with its values and ethical principles. The Group seeks to uphold the values enshrined in the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) in all countries where it operates. 19 BUSINESS ETHICS MEASURES 2018 INDICATORS (FRANCE) TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT AND RECRUITMENT Raising employee awareness of the ethical principles espoused by the Group and circulating an Ethical Charter to all employees; 95% of employees informed on the Ethical Charter Revision of personal data management policies, awareness campaigns directed at employees, business 100% of employees informed on the personal data partners and prospects, appointment of an adviser to deal with all related questions; management policy Roll-out of a Supplier Procurement Charter; Establishment of a vigilance plan. AIRPORT SERVICES AIRPORT SERVICES Raising employee awareness of the ethical principles espoused by the Group and circulating an Ethical Charter to all employees; Gradual roll-out of the Ethical Charter at all subsidiaries Revision of personal data management policies and raising employee awareness of this issue. 20 RECOGNISED CSR POLICY For a number of years now, Groupe Since 2017 Groupe CRIT has been In 2019, the FAF.TT, an organisation CRIT has commissioned an annual included in the Gaïa Index, a socially that is helping the employment assessment of its non-financial responsible investment (SRI) mid-cap agencies to implement a CSR policy, performance by EcoVadis, the first index comprising French stocks organised the first year of the ever collaborative CSR assessment demonstrating a strong commitment “Intérim en action” CSR awards. platform. In 2018, CRIT was awarded to corporate social responsibility. The CRIT Lille agency obtained the GOLD certification. Public Award on this occasion. 21
