United Nation Global Compact 2019 Table of contents • CEO’s words • Efficy at a Glance • 10 Principles of the UNGC • Actions in 2018 CEO’s words As an active member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2012, we have embraced the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for Equality, Education and Sustainable economic growth. Additionally, we actively work for empowerment of women through the Business in IT program which helps the private sector promote gender equality in the workplace and community. We also support European socialization program for children like “Nez Rouges”, and “Viva for life”. These commitments align well with the UNGC’s purpose and our Efficy’s core values : We Care, Openness and Efficiency. Cédric Pierrard, CEO Efficy Group Efficy at a glance When we created Efficy in 2005, our goal was clear: to create the most flexible and scalable CRM software available on the market, one that would work for any type of business. Efficy CRM software has about 160.000 users, who enjoy its wide variety of uses such as document and invoicing management, sales and prospect followups, marketing and support modules, etc. Efficy CRM is now one of the most comprehensive CRM solutions on the market. Cédric Pierrard, CEO 10 Principles of UNGC Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Actions in 2018 • Employee well-being • Sharing information and strategy • The Corporate Event • Annual event for the Employee of all Europe in one nice place for a better mutual understanding, sharing corporate information and enjoying. • 2018 Corporate Event took place in Ibiza for 4 days… and night. • Regular CEO meeting with all the Employees • On a quarterly basis, the CEO shares the strategy, realizations and challenges of Efficy . • Working conditions • Coffee machine • Every workplace is now equipped with nice Jura machine and good coffee beans. • Comfortable working condition • As an IT company, most important for our Employees is the power of their laptop and the quality of their chair. Last generation Laptop are provided for newcomers and the chairs are chosen with attention by our CEO himself, regardless of the price. • Relaxing space for our employee • On our major localisations a specific « relaxation » space has been created, with a kitchen space, Ping-pong table, billiard, Baby-foot.. • Mobility • Efficy encourage Employee to work abroad, on one of the 8 European localizations of the Group. • On all 2018, 2 Employees from Efficy Belgium came every week to our French office • Training program • A web based Service has been deployed to allow a wide and professional training program – available for each Employee, known as Udemy. • Employee survey • An annual measurement of the Employee satisfaction, and a continuous improvement process to satisfy reasonable demands is one of our HR process. Actions in 2018 • Equality • Women in IT 2020 is an Efficy program that aims at promoting IT careers. • Efficy mobilizes its network and takes initiatives among young interns and students at universities or high schools in order to attract more women in the IT sector. • Today there is 23% of women in Efficy Group, quite an high percentage in our buisness • Environment • No Diesel in the company car purchase policy, and alternative mobility supported • No Paper program, now, even our archives are numerical only • As a cloud company we are using the datacentres of suppliers. One criteria to select those suppliers was their environmental policy and the technology they used ( as cold corridor) • Social Responsibility • Efficy is more widely an actor of the society and contribute to the local well-being, supporting two local initiatives for children – « Viva For Life » and « Nez Rouges »
