CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Doing business responsibly INTRODUCTION CSR 2019 ACTING IN A SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE WAY BENEFITS THE ENVIRONMENT, THE COMMUNITY, OUR SHAREHOLDERS, CUSTOMERS AND EMPLOYEES ALIKE. Being socially responsible benefits the environment, the community, our shareholders, customers and employees alike. We are therefore committed to carrying out business responsibly and we remain a committed signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. As part of this we continue to incorporate the Ten Principles of the UNGC into our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations as part of our ethical and responsible business practices. OUR PROGRESS THE HEADLINE SUMMARY PRINCIPLES 1-6: HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR PRINCIPLES 7-9: ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 10: ANTI-CORRUPTION Computacenter has a range of people-related polices, Protecting those who work for and with us, as well as We have continued with our zero-tolerance approach to covering topics such as dignity at work, health and customers and members of the public, is extremely bribery and corruption and ensure that we carry out our wellbeing, recognition and reward, and whistleblowing. important. The Group’s health and safety policy is to create business with a high level of integrity, no matter where or Together, they are designed to ensure that our people and maintain, as far as reasonably practicable, a working with whom we work. are supported, protected and suitably recognised for the environment which does not pose an undue risk to health contribution they make, and that we are an inclusive and and safety. Anti-bribery and corruption training is an integral part ethical employer, with a diverse, talented and motivated of our induction process across the Group and we have workforce. We support our wider communities by working with continued to develop the awareness of our external selected charities. Around the world, we continue to whistleblowing hotline, ensuring employees, contractors, We are committed to upholding internationally proclaimed support initiatives to raise money for local charities, as partners and suppliers know how they can report, in human rights. The human rights of our employees are well as supporting events and initiatives, proposed and run confidence any issues that concern them. covered by our people and health & safety policies. Human by our employees. rights in the supply chain primarily relate to the risk of modern slavery. We continue to work with a diverse set of suppliers and when selecting who we want to work with, Our aims in doing so have remained: we ensure that our terms of engagement are clear and To demonstrate our commitment to the wider that they support both our Group values and our wider communities corporate social responsibility objectives. To motivate staff, by encouraging teambuilding activities Mike Norris for a worthwhile cause; and Chief Executive Officer To communicate Computacenter’s core values to September 2019 customers, staff and other stakeholders OUR PROGRESS CSR 2019 OUR PROGRESS 2019 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS 1(a). Support and respect the internationally proclaimed human rights – Human Rights 2018 objectives and achievements  In our French business, we continued to raise awareness of sustainable development via our newsletter throughout the year  We published our 2018 Modern Slavery Statement in accordance with the requirements of Section 54 (Transparency in supply chains) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 for the period of 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.  Conducted a review our Group-wide Whistleblowing policy to ensure that it remains in line with best practice OUR PROGRESS CSR 2019 1(b). Support and respect the internationally proclaimed human rights – Health and Safety 2018 objectives and achievements In Germany;  R an ‘schools’ for employees at 12 offices in cooperation  One of our key measurements for Health and Safety  We successfully achieved the surveillance BS OHSAS with KKH remains the Accident Incident Rate (AIR), which is the 18001 audit;  Conducted annual health training for employees in number of accidents per 1,000 employees, and the  Continued the development of the EHS Management cooperation with the KKH Accident Frequency Rate (AFR), which is the number of System (aggregation of environmental, occupational  Offered the courses for work-life balance (web accidents per 100,000 working hours. health and safety management). seminars) at the family services tele academy, in  Average results for 2018:  Developed the “Health Circle” that has representatives addition the e-coaches “stress”, “movement” and “fit in from HR, the Disability Management team, disabled job” that were already available Country AIR AFR employees, the commissioner of employer and  Conducted the mandatory training “Health and Safety UK 2.47 0.46 representative of Health and Safety with the aim of at Work” Germany 2.99 0.62 increasing our awareness of conditions that may limit people’s activities and setup the right preventative 2019 objectives France 1.51 0.31 measures and proactivity in the workplace  To continue to implement Health and Safety procedures  We introduced training for leaders to deepen their in preparation for the Health and Safety Management  We continued with the implementation of Health knowledge of occupational safety and health System ISO 45001 (that is replacing the BR OHSAS 18 and Safety procedures in preparation for the Health protection to improve confidence in the perception of 001 standard) and Safety Management System ISO 45001 (that is leadership responsibility in this area  To deploy road safety awareness through virtual reality replacing the BR OHSAS 18 001 standard)  We conducted the ‘Mental Health’ web-based training experiments at the 3 main sites in France for all managers In the UK;  Continued with the rollout of the webinar for leaders  We introduced Health and Wellbeing champions across about dealing with severely disabled employees in their the business who are trained in Mental Health First Aid teams  Attended and promoted various wellbeing initiatives at  Launched an awareness program for employees that multiple internal business conferences focused on various campaigns on a quarterly base  Launched our UK Wellbeing policy  Ensured that we had healthy options available at  Carried out multiple training sessions for employees so fair-stands and events for business meetings with they are confident in delivering CPR the KKH (Kaufmännische Krankenkasse) and pme  Continued with our work towards achieving the Safe, Familienservice Effective, Quality Occupational Health Service (SEQOHS) external accreditation standards for our in-house occupational health service OUR PROGRESS CSR 2019 PRINCIPLE 2: MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES 2018 objectives and achievements 2019 objectives  We continued to develop our supplier assessment processes by using our questionnaire across UK, France and Germany;  To continue to develop our supplier assessment  We published our 2018 Modern Slavery Statement in accordance with the requirements of Section 54 (Transparency in processes in relation to human rights supply chains) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 for the period of 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018;  To review and continue to develop our Supplier Terms  Conducted a review of our Group-wide Whistleblowing policy to ensure that it remains in line with best practice & Conditions with reference to the Modern Slavery Act. LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITIONS OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2018 objectives and achievements 2019 objectives  We continued with the positive interaction between the Group and the employee Works Councils in Germany, France and  Continue with the positive interaction between the Belgium; Group and employees in all locations that have Works  Elected a new Works Council in Germany; Councils and Trade Union recognition;  Continued with the positive work with our European Works Council throughout the year. A key example of this was our Senior Independent Director meeting with our EWC employee representatives. OUR PROGRESS CSR 2019 PRINCIPLE 4: THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR 2018 objectives and achievements 2019 objectives  Continued to use the supplier questionnaire with questions regarding the human rights and labour standards across  To continue to use the supplier questionnaire across UK, UK, Germany, France and Belgium; Germany, France and Belgium;  As a family friendly and fair employer, particularly in the area of training, Computacenter in Germany has received  To review and continue to develop our Supplier Terms & several awards: Conditions with reference to the Modern Slavery Act. • Trendence Trainee Award (https://www.trendence.com/produkte) from Trendence und Absolventa  To continue to be recognised as a fair employer in • Initiative „MINT Minded Company“ (https://www.mint-minded-company.de/) from “audimax MEDIEN GmbH” together Germany with “MINT Zukunft schaffen” • Women Career Index (https://frauen-karriere-index.de/) PRINCIPLE 5: THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR 2018 objectives and achievements  In France, we continued to maintain the level of charitable fundraising and worked to fulfil the terms of the agreement signed with Aide et Action (not realised-standby in 2017) OUR PROGRESS CSR 2019 PRINCIPLE 6: THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION 2018 objectives and achievements  We continued with our work towards reducing the life – support ranges from child care and a back-up  We have continued to focus on diversity and inclusion pay gap between men and women for every sociokindergarten, through to a consulting service in the across the Group. professional category and maintain reporting duties on event of conflict at work and also the provision of a 24 The People Panel have continued with the work they this to the French Works Council and Unions; hour hotline for individuals to discuss any personal or began in 2017 on championing diversity and inclusion.  We achieved the target of 3.5% of employees being over professional issue that they wish) In particular; raising awareness of collaboration, joining 50 when recruiting in accordance with our agreement  We continued our activities around the initiative up key initiatives and giving people the confidence to with the Unions; “women@work”. This initiative focuses increasingly identify things that are undesirable.  Promoted our French Diversity Charter that on the compatibility of work and family as well as the demonstrates our commitment to diversity and nonequality and advancement of women. The aim is to In the UK; discrimination. increase the proportion of women in Computacenter’s  We published our second report under the UK Equality  We continued to implement our commitments in core business and in management; specific targets Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap information Regulations) accordance with the agreement signed with Unions to were agreed with the management in 2018, and these 2017 make sure that we meet our obligations in diversity with are to be implemented from 2019.  We signed up as a Disability Confident Committed recruitment and skills development for those under 26  We continued the “women@work development company and those over 50 including the transfer of skills and program”, which also successfully developed female  We continued and strengthened the progression of our knowledge between groups; employees into their first management positions in Future Talent work  We committed to continue to improve the diversity split 2018. of men/women at the staff representative level  We carried out as part of our “women@work” In France;  We completed training for those involved in recruitment programme several internal and external recruiting  We continued to raise awareness of sustainable on non-discrimination in line with our legal obligations. and networking events, including guest lectures in our development through newsletters during the year;  We signed the partnership with the GESAT network offices, and identified “role models” for communication.  To continue to participate in recruitment fairs dedicated in relation to equality of opportunity for disabled  Supported various initiatives and programs aimed at to disability; employees. supporting pupils with IT and promoting young talents.  We continued with our work towards improving the For example; ratio of female to male employees within the company, In Germany o Erlebe IT (www.erlebe-it.de/): The school initiative of in line with the agreement in place with the Unions. In  We continued with the provision of online training Bitkom brings together young talents, professional July 2018, the ratio was 25% female and 75% male. relating to the General Equal Treatment Act for German orientation and media competence. Colleagues from This includes making sure that we are driving this employees. Computacenter train young people in the competent forward across all levels within the company, including  We continued with the provision of the ‘Family Service’ handling of digital media. At the same time, they give representation in management team, professional offerings and extended it with a special hotline for impressions about the vocational possibilities in the salary categories and training until we meet our target leaders (with the ‘Family Service’ Computacenter IT branch. ratio. supports its employees in almost all aspects of OUR PROGRESS CSR 2019 o Girls’ Day (www.girls-day.de): On this day, young recruitment and retention In Germany; women and girls should get to know professions in  Improve our communication of our D&I activities to  To continue with the ‘Family Service’ offering. technical and sciences-oriented areas. increase understanding and raise awareness of key  To continue with the “women@work Development o IHK Ausbildungsbotschafter (www.ihk-koeln.de/ activities Program“. Ausbildungsbotschafter): Apprentices are sent to  Extend the scope of the previous women@work schools and inform pupils about their vocational In the UK; initiative to Diversity & Inclusion, while maintaining the training, everyday work and career opportunities.  Maintain our status as a disability confident employer focus on gender diversity.  We concluded an inclusion agreement with severely  Continued to deliver and grow the Growing Together  Creation of a dedicated position to support D&I issues disabled representatives and the general works Programme, which focuses on supporting women in to and a “People Panel Germany” is to be set up with council in which existing regulations for the integration leadership roles representatives from the various divisions. of severely disabled and able-bodied people were  Continue to grow our ambassador programme, which  To sign the Diversity Charteran employer initiative to summarised. At the same time, with this agreement we connects us with local schools and colleges and allows promote diversity in companies and institutions. This have set ourselves new goals to continually improve us to encourage more diversity within the sector will give the company a clear commitment to D&I issues the equal participation of severely disabled and able Continue to deliver and grow our future talent both internally and externally. bodied people in working life by shaping work processes programmes  To establish different communication measures around and framework conditions.  Launch new staff networks focused around our 6 “women@work” and Diversity & Inclusion for employees, pillars of D&I to allow staff to network, share advice and management and external target groups. 2019 Objectives support as well as providing feedback on  Launch of the new Computacenter Diversity & Inclusion  Begin preparations to launch a new UK people panel approach summarising our commitments and to allow us to deliver focused D&I activities for the UK objectives context aligned to the group objectives  Expansion of the People Panel to include both national and group panels, allowing us to deliver group In France; objectives within the local context  To implement a charter on the right to disconnect  Review our recruitment process to improve accessibility  To sign a company agreement on quality of life at work and reduce risk of bias  Develop the ‘Quality of Life’ at work  Launch of a cross-group HR D&I project team and a  Develop Teleworking provisions health and wellbeing project team  To obtain a score of 87/100 to the Legal Index on Gender  Inclusive decision-making training rolled out to senior Equality for the year 2018 leadership  Begin regular D&I reporting including diversity OUR PROGRESS CSR 2019 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES 2018 objectives and achievements 2019 objectives In France: In France:  We reviewed our environmental key performance indicators and continue to track our performance against these;  To continue to review and track our performance  We develop the EHS Management System (aggregation of environmental, occupational health and safety management) in order against our environmental key performance indicators; to achieve certification against this in 2019  Success achieve certification of the surveillance audit of ISO 14 001:2015 In the UK;  Continue to develop the EHS Management System  We successfully re-certified against the quality and environmental management system (ISO 9001:2015 and 14001:2015) (aggregation of environmental, occupational health  We upgraded our Manchester Datacenter air con, UPS and other plant to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 1million kWh per and safety management) year In Germany;  We successfully achieved certification for the surveillance audit ISO 14001:2015;  We revised and improved the environment dashboard and key figures system;  Improved the integration of the environmental indicators and aspects of our suppliers in our own environment review.  During the planning and construction of the new Integration Center and German headquarters in Kerpen, we ensured that we were guided by current environmental standards and subsequently are implementing further measures to protect the environment. Examples of this include the planting of an additional 125 trees, installation of LED outdoor lighting, charging stations for electric cars and bicycles, using solar energy to heat water, the use of green electricity through our supplier and the installation of wet biotopes for protected toad species OUR PROGRESS CSR 2019 PRINCIPLE 8: UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY INVOLVEMENT IN THE COMMUNITY 2018 objectives and achievements • IHK Ausbildungsbotschafter (www.ihk-koeln.de/ In Germany; In France; Ausbildungsbotschafter): Apprentices are sent to  Ongoing blood donation campaigns and participation in  We continued with our support for the Moroccan schools and inform pupils about their vocational charity runs populations isolated in the desert through association training, everyday work and career opportunities.  Ongoing support of various initiatives, programs and with the “children of the desert” which supports access • Nacht der Technik (https://rhein-erft.nacht-derevents aimed at supporting pupils in their dealings with to education for these children. technik.de/): Computacenter opened its doors IT and promoting young talents together with other companies in the region to give In Germany; interested visitors an impression of who we are and In Spain,  We continued with ongoing blood donation campaigns. what we do.  we continued to work with our charity partner Acnur  Participated in various charity events including the Comite Catala per als refugiats, a local branch of United Cologne Corporate Run, IKK BB Berliner Firmenlauf and In the UK; Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNCHR). J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge Frankfurt. In addition,  We continued our involvement and support through Computacenter is the main Sponsor of the “Martinslauf” charity events of our employee elected charity partners; (Martin’s Run) at Kerpen; the entry fee was completely Dementia UK, British Heart Foundation and Make a Wish donated to a charity institution (Wir für Päz e. V.). Foundation.  Supported various initiatives, programs and events  We continued to offer a Give as You Earn scheme, aimed at helping pupils with IT and promoting young through which employees can make monthly talents. For example; contributions to any UK charity of their choice through • Erlebe IT (www.erlebe-it.de/): The school initiative of automatic deduction from their salaries Bitkom brings together young talents, professional  We continued to support and encourage many charity orientation and media competence. Colleagues train initiatives proposed and run by employees young people in the competent handling of digital  To continue with the progression of our education media. outreach programmes with schools, colleges and • Girls’ Day (www.girls-day.de): On this day, young universities. women and girls should get to know professions in technical and science-oriented areas. OUR PROGRESS CSR 2019 PRINCIPLE 9: ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES 2018 objectives and achievements implementing further measures to protect the a surface area of 10,324m2 and will enable us to  To continue to monitor the level of carbon dioxide environment. Examples of this include the installation generate 1.9 million kWh of electricity each year, emissions across the Group, and where possible to of LED outdoor lighting, charging stations for electric equivalent to 22 per cent of the Operation Center’s reduce these. cars and bicycles, using solar energy to heat water, and annual usage. This will reduce our CO2 emissions by  Data center team were targeted to reduce energy the use of green electricity through our supplier. more than 1.1 million kg a year. consumption by 5%  During the planning and construction of the new 2019 Objectives Integration Center and German headquarters in  To install a photovoltaic system on the roof of our Kerpen, we ensured that we were guided by current Operations Center in Hatfield. The system will have environmental standards and subsequently are ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTIONS IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY 2018 objectives and achievements 2019 objectives  We conducted a review our Group-wide Whistleblowing  To launch a new Group-wide compliance management system that covers nine compliance policy to ensure that it remains in line with best areas. The areas will be qualified on the basis of 10 pillars of compliance, including training practice and communication. A quarterly risk report will ensure that the compliance risks and measures of each area will be compiled into a central risk register that will be shared with In Germany the current Compliance Steering Committee to identify potential risks and will monitor  We launched our Compliance Knowledge Portal which performance in these areas; contains a vast library of information about Compliance  To appoint a Group Compliance Manager will be appointed for the Group-wide administration and Compliance-related topics. The information stored of the CMS who will report into the Company Executive; was also available in the UK;  Launch of a Group-wide compliance portal with information from the 9 compliance areas  Launch of a new Compliance Help Card that provides and Group-wide compliance guidelines and information; an overview of compliance and provides the employees  Development and launch of a new Group-wide Compliance Help Card and Golden Rules for with relevant contact details; compliance will be created About Computacenter Computacenter is a leading independent technology partner, trusted by large corporate and public sector organisations. We help our customers to source, transform and manage their IT infrastructure Computacenter (UK) Ltd to deliver digital transformation, enabling users and their business. Hatfield Avenue, Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL10 9TW, United Kingdom Computacenter is a public company quoted on the London FTSE 250 (CCC.L) and employs over 15,000 people worldwide. computacenter.com +44 (0)1707 631000
