Creating value by using our financial expertise to do good United Nations Global Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 CONTENTS 1 Letter from our Chief Executive 2 Overview of Nedbank Group 4 Reflections from our Chairman 6 Our value-creating business model 8 Our purpose, vision, brand and values 10 Reflections from our Chief Executive 14 Risk and opportunities in our operating environment 23 Our strategic focus areas 32 Recognition and ratings 33 Value for stakeholders 46 Ten-year review 56 Global Reporting Initiative standards index IBC Contact details LETTER FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE Nedbank Group – continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact As Chief Executive of Nedbank Group, I reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the 10 principles that underpin it. In addition, as a Group, we remain a signatory to the Equator Principles and the CEO Water Mandate and we continue to support the UNEP FI Positive Impact Working Group. These commitments, along with deliberate focus on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), form an important part of our overall strategy as we align our core business to deliver on our purpose – to use our financial expertise for the good of individuals, families, businesses and society. The SDGs represent a powerful lens to identify opportunities for business innovation and growth, and they define the ‘good’ in our purpose. As such, in 2018 we continued to reorient our strategic approach to focus on the most material SDG targets through our three main points of leverage – Products and Services: Sustainable Development Finance, Operations and Corporate Social Investment. We are proud to support the work undertaken by the UNGC, cognisant of the important role that the private sector plays in this. Yours sincerely Mike Brown Chief Executive Officer 31 March 2019 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 1 NEDBANK GROUP AT A GLANCE OVERVIEW OF NEDBANK GROUP Assets (Rbn) Nedbank Group is one of the largest financial services groups in Africa, offering wholesale and retail banking services as well as insurance, asset management and wealth management. In SA we have a strong franchise evidenced by a 19% deposit and 18% advances market share. Outside SA we operate in six countries in SADC, through subsidiaries and banks in Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, 809 1 044 Namibia, Eswatini (Swaziland) and Zimbabwe. In 2014 2018 Central and West Africa we have a strategic alliance with ETI in the region and we have representative offices in Angola and Kenya. Deposits Assets (Rbn) Outside Africa we have a presence in key global financial(Rbn) centres to provide international financial services for SAand Africa-based multinational and high-net-worth clients in Guernsey, Isle of Man, Jersey and London, and we have a representative office in Dubai. Total assets above R1 trillion for the first time, in 2018 653 826 Headline earnings R13,5bn 809 1 044 2014 2018 2014 2018 Strong capital ratios: CET1 capital ratio 11,7% Market capitalisation R136bn at 31 December 2018 Deposits Total retail clients Assets (Rbn) (million) (Rbn) 19,9%  ld Mutual strategic ownership O (after unbundling of Nedbank Group ordinary shares to OML’s shareholders on 15 October 2018) Employees 31 277  ne of SA’s most transformed banks – level 1 BBBEE O contributor status (Amended FSC) 653 826 I ncluded in the Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging 809 1 044 7,1 7,9 2014 2018 2014 2018 Markets Index since 2004 2014 2018 Assets under Assets Deposits Total retail clients management (Rbn) (Rbn) (million) (Rbn) 809 1 044 653 826 7,1 7,9 212 297 2014 2018 2014 2018 2014 2018 2014 2018 2 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Deposits Assets under Total retail clients 2 NEDBANK GROUP AT A GLANCE What differentiates Nedbank? We are a purpose-led business. Our unique corporate culture and progress towards being more client-centred and innovative Good governance Experienced management teams Leadership positions in renewable-energy finance, corporate and commercial property lending, retail vehicle finance, card acquiring, digital product ratings, asset management and wealth management Managed Evolution and Digital Fast Lane (our IT strategies) position Nedbank to be more digital, agile and competitive Strong and sustainable growth of main-banked client market share representing an ongoing opportunity for revenue growth Assets by geographical Selective origination and good risk management area (ZAR) enabling the delivery of a CLR that is the lowest in the industry Prudent management of our expenses over time and an opportunity to continue to lower our efficiency ratio Strong position as a bank that is committed to doing business in a manner that positively builds society at large Retail vs wholesale advances Assetsbyby Assets geographical area geographical (%) area (%) (ZAR) Advances (%) 3 7 A wholesale-biased Access to the Well positioned 41 business model largest banking to benefit from compared with network in Africa a recovery in R736bn those of peer banks through our own R1 044bn SA economic positions us well operations in SADC growth. to benefit from an and our strategic increase in business alliance with ETI in confidence and 39 countries. 59 90 economic growth. Wholesale South Africa Retail International RoA Advances Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 (%) 3 REFLECTIONS FROM OUR CHAIRMAN As a purpose-led and values-driven bank, we play a critical role in society to safeguard depositors’ money and transform the country’s savings into investment opportunities and productive consumption, thereby facilitating economic growth and jobs and wealth creation. This is a key responsibility and one we do not take lightly. It was an eventful start to 2018 with former President Jacob Purpose-led business Zuma’s exit and Cyril Ramaphosa being ushered in as the new The lack of confidence in governance in SA has undermined President of South Africa. With this change came big the investment case for the country. The correlation between expectations for President Ramaphosa and his Cabinet to investment and sound governance is clear – you cannot have address nine years of slow decline in economic growth, rebuild one without the other. Furthermore, without substantial new trust in a nation reeling from ‘state capture’, restore confidence investment in our economy, we will not achieve the inclusive in our public institutions, root out corruption, reverse the economic growth needed to address the country’s three most systemic erosion of state-owned enterprises, improve the important challenges: unemployment, poverty and inequality. country’s fiscal position and create jobs. As a purpose-led and values-driven bank, we play a critical role The global political and macroeconomic environment is in society to safeguard depositors’ money and transform the complex and volatile, with risks to growth rising and pressure country’s savings into investment opportunities and productive on emerging markets. In SA we are operating in a mild-stress consumption, thereby facilitating economic growth as well as economic environment, and the sense of confidence the job and wealth creation. This is a key responsibility and one we country experienced in the first half of 2018 has faded as policy do not take lightly. If we falter, we lose our social licence to uncertainty and recessionary-type conditions prevail. operate. We could lose our banking licence, but more importantly, we could lose the trust and confidence of our In 2018 we saw an increase in VAT in SA, recurrent fuel hikes, stakeholders, including that of depositholders. land expropriation debates, and a low-growth economy. The announcement of the Stimulus Plan in September, the To be sustainable over the long term we need a clear reason successful Investment Conference and Jobs Summit in for our existence, and we have articulated this in our purpose October, along with the Medium Term Budget Policy statement – to use our financial expertise to do good for Statement and 2019 Budget, saw a shift in tone from individuals, families, businesses and society. government on how it intends rebuilding the economy. But much still needs to be done to convince ratings agencies that The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) represent a the execution and investment plans will lead to a sustained common set of measurement criteria for ‘doing good’ or increase in GDP growth. improving the state of society and the world, and were chosen to measure the delivery of ‘doing good’ as set out in our The reality is we are still at the early stages of a political and purpose statement. institutional turnaround – the Nugent, Zondo and other commissions are a difficult but necessary part of this to I do believe that we need more ‘purpose-led’ organisations. restore trust and the rule of law that is a foundation for any We need boards to think about how they can make their progress. There is still a lot of much harder work ahead to organisations and related governance structures more resolve strategic, operational and funding challenges at SOEs, responsive to the broader societal and environmental context. particularly at Eskom, which in the context of the South African economy is a monopoly that is too big to fail. The ‘do good’ is not defined in the narrow form of philanthropy, but rather in the philosophy of doing business responsibly, which Growth on the African continent has shown a positive means doing business ethically based on a trust relationship trajectory, but it remains a challenging environment to with stakeholders. Trust is created by having a sound strategy navigate. The continued instability in Zimbabwe, for example, and business offering, promoted through ethical leadership and takes place against a backdrop of worsening economic a commonly accepted and lived set of values, demonstrated hardship for that country and indeed the region. We remain through behaviour that in turn leads to effective and enabling hopeful about a recovery in Zimbabwe. governance, risk and compliance. As much as the forecasts speak to higher growth in Africa and Having the appropriate governance mechanisms and pillars a recovery in commodity prices adds to macroeconomic that support ethical behaviour are foremost in our business. stability on the continent, they are insufficient to deal with the Nedbank has played and continues to play a leading role in the structural issues that exist. Strengthening governance and proactive engagement between government, labour and the institutional frameworks will go a long way in addressing the private sector. We were one of the founding members of the crisis of confidence we currently face. CEO Initiative in SA, which supports government with several 4 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 interventions to address the most urgent problems in our ahead as a truly independent company. The unbundling has led economy. to a far more diverse emerging-market shareholding profile for Nedbank and a much larger free float including higher levels of We realise that businesses must participate in matters of shares available to trade. These bode well for both existing and national significance, and in this regard Nedbank was the only new shareholders. bank to make its own submission to the Constitutional Review Committee in Parliament looking into land expropriation Culture of transparency and accountability without compensation. Governance within Nedbank Group implies far more than compliance with relevant legislation and best-practice I am also proud that Nedbank supported the legacy of Madiba principles. Rather, it involves a deep-rooted culture of by sponsoring the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. accountability, transparency, respect, efficiency, ethical thought I strongly believe that businesses that understand that they and action, and a values-driven approach to everything we do. are truly part of helping to improve society and not merely part The board continues to fulfil the primary governing roles and of some separate financial universe, will increasingly be responsibilities encapsulated in King IV™. differentiated in the eyes of staff, clients and stakeholders and, as a result, will grow faster than their peers. As the Chairman of a ‘purpose-led’ organisation, the board and I try to ensure that our governance structures are more If we are to continue building a truly sustainable business, we responsive to the broader environmental context, as this is must do good for our clients. This means we must use our skills important if we are to truly deliver on our purpose of ‘doing and expertise to ensure great client experiences every time good’ for our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and society. they engage with us. The power has shifted; we need to listen to our clients and respond to their needs and expectations State capture may have broken the trust between social perhaps before they even know how to articulate them. partners in SA and undermined our confidence in one another. But now we must find a way to work together, because the I am pleased that Nedbank has for the first time achieved a challenges before us are too great for business, government or level 1 BBBEE contributor status for the full year 2018 under labour to deal with on its own. To work together productively, the Amended Financial Sector Code. This is a result of our difficult decisions will have to be made, and success is going to ongoing commitment to sustainable transformation. require that all of us deliver on our promises – big and small – to build trust and confidence. Digital world without boundaries As the Fourth Industrial Revolution dawns on us, bringing Appreciation innovation and disruption, we have initiated projects through We are the sum of our parts and our strength lies in our our Managed Evolution (ME) and Digital Fast Lane (DFL) diversity. Without the 31 277 employees who are committed to capabilities that will improve our response to digitisation and our 7,9 million clients, the bank does not exist. Thank you to our position us in the growing online environment. Chief Executive, Mike Brown, and the executive team for their ongoing support and commitment to delivering on our The emergence of new players in the financial services industry purpose. has created a new digital world that can almost be described as one with no boundaries. Non-traditional players are Thank you to my fellow boardmembers for your support, and a increasingly exploring new opportunities, enabling them to special word of appreciation to Nomavuso Mnxasana, Bruce challenge incumbents and continually change the state of Hemphill and Ian Gladman who stepped off the board last year. financial services in SA. For traditional banks this changing We welcome Peter Moyo from Old Mutual Limited to the board, landscape presents challenging, but exciting, opportunities and I am looking forward to working with him. that must be matched with accelerated interventions for grooming leaders who will lead through innovation and In accordance with the Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation, technology to disrupt the market. KPMG will rotate off the Nedbank Group on conclusion of its audit responsibilities for the year ended 31 December 2018. The digitisation of an organisation does not happen overnight On behalf of the board, we thank KPMG and their staff for – the intricate interdependencies between people, processes, their valuable contribution to Nedbank as they served as our technology and data must be considered carefully. The scale, external auditors for many years. We look forward to working scope, and complexity of the technological revolution are going with Ernst & Young (EY). to change the way we live, learn and work, as well as how these relate to each other. To facilitate this transition we know This year we will also have our general elections, and we will that to remain relevant we cannot approach the shift in look to the newly elected government to provide leadership and isolation. Our response must be integrated and comprehensive, much-needed clarity on policy, including a clear plan to address involving all our stakeholders. sustainable land reform, defend the independence of SARB and address crippling state-owned entities. It may seem to be a Two independently managed companies long road ahead, but I am positive that we can attract new investment to ensure inclusive growth to address We officially completed the managed-separation process with unemployment, poverty and inequality. Old Mutual in 2018, a momentous occasion in Nedbank’s history. The process, as predicted, did not affect staff, clients, the group’s strategy or the daily operations at Nedbank. The managed separation will allow the two independently governed and managed companies – Nedbank and Old Mutual Vassi Naidoo Limited – to focus on their respective strategic goals and Chairman operate more effectively to the benefit of shareholders, staff, clients and society. We are excited about Nedbank’s journey Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 5 OUR VALUE-CREATING BUSINESS MODEL USING OUR FINANCIAL EXPERTISE ... Risks and OUR opportunities in our CAPITALS ... operating environment SA macroeconomic Inputs environment Financial Disruptive technologies and increased competition R91bn equity Demands on governance, R826bn deposits Strategic regulation and risk management focus areas Intellectual Transformation of society Delivering within environmental Ninth most valuable SA brand innovative A leader in wholesale banking, market-leading constraints commercial-property finance, vehicle client experiences finance, banking apps, and asset and wealth management Managed Evolution and Digital Growing our STRONG GOVERNANCE Fast Lane IT capabilities transactional banking OVERSIGHT Strategic partnerships with Old Mutual Limited, ETI, Bank of China franchise faster than the market and Deutsche Bank Nedbank is committed to the highest standards of governance, ethics and Human Being integrity. operationally 31 277 employees excellent in all We embrace worldclass banking practices Clientand people-centred culture we do and robust institutional frameworks to Strong compliance and ensure our banking services are secure and governance culture Managing stable. scarce resources Manufactured to optimise Our board is diverse in demographics, skills economic 114 core IT systems outcomes and experience and 69% of the directors are 363 digitally focused outlets independent non-executive directors. 4 242 ATMs and 702 outlets Providing our Market-leading digital services clients with and CVPs access to the best financial Managing growth services network Social and relationships opportunities vs volatility in in Africa the rest of Africa 7,9 million clients One of SA’s most transformed banks Read more about Requirements for scarce and Leader in sustainability our strategic focus evolving skills areas on pages 23 to 31. Leader in social responsibility Changing relationships between business, Natural government, labour and civil society 19 Green Star ratings across 10 buildings  arbon-neutral operations and effectively C Read more about these material net-zero operational water usage matters on pages 14 to 22. Leader in renewable-energy financing 2 800 deals/clients through our Social and Environmental Management System Delivering financial outcomes for Nedbank in 2018 NII Credit impairments charges NIR ▲ 7,9% Associate income ▲ 4,3% to R28,8bn ▲ 11,6% to R3,7bn to R26bn ▼ > 100% to R528m 6 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 ... TO DO GOOD FOR INDIVIDUALS, FAMILIES, BUSINESSES AND SOCIETY ENABLE VALUE-ADDING CREATE VALUE FOR OUR ACTIVITIES THAT ... STAKEHOLDERS Outputs WHILE MANAGING Outcomes  rovide savings and P KEY RISKS investment products Staff Credit risk R  13,4bn in salaries and benefits 4,7% ▼ E  xtend credit to our clients R468m invested in training 31,8% CLR below 60–100 bps ▼ through responsible lending target range: 53 bps 77,4% black staff practices 61,8% female representation Market risk Provide lending that is R1,5bn NII sensitivity for a Clients aligned to the SDGs 100 bps change in interest  181bn new loans advanced R ▼ 18,3% G  enerate deposit yields and rates over a 12-month 22,1bn transactions processed ▼ 15,7% interest income earned on period Convenience – application systems uptime amounts advanced at 99,2% Trading value at risk R29,3m Exciting new digital innovations F  acilitate payments and transactions Balance sheet risk Top-tier asset management performance LCR > 2018 minimum of Shareholders Provide advice-based 90%: 109% (Q4 2018 services Share price▼ 7,3%, total shareholder average) return of 12,6% M  anage, protect and grow Full-year dividend 10,1% to 1 415 cps NSFR > 100% SARB ▼ wealth through insurance, > 91% voting outcome for all resolutions requirement: 114% asset and wealth at 51st AGM management solutions CET1 within target range 10,5–12,5%: 11,7% Regulators O  ffer global market-related services Compliance with all regulatory C-suite of risks requirements G  enerate returns on our Increased focus on client, Smooth IFRS 9 implementation strategic investment in ETI competitor, change, cyber-,  10,3bn direct and indirect tax R cryptocurrency, conduct, contributions R  eward performance and culture, crime and invest in attracting, compliance risks Society developing and retaining our people Our top three risks R124m socioeconomic spend Disbursed R22,8bn (2017: R18,4bn) Strategic and execution Maintain, optimise and renewable-energy deals adding a further risks invest in our operations, 3 517 MW to the national grid once plants including technology, Cyberrisk are constructed marketing and infrastructure 1 75 000 adults and learners benefited Business risk from consumer education programmes  ay taxes in the jurisdictions P Contribution to water security in which we operate Positive impact through our lending and Read more about our risks operations on pages 58 and 59 of the 2019 Integrated Report.  evel 1 BBBEE contributor status L (Amended FSC) 9,6% HE ▼ 14,5% to R13,5bn Expenses ▼ 6,1% Taxes ▼ Other equity holders ROE excl goodwill ▼ 17,9% to R31,6bn to R5,8bn ▼ 11,9% to R759m Cost-to-income ratio ▼ 57,2% Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 7 BEING POSITIONED FOR VALUE CREATION OUR PURPOSE, VISION, BRAND AND VALUES Our purpose To use our financial expertise to do good for individuals, families, businesses and society. Our vision To be the most admired financial services provider in Africa by our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and society. Our brand promise – see money differently Nedbank Sustainable Development Framework ‘For Nedbank to be sustainable over the long term we need to have a clear reason for our existence – a “North Star” that demonstrates what we do vestment (CS to help society to develop and grow, thereby helping enable better lives for ial In I) oc all. This is our purpose – it is why we have been building and growing Nedbank since its origins in 1834. Corpo rat eS le Developmen ‘Doing good is easy to say but harder to measure, and inab tF usta ina what gets measured gets done. The SDGs represent a S nce single common set of measurement criteria for “doing good” or improving the state of our economy and society. This power of common measurement and aggregation is why we chose the SDGs to measure the ions rat ta l delivery of “doing good” as set out in pe en es O our purpose statement.’ nm g ro en vi all En ch e siv h clu t In row g Mike Brown Chief Executive Our values Integrity Respect Accountability People-centred Client-driven Being honest, Recognising the Being prepared to Investing in our Creating value and trustworthy, inherent worth of take ownership of people and creating delightful consistent and every individual and and be held an environment that experiences for our transparent in all our treating everyone accountable for our empowers our clients that exceed actions and decisions. with dignity. commitments and people to perform their expectations. actions. distinctively and to excel. 8 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 33 I am responsible for Nedbank’s delivery of ... SDG 4: Quality SDG 6: Clean Water and SDG 7: Affordable and SDG 8: Decent Work Education Sanitation Clean Energy and Economic Growth ‘Education is one of the ‘We recognise the ‘We have an ‘Nedbank most important human right to clean obligation and the cannot be investments a country water and will to play our role successful if the can make in its future sanitation, yet in growing the societies in and its people. It millions of people removes barriers in the economy in a which it across the African manner that reduces levels of operates are not successful. economy by allowing for greater continent still do not have access equality of opportunity, thereby poverty and inequality while Poverty and inequality to these. Without sufficient clean driving sustainable development continue to be key challenges opening up access to a better life for water, economies cannot function. all. Nedbank’s role in contributing to and job creation. The efficient to overcome across the this includes the professional SA and many of the countries in use of affordable, reliable and continent. We must focus on development of our staff, the which we operate are not only waterscarce countries, but have sustainable energy is paramount creating new jobs in labourprovision of learnership and graduate to achieving these objectives. intensive sectors that will programmes and our educationpoor water infrastructure too. The focused CSI investments. In addition, role of the bank is therefore to play Therefore Nedbank is stimulate the economy to we will continue to explore a meaningful role committed to developing grow in a sustainable new financing solutions to in addressing water and integrated, sustainable and inclusive complement our existing sanitation issues energy solutions that manner.’ student loan offerings and primarily through funding span from utility scale investments in student solutions.’ to household level.’ accommodation.’ Anna Isaac Raisibe Morathi Mike Davis Priya Naidoo SDG 9: Industry, Innovation Delivering on our purpose will require the considered development and delivery of and Infrastructure products and services that satisfy unmet societal needs, enabling a thriving society, ‘Investing in creating long-term value, maintaining trust and ensuring the success of our brand. infrastructure, industrialisation and The UN SDGs provide for a universal agreement on the economic, social and environmental priorities to be innovation can be a met by 2030. They represent a powerful lens to identify opportunities for business innovation and growth, strong catalyst of and an objective mechanism through which Nedbank can assess and report delivery on our purpose. Thus, sustainable economic growth and we focus on the most material goals and targets through our three main points of leverage: Products and development. As such, Nedbank is Services: Sustainable Development Finance; Operations; and CSI. committed to unlocking new Following a robust proprietary materiality exercise of the 17 SDGs, we have prioritised nine goals that we funding solutions for infrastructure believe represent a combination of the biggest impact for society, delivery on client needs and exciting opportunities such as mass transit, opportunities for Nedbank to develop innovative banking products and services. These nine goals are road and rail corridors, water reflected in the Nedbank Sustainable Development Framework under Sustainable Development Finance. treatment plants, information and In 2018 we allocated those nine goals to nine group executives, who will own and drive Nedbank’s communication groupwide response to their respective SDG. By doing so, the profile of sustainable development is technologies, as elevated to the right level in the organisation. This will improve the alignment of purpose with culture, well as affordable strategy, and brand, and drive the innovation effort that will be required to capture winning positions in housing, schools new markets highlighted by the SDGs. and hospitals.’ Our Sustainable Development Review details 2018 activities within the nine priority SDGs as well as where Brian our operations and CSI activities help to support some of the other SDGs. Kennedy SDG 15: Life SDG 12: Responsible SDG 11: Sustainable Cities SDG 10: Reduced on Land Consumption and Production and Communities Inequalities ‘Land is both the ‘As individuals and ‘Cities are melting ‘Inequality origin and sustenance consumers we pots in which the undermines trust, of life. It provides have the gift of interplay between which is a habitats for millions being able to make physical constraints precondition for of people and animal choices, and this and human needs long-term economic species, is the source of our food gift gives us great responsibility. works itself out daily. With success. Reducing inequality is supply, clean air and water, and is We know that as a bank, 3,5 billion people already living in especially important in the crucial for combating climate Nedbank is not directly involved cities worldwide, the success of African context because of the change. Given our history of division in the production of physical our future economies will depend long history of disparity on much and strife, land, and its use, is an goods but many of our clients on sustainable development of our continent. Therefore we emotive subject in SA and in many are. As such, we can be a solutions being found within the need to practice what we preach other places on the African powerful catalyst for positive built environment. Banks can play by promoting fairness and continent. Nedbank is therefore change and transformation, by a vital role in this. While lending in equality, not only in the day-tocommitted to using finance, where using finance to support and the residential sector underpins day running of our business, but possible, to address the imperatives enable more responsible and powerful change, investment in also through the products we of SDG 15 in a manner that is sustainable ways of producing safe and sustainable transport design and market. In so doing, relevant and responsive to and consuming solutions, as well as we will begin to reverse domestic requirements.’ goods.’ resilient building the growing divide.’ technologies, is equally as important.’ Mfundo Khensani Ciko Iolanda Nkuhlu Nobanda Thomas Ruggiero Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 9 CREATING VALUE IN A SUSTAINABLE MANNER THROUGH OUR STRATEGY REFLECTIONS FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE 2018 was year of achievement across a broad front. I am pleased to report to our shareholders and stakeholders that, in addition to the seamless conclusion of the managed-separation process from Old Mutual, Nedbank Group delivered a resilient financial performance in 2018, boosted by the ongoing turnaround in our associate income from ETI. HE increased 14,5% to R13,5bn and ROE (excluding goodwill) half. Our NIR continues to grow strongly, underpinned by a improved from 16,4% to 17,9% – well ahead of our COE of good performance in global markets and growth in main14,1%. This performance assisted Nedbank to end the year banked clients across all our businesses. Our credit quality as the best-performing SA bank share on the JSE in 2018, remains excellent as evidenced by a CLR of 53 bps, and we with its share price up 7,3%, and the fourth-bestcontinue to manage costs wisely and extract operational performing company in the JSE Top 40. Our dividend of efficiencies as we aim to reduce our cost-to-income ratio 1 415 cents increased 10,1%, providing shareholders with a over time. TSR of 12,6% during 2018. Delivering on our purpose After accounting for the full IFRS day 1 impact and the cost I firmly believe that any business that sees itself as separate of the odd-lot offer, we ended the year with a strong capital to the society in which it operates will not be successful and position, reflected in our fully phased-in CET1 capital ratio sustainable over time. Simply put, it is very difficult to of 11,7%. This is above the midpoint of our target range and operate a successful business in an unsuccessful society. well above the SARB minimum requirement. In 2018 we In this context we developed our purpose statement in 2017 reached a key milestone, as total assets for the group and embedded it throughout Nedbank in 2018. Our purpose exceeded R1 trillion for the first time. – to use our financial expertise to do good for individuals, families, businesses and society – is what Nedbank is all 2018 – another difficult year for SA banks about and what we do to help society prosper. It is in our For banks in SA and in Africa 2018 was not an easy year. DNA and what we have been doing successfully since 1834, Although conditions were slightly better than in 2017, we and it has kept us sustainable and successful over that time. had to navigate a recession in SA in the first half of the year; strategic, operational and funding challenges at key I am proud of the commitments we have made to bring our SOEs; ongoing policy uncertainty, particularly around land purpose truly to life. We have embraced the SDGs, a set of expropriation; and a VAT increase, all of which resulted in goals by the United Nations to create a better world and clients remaining under financial pressure, being risk averse, society. For the first time the world has a set of common transacting less, borrowing less and investing in cash rather goals to guide our company in what we need to do to than equities. contribute to the world and to SA. We will use the SDGs to guide us and to measure the progress we are making in The year started on a positive note with the change in our delivering on our purpose. Leading from the top, nine of the political leadership when Cyril Ramaphosa was elected as SDGs have been individually adopted by our executive team, the new President of SA. This was followed by a significant who will drive groupwide adoption, awareness and delivery. improvement in investor sentiment. Business and consumer confidence soon evaporated as the domestic challenges We have also made a commitment to the YES initiative to faced by SA became more apparent through the revelations address youth unemployment. From the first quarter in of various commissions of inquiry highlighting the extent of 2019 we will be investing approximately 1,5% of the threestate capture, a VAT hike in April and key economic year average SA net profit after tax per annum to give indicators worsening at a time when the external backdrop employment opportunities to about 3 000 youth, either was less positive for emerging-market assets. through placements internally or sponsored placements with implementation partners. This follows the R20m we Economic conditions improved slightly off a low base in the are investing in the CEO Initiative R1,5bn SME Fund. second half of the year, with GDP growth finishing the year at 0,8%. In our business we have seen steady growth in Our purpose is also fundamentally linked to our clients. application volumes and loan payouts in RBB and, after a Doing good for clients means satisfaction levels should slow first half, loan volumes picked up in CIB in the second improve, leading to more clients doing more of their banking 10 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 with us and in turn leading to a more sustainable and rated second best globally by Cutter Associate International valuable Nedbank business. We bring our purpose to market Research and our retail Net Promoter Score increased the through our brand essence of being money experts who do most among that of all SA banks. Digitally active retail good and our payoff line of ‘see money differently’. When clients grew to 1,5 million and 1,4 million digital-service you manage money well, you can make a real difference in requests have been performed by transactional clients on people’s lives. the Nedbank Money app™. We also won the International Banker award for Best Innovation in Retail Banking SA As a responsible corporate citizen, we also continue to play 2018 as well as the Banker Africa’s awards for Best an active role in constructively using our voice on challenges Corporate Bank in SA and best Fintech Partnership for our facing society. This year we were the only bank to present to satellite and drone imagery analytics experimentation. CIB Parliament our position on the land reform debate, where was also placed first in the Bloomberg fixed-income league we argued against any changes to section 25 of the table rankings: SA bonds and number one in the primary Constitution, and in September I appeared before the dealer rankings as measured by SARB. Nedgroup Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture on our Investments was named Offshore Management Company closure of the Gupta accounts. of the Year for the fourth consecutive year at the Raging Bull Awards. To remain relevant in a transforming society it is vital that Nedbank continues to be transformed. I am particularly Momentum is building and I am particularly excited about pleased that in 2018 we were able to achieve level 1 BBBEE innovations we will bring to market in 2019, after piloting contributor status under the new Amended Financial some of these in 2018. These innovations, which will further Sector Code. enhance client experience, include simplified digital client onboarding capability (no paper and no need to visit a An obsession with client experiences branch, and quick), enhanced value propositions such as Sustainable and successful banks are those that can end-to-end digital applications for personal loans and consistently deliver great client experiences by leveraging transactional accounts, as well as a worldclass loyalty and technology and digital innovation alongside human rewards programme that will embrace our purpose of using interactions. Those banks that do not consistently invest our financial expertise to do good. In the past two years we and refresh their IT platforms, products and culture will find have firmly established ourselves as a leader in delivering it hard to compete against incumbents, big tech, new innovative market-leading client experiences, while ensuring entrants, emerging platforms and fintechs. that we remain at the forefront of cyberresilience. By 2020 we aim to have our top 10 products and 180 services In 2010 we embarked on a journey to rationalise, simplify available digitally. These innovations, along with many and standardise (RSS) our core systems from 250 to 60 by others, will position us well to grow our revenues and 2020, with 136 core systems rationalised by end of 2018. compete against existing competitors as well as new Our best-of-breed Managed Evolution journey, started in entrants coming to the market in 2019. 2014, has enabled us to digitise our IT landscape further and to become more agile. Our research on core banking As we digitise services that were previously offered only replacements, which has included visiting and learning from inbranch, we should benefit from efficiencies as the cost to banks across the world, has convinced us that our Managed onboard and serve our clients will decrease significantly, as Evolution approach will enable us to achieve a worldclass more and more transactions will be performed seamlessly technology platform in a cost-efficient and risk-mitigated and from end to end without human intervention. manner without a full core banking replacement. As part of the Managed Evolution, we have invested in and largely Sustainable banks also deliver great client experiences completed a number of key foundational IT programs that through their people, and at Nedbank we focus specifically enable us to launch products and services to market at a on leadership, culture and values. The world of work is much faster pace and lower cost than before. I am excited changing and we embraced nWoW to ready us for the about the products and services we plan to launch off this Fourth Industrial Revolution. nWoW continues to teach us platform in 2019 and 2020, and believe they will have a about how we need to change and work in teams, as well as significant positive impact on client satisfaction levels. the skills and capabilities needed to be more innovative, digital, agile and competitive. In addition, we introduced Digital Fast Lane capability, using agile development methodologies and new Ways of Work Making progress in Rest of Africa (nWoW), and adopting the global gold standard in user Operating in the rest of Africa remains volatile and experience wherever possible. We launched various marketchallenging, and our success in this area needs to be leading innovations such as the Stokvel Account (a safe and measured over the long term. We believe our Nedbank cost-effective savings solution for the stokvel community), franchise has a competitive advantage in SADC and East the Karri app (a convenient mobile payment app that allows Africa, and we have a strategic alliance with ETI in Central parents to make instant online school-related payments), and West Africa. The continent provides a compelling longMobiMoney (a mobile-based account that anyone with a term growth opportunity for Nedbank as our SA clients valid SA identity number can open anywhere in seconds), expand and gives our shareholders access to the faster GDP various new services on the Nedbank Money and Private growth rate economies in sub-Saharan Africa. Wealth apps, a crossborder remittance product, roboadvisors and chatbots. In 2018 we saw strong growth off a low base from our subsidiaries in the rest of Africa and our associate income Our successes in 2018 have been acknowledged by our as ETI returned to profitability. The ongoing turnaround in clients as well as independent surveys. The Nedbank Money ETI continues, but risks still remain, especially in Nigeria. We app™ recorded the highest client ratings among SA peers on monitor these risks continuously as active participants on the iOS platform, our Nedbank Private Wealth app was the ETI board. Collaboration efforts with ETI are increasing, Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 11 as seen in more than 105 of our corporate clients using ETI Looking towards the medium term, we reiterate our for banking in countries where Nedbank is not present, the commitment to our 2020 targets of an ROE (excluding recent launch of a digital crossborder remittance solution goodwill) of greater than or equal to 18% and a cost-totogether with ETI as part of the Nedbank Money app™, income ratio of lower than or equal to 53% as a pathway to ongoing efforts to build the Nedbank Private Wealth ongoing and sustainable improvements in the key metrics subbrand and offering in the rest of Africa, and leveraging that support shareholder value creation. Given resilient off ETI’s ground presence in more than 30 countries to earnings growth and the impact of IFRS changes and the provide rich insight. In addition, we concluded two financing deals with ETI on the back of our investment banking odd-lot offer, which reduced equity in 2018, we are currently expertise and balance sheet. more confident that we will meet our 2020 ROE (excluding goodwill) target on a sustainable basis. While we remain Successful completion of managed committed to our 2020 cost-to-income ratio target, it has separation and subsequent odd-lot offer become more challenging to achieve. This is the result of a Nedbank Group started 2018 as a subsidiary of Old Mutual combination of weaker-than-anticipated economic growth, plc and ended with Old Mutual Limited as a strategic 19,9% primarily resulting in slower wholesale advance growth and shareholder. The managed separation was successfully slower retail transactional activity as well as lower-thancompleted on 15 October 2018 and was the largest expected interest rates; IFRS changes impacting the shape corporate transaction that Nedbank has ever been involved of the income statement and negatively impacting the in – R43bn of Nedbank shares were distributed to OML cost-to-income ratio; new costs relating to the Youth shareholders. The outcome is positive for Nedbank shareholders as our free float improved from 45% to 80% Employment Service, deposit insurance and Twin Peaks and we broadened our emerging-market shareholder base. (not previously known); as well as a decision to increase our Despite some concerns around a potential overhang of investments in platform-related activities in RBB as we Nedbank shares, the Nedbank share, as mentioned before, continually evolve our business model to underpin was the best-performing SA bank share on the JSE in 2018. future growth. For Nedbank and OML it is business as usual, and we continue our arm’s-length collaboration, now underpinned Appreciation by a new relationship agreement. This year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of our freedom as a country. Despite our challenges, we have a good story Looking ahead to tell, and 2018 has marked the start of a turnaround in SA is in the early stages of a political and economic governance at many key institutions. We can be proud that turnaround. While we have seen positive changes after the we, as Nedbank, have made a significant contribution to ANC elective conference in December 2017, we are still society in fulfilment of our purpose – to use our financial faced with uncertainty as we head towards a general expertise to do good. Looking ahead, I am filled with renewed hope about the future as we have entered 2019 election that will see President Ramaphosa seeking to with slightly stronger economic prospects, strengthening cement his leadership position in the ANC in order to secure democratic institutions and increased transparency. a stronger mandate for making the changes required to At Nedbank we embrace these positive changes as we drive stronger economic growth and to root out focus on accelerating our client-centred and digital journey. state capture. Our achievements are only made possible by our people. Our forecast is for economic growth in 2019 to improve off I would like to thank the Chairman, the board and my fellow a low base to around 1,3%. While this is lower than we executive team for their continued guidance and support, previously expected, we call this ‘Ramareality’, and you can and particularly Thabani Jali, now on his retirement. Thank read more about it and other scenarios in the detail of the you also to all the dedicated Nedbankers for your report. In the first part of the year we expect many commitment and hard work in tough conditions – we appreciate the value you deliver to our clients at every investors to focus on the outcome of the May 2019 general touchpoint as you help to transform our bank into a more elections, after which it is hoped more policy certainty will agile, innovative, digital, client-focused and competitive emerge. It will be vital to restructure Eskom to secure a Nedbank. We thank our more than 7,9 million retail and dependable supply of affordable electricity, and the need to wholesale clients for choosing to bank with Nedbank every find clearly understood solutions to expropriation without single day. We appreciate the support of our existing and compensation that do not impact on economic growth or new shareholders after the managed separation as well as food security are front of mind. In this slowly improving all other stakeholders. As Nedbank we will continue to play economic and policy environment our guidance for DHEPS our role in society as we recognise that our success depends growth in 2019 is to be equal to or greater than our current on the degree to which we deliver value to society. forecast of nominal GDP growth of approximately 6,0%. If we have a more positive economic outcome, Nedbank is well positioned for faster growth, given our strong CIB franchise and wholesale bias, as we expect that any accelerated recovery is likely to be more wholesale-led Mike Brown considering the pressures faced by SA consumers and the Chief Executive SA fiscus. 31 March 2019 12 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 CASE IN POINT – Nedbank sponsorship of #VaxTheNation and Global Citizen Nedbank supports the UN Sustainable Development Goal 3 — ensuring healthy lives and the wellbeing of all people. In line with SDG 3, Nedbank launched #VaxTheNation, a campaign that aims to shine a light on the importance of immunisation and providing life-saving vaccines from the time a child is born, and funds the work of community healthcare workers. In a continued drive to encourage and build a better society, in 2018 Nedbank entered into a partnership as a major partner with international advocacy organisation Global Citizen to bring the concert-style Global Citizen Festival to the African continent for the first time. The concert was aptly named Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 in celebration of the centenary year of Nelson Mandela. Global Citizen has grown into one of the largest activist platforms for people around the world to call on world leaders to honour their responsibilities in achieving the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and ending extreme poverty by 2030. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 13 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES IN OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT (MATERIAL MATTERS) Our material matters are reflected in our key risks and opportunities and represent the issues that have the most impact on our ability to create sustainable value for our stakeholders. While these issues change over time as new trends and developments shape the macro environment and our stakeholders’ needs evolve, the broad themes remain consistent. Our material matters are: a challenging SA macroeconomic environment; disruptive technologies and increased competition; demands on governance, regulation and risk management; transformation of society within environmental constraints; managing growth opportunities vs volatility in the rest of Africa; requirements for scarce and evolving skills; and changing relationships between business, government and civil society. SA macroeconomic environment As a financial services provider, we are highly connected to and interdependent on the macroeconomic environment, especially in SA where we currently generate more than 90% of our earnings. Our ability to create value is dependent on key economic drivers, our response to them and their impact on our stakeholders. During our engagements with investors in 2018 a key support higher levels of inclusive growth, SA needs policy recurring topic was the subdued level of economic certainty and structural reforms to be implemented. growth in SA and Nedbank’s outlook for the These are dependent on the progress we make on the macroeconomic environment given the political political and institutional turnaround that is currently developments from December 2017. Rather than an underway and the extent to which we, as a country, instantaneous acceleration in economic growth, the manage various risks and uncertainties. The endgame is turnaround story for SA is that we are in the early higher levels of inclusive growth, which will support job stages of a political and institutional turnaround. creation and reduced levels of unemployment, poverty To build both business and consumer confidence, and to and inequality. attract local and foreign investment, which would To move forward we need more certainty on Eskom, land EWC and general election outcomes Job creation and reduced: Increased levels – unemployment of inclusive – poverty Increased levels of local economic growth – inequality Improved Early stages Structural and foreign of political and reforms and policy levels of business investment and consumer institutional certainty confidence turnaround in SA 14 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 zz Early stages of political and institutional turnaround mining companies’ attitudes towards investing in SA. in SA – In December 2017 Cyril Ramaphosa was A key outstanding policy issue is land reform and elected as the new leader of the ruling African explicit clarification on expropriation without National Congress (ANC) following a narrow win and compensation (EWC), as it creates uncertainty and subsequently became President of the Republic of SA thereby hampers investor sentiment. after the resignation of President Jacob Zuma in zz Business and consumer confidence – A surge in both February 2018. At his maiden State of the Nation the RMB/BER Business Confidence Index (BCI) and the Address (SONA), he promised that a new dawn was FNB/BER Consumer Confidence Index (CCI) in the first upon us as he injected a new confidence in SA, quarter of 2018 was short-lived, with the reality of still evidenced by a strengthening of the rand and our subdued economic activity, a VAT hike, rising fuel prices, averting a Moody’s sovereign-credit-rating downgrade a technical recession in the first half of the year, a in March 2018. With the new dawn came big substantial drop in share prices on the JSE and the expectations that the new ANC leadership would root ongoing land expropriation debate having weighed out corruption, deal with state capture at SOEs, down on confidence levels as the year progressed. restore fiscal sustainability and bring about Many corporates remain reluctant to invest in SA as meaningful improvements in the political, policy and they await clarity on land reform, Eskom’s challenges economic environment. Progress has been slow but to be resolved and the outcome of the 2019 general effective, as evidenced by the final report from the elections. Nugent Commission into SARS and submissions made to the Zondo Commission into state capture. Ahead of zz Local and foreign investment – In April 2018 President the 2019 general elections, investors will be focused on Ramaphosa announced a USD100bn investment drive whether President Ramaphosa can consolidate his over the next five years, supported by an Investment power within the ANC in order to appoint the right Summit where both local and foreign companies made people and fully implement the proposed stimulus and investment pledges worth R290bn to the SA economy. investment programmes that will bring about Most of the investments announced during the meaningful recovery in the SA economy. conference originated from SA corporates and multinationals based in the country, signalling renewed zz Structural reforms and policy certainty – In 2018 SA investor confidence in and commitment to SA. The drive has made some progress on structural reforms, as we also attracted investments from China, the United have seen in governance and leadership changes at Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia. SOEs and revisions to the mining charter. However, These investments help promote SA as an investment the business models and funding challenges at SOEs destination and have the potential to create new job still need to be resolved. Eskom, in particular, remains opportunities. the biggest risk to the SA economy, both from a zz Inclusive growth and job creation – In the fourth funding and operational perspective. President quarter of 2018 the SA unemployment rate edged up Ramaphosa’s announcement that Eskom will be to 27,1%. Job prospects remain limited as economic unbundled into three entities, ie generation, activity remains lacklustre. SA needs increased levels of transmission and distribution, is a welcome first step. inclusive economic growth to tackle high The new mining charter is a vast improvement on the unemployment, persistent inequality and poverty. This previous one and has helped bring about change in can only happen with increased levels of investment. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 15 Three scenarios for the short to medium term GDP SA (%) 6 In context of an uncertain political and difficult macroeconomic environment we have 6 6 6 NDP target: 5% Ramaphobia Ramaphobia created three scenarios that represent the underlying assumptions for our three-year 5 NDP NDP target: target: 5% 5% Ramaphobia Ramaphobia 5 Ramareality 5 5 Ramareality planning, stress testing and communication to the investment community. These scenarios 4 Ramareality Ramareality 4 Ramaphoria 4 embody our base case (Ramareality), a positive scenario (Ramaphoria) and a downside 4 Ramaphoria Ramaphoria Ramaphoria 3 3 scenario (Ramaphobia). 3 3 2 2 2 2 Ramareality 1 1 11 Reflects our base case scenario and the key assumptions around our financial 0 0 2018 0 2019 2020 2021 0 2018 2019 2020 2021 guidance for 2019 and our 2020 targets. Under this scenario the ruling ANC party 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021 secures an improved outcome in the 2019 general elections. As a result, President Inflation (CPI, %) 8 Ramaphosa secures an improved mandate to improve political leadership and to make 8 8 8 Ramaphobia 7 Ramaphobia decisive policy changes needed for a stronger economic turnaround. GDP growth Ramaphobia 7 Ramaphobia 7 7 Ramareality 6 improves off a low 2018 base, but remains muted over the next three years. We Ramareality 6 Ramareality 6 Ramareality 56 Ramaphoria forecast a moderate increase in credit growth to upper-single-digit levels by 2021 as 5 Ramaphoria 5 5 Ramaphoria Ramaphoria 4 confidence improves slightly. Interest rate increases are benign given inflation levels 4 3 4 4 that remain well controlled within the SARB target range of 3–6%, which should be 3 2 3 3 SARB target band: 3–6% SARB target band: 3–6% 2 SARB target SARB target band: band: 3–6% 3–6% positive for indebted consumers and bank credit loss ratios. We believe the likelihood of 2 12 1 this scenario playing out is around 70%. 011 0 2018 2019 2020 2021 0 0 2018 2019 2020 2021 2018 2019 2020 2021 Ramaphoria 2018 2019 2020 2021 Industry 12 credit growth (%) Under a Ramaphoria scenario we assume that the ANC obtains an improved majority 12 12 Ramaphobia 12 in the 2019 general elections, giving President Ramaphosa a strong mandate and the 10 Ramaphobia Ramaphobia 10 Ramaphobia 10 10 Ramareality ability to capitalise on his political support to push through faster on the reforms SA 8 8 Ramareality Ramareality Ramareality 8 8 needs to improve confidence. As a result, economic growth improves to around 2,5% Ramaphoria 6 Ramaphoria 6 Ramaphoria Ramaphoria 6 from 2021, although still well below the 5% targeted in the NDP. Under this scenario we 6 4 4 are likely to see close to double-digit credit growth. We believe the likelihood of this 4 4 2 2 scenario playing out is around 20%. 2 2 0 0 0 0 -2 Ramaphobia -2 -2 2018 -2 2019 2020 2021 2018 2019 2020 2021 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021 Represents a downside scenario where the ANC either does not achieve an outright Average 12 prime interest rate (%) majority during the 2019 general elections or achieves a weaker than expected 12 12 12 Ramaphobia performance resulting in President Ramaphosa losing internal support within his 11 Ramaphobia Ramaphobia 11 Ramaphobia 11 11 Ramareality party. As a result, the key reforms needed to drive economic growth are delayed or not 10 10 Ramareality Ramareality Ramareality 10 10 Ramaphoria implemented as populist policies regain favour. A coalition government could compel 9 9 Ramaphoria Ramaphoria Ramaphoria 9 9 the ANC to cooperate with other political parties in various structures (SA coalitions 8 8 8 at local government level have proven relatively difficult to manage given the divergent 8 7 7 policy positions between political parties). This scenario is likely to impact confidence 7 7 6 6 levels negatively, with credit growth slowing to low single digits, potential further 6 6 5 5 2018 sovereign-credit-rating downgrades are almost certain and an increase in interest 5 5 2018 2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021 rates is likely. We believe the likelihood of this scenario is around 10%. * Forecasts at 22 February 2019. Ramareality Ramaphoria Ramaphobia The opportunity, given Nedbank’s differentiation Key risks and mitigating actions Economic recovery – The anticipated improvement in Economic recovery – For banks an ongoing uncertain economic environment has a socioeconomic conditions, under both Ramareality and negative impact on earnings growth potential, particularly in a Ramaphobia Ramaphoria scenarios, supports banks. Opportunities scenario and the likely sovereign downgrade that would ensue. Key risks are include sentiment and confidence driving corporate and ongoing weak advances growth, particularly muted retail lending and corporates consumer spending and investment, pockets of growth not investing, slower transactional volumes that impact revenue growth and higher in infrastructure and the rest of Africa, an increase in bad debts driven by job losses or large corporate defaults. Managing costs wisely is mergers and acquisitions activity, and potentially less an imperative as we discuss on page 46. stress for consumers as interest rates rise slowly or even Land expropriation without compensation – EWC has created significant plateau. Given Nedbank’s wholesale banking bias, we uncertainty. In 2018 we presented our position in Parliament, noting that, while are well positioned in CIB to grow strongly when land reform is necessary, it does not require section 25 of the Constitution to be business confidence returns, while RBB will gain from amended. We maintain that a sensible outcome will prevail, with areas of risk such improved consumer confidence and Nedbank Wealth as vacant land being less than 0,5% of our advances portfolio. A positive outcome will benefit as equity markets recover. of EWC could result in more South Africans receiving title deeds to their property, which should drive greater levels of financial inclusion and credit growth. Growing our transactional banking franchise Exposure to SOEs – Our exposure to SOEs is limited and largely guaranteed by faster than the market government. Managing scarce resources to optimise Business risk Market risk economic outcomes Reputational risk 16 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Disruptive technologies and increased competition As the world becomes increasingly digitised, all industries are feeling the impact of the pervasiveness of technology. Financial institutions have seen leading indicators of this revolution as it changes all aspects of providing financial services and creates new opportunities – from digitisation of financial services, enhanced client experiences and new products and channels, to evolving organisational structures and internal processes, as well as new staffing and skills requirements. New digital technologies are reshaping the value proposition of existing financial products and services and how these are delivered to and consumed by clients. Digital and disruptive technologies – The digitisation of Cyberrisks – The dark side of the global technology banks includes embracing and leveraging mobile technology, revolution is that financial crime has increased fintech partnerships, cloud computing, big data, advanced dramatically, evidenced by the increase in the number, analytics, machine learning, blockchain technology, artificial intensity and sophistication of high-profile cyberattacks. intelligence, robotics and biometrics in the optimisation of These attacks are usually aimed at accessing, changing or legacy IT infrastructure as well as in the pursuit of new destroying sensitive information, extorting money from revenue channels and opportunities. Banks (which have users or interrupting normal business processes. Banks both the scale and position of trust with clients) are have become attractive targets for cyberattacks because increasingly partnering with fintechs, enabling faster of their key role in payment and settlement systems, the delivery to market of new innovations. The adoption and volume of sensitive client information they hold and the application of modern tooling enable more rapid software potential adverse impact of interfering with the smooth engineering development and scaling of delivery, which functioning of banking services. In 2018 a large SA allow for faster innovation and digitisation. financial services company became the victim of a cyberattack, with an external party claiming to have New banking entrants – Competitors in the banking sector seized data and demanding payment. A survey conducted have evolved to include new entrants, fintech disruptors and by the World Economic Forum (WEF) has recently big tech disruptors. These disruptors are revolutionising the indicated that, globally, cyberattacks are among the top banking experience for clients. While many fintech players five risks expected to increase in 2019, while our Internal have found it hard to scale and are increasingly partnering Risk and Governance Framework similarly includes with traditional banks, big tech disruptors such as Google, cyberrisk as one of our top three risks. Amazon, Facebook, Apple and Microsoft (GAFAM), Alibaba and Tencent have the financial muscle as well as the ability Key risks and mitigating actions to scale and are therefore arguably a greater threat to traditional banks. While these are global trends, they are Pressure on revenues and costs – Loss of relevance with clients, likely to transform the SA banking landscape in the future. loss of market share and loss of revenue are key risks should our digital offerings not remain competitive, digital banking become 2019 will see the launch of value propositions by various new a commodity and not a differentiator, or new competitors entrants in the SA banking system. SARB has granted capture a significant share of revenues. In addition, if we are not banking licences to Discovery, Tyme Digital, Post Bank and able to offset the higher-expense burden of investing in IT and Bank Zero. These new entrants are likely to focus on digital innovation with efficiencies and cost optimisation initiatives, we risk not meeting our 2020 cost-to-income ratio transactional services and deposits and they will challenge target. We are responding to these risks by bringing various new existing banks with innovative digital solutions. innovations to market, as shown on pages 43 and 44, as well as our cost optimisation initiatives on page 46. Cyberrisk – Cyberrisk has been identified and listed as a Nedbank top 10 risk. To offer protection cybersecurity The opportunity, given Nedbank’s differentiation capabilities are continually being enhanced, even though Revenue growth and cost optimisation – Opportunities for Nedbank is currently leading in cyberresilience statistics in the Nedbank include gaining client transactional volumes and revenue market (eg lowest in industry with regard to cyberlosses and by continuing to respond to the digital challenge in an agile and successful phishing attacks). Our various assessments have client-centred manner, improving efficiency through technology identified the top 11 cyberpriority areas. These have been (lower cost to serve) and bringing new digital offerings to market included in our Cyberresilience Programme and are receiving quicker. Our approach to innovation delivery through our aligned accelerated focus to address gaps and mitigate risks. One of the ME and DFL strategies (discussed in more detail on page 50) most effective forms of preventing cyberattacks is through adopts global gold standards and has enabled us to commercialise training and awareness. Nedbank has rolled out cyberrisk swiftly market-leading and innovative new products and e-learning and all employees and contractors are required to enhancements, as shown on pages 43 and 44. complete this course. Our Nedbank Group Insurance Programme includes substantial standalone cyberinsurance cover in line with local and global trends. Delivering innovative market-leading client experiences Strategic and execution risks Operational risk Growing our transactional banking franchise faster than the market Cyberrisk Being operationally excellent in all we do Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 17 Demands on governance, regulation and risk management The financial services industry worldwide has seen an exponential increase in regulations since the global financial crisis. These regulations have placed new demands on banks, resulting in increased cost of banking. We support the intention of increased global regulations to protect our stakeholders by preventing a similar financial crisis from reoccuring in the future, hence regulatory compliance and alignment to emerging risk management practices are our key strategic imperatives. Looking forward, the focus of SA regulations is to shift Basel III reforms – Basel III reforms announced in the culture and behaviours within the industry, to December 2017 include: placing a floor on certain model reinforce financial stability and to maintain the inputs for portfolios subject to the AIRB Approach; soundness of financial institutions while protecting introducing new credit RWA calculation rules for clients. The Financial Sector Regulation Act was signed portfolios subject to The Standardised Approach; using a into law in August 2017 and became effective from new standardised approach for the calculation of credit 1 April 2018. This piece of legislation brings about a major valuation adjustment and operational RWAs; and setting transformation of the SA financial services regulatory a floor on the group RWAs equal to 72,5% of RWAs and risk management framework, including the move to calculated on a revised standardised approach. All a Twin Peaks approach to regulation. changes will be effective 1 January 2022, with a five-year phasing-in of the 72,5% floor, beginning at 50% in 2022. Twin Peaks – The Twin Peaks Regulatory Framework, As these Basel III reforms have yet to be converted into through the passing into law of the Financial Sector national law, there is still uncertainty regarding the Regulation Act, has introduced two new regulatory interpretation of some of the rules, such that reliable bodies for the supervision of financial institutions. The impact estimates in SA are not yet available. Prudential Authority (contained within SARB) is now responsible for ensuring the stability of the financial Amended FSC – The release of the Amended FSC, which system and the Financial Sector Conduct Authority is in sets higher thresholds and targets when compared with the charge of regulating all market-conduct-related matters previous FSC, symbolises a new beginning in the in respect of financial institutions. reorientation of the transformation policy to address the issue of fronting, with a bigger focus on productive BBBEE. Deposit Insurance Scheme – In September 2018 the The Amended FSC commits its participants to promoting a National Treasury and SARB released an updated version transformed, vibrant and globally competitive financial of the Financial Sector Laws Amendment Bill. This bill, sector that reflects the demographics of SA, and continuing once promulgated, will effectively give rise to the to contribute to the establishment of an equitable society Resolution Framework, of which a key component is the by effectively providing accessible financial services to black Deposit Insurance Scheme (DIS). In anticipation of the people and directing investment into targeted sectors of DIS, an implementation project team has been the economy. established, with a primary responsibility to work towards the full operationalisation of the DIS by the end of 2019. Based on this timeline, it is possible that banks Key risks and mitigating actions may have to pay deposit insurance premiums and levies on qualifying ‘covered deposits’ from 2020 onwards. The Regulatory sanction and fines – Fines relating to market definition of ‘covered deposits’ has not changed from conduct and non-adherence to legislation have increased that in the original draft Resolution Framework and the significantly as seen across the USA, Europe and Australia, coverage limit of R100 000 on retail deposits remains the where a fine of AUS $700m to NAB illustrates that same. We await further clarification in terms of the regulators are increasing pressure on banks to comply with timelines during 2019. various regulations and treat clients fairly. While Nedbank has made good progress with regard to AML, combating The opportunity, given Nedbank’s differentiation the financing of terrorism and sanctions requirements, a fine was received in Mozambique. Corrective remedial Leverage strengths – A key opportunity for Nedbank is actions in mitigating identified risks have been initiated to implementing regulatory requirements, such as AML, in a ensure upliftment to the AML, combating the financing of client-centred, integrated and synergistic manner in our terrorism and sanctions control environment. new client signoff (onboarding) processes. By having strong bank balance sheets we are well positioned to weather an economic downturn, but also well positioned for growth as the economy improves. Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes Conduct and culture risks Being operationally excellent in all we do Regulatory and compliance risks 18 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Transformation of society within environmental constraints The massive economic, social and environmental challenges we are facing globally continued to intensify in 2018 as the collective desire to address these challenges seemed to wane in an increasingly polarised world. The latest WEF Global Risks Report singles out the geopolitical and geoeconomic tensions, along with domestic political strains in many countries, as key hurdles to collaboratively address the most urgent global risks. In many cases it is the lack of progress in addressing these risks that exacerbates them and drives sociopolitical tensions. The environment – Environmental risks continued to International Monetary Fund (IMF) forecasts point to a dominate the WEF Global Risks Report, accounting for gradual slowdown in the global economy, the drive to three of the top five risks by likelihood and four by address inequality, unemployment and poverty on the impact. These included extreme weather, natural African continent, which is Nedbank’s primary market, disasters, water crises and failure of climate-change cannot slow down. The transformation imperative and mitigation and adaption. It is, of course, the deep continued progress to a more equitable representation interconnectedness of these risks with human wellbeing of the SA economy and workforce remain top of the that sees them posing systemic challenges to citizens, agenda. To date transformation has led to a broader corporations and governments alike. The recent drought and growing middle-market segment and increasing in the Western Cape drove home how heavily we rely on uptake of financial products and services. the environment, as losses were felt across all sectors of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – The SDGs, the economy and societal strata. African Union’s Agenda 2063 and SA’s National Unless the fundamental interdependence of human Development Plan (NDP) offer complementary road development and environmental wellbeing is properly maps for the transformation of society and highlight appreciated, our modern economies will remain under investment opportunities that will meaningfully address threat. According to the latest WWF Living Planet these challenges. However, this will require courageous Report the results of climate in action and global leadership with a focus on long-term value creation and change are becoming increasingly apparent, with an cooperation rather than a narrow pursuit of short-term abundance of species down 60% since 1970. This loss of private gain and competitiveness. biodiversity has had an impact on human health and wellbeing. Other, less obvious, impacts of climate change relate to the impact of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) on nutrition. Recent research by the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health suggests that by 2050 billions of people will experience zinc, protein and iron deficiencies due to the impact of CO2 on nutritional staple crops. Inequality and transformation – Global inequality may have reduced over recent years, but in many countries, including SA with its stubbornly high unemployment rate of 27%, it has continued to rise. So, while the latest The opportunity, given Nedbank’s differentiation Key risks and mitigating actions SDGs – The use of innovative financial solutions to meet Climate change – The impacts of climate change include: clients’ needs as they relate to meeting the SDGs more natural disasters and increased costs to rebuild (or represents a significant opportunity. Globally it is retrofit) infrastructure where required; increased energy estimated that delivery on the SDGs will offer new costs, water shortages and quality issues; and increased revenue streams and cost savings in excess of food prices and shortages. Extreme weather events USD12 trillion annually by 2030. This level of redirected impact clients, and ultimately insurers through higher investment will have a profound impact on the structure claims. The imperative to protect essential ecosystem of the global economy and result in significant job services provided by our environment, amid growing social creation and poverty reduction. As such, we are and political pressure, lead to certain industries becoming positioning delivery on the SDGs at the heart of our less viable, resulting in potential job losses. strategy, using this to create an enduring competitive advantage. Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes Business risk Reputational risk Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 19 Managing growth opportunities vs volatility in the rest of Africa Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) is considered to be an attractive long-term investment region fuelled by its strong economic growth potential, estimated to grow on a sustainable basis between two to four times faster than SA. The UN estimates that Africa will see the largest relative increase in population over the coming years leading to 2030. The strong population growth, rise in middle-class population, urbanisation trends, increasing technology usage and abundant natural resources are key drivers for investments in SSA. African governments are driving efforts to tackle infrastructure bottlenecks and improve the regulatory environment to attract foreign direct investment. As a result, deal activity in the region has been rising due to in Africa should continue to improve, particularly in the key the improving business environment and the potential of markets in which ETI operates, such as Nigeria, Ghana and investment returns. Banking penetration still remains Côte d’Ivoire. In SADC the economies of Zimbabwe, Malawi relatively low in many African countries, creating an and Mozambique remain challenged. During 2019 elections opportunity for established banks from well-developed will be held across 17 countries on the African continent – financial markets to grow. Mobile and digital technologies this could create additional volatility and policy change that driven largely by fintech companies are gradually boosting may lead to either positive or negative economic outcomes. financial inclusion in sub-Saharan Africa. SA GDP vs SSA GDP Our growing African client base and our SA clients entering growth (excl SA) the rest of Africa seek to benefit from one-stop financial (%) services solutions. Shareholders seek exposure to this higher-growth region through investment in well-managed SA banks that follow a risk-mitigated, capital-efficient approach. With Nedbank having strong, specialised skills and our complementary strategic partnerships through Ecobank, QNB, Bank of China and Old Mutual Limited, we are in a strong position to play a key role in funding and structuring infrastructure and capital-intensive projects, as well as leveraging incountry and crossborder banking opportunities. SA GDP However, we have to participate cautiously, as the 0,8 3,4 1,3 4,0 1,8 4,0 2,0 4,4 SSA GDP environment remains uncertain in the short to medium 2018 2021 term and is likely to be volatile over time. Economic growth Source: Nedbank and International Monetary Fund. * Forecast at 22 February 2019. The opportunity, given Nedbank’s differentiation Key risks and mitigating actions Expansion into rest of Africa – The ongoing opportunity for us is Zimbabwe – While our Zimbabwean operations remain small in to support our SA clients who continue to expand into fastergroup context, we are conscious of the challenging environment and growing markets in the rest of Africa, leveraging SA’s position its impact on our staff, clients and operations. The difficult as the gateway to Africa and using the unique expertise of our environment in Zimbabwe resulted in a negative FCTR adjustment to partners in operating in emerging markets. the group’s capital of R0,8bn before minorities (R0,5bn after zz Much of the SA skills base in infrastructure, minorities). We continue to monitor developments in Zimbabwe telecommunications, resources, retail, construction and brought about by currency shortages and pressure on the fiscus. renewable energy is transportable and can be applied to ETI (sustainability of earnings) – Risks around our strategic partner, business opportunities in the rest of Africa. Ecobank, which is more directly exposed to Nigeria, remain top of zz Our investment in our own businesses in SADC will continue mind, although the outlook has improved and ETI has delivered to provide an opportunity for client gains and, as a result, seven consecutive quarters of profit. In December 2018 the ETI new revenue growth opportunities particularly those driven board resolved to adopt the NAFEX exchange rate as the rate to be by digital solutions. One example out of RBB is our integrated used for the translation of the operations in Nigeria. Accounting for crossborder money transfer solution launched in conjunction associate income, together with Nedbank’s share of ETI’s other with Ecobank towards the end of 2018. comprehensive income and movements in Nedbank’s FCTR and our share of ETI’s own IFRS 9 transitional adjustment, resulted in the carrying value of the group’s strategic investment in ETI decreasing from R3,3bn at 31 December 2017 to R3,2bn at 31 December 2018. This amount includes a R361m credit adjustment to account for the anticipated impact of ETI changing from the official Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) exchange rate to the NAFEX exchange rate. Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes Strategic and execution risks Reputational risk Providing our clients with access to the best financial services Business risk network in Africa 20 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Requirements for scarce and evolving skills The pace of change in banking is accelerating, and digitisation is at the forefront of the change in the industry, with strong competition to deliver superior client experiences and pressure to remain competitive. Global banking industry trends indicate an impact on the workforce as a result of digitisation relating to skill sets and a reduction in organisation sizes. Consumer behaviours and uptake of the digital offerings will influence roles and skill sets required for banks to grow their businesses. As a responsible employer in a competitive environment, the financial services industry needs to identify impacted roles and skills proactively and set plans in motion to upskill employees for new roles and capabilities. Readying the workforce for the future – The emergence Reskilling and upskilling – As skills retention and of fintechs, cryptocurrencies, digital interaction, artificial development are crucial to improving our global intelligence and agile work environments prompted a competitiveness, it is critical that we take an active role in shift in focus to understanding the key skills financial supporting the existing workforce through reskilling and services will require in the future. In SA technology jobs upskilling. Although Nedbank provides an enabling were the most sought-after positions in 2018, with environment, individuals need to adopt a proactive developer skills (Java, PHP, web, .Net, etc) in highest approach to their own learning. In addition, innovative demand. The new world of work is rapidly becoming a partnerships must be explored with non-financialreality and entails a difficult transition for thousands of services sectors to absorb reskilled individuals in their workers and companies in SA and around the world. New respective sectors. External partnerships and funding roles are emerging and require capabilities and skills that opportunities with BANKSETA are some of the avenues are scarce and critical to the future success of businesses. banks are already leveraging to aid in the reskilling and Existing roles will change and therefore the need for outskilling of the workforce. Leaders need to be equipped proactive investment is required to develop new to embrace and lead the change, despite constant capabilities and skilled talent globally within ambiguity and uncertainty, to instil a culture of learning. organisations and at graduate levels. The reality is that Organisations should recognise the risk that skill SA has approximately 3,3 million youth (15–24 years) that shortages pose to delivery on their business strategies are unemployed or in education or training. Nedbank is and need to continue to invest in the development of committed to its role in the broader SA society and is skills. Nedbank is cognisant of the societal impact of now one of many companies, as agreed between leading reskilling and upskilling the existing workforce. Together CEOs and the government, that is participating and with the development of scarce and evolving skills, carrying the costs of employment opportunities to wellbeing programmes aim to build resilience and provide previously unemployed youth as part of the Youth holistic support to employees. Employment Service (YES) initiative. The opportunity, given Nedbank’s differentiation Key risks and mitigating actions Investing to retain, develop and attract the best skills – Skill shortages – Shortages and competition for critical skills At Nedbank we continue to focus our attention on the are rising globally, and this is also true for SA and the African attraction of the best skills, providing proactive training continent. Our workforce, coupled with our digitisation journey, and development of staff and skills to cater for a is at the centre of a changing and uncertain world. There are changing world and future skills. We are exploring many organisational changes that employees have to partnerships with non-financial-services industry players navigate. The macro environment, with challenges of higher to build skills for the greater good of the country. We will levels of unemployment, growing social inequality, political continue to support business and government initiatives, instability and rising costs of living, increases the pressure on such as the SME Fund, and educational programmes, our employees. These challenges are presenting high levels of such as Partners for Possibility and the YES initiative, and stress among the workforce and can place the execution of in so doing help build Nedbank’s brand, communities and our business strategy at risk. In line with our people-centred our country. commitment, at Nedbank our Employee Wellbeing Programme offers confidential (outsourced) counselling services to staff facing stress at work and in their personal lives. We are upskilling the organisation to enable our digital strategy and we are bringing in young and skilled talent to infuse creativity and innovation beyond what we have created thus far. To address skill shortages we continuously invest in skills development and learnership programmes, with digital learning platforms being introduced to reskill and upskill our staff and enable a future-fit workforce. Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes Strategic and execution risks Operational risk Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 21 Changing relationships between business, government, labour and civil society Government, business, labour and civil society all understand the imperative to address weak economic conditions and high levels of unemployment, avert further sovereigncredit-rating downgrades and increase levels of inclusive growth to ensure a better life for all. Working together towards a common goal will assist the SA economy in reaching its full potential and reducing inequality and poverty. CEO Initiative and other areas of focus reform debate by making an oral and written submission to Parliament’s Constitutional Review Committee, The value-adding outcomes to date include, among others: arguing why section 25 of the Constitution, as it relates zz R1,5bn committed by the private sector for investment in to expropriation without compensation (EWC), should small enterprises to drive job creation. not be amended as it already allows for EWC. This zz Companies to offer employment opportunities to one follows our presentation to Parliament in 2017 on million young work-seekers over the next three years (YES transformation, for which Nedbank received initiative) and support commitments made at the Jobs acknowledgement for the progress it had made on Summit. this matter. zz Considerable investment in the REIPPPP that has led to zz We are actively fighting financial crime, and as part of this, 3 517 MW of energy generation. our Chief Executive, Mike Brown, appeared before the Zondo Commission of inquiry into state capture on the zz Improvement of governance in some SOEs and working on closure of the Gupta accounts. We realise that business a resolution to address operational and funding challenges cannot afford to sit back and watch what happens on at Eskom. matters of national significance. As South Africans, we zz Regular meetings to update credit rating agencies on the have a constitutional duty and obligation to recognise and progress made to avert further sovereign-credit-rating redress the injustices and inequalities of the past, while downgrades. To this end all major credit rating agencies working to build a society based on the rule of law that currently have their outlook on SA as ‘stable’ (revised from aims to improve the quality of life of all citizens. negative). State capture and corruption – the need for ethical zz The launch of a USD100bn investment drive over the next behaviour five years, supported by an investment summit. State capture and corruption, as apparent in the evidence In the spirit of nation building, Nedbank was mandated by brought before the Zondo and Nugent commissions of SARB to facilitate payment to more than 17 000 small retail inquiry, as well as corporate scandals have broken the trust clients of VBS Mutual Bank, which was put into curatorship. between social partners in SA and undermined our Constructive national dialogue confidence in each other. Government and private sector companies, through their boards, executive management, zz At Nedbank we have deliberately taken a more active staff and stakeholders, need to ensure that the focus on stance on some key issues facing our country. As a good governance, integrity and ethics increases. purpose-led organisation that uses ‘our financial expertise to do good’, we added our voice to the land The opportunity, given Nedbank’s differentiation Key risks and mitigating actions Playing a leading role in society – Opportunities for Nedbank Sovereign-credit-rating downgrade – Nedbank is well include initiatives that drive inclusive and sustainable economic positioned to deal with a higher-stress environment, such growth. This should place SA in a stronger position over the as any Moody’s downgrade of SA’s sovereign and medium to long term and create a supportive environment for therefore bank credit ratings having a limited direct banks to improve returns and growth. We will continue to impact. Our improved readiness to deal with any contribute to important debates on key issues, work closely potential shocks, compared with our readiness during the with government and labour to ensure positive outcomes for 2007/08 global financial crisis (a prior high-risk event), is our citizens and contribute our fair share through the SDGs shown on page 70 of the Nedbank Group Integrated and other initiatives such as YES and the SME Fund. To this Report. end Nedbank contributed R20m to the SA SME Fund and will Reputational risk – Nedbank Group’s Reputational Risk participate in YES at a cost of approximately 1,5% of the Committee continues to manage and mitigate efficiently three-year average SA net profit after tax per annum reputational risk exposure arising from association risk from 2019. related to allegations around state capture and corruption in the broader context. Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes Business risk Reputational risk 22 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS In response to the rapidly changing operating environment and needs and expectations of our stakeholders, we developed five strategic focus areas that drive the activities in our value-creating business model. These strategic focus areas are underpinned by strategic enablers, which are catalysts for delivering our strategy and achieving our 2020 targets. Delivering innovative market-leading client experiences Growing our Being Managing scarce Providing our clients transactional banking operationally resources to with access to the best franchise faster than excellent optimise economic financial services the market in all we do outcomes network in Africa Create great client experiences and grow clients Enabled by ... Technology People/Talent Managed Evolution and Culture/Brand Digital Fast Lane Delivered through ... Target Operating Model (TOM) Largely by new Ways of Work Leading to ... Client growth Operating and client satisfaction efficiencies Resulting in ... Revenue growth Cost savings ROE (excluding goodwill) ≥ 18% Cost-to-income ratio ≤ 53% Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 23 Delivering innovative market-leading client experiences Financial services providers that respond best to the digital challenge in a client-centred manner will continue to gain a disproportionate share of client revenues. In addition, technological developments provide opportunities for improving efficiency, thereby bringing new digital offerings to market quicker, and lowering the cost to serve as well as optimising the overall cost base through the reduction of branch sizes and ancillary costs. Reflecting on 2018 and looking ahead zz In Nedbank Wealth, our market-recognised digital advice innovation has seen encouraging uptake, as zz Through our ME and DFL technology strategies, we evident in 77% of investors using the Extraordinary have launched various market-leading solutions Life™ platform, which is new to Nedgroup Investments. during the year such as the new Stokvel Account, Nedbank Insurance was the first-to-market insurer in Karri app (integrated digital payment solution for the SA to have chatbot functionality and we have made school ecosystem), Unlocked.Me (a new CVP for the significant strides in remaining ahead through youth segment), MobiMoney (allows clients to receive delivering live-agent service functionality and funeraland send money, buy airtime and electricity from a quoting capabilities. cellphone and withdraw money, all without a formal zz CIB won The Banker magazine’s 2018 fintech bank account) and a crossborder remittance product. partnership award for our partnership with Aerobotics zz We increased the number of new self-service (Pty) Ltd. functions (previously only available inbranch or zz In 2019 we will bring further exciting digital innovations through staffed channels) on the Nedbank Money to market to enhance client experiences and drive app™ and the new Nedbank online banking site, taking efficiencies. We piloted simplified client onboarding the total services to 70. As a result, app transaction with a convenient, FICA-compliant account-opening volumes through the Nedbank Money app™ increased process and the fully digital account-opening process 82% during the year. By 2020 we aim to have 180 for two of our products, personal loans and services available to clients. Similarly, we added transactional accounts, in 10 branches in 2018. These various new services to the Nedbank Private will be launched to our clients in the first half of 2019. Wealth app. The benefits are evident in higher levels By 2020 we aim to have digitised the sales journeys of of client satisfaction, increased digital penetration our top 10 retail products. and various independent industry awards. zz Other innovations in the pipeline include a refreshed zz In RBB we have proactively enabled 5,9 million clients internet banking experience in line with our mobile to do their banking on our digital channels and are banking apps, a new and exciting loyalty and rewards now focusing on increasing active usage (currently solution, and further rollout of chatbots, robo-advisors 1,5 million clients) as we enhance functionality and and software robots (robotic process automation). ease of use. zz Investment into platform related activities as we zz As far as our integrated channels are concerned, we continually evolve our business model to underpin have to date converted 60% of our outlets to newfuture growth. image digital branches, and our investment in distribution channels over the next three years (until 2021) will result in 79% of our retail clients being exposed to the new digitally focused branch formats Key risks in implementing the strategy and self-service offerings. Benefits of increasing the Innovations do not deliver market-leading client number of self-service devices are illustrated in the experiences – Client satisfaction measures, such increasing volumes of cash being handled by our as the Net Promoter Score and app ratings in Intelligent Depositor devices, now at 61% from 20% in 2018, indicate that recent product releases are 2015. We increased our Intelligent Depositor devices highly rated. Nedbank’s approach to adopt by 7%, video bankers by 8% and self-service kiosks by international gold standards (the best globally) 4%. Along with the increased services available on the and involve clients in the product development app, these investments enabled us to reduce teller processes (design thinking) mitigates the risk to some extent. We are continuously adding new activity by 16%. value-adding services to ensure that products and services evolve as clients’ needs change. 24 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Innovations delivered in 2018 Innovations and CVPs Value for our clients Value for Nedbank Stokvel – A safe, easy and effective solution with no Market penetration into transactional fees that allows groups of individuals to segments where manage group savings better, with added benefits Nedbank did not have a such as best-in-market burial cover and up to 15% strong presence. discount vouchers for selected stores for each member. Karri app – An integrated payment collections and A good starting point to accelerate our reconciliation capability enabling parents to make schoolecosystem-based solution for schools, related payments within seconds, at the same time thereby solidifying our relationships with relieving schools from the burden of cash payments and schools to expand our offering across the management and eliminating the need for kids to carry ecosystem. cash. Nedbank Money appTM – An easy, simplified, convenient Reduced traffic through Nedbank’s and cost-effective way of banking for clients. Digitisation of physical channels enabling cost savings, key services saves clients time and enables them to manage and introduction of new revenue streams their money and financial life remotely, removing the need through value-added services such as to go to a physical branch. This includes innovative electricity payments. capabilities such as QR code-based payments through scan to pay, changing limits and freezing cards. Extraordinary Life chatbot – A faster investment Reduced account-opening process (end to end in as little as 10 minutes), no costs and a new paperwork (100% digital) and tailored, personalised channel as a source of guidance suggesting the best combination of products additional revenue. to maximise an individual’s savings. Unlocked.Me – Clients can digitally onboard themselves Our first exploration into platforms, on our first-in-market banking account with zero monthly aimed at growing our youth market share, fee charges and value-added benefits relevant to them. changing the perception about Nedbank We provide them with tangible opportunities such as and creating new revenue streams with equipping them for the job market and addressing youth beyond-banking offerings. unemployment. The curated lifestyle pillar hosts exclusive offers and discounts for clients. Ecobank–Nedbank crossborder remittance solution – New source of revenue in Low-cost, fast and convenient solution to 2,7 million African a market segment where migrants, allowing them to send money to friends and Nedbank did not have a families in 33 countries across the continent at affordable presence. rates. Nedbank clients do not have to go through the hassle of going into a branch to make transfers, saving them time. CASE IN POINT Stokvel It is estimated that 800 000 stokvels in SA are regularly used as a trusted, social-savings mechanism by approximately 76% of black households. Despite SA being seen as a low-savings country, more than R50bn is saved within both the banked and unbanked stokvels market. Our Stokvel Account provides a safe, easy and effective way for groups of individuals to pool their savings and grow their money collectively. In line with our purpose of using our financial expertise to do good, we embarked on a journey to create a market-leading stokvel proposition. zz Use our financial expertise – Using our DFL capability, we established a crossfunctional stokvel squad, comprising staff from different areas within the bank. We created a holistic single-account solution, offering insurance, rewards and discounts for school supplies. zz Do good for clients – Our Stokvel Account offers competitive returns, no monthly maintenance fees, dedicated support and financial education to members, as well as a best-in-market burial benefit of R10 000 for just R15 per member per month. This ensures stokvels do not need to pay out of their banked capital to bury their members with dignity. Stokvels are also rewarded for reaching their savings goals through tangible rewards from partners they trust. We have negotiated discounts with various retail partners such that members receive up to 10% discount on bulk groceries and school supplies, as well as discount vouchers of up to 15% per member from the Edcon Group. Stokvels with a balance of more than R10 000 by year-end are also eligible for discount vouchers of up to 10% per member from selected partners. New functionality to be introduced in 2019 should further enhance the client experience. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 25 Innovations and CVPs to be launched in 2019 Key dates/Targets Simplified client onboarding – convenient FICA-compliant account H1 2019 opening digitally from your couch, and branch rollout. Ability for clients to obtain an unsecured loan, bundled with a H1 2019 transactional account, on the web. Digitising the sales journeys of our top 10 products end to end. Top 10 by 2020 New loyalty and rewards programme. H2 2019 Digitising more services on app, web and self-service kiosks, > 180 services by 2020 making it easy, convenient and cheaper for clients. Further rollout of software robots, artificial intelligence, roboOngoing advisors, chatbots and data analytics capabilities. Ensuring and protecting value – Group Information Technology Committee (GITCO) ‘Through 2018 we continued to leverage our credible IT capabilities and core foundational platforms, optimise IT operating costs and embrace modern Mantsika Matooane technologies and, most of all, we have pivoted to put our clients at the heart (Chair) of everything that we do.’ Ensuring and protecting value in 2018 Focus for 2019 and beyond zz Significant focus on operational stability and security continued to zz Maintaining industry-leading levels of system availability yield improvements in service availability for our clients and limit and stability as a core foundation of strength. business impact of any downtime. zz Staying ahead of the curve on cybersecurity matters. zz Monitored execution of Managed Evolution strategy, which remains zz Delivering the Managed Evolution IT strategy in a way the bank’s digital transformation enabler. The foundational that creates competitive advantage. programmes within Managed Evolution have now largely been completed. zz Continuing with first-to-market innovative digital products, increasing the use of digital channels and zz Oversaw the introduction of several innovative services in 2018, increasing sales. including: Pay Me (Nedbank clients send request for payment), balance peek (for ease of checking balances) and scan to pay. zz Disrupting and commercialising digital assets (reuse or new) at scale by shifting the perspective beyond SA to unlock our digital vision; and solving clients’ needs and scaling value propositions across Africa at pace. Stakeholders Top 10 risks Staff Regulators Strategic and execution risks Regulatory and compliance risks Clients Cyberrisk Shareholders A comprehensive GITCO report is available online in our 2018 Governance and Ethics Review on our group website at nedbankgroup.co.za. 26 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Growing our transactional-banking franchise faster than the market Our transactional-banking strategy starts by creating marketleading client experiences that will lead to growing and retaining our clients, and deepening our share of wallet as we convert new and existing clients into main-banked and transactional-banking clients. Growing our transactional-banking franchise faster than the market improves our ROE, as deposits and transactional revenue consume less capital and add to our funding pool. At the same time, earnings volatility is reduced as more stable sources of income are increased and our brand value grows. Reflecting on 2018 and looking ahead || Business Banking’s market share increased from 19% in 2017 to 22% in 2018 – the highest market zz Growing our transactional-banking franchise remains share gain across all banks as measured by the a major focus in RBB. Over the past five years we KPI Research Business Electronic Banking and have succeeded in consistently growing our client Tracking Study 2018. base despite increasing competition and new || Disappointingly, notwithstanding strong retail entrants. Looking forward, market research suggests advances growth of 7,1%, we lost market share of that the number of banked consumers in SA will grow household deposits from 18,9% in 2017 to 18,0% to 28 million by 2020, and we expect to increase our in 2018 due to aggressive competitor pricing. share of this. zz In CIB we have won major transactional accounts zz Of our 7,5 million retail clients in SA, 5,9 million have during 2018, including major private sector and some form of transactional product with Nedbank. municipal transactional-banking accounts. We gained Only 28% have another product – this means there is 30 primary clients in 2018 and more than 20 every still significant opportunity for cross-sell. year since 2014, which provide a valuable underpin to || Under our strict definition of retail main-banked ongoing NIR growth. clients we have 3 million clients who regularly || We intend to grow our transactional banking share bank with us, increasing 6,9% in 2018. This by improving client coverage and achieving deeper increase was largely underpinned by growth in client penetration. the entry-level, middle-market, professional and small-business-client segments, which supported || Our CIB NIR-to-advances ratio, a key indicator of retail transactional NIR growth of 8,1% cross-sell and the ability to leverage our strong (excluding IFRS adjustments). While we remain a balance sheet to grow NIR, increased to 2,4%, with bank for all, we will continue to focus on the a sustainable target of > 2,0% given a forecast of youth and ELB, leveraging digital while ensuring stronger wholesale growth if economic growth effective migration to a rising middle market, improves over the next few years. where we focus on retention and on deepening || Along with Business Banking, CIB contributed to our relationship through cross-sell. The rising corporate (non-transactional) deposit market middle market has the highest economic share increasing to 17,3% on the back of 30 primary potential, greater propensity to switch and the client wins. highest growth rate among the retail segments. Our market-leading client innovations supported growth in client numbers and the exciting innovations in the pipeline should support ongoing client growth. || The Consulta survey, measuring main-banked Key risks in implementing the strategy market share, recorded Nedbank’s share in 2018 New entrants – New entrants are likely to position at 13,1% – this is up from 12,7% in 2017 and 9,6% themselves to capture a share of transactionalin 2014 (under the discontinued AMPS survey). banking revenues. We welcome competition as it We are targeting to increase our main-banked drives us to focus even more on our clients, their market share to more than 15% by 2020 – more needs and delivering innovative solutions. The new in line with our retail advances market share. innovations we will be launching in 2019, as shown This should continue to support NIR growth. on pages 43 and 44, should ensure that Nedbank remains highly competitive. For more information on new innovations in 2019, refer to page 43 and 44 on our 2019 Integrated Report, available on nedbank.co.za Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 27 Being operationally excellent in all we do Our strategic approach to cost management is to invest sustainably in the franchise to unlock future growth potential, at the same time managing our expenses by delivering synergies and efficiencies to reduce our cost-to-income ratio over time. Over the past few years we have invested significantly in the franchise to support long-term growth, and by extracting efficiencies we have been able to maintain expenses growth in line with that of our peers. Some of the investments we have made include completing key foundation projects as part of the Managed Evolution and investing in digital and core systems as well as in regulatory compliance. Reflecting on 2018 and looking ahead Key risks in implementing the strategy zz We have identified key business areas for reducing our cost-to-income ratios, namely RBB and Rest of Africa, IT investments do not deliver expected returns and/or to assist the group in meeting its ≤ 53% target by 2020. cost more than planned – IT investments and product In RBB and Nedbank Wealth it has become more difficult innovations could fall short of expected revenue to achieve our cluster targets, given economic pressures, growth and efficiencies, while increasing expenses accounting charges and additional costs. growth (IT amortisation costs). Nedbank follows a rigorous process in the approval of business cases to zz We reduced headcount by 610 (mainly through natural ensure they are net present value (NPV) positive attrition) and optimised our staffed points of presence unless they are purely regulatory-related. We by closing 18 points of presence and opening four new anticipate that annual IT cashflow spend will peak in branches and five inretailer outlets, resulting in the net 2019 at levels similar to those in 2017 and 2018, before reduction of nine physical points of presence (while declining thereafter. Our ME and DFL approaches maintaining our coverage of the bankable population at mitigate excessive IT costs, particularly as the 84%). We are evolving our physical distribution to become investments relating to our foundational programmes more digitally and technology-focused, while optimising and the regulatory costs are mostly behind us. our footprint. Our number of physical points are declining as digital adoption increases, and we have reduced overlap in some geographic areas and where previously standalone outlets have been integrated into our branch network, such as personal-loans branches. zz The new self-servicing functions released on our apps have enabled us to reduce related call centre volumes by 15 000 interactions a month, while freeing up capacity in our branches and staffed channels. zz Branch floor space has been reduced by more than 32 971 m² to date and we plan to achieve more than 45 000 m² by 2020 (a revision of our initial 2020 target of 30 000 m²). zz We implemented 51 software robots to date (robotic process automation) to enhance efficiencies and reduce processing errors in administratively intense processes. These exclude the temporary software robots that were used to onboard the more than 17 000 VBS clients. zz Good progress was made with our Target Operating Model initiatives, which aim at generating R1,2bn pretax benefits for Nedbank by 2020 and are linked to our long-term incentive scheme. Most cost initiatives in 2018 have been identified in RBB, and to date we have delivered cumulative savings of R680m. 28 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes Through managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes we leverage our areas of strength, while reducing downside risk in higherMarket share of key lending and risk products or businesses. Maintaining a strong deposit-taking activities in SA balance sheet ensures that we remain resilient in (%, yoy trend) tough times and are able to leverage new growth Standard opportunities. This strategic focus area centres Market share % Nedbank FirstRand Bank Absa Other on managing scarce resources, such as capital, Home loans — 14,5 20,7 34,2 23,0 7,6 long-dated liquidity and costs, to optimise Vehicle and asset economic outcomes and thereby increase our finance – household ↑ 35,7 30,4 12,7 19,6 1,6 economic profit, being the excess of ROE above COE. Internally this is referred to as portfolio tilt. Credit cards ↓ 13,7 26,0 26,1 26,3 7,9 Personal loans ↑ 10,4 23,1 16,6 10,6 39,3 Reflecting on 2018 and looking ahead Core corporate loans1 ↓ 20,6 22,7 19,3 20,5 17,0 zz On the previous pages we illustrated our primary focus on growing our transactional revenues and how this has supported Commercial-mortgage market share gains in transactional banking. We expect this loans ↓ 39,1 6,5 17,0 14,8 22,6 growth to continue. Household deposits ↓ 18,0 21,7 19,4 21,7 19,2 zz We have tilted our portfolio to grow selectively in key advances categories. After having derisked our home loan and personalNon-financial loan books in previous years, we are now growing in line with the corporate deposits2 ↑ 16,9 23,6 27,2 17,9 14,4 market in home loans and ahead of the market in personal loans. Source: SARB BA900 at 31 December 2018. We are also growing our vehicle finance market share, where we 1 Core corporate loans comprise commercial mortgages, corporate overdrafts, have a competitive advantage, and our card market share, which corporate credit cards, corporate instalment credit, foreign sector loans, public is closely linked to transactional-client growth. Looking forward, sector loans, preference shares, factoring accounts and other corporate loans. 2 Includes ‘private non-financial corporate sector deposits’, ‘unincorporated we will continue to tilt our portfolio to grow in lower-risk businesses’ and ‘non-profit and charities’ as per the SARB BA900 return. segments of home loans and personal loans, while leveraging our ↑ Increase in market share ↓ Decrease in market share — Flat unique positioning in vehicle finance where we lead in the secondhand and lower-value vehicle segments. zz Corporate credit growth has slowed, particularly driven by Portfolio tilt strategy looking ahead unscheduled early repayments in the first half of 2018, although Advances pipelines remained solid. In the second half of 2018 we have seen Retail some improvement in loan payouts. As business confidence Home loans improves, we should see stronger growth in years to come. Our Backbook ▼ levels of exposure to stressed industries such as SOEs, cement, Frontbook ▲ construction and retail remain limited and we are currently Vehicle finance — adequately provided for. In 2018 Nedbank reported the lowest Personal loans credit loss ratio among peers at 53 bps. < R5 000/month segment ▼ zz The adoption of the SDGs provides opportunities to grow and Entry-level banking segment ▲ contribute to a greater purpose. The progress we have made in Middle market ▲ 2018 is discussed in more detail in our Sustainable Development Wholesale Review at nedbankgroup.co.za. Property finance zz The ultimate measure of optimisation of economic outcomes is our Domestic lending — ROE (excluding goodwill), which increased to 17,9% as ETI returned Property partners — to profitability (accounted for a quarter in arrear). Given our focus Rest of Africa — on revenue growth drivers and cost optimisation initiatives, we Investment banking — expect to see continued ROE improvement towards 2020. Client coverage ▲ Global markets ▲ Wealth — Key risks in implementing the strategy NIR-related zz Weaker macroeconomic environment leading to slower Wholesale and retail transactional/ revenue growth and an increase in bad debts – A key mitigant in a challenging macroeconomic environment is primary clients ▲ Nedbank’s high-quality portfolio (as evident in a low CLR), Global markets (trading) ▲ prudent provisioning (coverage levels have increased after Insurance ▲ Private-equity-related — the adoption of IFRS 9), selective origination in portfolios (such as home loans, personal loans and high-stressed Deposits sectors) and building a strong transactional-banking and Household — deposit franchise to enable a more sustainable revenue Non-financial corporate ▲ stream in difficult times. Capital market — Short-term wholesale funding ▼ zz Exposure to SOEs – Our exposure to SOEs is less than Foreign currency liabilities ▲ R18bn, or less than 2% of advances, most of which have a government underpin. Through collaborative engagement ▼ Slower than market growth across the industry we are supporting SOEs where good ▲ Faster than market growth governance, and clear strategies are in place. — In line with market Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 29 Ensuring and protecting value – Group Credit Committee (GCC) ‘An inherent part of credit risk takes into account geopolitical as well as reputational risks. The committee has incorporated these risk components and enhanced current policies to incorporate these aspects to ensure an agile credit risk governance framework. Implementation deadlines for IFRS 9 were met, with independent analysis of impairments and credit model validation being effective for 2018. The committee Errol Kruger prioritised the assistance of clients who had been identified as being in distress, which (Chair) aligned with Nedbank’s purpose statement that focuses on a client-centred outlook.’ Key focus areas in 2018 to ensure and protect value Focus for 2019 and beyond zz Tracked and monitored progress with the zz Focusing more on strategic credit risks ('Strategic Portfolio Tilt'), implementation of IFRS 9. ensuring as far as possible than an optimal balance of credit risk zz Undertook concentration risk deep dives into, among versus return/reward is attained. others, the commercial-property portfolio, the zz Continuing to focus on the alignment and combined effectiveness renewable-energy portfolio, the MFC portfolio, key of Risk, Audit and Compliance. watchlist clients and state-owned enterprises exposure, zz Continuing to monitor the bank’s policies to ensure they evolve with satisfying ourselves that the concentration risk was well the amendments in legislation and current trends regarding the use managed and aligned with risk appetite. of scenarios on climate change in risk assessments and the zz Continuously managed distressed portfolios, key sustainable finance of state-owned enterprises. watchlist clients and industry-specific concentration zz Proactive risk management of distressed portfolios, key watchlist risks. clients and industry-specific concentration risks. zz Satisfied ourselves with the independent and effective zz Continuing to monitor the bank’s position and readiness to deal validation of regulatory capital models. with a potential Moody’s downgrade of SA’s sovereign credit rating. Stakeholders Top 10 risks Clients Regulators Business risk Regulatory and compliance risks Shareholders Staff Credit risk A comprehensive GCC report is available online in our 2018 Governance and Ethics Review on our group website at nedbankgroup.co.za. Providing our clients with access to the best financial services network in Africa This strategic focus area aims to drive a greater earnings contribution from faster growth in the economies of the rest of Africa over the longer term, while providing geographic diversification benefits and enabling our clients to access the largest banking network in Africa. Nedbank has a three-pronged strategy unlock crossborder transactions and build a deal pipeline by leveraging our individual strengths. for growth in the rest of Africa zz Through our CIB franchise we leverage our industry sector zz In SADC and East Africa – which contain countries more expertise and actively participate in deals on the continent. integrated with the SA economy – we want to own, manage and control banks. We now have a physical presence in six countries, including Lesotho, Malawi, Reflecting on 2018 and looking ahead Mozambique, Namibia, Eswatini (Swaziland) and zz In SADC we continued to build scale and optimise costs. Zimbabwe. The implementation of our core banking system, Flexcube, was finalised with the successful zz In Central and West Africa – which contain countries implementation thereof in Zimbabwe during 2018. further away from SA and where Nedbank does not have a We have launched a number of new digital products and competitive advantage – we have an alliance with Ecobank that provides our clients with access to markets in which we we continue to grow our distribution footprint. As a do not have a presence. Ecobank has a top-three position in result, clients increased 4,8% to 352 921. 14 countries. Our alliance is underpinned by a commercial zz Ecobank has been through a challenging period over the relationship in terms of which we are actively working to past two years following depressed oil prices, the naira 30 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 devaluation and recession in Nigeria. In December 2018 Ecobank Nigeria to ensure risk oversight and drive ETI announced that it would move to using the new increased levels of collaboration. NAFEX exchange rate instead of the official CBN rate in zz Collaboration with ETI is increasing and during 2018 we: its Nigerian operations. We are working very closely with || integrated our payment solutions into Ecobank’s ETI’s management and board to improve returns in order market-leading remittance product that has been to meet their medium-to-long-term return on tangible launched in over 30 countries, which enables us to equity (ROTE) target of cost of equity + 5% (cost of provide a low-cost, fast and convenient solution to equity estimated at 17%). 2,7 million African migrants and capture a share of zz Through our board representation in ETI we work with the R25bn remittance market; like-minded shareholders who have a common purpose || increased the number of our clients doing their of strengthening the Ecobank franchise. Mfundo Nkuhlu, transactional banking with ETI by more than 100; and our Chief Operating Officer, is Chair of the Risk Committee and Brian Kennedy, Managing Executive || concluded two deals as regular meetings with for CIB, has joined the Audit and Remuneration Ecobank and QNB resulted in an increase in our deal Committees. In addition, Anel Bosman, Managing pipeline. Executive for CIB Markets, has joined the board of Nedbank, ETI and CIB presence Key risks in implementing the strategy Volatility and uncertainty in African economies – While our Zimbabwean operations remain small in the group context, we are conscious of the challenging environment and its impact on our staff and clients. The difficult environment in Zimbabwe resulted in a negative FCTR adjustment to the group’s capital of R0,8bn before minorities (R0,5bn after minorities). We continue to monitor developments in Zimbabwe brought about by currency shortages and pressure on the fiscus. The turnaround in ETI continues, but risks remain NEDBANK ECOBANK NEDBANK CIB Nedbank existing presence Ecobank top three in country Investment banking deals – especially in ETI’s Nigerian portfolio. We closely Expansion opportunities Ecobank other monitor these risks on an ongoing basis as active Nedbank representative offices Ecobank representative offices members on the ETI board. CASE IN POINT Crossborder remittance platform Every year people living within the borders of SA transfer an estimated R25bn to families and friends living in the rest of Africa. The remittance market is growing fast, fuelled by the diaspora, and it is increasingly going digital with a quarter of remittance transfers taking place over digital channels. Current solutions in the market are expensive. Nedbank offers a crossborder remittance platform that supports financial inclusion and provides the most affordable, lowest cost, most convenient and instant crossborder payment service on both the Nedbank Money app™ and secure website. As Nedbank we are creating value by delivering on our purpose of using our financial expertise to do good through our crossborder remittance platform. zz Use our financial expertise – The CVP we developed is disruptive and innovative, and has taken Nedbank from having no crossborder transfer capability to creating a solution that facilitates low-value account-to-account payments. Through our DFL capability we developed the solution within six weeks, followed by extensive SARB testing, and officially launched it to market in November 2018. We have also leveraged our internal treasury function and associated realtime systems that contribute to our marketleading pricing proposition for clients. zz Do good for clients – Nedbank enables accountholders to send money cost-effectively, conveniently, safely and instantly to 33 countries in Africa, leveraging Ecobank’s on-the-ground presence, while remaining compliant with regulatory requirements. Once an individual has become a client, no further documentation is required to send money and there is also no need to visit a branch, retailer or kiosk in order to initiate or complete a payment. Further to this, no data costs are incurred for the sender given the Money app’s zero-rated status. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 31 RECOGNITION AND RATINGS Nedbank received several awards that recognise our efforts in managing our business sustainably in 2018. While our sustainability efforts are not undertaken with the aim of winning awards, the external recognition we received serves to affirm that our efforts are well directed. Awards include: Our sustainability credentials include: zz 2018 EY Excellence in Integrated Reporting – Won first zz Carbon-neutral status – Africa’s first carbon-neutral place among leading companies in SA in the top 10 financial organisation. Carbon-neutral since 2010. category. zz FTSE4Good Index – A global responsible-investment index zz 2018 Sunday Times Top Brands – Winner of Community for companies that demonstrate strong environmental, Upliftment Award in business category and runnerup for social and governance practices. Included in 2018. the Business Green Award. zz FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment Top 30 Index – zz 2018 International Banker Awards – Best Banking CEO and Constituent of the index. Best Innovation in Retail Banking. zz Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets Index 2018 zz 2018 Banker Africa: Southern Africa Awards – Rated the – A global performance benchmark for companies in terms Best Corporate Bank in SA. of corporate sustainability. Included since 2004. Inclusion zz 2018 Investment Analyst Society – Acknowledged as leader helps to attract investment to the company. in corporate reporting in the banking sector. zz SA Carbon Disclosure Project Index 2018 – Scored a ‘A -’ for zz 2018 SA Board for People Practices Employment Equity, performance. One of 11 companies to be awarded this score Diversity and Transformation Awards –Employment Equity, in SA. Score recognises our corporate environmental action Diversity and Transformation award. on climate change. zz 2019 Euromoney Private Banking and Wealth zz WWF-SA Water Balance Programme – Invested R14m in Management Survey – Nedbank Private Wealth named Top national water security. The programme helps to increase Private Bank and Wealth Manager in SA for Super Affluent water supply and delivers economic and social benefits Clients (USD1m to USD5m) and Top Private Bank and through job creation. Wealth Manager in SA for ESG/Social Impact Investing. zz WWF Nedbank Green Trust partnership – Invested R264m zz 2019 Raging Bull Awards – Offshore Management since the trust’s inception in support of over 200 Company of the Year: Nedgroup Investments; Best SA environmental projects throughout SA. Global Multi-Asset Low-Equity Fund on a Risk-Adjusted zz WWF-SA Sustainable Agriculture Programme – Invested Basis: Nedgroup Investments; and Best SA Global MultiR18m as official sponsor. Partnership helps to promote and Asset Low-Equity Fund on a Risk-Adjusted Basis. support national sustainable agricultural production zz 2018 Global Finance magazine – Best Consumer Digital practices. Bank in Mozambique – Banco Único. zz Green buildings – Nedbank occupies 10 Green Star-rated zz 2018 The Banker Magazine – Bank of the Year Award in buildings. Mozambique: Banco Único and Bank of the Year Award in Swaziland: Nedbank Swaziland. Independent ESG ratings – Nedbank is highly rated among its global peer group Peer group (where available) Nedbank Banks 0 2,7 4,8 5 FTSE Russell Ranked 2nd among ESG ratings SA listed companies DA 86,9 A+ Thomson Reuters Nedbank in top 100 ESG score companies globally 0 100 10 largest global banks CCC BB A AAA MSCI ESG rating Emerging-market Index members 0 76 80 100 RobecoSAM Corporate Included in DJSI for Sustainability 14 years and one of Assessment (DJSI) only two SA banks 0 60 78 100 Ranked 2nd (banks Sustainalytics with similar market ESG ratings capitalisation) 32 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Nedbank is part of a greater socioeconomic ecosystem and we recognise that we are dependent on robust relationships with all other stakeholders. We appreciate the role played by all of our stakeholders and are committed to nurturing impactful relationships that deliver mutual benefits. Impairment losses on Other banking Value NII loans and advances income added R28 819m R3 688m R26 340m R51 471m Dividend paid Dividend paid Retentions Retentions for for to shareholders share1 (Rm) to shareholders share1 (Rm) 12,8%12,8% 18,5% 18,5% growth1 growth1 (Rm) (Rm) 5 939 6 504 6 939 5 582 6 504 6 582 6 335 7 240 6 554 335 9 7 240 9 554 2016 2018 2016 2018 2016 2018 2016 2018 Value Government Government allocated 20,1% 20,1% R51 471m 26,0% 26,0% (taxes)1 (taxes)1 Staff expenses Staff expenses 1 1 (Rm) (Rm) (Rm) (Rm) (2017: R47 321m) 8 854 9 802 8 854 10 337 9 802 10 337 12 055 12 781 12 055 13 361 12 781 13 361 2016 2018 2016 2018 2016 2018 2016 2018 Socioeconomic Socioeconomic Other Other development development expenditure expenditure (Rm) (Rm) 22,4% 22,4% 0,2%0,2% spend (Rm) spend (Rm) Our stakeholder engagement framework While the Group Exco has ultimate responsibility for our group’s stakeholder engagement efforts, the process of engaging with stakeholders is decentralised to 10 583 10513 583 10 826 11 10 826 11 513 form part of the operations of our various clusters and business areas. Cluster-based stakeholder engagement is governed by a comprehensive group stakeholder 141 168 141 124 168 124 2016 2018 2016 2018 engagement framework and policy, which include our corporate identity and 2016 2018 2016 2018 communication guidelines. Each business area is required to report regularly on its stakeholder engagements through the Group Exco. The following pages provide an overview of how we delivered value to our stakeholders in 2018 and prospects for future value creation. 1 Value for government (taxes) includes direct taxes, dividend withholding tax and cash payments made to SARS in respect of value-added tax. As a result, the amounts for the dividend paid to shareholders, staff expenses and retentions for growth may not agree with the amounts disclosed for the group‘s annual financial statements. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 33 Staff: Investing in our staff CASE IN POINT Digital learning Delivering value to our staff in 2018 zz As a large employer we paid R13,4bn in remuneration and benefits, net of Digital learning is a digital platform solution taxes, to our 31 277 employees. To reduce the wealth gap we deliberately that allows for selfprovided for average salary increases at 7,0% for our unionised staff, higher directed learning. As the than the 5,0% for management. need for ongoing zz Training spend increased 32% in 2018 (2017: 38,2%) to R468m as we aligned reskilling of staffmembers increases our training programmes with our strategic intent. We refreshed our exponentially, digital learning gives staff executive management programmes to be more digitally focused, with more the opportunity to determine the pace than 70 senior leaders having participated in immersive learning experiences of their own learning and, if required, (the Executive Business Transformation Programme) over the past two learn in small modules. As Nedbank we years, with exposure to Silicon Cape, Silicon Savannah (Kenya) and Silicon are creating value by delivering on our purpose: Valley. zz Use our financial expertise – zz Staff attrition declined slightly to 10,1% (2017: 10,6%), while staff numbers Between October 2017 and decreased by 610. The attrition rate remains below the industry benchmark September 2018 Nedbank of 11–13%. We have not implemented any material retrenchment collaborated with various digital programmes over the past several years, as we have honoured our staff partners and ran digital learning pilots in key environments. LinkedIn practice of limiting redundancies wherever possible for the greater benefit of Learning was piloted in Retail and SA, by actively using a redeployment pool. Business Banking and Group zz Given the large-scale change in the organisation as we implement nWoW and Technology. A total of 3 218 embrace the Fourth Industrial Revolution, our cultural entropy increased to 20% licences were issued in 2018 and 32 316 hours were spent on (2016: 12%). This is an indication of an organisation in transition and reflects the learning content that covered a challenges our staffmembers face in the macro environment (work and wide variety of subjects. The 95% personal lives, social economic pressures, etc). We have taken note of the uptake of this offering lead to feedback from staff and are responding at both an enterprise and cluster level. Nedbank receiving an international award from LinkedIn Learning for zz We implemented nWoW practices with more than 1 500 staffmembers the ‘Best learning culture in SA’. working according to this new approach. We aim to increase this number We have now invested in 30 000 incrementally to support an optimal agile scaling framework over the licences to enable the entire 2019 period. organisation to participate in this learning experience and more zz A refreshed performance management approach was implemented focusing on focus will be placed on innovative goal commitments. This new approach enables the organisation to have more ways of learning to acquire the frequent and robust conversations around running and changing the business, skills of the future. in alignment with us becoming more agile, client-focused, digital and zz Do good for staff – Digital competitive. Our executive goal commitment contracts on pages 88 to page 90 learning is core to enabling a of the 2019 Integrated Report embraced this new approach. future-fit workforce, as it gives staff easier access to training. zz Transformation remains a key focus for the group as we continued to increase Staffmembers are now using our workforce with AIC groups now at 77,4%, to more closely reflect the digital learning to reskill for the demographics of society. Similarly, on gender diversity, female representation is future, as they learn where and when it suits them, in a focused now at 61,8% of the Nedbank permanent workforce. way and with less time in the classroom. Since the digital learning platforms have been made available to our staffmembers, we have seen the average hours of classroom learning drop and more people being trained through a blended learning approach. Looking ahead zz In 2019 we will continue to build capabilities around client-centredness and design thinking while adding several additional leadership capabilities. zz Our new operating model will continue to revitalise the organisation of work and how we work together to deliver on our strategic focus areas. Given the significant impact of digitisation in financial services, our challenge in anticipating the required future skills of the workforce and readying our people for the future will receive significant focus. zz We continue to focus on our cultural journey by deploying levers such as the Leadership, Values and Culture assessment tool as well as other levers to embed the required change. zz We will continue our efforts to lead in transformation while focusing on a right-fit culture and leadership to align with Nedbank’s strategic intent. Long-term targets zz A culture that is commercially focused, client-centred and innovative. zz A diverse and inclusive staff profile. 34 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Clients: Creating great client experiences CASE IN POINT Extraordinary Life Delivering value to our clients in 2018 zz We made new-loan payouts of R181bn to enable clients to finance their ‘Extraordinary Life’ is a homes, vehicles and education, and grow their businesses. This increased digital, automated 18% on the previous year. savings platform that delivers a cutting-edge zz We launched various innovative solutions to make banking more convenient user experience by using and meet the needs of our clients. Below are a few examples: a chatbot to collect || The Nedbank Private Wealth app was further enhanced through our data, automated application program interface(API)DFL capability and was ranked second best globally by Cutter driven advice, chatbot access to Associates International Research, an improvement from seventh in investment expertise and a fully 2017. digitised purchasing experience. || The Nedbank Money app™, our retail app that makes banking more Nedbank won The Banker magazine’s 2018 (Artificial Intelligence and convenient for our clients, has seen more than 1,6 million downloads and Robotics) global award for this is rated well above peer banks on the iOS platform. With new marketinnovation. At Nedbank we are creating leading innovative services that underpin these ratings clients can scan value by delivering on our purpose: to pay (first in market), freeze and unfreeze cards (first in market) and zz Use our financial expertise – We stop unauthorised debit orders. brought together four different || We launched Unlocked.Me, our first platform play solution to enhance expert teams across four different our youth and middle-market propositions, offering banking and lifestyle countries (England, India, the Czech Republic and SA) with the aim of solutions and delivering curated experiences. building the best robo-advice || Karri, our mobile payment app that allows users to make cash-free platform in SA. For Nedbank the payments for school activities quickly, safely and hassle-free, has been platform helps attain market rolled out to more than 200 schools across the country. leadership in the field of automated investment platforms through a || As far as our integrated channels are concerned, we have to date collective intimacy strategy, converted 60% of our outlets to new image digital branches, and our leveraging the algorithms built to investment in distribution channels over the next three years (until 2021) develop a unique digital relationship will result in 79% of our retail clients being exposed to the new digitally with our clients. The platform has focused branch formats and self-service offerings. integrated new onboarding services and reduced the associated || We extended the use of chatbots and robo-advisors to enhance client investment account opening cost by experiences through our contact centre and web-servicing capabilities almost 90%, increasing the and will continue to do so. In 2018 Nedgroup Investments won The profitability of the new channel. The Financial Times’ The Banker magazine Technology Project award in the project also introduced the use of global Artificial Intelligence and Robotics category for our robo-advice new technologies into Nedbank by integrating artificial intelligence, solution. chatbot, investment algorithms, || For our wholesale clients we partnered with Aerobotics, a fintech, that web and API development, thereby uses satellites and drones to capture multispectral images of orchards exponentially increasing our skill and to help farmers optimise yields and manage costs. This innovative expertise in these areas. solution received The Banker‘s global award for a fintech partnership. zz Do good for clients – Extraordinary Life provides expert online advice || In the rest of Africa we continue to launch various new products and and relieves four major client pain CVPs on the back of our core banking implementation. points when it comes to investing: zz System uptime continues to be above our acceptable level of tolerance || Time: Extraordinary Life (> 99,1%), notwithstanding significant changes to IT systems and new digital reduces a five-to-ten-day paper applications. process to just 10 minutes. zz We recorded a significant improvement in our NPS score from 26% to 37%, || Hassle: Extraordinary Life is completely digital. No the largest increase among all banks in 2018. Similarly, we have seen our paperwork, no telephone calls. brand value increase, moving us up one position higher to ninth in SA, and || Complexity: Based on the from fifth to fourth among SA banking peers. client’s answers, Extraordinary zz CIB received The Banker Africa’s award for Best Corporate Bank in SA, was Life recommends the best placed first in the Bloomberg Fixed Income league table rankings: SA bonds investment and combination of products to maximise the and was number one in the primary dealer rankings as measured by SARB. client’s savings and tax. zz Nedgroup Investments was named offshore management company of the || Transparency: Costs and year for the fourth consecutive year at the Raging Bull Awards. relevant details are always available throughout the platform journey so that clients know what we are doing and why it is best for them. Looking ahead 2020 targets Client app rating – iOS app store zz The foundations put in place Top 2 brand value among SA banking peers through ME (our core systems RBB and technology platform Top 2 Net Promoter Score transformation), digital enhancements through DFL and CIB nWoW are enabling incremental Top 2 in wholesale league tables digital benefits and enhanced Wealth client service. In 2019 we plan to Top 3 SA asset manager (annual Raging Bull launch exciting innovative Awards) solutions as shown on pages 43 RoA and 44 of the 2018 Integrated Grow profitability ahead of market in the Report and we expect to subsidiary countries and increased dealflow continue to see improvements in from ETI network 4,7 4,5 4,0 3,3 3,2 3,1 2,6 Nedbank Nedbank Bank A Bank B Bank C Bank D Bank E our client satisfaction scores Wealth Money and, as a result, growth in client numbers. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 35 Shareholders: Delivering consistently to our shareholders Delivering value to our shareholders in 2018 zz Solid business and financial performance in a difficult environment. zz Share price up 7,3% (best-performing large SA bank share). 2018 share performance zz Successful conclusion of odd-lot offer, creating value for odd-lot holders, with offer (%) price 5% above VWAP to 3 December 2018. zz Total dividend per share up 10,1%. zz Valuation metrics remain attractive – price to book: 1,6 times. 1,8 zz Improved free float after Old Mutual Limited unbundling (from 45% to 80%), with 7,3 number of shares traded per day increasing from 1,1 million to 2,0 million. Sound corporate governance and good relationships with the investment (8,4) (11,1) zz community, underpinned by regular engagements and transparent reporting, acknowledged through a number of industry awards. (2,5) zz 2018 AGM resolutions passed – approvals all above 91%. zz Various engagements with shareholders on ESG matters. 14 395 zz Invested in our investor relations capabilities (people, technology, etc) to ensure Nedbank Capitec First Standard Absa worldclass service to the investment community in a post-MIFID world. Rand Bank Key shareholding changes As a result of managed separation, Old Mutual Limited’s shareholding in Nedbank Group decreased to 19,9% (excluding funds managed by Old Mutual Limited on behalf of other beneficial owners). Many shareholders that were underweight received Nedbank Group shares as part of the unbundling on 15 October 2018. A greater free float resulted in index holdings increasing from 11,4% to 19,4%. Nedbank Group has also become a more attractive investment for international funds who increased their holdings from 18,1% to 29,3%. Key issues we engaged on Topical discussions with the investment community Our management meets regularly with the investment community. In addition, we provide shareholders with the opportunity to engage with our Chairman and Lead Independent Director on governance matters during our governance roadshow and other engagements. The following were the main topics discussed during more than 400 investor meetings in 2018: Main topic Our response and action Old Mutual managed separation Managed separation had no impact on Nedbank’s operations, staff, clients or – guidance on the impact, progress strategy. We continue to collaborate with Old Mutual Limited in line with the and timelines for the managed relationship agreement signed in 2018. separation and addressing concerns around a potential share overhang. Managed separation was successfully concluded with limited impact as the Nedbank share ended the year as the best-performing bank share, up 7,3%. Index classified shareholding increased meaningfully as Nedbank’s weighting in the MSCI Emerging Market and JSE Satrix indices increased significantly. A key benefit for shareholders is improved free float, increasing the daily number of shares traded from 1,1 million prior to unbundling to almost 2 million. Subsequent to the managed separation, Nedbank concluded an odd-lot offer to reduce the cost burden of managing a large shareholder base. This enjoyed strong shareholder support and resulted in qualifying shareholders receiving cash at a 5% premium to the 10-day VWAP and the benefit of no trading fees. The impact of political and economic The political and economic scenarios for SA provide for more optimistic changes – excitement around a SA outcomes (Ramareality and Ramaphoria), with Nedbank well positioned to political and economic turnaround in weather a negative Ramaphobia scenario as discussed on page page 43 of the Q1 2018 were short-lived as the 2018 Integrated Report. realities of state capture prompted investors to question the impact and An economic recovery will see Nedbank benefit from our wholesale-banking timing of better economic outcomes. strength and bias (> 60% wholesale advances), while RBB continues to gain clients and focus on initiatives to lower its cost-to-income ratio. New and increased competition – We welcome competition as it drives continued focus on innovation, client the impact of new banks being satisfaction and competitive pricing. Nedbank is well positioned to compete, launched in 2019 and some peers given the significant progress made in IT investments and the launch of various being more aggressive around their new innovations. lending practices. Sustainability of ETI turnaround ETI has delivered seven consecutive quarters of profits to 30 September 2018, – while investors increasingly underpinned by improved governance, delivering on its transactional-banking acknowledge that ETI has turned the strategy and an improvement in credit quality. corner, there is still ongoing concerns around sustainability of profit growth and exposure to difficult economies such as Nigeria. 36 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Key issues we engaged on Main topic Our response and action Nedbank’s long-term financial We reiterate our commitment to our 2020 target of ROE (excluding goodwill) outlook – drivers of higher ROEs and of ≥ 18% and cost-to-income ratio of ≤ 53%. This will be driven by ongoing lower cost-to-income ratios for SA economic recovery, gaining share of revenues and reducing our cost-to-serve banks and Nedbank are key to an and cost optimisation initiatives. Our financial guidance is shown on pages 68 attractive investment. and 69 of the 2018 Integrated Report and includes a discussion on external challenges in meeting these. Mandatory audit firm rotation – KPMG, Nedbank and Old Mutual Limited’s common auditor, was retained along concerns around the appointment of with Deloitte to complete the 2018 audit. Shareholders approved KPMG as KPMG for the 2018 audit. auditors for 2018 at Nedbank’s 51st AGM, with a 98,4% vote of approval. Following a comprehensive tender process, EY has been recommended to be appointed as Nedbank’s and Nedbank Group’s new joint external auditors effective 8 and 10 May 2019 respectively. These appointments are subject to shareholder approval at the companies’ AGMs and will commence from the financial year ending 31 December 2019. Remuneration – ongoing On the back of continued engagements with our shareholders, both at our enhancements to the Nedbank January 2018 remuneration roadshow and April 2017/2018 governance remuneration scheme roadshows, we made numerous enhancements to our Remuneration Policy, which received 99,3% approval at the 51st Nedbank Group AGM. The enhancements are noted on page 85 of the 2018 Integrated Report . Ensuring and protecting value – Group Related-Party Transactions Committee (GRPTC) ‘Managed separation saw Nedbank move from having a controlling shareholder to becoming an independent company, with its free float increasing from approximately 40% to approximately 80%. The GRPTC oversaw the arrangements and agreements between Old Mutual and Malcolm Wyman Nedbank to implement this transaction in the interest of minority (Chair) shareholders. This was the key focus for the GRPTC in 2018.’ Ensuring and protecting value in 2018 Focus for 2019 and beyond zz The GRPTC oversaw the execution of the Old Mutual plc MS strategy as it zz Monitoring and reviewing all related-party impacted Nedbank, in particular ensuring an orderly distribution of transactions, including transactions with the Nedbank shares and monitoring the progress of the transaction for 19,9% shareholder, Old Mutual Limited. completion in 2018. zz Monitoring and reviewing the Relationship zz Together with an independent board committee, the GRPTC oversaw the Oversight Committee, which governs the effective implementation of an odd-lot offer that saw approximately commercial relationship between Nedbank and 430 000 shareholders unlock value in their odd-lot Nedbank holdings, at a Old Mutual Limited. premium and with no cost, by buying back approximately 7 million shares at a total value of about R2bn, which created annual savings for Nedbank. zz The GRPTC monitored the conclusion of the collaboration programme between Nedbank and Old Mutual Group, which had delivered R1bn in synergies by the end of 2017, and reviewed the ongoing sustainable synergies for the 2018 year. zz The board ensured accurate disclosure of on-balance-sheet transactions in the annual financial report in terms of IAS 24: Related-party Disclosures. Stakeholders Top 10 risks Shareholders Strategic and execution risks Reputational risk Regulators Conduct and culture risks Regulatory and compliance risks A comprehensive GRPTC report is available online in our 2018 Governance and Ethics Review on our group website at nedbankgroup.co.za. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 37 Key shareholding changes As a result of managed separation, Old Mutual Limited’s shareholding in Nedbank Group decreased to 19,9% (excluding funds managed by Old Mutual Limited on behalf of other beneficial owners). Many shareholders that were underweight received Nedbank Group shares as part of the unbundling on 15 October 2018. A greater free float resulted in index holdings increasing from 11,4% to 19,4%. Nedbank Group has also become a more attractive investment for international funds that increased their holdings from 18,1% to 29,3%. % holding % holding Major shareholders/Managers 2018 2017 Old Mutual Life Assurance Company and Associates1 24,5 53,4 Public Investment Corporation 9,4 6,2 Coronation Fund Managers (SA) 7,3 5,7 Allan Gray Investment Council 5,1 2,4 BlackRock Inc (International) 3,7 1,8 Lazard Asset Management (International) 3,0 3,2 The Vanguard Group Inc 2,9 1,6 GIC Asset Management (Pty) Ltd 2,7 1,7 Nedbank Group 3,3 3,3 Sanlam Investment Management 1,9 0,9 Index classified shareholders 19,4 11,4 International shareholders 29,3 18,1 1 Old Mutual Limited retains a strategic minority shareholding of 19,9% in Nedbank Group, held through its shareholder funds, under the terms of the relationship agreement. The above shareholding is inclusive of funds held on behalf other beneficial owners. Voting outcomes of the 51st AGM and general meeting to approve the odd-lot offer All the resolutions at the AGM were passed with more than 91% approval and the odd-lot offer received 98,6% approval at the general meeting of Nedbank Group held on Thursday, 22 November 2018. The following resolutions with respect to the election and reelection of directors were passed: 2018 resolutions Ordinary resolutions 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3: Election as a director of Mr HR Brody, Ms NP Dongwana and Ms L Manzini, who were appointed as directors since the previous and general meeting of shareholders. Ordinary resolution 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3: Reelection of Mr PM Makwana, Mrs RK Morathi and Mr MC Nkuhlu, who were retiring by rotation, as directors. Other noteworthy resolutions included the following: 2018 resolutions For % Important considerations for 52nd AGM Ordinary resolutions 3.1 and 3.2: 98,4% Shareholders will be asked to approve EY and Reappointment of Deloitte and KPMG as Deloitte as Nedbank’s auditors for 2019. Your vote is needed external auditors. on appointment of auditors Ordinary resolution 4: Placing the 91,6% Shares granted under this authority are authorised but unissued ordinary shares limited to 2,5% of the shares in issue and Your vote is under the control of the directors. restricted to existing contractual obligations needed on unissued to issue the shares. shares Advisory endorsement on a non-binding 99,3% Our remuneration policy remains a focus and basis, of the Nedbank Group Remuneration we will continue to engage proactively with Your vote is needed Policy and the Nedbank Group our shareholders. on the remuneration Remuneration Implementation Report. policy General meeting to approve the odd-lot offer: Odd-lot offer resolutions For % Special resolution 1: Specific authority to repurchase Nedbank Group ordinary shares from the odd-lot holders. 98,6% Ordinary resolution 1: Authority to make and implement the odd-lot offer. 98,6% Looking ahead 2020 targets zz Given our strong capital position, we will Top 2 price-to-book ratio among SA peers continue to pay dividends around the midpoint ROE (excluding goodwill): ≥ 18% by 2020 of our board-approved target range of 1,75 to 2,25 times cover or 50% payout ratio. Efficiency ratio: ≤ 53% by 2020 zz Our financial guidance available on pages 63, 65 and 69 of the 2018 Integrated Report and delivery on our targets point to improved financial performance. 38 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Regulators: Ensuring sustainable banking with our regulators Delivering on our regulatory commitments in 2018 Looking ahead In line with international and local trends Nedbank observed an increase in regulatory scrutiny and zz The Basel III reforms announced in December 2017 inspections. Regulatory reviews were attended to with include the placing of a floor on certain model inputs significant attention to detail, professionalism and prompt for portfolios subject to the AIR approach, introducing reaction to matters raised. credit risk RWA calculation rules for portfolios subject The pervasive and abnormal regulatory-change agenda to The Standardised Approach, the use of a new continues unabated, with banks subject to additional standardised approach for the calculation of credit scrutiny by regulators and a plethora of new and amended valuation adjustment and operational RWA, the regulations dominating time and resources. Nedbank’s implementation of the Fundamental Review of the strategic response to the high execution risk and Trading Book and setting a floor on the group RWA regulatory-change agenda comprises a comprehensive equal to 72,5% of RWA calculated according to a Regulatory Change Programme (RCP) under the revised standardised approach. All changes will be leadership of the Chief Risk Officer (CRO). The RCP is effective 1 January 2022, with a five-year gradual facilitating the evolution from short-term to long-term phasing-in of the 72,5% floor, beginning at 50% in sustainable solutions, with regulatory risks being managed 2022. As Basel III still needs to be converted into through various steering committees, RCPs, excos and national law, there is uncertainty regarding the board committees. Regular engagements take place and interpretation of some of the rules, which means that regulators are apprised continually, particularly where reliable impact estimates are not yet available. action plans are in place to meet agreed timelines, as in zz We continue to work on our client onboarding the case of AML. solutions scheduled for release in H1 2019 as the foundation for compliance with the FIC Amendment zz We complied with all key aspects of Basel III Act due in Q2 2019. requirements, with a CET1 ratio of 11,7%, which is above the SARB requirements of 7,375% and above zz A draft SARB resolution was released in January the midpoint of our target range of 10,5–12,5%. 2018, which includes the establishment of a deposit insurance scheme in SA. No details were provided and zz With regard to the LCR we have achieved 109%, we await further clarification in 2019. above the 2017 SARB minimum target requirement of 90%, and maintained the NSFR at 114% above the zz We will maintain our status as a responsible taxpayer 100% minimum requirement. in all the jurisdictions in which we operate. zz The complex IFRS 9 programme successfully met the zz There will be a continued focus on the implementation ‘go live’ deadline, within scope and budget. of regulatory programmes, eg risk data aggregation and risk reporting principles. zz We paid R10,3bn in direct, indirect and staff taxes to support the governments and societies in which we operate. We are committed to maintaining our 2020 targets integrity with regard to all our tax obligations and Effective delivery on the regulatory change programme. strive to be a responsible corporate citizen by ensuring that we pay and/or collect the appropriate amount of tax in all the jurisdictions in which we operate. zz We continued to work closely with all our regulators to ensure delivery of the various regulatory programmes, including completion of POPI/privacy requirements and finalisation of the SA remediation and thematic sanctions review within AML, combating the financing of terrorism and sanctions legislation. zz We increased our BBBEE contributor status to level 1, measured under the Amended FSC as gazetted in terms of section 9(1) of the BBBEE Act, 53 of 2003 with us now having maintained level 2 or higher for 10 consecutive years. zz Banco Único paid an AML fine of R6,4m (October 2017), which is currently on appeal, as well as a second fine of R8,7m (August 2018). However, we continue to strive for zero regulatory fines or penalties through enhanced and robust controls to mitigate the related risk. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 39 Society: Contributing to a thriving society The greatest contribution a bank can make to the zz SDG 4: Quality Education sustainable development of society is through its || We provided student accommodation funding of commercial offering. We strive to do this by creating R446m towards an additional 3 750 student innovative finance and investment solutions that enable beds (2017: 5 700). The decline in lending in 2018 our clients to achieve the lifestyle and business outcomes was due primarily to delays in land being made they desire and that see us starting to deliver against the available for development in some provinces. UN SDGs. In 2018 we continued with the process of || Over three years we have provided aligning our lending with the SDGs as per our Sustainable approximately 3 000 students with student Development Framework (see page 14 of the 2018 loans worth R149m, of which R44m was Integrated Report). A summary of these efforts is dispersed in 2018. structured below in line with our three key areas of leverage: products and services: sustainable development || We continue our involvement with the Ikusasa finance, operations and CSI. Student Financial Aid Programme (ISFAP), which is working to mobilise a range of funding For full details, please refer to the Sustainable Development sources. Review available on our group website at nedbankgroup.co.za. 1 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES: SUSTAINABLE zz SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation DEVELOPMENT FINANCE || We continue to provide assistance, advisory We desire that, over time, the percentage of our lending services and finance to address the water that delivers a deliberate positive impact will increase challenges in the country. and our lending will not undermine the achievement of || We co-invested with the Multiply Group to form the SDGs. This year saw an encouraging level of activity Wellspring Group Proprietary Limited, which in utility-scale renewable energy, several lending acquired a 67,2% shareholding in a supplier of innovations in the rural development and agriculture water storage tanks. space, as well as digital innovations that enhanced financial access and dropped the cost of a range of transactions. CASE IN POINT – Nedbank’s SDG initiatives 40 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Renewable-energy disbursements zz SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth (Rbn) || We continued to develop inclusive banking solutions, including a new digital wallet-based solution, Nedbank MobiMoney, and our Nedbank Stokvel Account. || We took proactive steps to assist our clients with R345m of debt rehabilitation. || Our enterprise development programmes offer flexible financial, mentorship and training programmes. In 2018 we were actively involved in 24 Extended Public Works Programme projects, supporting 554 learner contractors and providing R2,7m in mentorship funding. zz SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 3,8 7,1 11,6 15,2 18,4 22,8 || Projects that respond to this SDG included the construction and rehabilitation of a 900 km 2013 2018 railway line in Mozambique and Malawi, and a new export terminal located at Nacala on the east || SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy coast of Mozambique (USD50m in debt funding). || We closed a further 12 renewable-energy project zz SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities deals, worth R13bn, under round 4 of the Department || In partnership with Ecobank we introduced a of Energy’s REIPPPP. In all REIPPPP rounds completed crossborder remittance solution that allows to date Nedbank has arranged and funded a total of instant transfer of money to people in 33 countries 42 transactions, with a total of R40bn underwritten across Africa. and R22,8bn disbursed for renewable-energy deals. || In the past five years we have reached over one || In 2018 almost R1bn of our property finance lending million individuals through our consumer financial incorporated the installation of solar power. education programme (2018: 175 000). || More than R29bn has been invested in the Nedbank Retail Green Savings Bond since its inception in 2012, of which R5,3bn was invested in 2018. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 41 zz SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities targets to limit the impact of our operations on the || We disbursed R1,2bn towards 2 860 new affordableenvironment. housing units (2017: 2 100 units) and provided capital For more information on our operational footprint refer to our for more than 2 700 social-housing units. website https://www.nedbank.co.za/content/nedbank/desktop/gt/ en/aboutus/green-and-caring/our-operational-footprint0.html. || We provided R943m in home loans to clients in the affordable-housing market, a 7% increase from 2017. zz Responsible lending || Funding of R4,8bn (2017: R1,3bn) was provided for || We manage the impact of our lending through a the construction of buildings that conform to green stringent governance process and a social and building standards. environmental management system (SEMS). zz SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production || In the Investment Banking and Client Coverage Divisions all new applications and credit risk reviews || We provided an R800m facility to the Humansdorp of high-risk transactions were included in the SEMS Cooperative, part of which will promote sustainable assessment process and externally assured. farming practices. || In total 688 deals were assessed. This represents an || We provided a R15m rural livestock borrowing base increase from the 632 assessments completed in 2017. facility to the KwaDrabo Trust (KDT) to support the A further 1 125 business banking clients involved in development of the Centane community in the high-impact industries were assessed. Eastern Cape. || A total of 15 Equator Principles deals equating to approximately USD538m had their first drawdown zz SDG 15: Life on Land in 2018. || We have provided support for the WWF-SA Water Balance and WWF-SA Sustainable Agriculture 3 CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT programmes over the past eight and six years Our CSI programme is facilitated primarily by the Nedbank respectively. Highlights include the clearing of Foundation and extends beyond the financial contribution made invasive alien vegetation from over 450 ha of to deserving causes – it is designed to deliver maximum positive densely infested land, keeping one billion litres of social impact through long-term targeted investment in flagship water annually in vital water catchments, as well as projects that align with our Sustainable Development Framework. the creation of industrywide best-practice standards in five priority agriculture sectors: fruit, In 2018 the total value of CSI delivered across our group was R124m (2017: R168m), split predominantly across education and wine, dairy, beef and sugar farming. skills development, as well as ongoing investment in staff volunteerism, health, community development, environmental 2 OPERATIONS development and the highly effective giving partnerships we We have been carbon-neutral since 2010, following a have with our clients through our four Nedbank affinities. The ‘reduce first, then offset’ approach. With a total carbon decline in contributions year on year relates to a once-off footprint of 196 992 tCO2e for the year, our overall reported donation of R20m made through our Eyethu Community Trust greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 4,17% in absolute to support various university professorships in 2017, as well as a terms from 2017 to 2018. We continue to set reduction change in contributions to the WWF Nedbank Green Trust. Nedbank Group 2018 Total CSI carbon footprint* (%) (%) 5,60 0,52 1,5 4,3 Education 1,7 Pie graph: Nedbank Group 2018 carbon footprint: 196 991.84 tCO2e Pie Skills graph: Nedbank Group 2018 CSI: Total R124m development 20,71 Scope 1: Diesel, refrigerants, etc. 0,52%11,4 Education R63,9 (52%) Scope 1: Diesel, refrigerants, etc Community development Scope 2: Electricity 72,21% 1,8 Skills Development (including R21,3 Children's Affinity donations) (17,1%) Scope 2: Electricity Comm Dev R12,8 (10,2%) Scope 3: Office paper 0,95% 196 992 Scope 3: Office Scope paper 3 Commuting 20,71% 10,2 R124m Health Health R2,4 (1,8 %) 0,95 tCO2e Green Green R14,3 (11,4%) Scope Scope 3 Business travel 5,60% 3: Commuting Sports Sports R2,1 (1,7%) Scope 3: Business travel 52 Arts and Culture R1,8 (1,5%) Arts and culture 72,21 17,1 Staff vol R5,5 (4,3%) Staff volunteerism * Resource consumption not reflected above includes water consumption of 284 053kℓ (2017: 317 580kℓ) 195 tonnes (2017: 220 tonnes) of waste sent to landfill and 723 tonnes (2017: 689 tonnes) of waste recycled. CASE IN POINT – Nedbank says ‘Yes’ to YES The Youth Employment Service (YES) was launched by President Cyril Ramaphosa as a joint initiative between government, business, labour and civil society in March 2018. It aims to reduce the youth unemployment rate in the country through the creation of one million work opportunities for youth over three years. From the first quarter in 2019 we will be investing approximately 1,5% of the three-year average SA net profit after tax per annum based on Gazette 41866 from the Department of Trade and Industry. This will provide employment opportunities for over 3 000 youth either through placements internally or sponsored placements with implementation partners. In addition to this investment, in 2018 Nedbank invested R5,9m in the Green Engine YES hub at Tembisa, which is set to deliver massive community benefits and create employment opportunities for young people. The hubs are new high-tech urban aquaponics farming facilities. At full capacity, each will deliver about 43 000 fresh lettuce heads and 1 200 kg of fish per year. They have been designed to catalyse local urban farmers and youth to prepare them to work in, or start their own, aquaponics and hydroponics businesses that can deliver quality vegetable and fish produce, supplementing the nutritional needs of their local communities. ‘Nedbank has a critical role to play in building a nation that is inclusive and thriving – meaningful job opportunities and reducing youth unemployment are vital to this. As such, we are proud to support YES and equip young people with the skills they need to be successful entrepreneurs and contributing citizens.’ Mfundo Nkuhlu, Nedbank Group Chief Operating Officer. 42 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Key issues we engaged on Main topic Our response and action Fighting climate change The most significant action taken by the bank in 2018 was its undertaking not to provide project financing or other forms of asset-specific financing where the proceeds will be used to develop a new coal-fired power plant, regardless of country or technology. This commitment now includes round 1 of SA’s coal baseload procurement programme. Water security In addition to our participation in the WWF Water Balance Programme and our support through lending and advisory outlined above, we implemented watersaving technology such as air flush toilets similar to those used in aeroplanes in our offices and encouraged changes in staff water usage behaviours achieving average water savings of 16,5% per fulltime employee across our operations. Ensuring and protecting value – Group Transformation, Social and Ethics Committee (GTSEC) ‘At Nedbank we are financial experts who do good – we are committed to authentic organisational transformation by creating an empowering culture, delivering innovative, market-leading client experiences. Our aspiration is to contribute our fair share towards sustainable economic Mpho Makwana outcomes that create wealth and meaningful opportunities for all South (Chair)* Africans, especially Black African South Africans.’ Ensuring and protecting value in 2018 Focus for 2019 and beyond zz Monitored progress of Employment Equity Plans and zz Overseeing progress towards improving African representation oversaw a diagnostic exercise that highlighted barriers to at middle and senior management levels as a critical focus progress toward achieving greater African representation towards building a culture of inclusivity. in the workplace. zz Overseeing the implementation and monitoring of plans in zz Provided oversight on the development of a wellbeing support of the wellbeing of our people, with an emphasis on strategy, emphasising the holistic wellbeing of our people. preventative health management and resilience and stress zz Continued to provide critical challenge in respect of the management. bank’s progress in delivering value through its purpose, zz Continuing to provide oversight and guidance of progress made namely ‘to use our financial expertise to do good for on the bank’s Sustainable Development Finance offer in line with individuals, families, businesses and society’. the nine priority SDGs and 33 related targets identified as zz Provided guidance and monitored progress in terms of material to delivering on our purpose. delivering on the SDGs as measures of delivery on the zz Managing the impact of the Amended FSC with specific focus on bank’s purpose. To this end the bank has prioritised nine executing against new targets that will be set by BASA for material SDGs and 33 related targets and has allocated access to financial services and empowerment financing, possibly them to nine group executives, who will own and drive impacting relative competitor positioning. Nedbank’s groupwide response to their respective SDG. zz Focusing on implementing the Youth Employment Service (YES) zz Monitored relevant regulatory developments, including the initiative, which will support the employment of 3 345 young impact of the Amended FSC, and specifically improved South Africans through either placements in the measured entity skills development and enterprise and supplier or sponsored placements. development, thereby achieving a level 1 BBBEE contributor zz Increasing our focus on working with key stakeholders and status. industry bodies to deliver better outcomes for society and inform zz Reviewed BBBEE scorecard, ethics and sustainability the industry view through events such as the Nedlac summit. reporting. Stakeholders Top 10 risks Staff Clients Strategic and execution risks Reputational risk Shareholders Regulators Conduct and culture risks Regulatory and compliance risks Society * Appointed chair with effect from 10 May 2018. A comprehensive GTSEC report is available online in our 2018 Governance and Ethics Reviewon our group website at nedbankgroup.co.za. Looking ahead 2020 targets zz We will set lending targets in 2019 to ensure more Recognised as a leader in the financing of the SDGs, deliberate focus on our delivery in meeting the SDGs. thereby promoting socioeconomic transformation zz 2019 will see the establishment of a new R25m through enabling economic inclusion. conservation partnership with WWF-SA supporting water security, reducing land degradation and improving local economic opportunities for rural communities. zz In 2019 Nedbank will pilot the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) recommendations and methodologies for how banks should report climate change risks as per the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 43 STAKEHOLDER VALUE CREATION – KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Year-on-year Key performance indicators How does it link to value creation? change Staff costs Remuneration and benefits to staff ▲ Annual unionised salary increase Salary increases for bargaining unit Training spend Investment in staff development Staff attrition Ability to retain and rotate skills ▼ Staff engagement/morale (entropy score) Reduction in entropy driving levels of staff morale higher ▲ Transformation of Nedbank staff profile in line with Transformation – black staff 2 demographics of society ▲ Transformation – female staff 2 Progressing female diversity Loan payouts New loan payouts to clients Consumer – Net Promoter Score (NPS) Quality of service experience reflected in reputational NPS Convenient access to banking and enhanced Value of digital transactions client experiences Service – Nedbank system availability System uptime to enable uninterrupted financial processing Pricing – average annual price increase Value-for-money banking Convenience – new-style staffed outlets Technology-enabled outlets providing an improved client (% converted) experience ▲ Quality of service to high-net-worth individual clients based Service – high-net-worth ranking ▲ on Intellidex Survey ranking in the industry Investment performance in asset Raging Bull awards illustrative of investment management business performance for clients Share price performance Share price appreciation Full-year dividend per share (cents) and cover (times) Dividends for shareholders ▲ Price-to-book ratio Valuation indicator of the Nedbank share Strength of capital position (after full IFRS day 1 impact Basel III compliance – CET1 ratio and odd-lot offer) Basel III compliance – LCR ratio Strength of liquidity position Basel III compliance – NSFR ratio Strength of stable funding Regulatory fines or penalties Indicator of adherence to regulatory requirements Direct, indirect and staff taxes Contribution to government coffers ▲ dti levels as per the FSC scorecard Reflection of corporate transformation ▼ Consumer finance education Value through education (number of participants) Total socioeconomic spend Contribution to society Local procurement spend as percentage of Supporting local suppliers total Renewable-energy lending Commitment to renewable-energy deals ▲ Carbon footprint (tCO2e) offset to neutral The impact of our business on the environment ▼ Social and environmental management system The impact of our business on the environment and society ▲ (SEMS) (number of CIB deals reviewed) Finance assessed under Equator Principles The impact of our business on the environment and society ▲ (USDm) Carbon footprint per FTE The impact of our business on the environment ▼ 1 Peer average consists of the simple average of Absa, FirstRand and Standard Bank. 2 Restated due to change in methodology. 44 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Assurance indicators LA External limited assurance on selected sustainability information IN Information sourced from external sources, eg and the application of the FSC and the group’s BBBEE status. independent surveys. Related opinions are available at nedbankgroup.co.za. Independent oversight by regulatory bodies, including SARB, OV FSCA and various financial sector ombudsman offices. MO Management and board oversight through rigorous internal reporting governed by the group’s ERMF. Financial information extracted from the 2018 Nedbank FS Group Limited Audited Annual Financial Statements. 2018 2017 2016 Benchmark/Peer average1 Outlook/Target Assurance R17 450 R16 530bn R15 524bn N/A Maintain competitive remuneration MO FS 7,0% 8,0% 8,0% N/A Above the increase for management MO R468m R355m R413m N/A Continue to invest in staff LA 10,1% 10,6% 9,6% 11–13% (industry benchmark) Maintain despite organisational change MO LA 12% (survey conducted ( Source: Barrett 20% 10% (worldclass levels) Improve IN every two years) Survey) 77,4% 76,9%2 77,1%2 Not publicly available for all peers Continue driving transformation LA 61,8% 62,1%2 62,2%2 Not publicly available for all peers Continue driving transformation LA R181bn R153bn R162bn N/A Continue to extend credit responsibly MO 37% 26% 26% 27 (industry average) Improve IN LA (Source: Consulta) Not Increase as we further digitise our R543,6bn R495,7bn N/A LA disclosed service offerings > 99,1% (designated acceptable level of 99,2%6 99,3% 99,3% N/A LA tolerance) Below Below At inflation N/A Below inflationary increases MO inflation inflation 60% 55% 44% N/A 82% of total outlets by 2020 MO (Source: Intellindex‘s No 1: Standard Bank Private IN Top Private Banks 4th 3rd 3rd No 1 in the industry Banking and Wealth Managers Survey) Top Top Top 3 No 1: Allan Gray Rating among top 3 offshore offshore No 2: PSG (Source: Raging Bull IN manager manager No 3: Mi-Plan awards) in SA in SA 7,3% 7,5% 26,3% -8,4% (FINI 15) Perform above peers IN (Source: the JSE) 1 415c 1 285c 1 200c Within our 1,75 times to 2,25 times N/A MO FS 1,97 times 1,91 times 2,0 times target range 1,6 times 1,5 times 1,5 times 2,1 times (peer average) No 2 bank by 2020 IN (Source: the JSE) 11,7% 12,6% 12,1% SARB: > 7,375% 10,5–12,5% MO OV 109,4% 116,2% 109,3% SARB: > 90% for 2018 Continue to phase in to > 100% by 2019 MO OV Pro forma Pro forma 114,0% SARB: 100% for 2018 > SARB minimum of 100% MO OV compliant compliant Zero, although risk of fines has R8,7m R1m R1m N/A MO OV increased R10,3bn R9,8bn R8,7bn N/A Responsible taxpayer OV Top-tier bank, but dti level impacted by 1 2 2 Nedbank: No 1 bank MO OV new codes 175 000 200 000 180 000 N/A Maximum aligned impact with strategy MO LA Nedbank top performer in R124m R168m R141m Spend greater than R100m MO LA Trialogue CSI handbook > 75% > 75% > 75% As per FSC > 75% MO LA R22,8bn R18,4bn R15,2bn Nedbank: No 1 bank R40bn committed MO Nedbank a leader, only carbon3 196 992 205 569 207 975 Maintain carbon-neutrality LA neutral bank in Africa 4 688 632 435 Leader in disclosure Enhance SEMS integration MO LA 538 75 306 5 Leader in disclosure Enhance Equator Principles integration MO LA (15 deals) (one deal) (four deals) Leader in performance on the Continue to reduce our impact through 6 6,30 tCO2e 6,37 tCO2e 6,54 tCO2e MO LA Carbon Disclosure Project reduction targets 3 External limited assurance provided on the Total Carbon Footprint (tCO2e). 4 External limited assurance provided on the following statement: ’All Investment Banking and Client Coverage credit risk reviews and new applications included the screening of high risk transactions and EP relevant deals via the Social and Environmental Management System (SEMS)‘. 5 External limited assurance provided on the number of Equator Principle deals that had their first draw down within the financial year. 6 External limited assurance provided on the Total Carbon Footprint (tCO2e). Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 45 TEN-YEAR REVIEW Nedbank Group Limited: Statistics and ratios for the year ended 31 December 2018 Share statistics Earnings per share: – Headline cents 2 793 – Diluted headline cents 2 736 – Basic cents 2 768 – Diluted basic cents 2 712 Dividends/Distributions: – Declared per share cents 1 415 – Paid/Capitalised per share cents 1 370 – Dividend/Distribution cover times 1,97 Net asset value per share cents 17 560 Tangible net asset value per share cents 14 917 Shares: – Gross number in issue m 493 – Treasury shares m (16) – Net number in issue m 477 – Weighted-average number m 483 – Fully diluted weighted average m 493 Share price and related statistics Nedbank Group traded price: – Closing cents 27 472 – High cents 31 300 – Low cents 22 711 JSE banks index – closing 9 162 JSE all-share index – closing 52 737 Market capitalisation Rbn 135,5 Number of shares traded m 339,7 Number traded to weighted-average number of shares % 70,3 Value of shares traded Rm 86 932 Value traded to market capitalisation % 64,2 Price/earnings ratio historical 9,8 Price to book times 1,6 Dividend yield1 % 5,2 Earnings yield % 10,2 Closing price/Tangible net asset value times 1,8 46 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2 452 2 400 2 284 2 127 1 884 1 640 1 365 1 104 1 010 2 406 2 350 2 242 2 066 1 829 1 590 1 340 1 069 983 2 417 2 121 2 261 2 109 1 877 1 632 1 367 1 084 1 140 2 372 2 077 2 219 2 049 1 822 1 583 1 341 1 050 1 109 1 285 1 200 1 107 1 028 895 752 605 480 440 1 240 1 140 1 105 965 802 680 533 442 520 1,91 2,00 2,06 2,07 2,11 2,18 2,26 2,30 2,30 16 990 15 830 15 685 14 395 13 143 11 721 10 753 9 831 9 100 14 626 13 723 13 794 12 553 11 346 9 989 9 044 8 160 7 398 498 496 494 499 510 508 507 515 499 (16) (17) (17) (33) (49) (50) (52) (66) (63) 482 478 477 466 461 457 455 449 436 481 478 474 464 460 456 453 444 423 490 488 483 478 474 471 462 458 435 25 610 23 813 18 861 24 900 21 000 18 800 14 500 13 035 12 405 26 797 23 900 27 102 25 115 21 925 18 881 15 445 15 000 12 900 20 000 16 575 16 900 19 087 16 540 18 501 12 360 11 725 6 492 9 619 7 755 6 107 7 300 5 775 5 336 4 118 4 099 3 668 59 505 50 654 50 694 49 771 46 256 39 250 31 985 32 119 27 666 127,6 118,1 93,2 124,3 107,2 95,4 73,6 67,1 61,9 306,0 294,7 195,8 213,5 220,5 149,8 206,1 265,2 272,7 63,6 61,7 41,3 46,0 47,9 32,9 45,5 59,7 64,5 66 009 58 800 45 545 47 670 41 690 32 527 28 578 35 379 27 512 51,7 49,8 48,9 38,4 38,9 34,1 38,8 52,7 44,5 10,4 9,9 8,3 11,7 11,1 11,5 10,6 11,8 12,3 1,5 1,5 1,2 1,7 1,6 1,6 1,3 1,3 1,4 5,0 5,0 5,9 4,1 4,3 4,0 4,2 3,7 3,5 9,6 10,1 12,1 8,5 9,0 8,7 9,4 8,5 8,1 1,8 1,7 1,4 2,0 1,9 1,9 1,6 1,6 1,7 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 47 Nedbank Group Limited: Statistic and ratios continued 2018 Performance ratios Net interest income to interest-earning banking assets % 3,65 Non-interest revenue to total income % 47,4 Credit loss ratio – banking advances % 0,53 Non-interest revenue to total operating expenses % 82,1 Efficiency ratio % 57,2 Expenses to average assets % 3,12 Effective taxation rate % 25,2 Return on total assets % 1,33 Return on risk-weighted assets % 2,4 Return on equity % 16,8 Return on equity (excluding goodwill) % 17,9 Assets and related ratios Advances: – Gross advances Rm 751 793 – Impairment of advances Rm (15 488) Net advances Rm 736 305 Non-performing advances to gross advances % 3,4 Impairment of advances to gross advances % 2,1 Assets: – Total assets on statement of financial position Rm 1 043 912 – Assets under management Rm 297 338 Total assets administered by the group Rm 1 341 250 Capital and related ratios Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Rm 83 778 Regulatory capital:2 – Tier 1 Rm 73 524 – Total qualifying capital Rm 86 951 Risk-weighted assets2 Rm 586 626 Group capital adequacy ratios:2 – Common equity tier 1 % 11,7 – Tier 1 % 12,5 – Total % 14,8 Employee statistics and ratios Number of employees 3 30 877 Operating income per employee R000 1 655 Expenses per employee R000 1 024 Headline earnings per employee R000 437 1 Dividend yield is calculated as the pretax dividend declared per share divided by the closing share price. 2 Ratios and balances for 2013 to 2018 were calculated according to Basel III principles, 2012 according to Basel II.5 principles and 2009 to 2011 according to Basel II principles. 3 Excludes temporary staff and agency contractors. 48 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 3,62 3,41 3,30 3,52 3,57 3,53 3,48 3,35 3,39 46,6 47,1 47,7 46,9 47,7 46,8 46,1 44,3 42,2 0,49 0,68 0,77 0,79 1,06 1,05 1,13 1,36 1,52 80,7 82,9 83,3 82,8 86,4 84,4 81,5 79,6 78,8 58,6 56,9 56,1 56,5 55,2 55,6 56,6 55,7 53,5 3,06 3,00 3,01 3,15 3,13 3,09 3,01 2,81 2,65 25,5 24,9 24,0 25,3 25,2 26,8 25,2 20,7 20,2 1,22 1,23 1,25 1,27 1,23 1,13 0,99 0,82 0,76 2,28 2,23 2,30 2,24 2,21 2,08 1,86 1,51 1,31 15,3 15,3 15,7 15,8 15,6 14,8 13,6 11,8 11,8 16,4 16,5 17,0 17,2 17,2 16,4 15,3 13,4 13,4 722 331 719 226 693 043 624 116 590 828 538 036 510 520 488 452 462 130 (12 002) (12 149) (11 411) (11 095) (11 456) (10 870) (11 497) (11 226) (9 798) 710 329 707 077 681 632 613 021 579 372 527 166 499 023 477 226 452 332 2,7 2,7 2,5 2,5 3,0 3,6 4,5 5,5 5,9 1,7 1,7 1,6 1,8 1,9 2,0 2,3 2,3 2,1 983 314 966 022 925 726 809 313 749 594 682 958 648 127 608 718 570 703 312 313 273 327 257 295 212 013 190 341 150 495 112 231 102 570 87 204 1 295 627 1 239 349 1 183 021 1 021 326 939 935 833 453 760 358 711 288 657 907 81 823 75 733 74 754 67 024 60 617 53 601 48 946 44 101 39 649 70 715 65 987 60 085 55 131 53 605 46 227 41 707 36 861 36 627 81 909 77 719 70 522 64 385 61 637 53 483 50 884 47 372 47 538 528 207 509 268 501 243 440 696 392 926 359 658 331 980 323 437 326 466 12,6 12,1 11,3 11,6 12,5 11,4 11,0 10,1 9,9 13,4 13,0 12,0 12,5 13,6 12,9 12,6 11,7 11,5 15,5 15,3 14,1 14,6 15,7 14,9 15,3 15,0 14,9 31 531 32 401 31 312 30 499 29 513 28 748 28 494 27 525 27 037 1 534 1 400 1 304 1 271 1 186 1 106 987 859 798 945 875 834 804 760 715 664 603 558 374 354 346 324 294 260 217 158 158 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 49 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE STANDARDS INDEX For the 2018 financial year we have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards for sustainability reporting. GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Organisational profile 102–1 Name of the organisation Core Nedbank Group Limited 102–2 Activities, brands, products, Core Overview of Nedbank Group 1–10 and services Our value-creating business model Delivering our strategy through our business clusters Sustainable development finance 102–3 Location of headquarters Core Nedbank 135 Rivonia Campus, 135 Rivonia Road, Sandown, Sandton, Gauteng, SA 102–4 Location of operations Core Overview of Nedbank Group 1–10 Company structure Reflections from our Chief Financial Officer 102–5 Ownership and legal form Core Overview of Nedbank Group Company structure 102–6 Markets served Core Overview of Nedbank Group 1–10 Our value-creating business model Delivering our strategy through our business clusters 102–7 Scale of the organisation Core Overview of Nedbank Group 1–10 Our value-creating business model Delivering our strategy through our business clusters Reflections from our Chief Financial Officer Ten-year Review Sustainable development finance Workforce profile 102–8 Information on employees Core Workforce profile 1–2, 3–6 and other workers 102–9 Supply chain Core Preferential procurement and enterprise and supplier 1–10 development Governance and Ethics Review 102–10 Significant changes to the Core Old Mutual separation 1–10 organisation and its supply chain 102–11 Precautionary principle or Core Managing social and environmental risk 1–10 approach Governance and Ethics Review 102–12 External initiatives Core Ratings and recognition 1–10 Governance and Ethics Review 102–13 Membership of associations Core Our approach to sustainable development 1–10 Strategy 102–14 Statement from senior Core Reflections from our Chairman 1–10 decisionmaker Reflections from our Chief Executive 102–15 Key impacts, risks, and Core Risks and opportunities in our operating environment 1–10 opportunities Our strategic focus areas and enablers Making tradeoffs and impact on our capitals Value for stakeholders Sustainable Development Governance Framework Managing social and environmental risk Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 50 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Ethics and integrity 102–16 Values, principles, standards, Core Our purpose, vision, brand and values 1–10 and norms of behaviour Governance and Ethics Review 102–17 Mechanisms for advice and Core Governance and Ethics Review 1, 2, 10 concerns about ethics Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report Governance 102–18 Governance structure Core Reflections from our Chairman 1–10 Our board and board committees Sustainable Development Governance Framework Governance and Ethics Review 102–19 Delegating authority Sustainable Development Governance Framework 1–10 Governance and Ethics Review 102–20 Executive-level responsibility Sustainable Development Governance Framework 1–10 for economic, environmental Governance and Ethics Review and social topics 102–21 Consulting stakeholders on Reflections from our Chairman 1–10 economic, environmental Our board and board committees and social topics Sustainable Development Governance Framework Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review 102–22 Composition of the highest Our board and board committees 1–10 governance body and its Governance and Ethics Review committees 102–23 Chair of the highest Our board and board committees 1–10 governance body Governance and Ethics Review 102–24 Nominating and selecting Our board and board committees 1–10 the highest governance body Governance and Ethics Review 102–25 Conflicts of interest Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 102–26 Role of highest governance Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102–27 Collective knowledge of Our board and board committees 1–10 highest governance body Governance and Ethics Review 102–28 Evaluating the highest Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 governance body’s performance 102–29 Identifying and managing Risks and opportunities in our operating environment 1–10 economic, environmental Our board and board committees and social impacts Sustainable Development Governance Framework Governance and Ethics Review 102–30 Effectiveness of risk Our board and board committees 1–10 management processes Risks and opportunities in our operating environment Sustainable Development Governance Framework Value for stakeholders Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 102–31 Review of economic, Our board and board committees 1–10 environmental and social Risks and opportunities in our operating environment topics Sustainable Development Governance Framework Value for stakeholders Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 102–32 Highest governance body’s Group Transformation, Social and Ethics Committee 1–10 role in sustainability reporting Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 51 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles 102–33 Communicating critical Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 concerns 102–34 Nature and total number of Pace of transformation, culture, employee wellbeing, 1–10 critical concerns procurement, ethics, environmental compliance, tax, audit, fees and findings, funding and liquidity, risk appetite, new products, regulatory change, succession planning, relationship with Old Mutual, expansion into Africa, macro economy, stress testing, state capture, investment status of the country. The number of issues is not disclosed. 102–35 Remuneration policies Remuneration Report 1, 2, 3–6 102–36 Process for determining Remuneration Report 3–6 remuneration 102–37 Stakeholders’ involvement in Remuneration Report 3–6 remuneration Board Committee Feedback: Group Remuneration Committee Notice of 52nd AGM Form of proxy 102–38 Annual total compensation Tracked and monitored internally but not reported 3–6 ratio publically Remuneration Report 102–39 Percentage increase in Tracked and monitored internally but not reported 3–6 annual total compensation publically ratio Remuneration Report Stakeholder engagement 102–40 List of stakeholder groups Core Value for stakeholders 1–10 Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review 102–41 Collective bargaining Core Managing our employee relations 3 agreements 102–42 Identifying and selecting Core Value for stakeholders 1–10 stakeholders Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review 102–43 Approach to stakeholder Core Value for stakeholders 1–10 engagement Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review 102–44 Key topics and concerns Core Value for stakeholders 1–10 raised Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review 102–45 Entities included in the Core About our integrated report consolidated financial Company structure statements 102–46 Defining report content and Core About our integrated report topic boundaries 102–47 List of material topics Core These are determined from our materiality process 103–1 and through our core function of being a bank 103–2 Economic performance, compliance (environmental, 103–3 social, product responsibility) employment, training and education, diversity and equal opportunity, human rights investment, non-discrimination, local communities, anti-corruption, product and service labelling, client privacy, product portfolio and active ownership. Risks and opportunities in our operating environment Stakeholder Engagement Policy Our strategic focus areas and enablers Stakeholder value creation – progress and outlook Ten-year Review 102–48 Restatements of Core No reclassifications and restatements were made to information the group’s statement of financial position and the statement of comprehensive income. 52 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles 102–49 Changes in reporting Core None 102–50 Reporting period Core About our integrated report 102–51 Date of most recent report Core About our integrated report 102–52 Reporting cycle Core About our integrated report 102–53 Contact point for questions Core Contacts regarding the report 102–54, Claims of reporting in Core Our report is in accordance with the core 102 55 accordance with the GRI requirements of the GRI Standards Standards About our integrated report 102–56 External assurance Core About our integrated report Validating our sustainability journey Report from the independent auditors Economic performance 201 Management approach Core See 102–47 disclosures – Economic performance 201–1 Economic performance – Core Our value-creating business model 1–10 Direct economic value Reflections from our Chief Financial Officer generated and distributed Ten-year Review Value for stakeholders Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 201–2 Economic performance – Risks and opportunities in the operation environment 7–9 Financial implications and Making tradeoffs and impact on our capitals other risks and opportunities due to climate change 201–3 Economic performance Remuneration Report 3 – Defined-benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 201–4 Economic performance – No financial assistance received from government Financial assistance received from government 203–1 Indirect economic impacts Sustainable development finance 1, 2, 7–9 – Infrastructure investments Transformation Report and services supported 203–2 Indirect economic impacts Transformation Report 1–10 – Significant indirect Sustainable Development Review economic impacts Developing our workforce for the future 204–1 Procurement practices – Preferential procurement and enterprise and supplier 1–10 Proportion of spending on development local suppliers Governance and Ethics Review Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 53 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Energy 302–1 Energy – Energy Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 consumption within the organisation 302–3 Energy – Energy intensity Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 302–4 Energy – Reduction of Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 energy consumption Emissions 305–1 Emissions – Direct (scope 1) Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 GHG emissions 305–2 Emissions – Energy indirect Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 (scope 2) GHG emissions 305–3 Emissions – Other indirect Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 (scope 3) GHG emissions 305–4 Emissions – GHG emissions Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 intensity 305–5 Emissions – Reduction of Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 GHG emissions 305–6 Emissions – Emissions of Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Compliance (environmental) 307 Management approach Core disclosures – Environmental compliance 307–1 Environmental compliance Core None for the period 1, 2, 7–9 – Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations FS1 Policies with specific Core Sustainable Development Governance Framework 1, 2, 7–9 environmental and social Managing social and environmental risk components applied to Governance and Ethics Review business lines FS2 Procedures for assessing and Core Sustainable Development Governance Framework 1–10 screening environmental and Managing social and environmental risk social risks in business lines Committed to responsible investment Governance and Ethics Review FS3 Processes for monitoring Core Sustainable Development Governance Framework 1–9 clients' implementation of, Managing social and environmental risk and compliance with, environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions FS4 Processes for improving Core Managing social and environmental risk 1–10 staff competence to Reduction targets implement the Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report environmental and social Governance and Ethics Review policies and procedures as applied to business lines FS5 Interactions with clients/ Core Value for stakeholders 1–10 investors/business partners Corporate social investment regarding environmental and Stakeholder Report social risks and opportunities Carbon offset projects FS9 Coverage and frequency Core Assurance statement online: 1–9 of audits to assess https://www.nedbank.co.za/content/dam/nedbank/ implementation of site-assets/AboutUs/Information%20 environmental and social Hub/Integrated%20Report/2017/2017%20 policies and risk assessment Nedbank%20Group%20Consolidated procedures %20Annual%20Financial%20Statements.pdf 54 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles FS15 Policies for the fair design Core Committed to responsible investment 1,2 and sale of financial Managing social and environmental risks products and services Delivering innovative market-leading client experiences Growing our transactional banking franchise faster than the market Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report Employment 401 Management approach Core See 102–47 disclosures – Employment 401–1 Employment – New Core Our workforce in review 1, 2, 3–6 employee hires and employee turnover 401–2 Employment – Benefits Remuneration Report 1, 2, 3–6 provided to fulltime employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 404 Management approach Core See 102–47 disclosures – Training and education 404–1 Training and education – Core Developing our workforce for the future 1–6 Average hours of training per year per employee 404–2 Training and education – Developing our workforce for the future 1–6 Programmes for upgrading Equipping our leaders to lead employee skills and Managing our talent transition assistance programmes 404–3 Training and education Performance management 1–6 Diversity and equal opportunity 405 Management approach Core See 102–47 disclosures – Diversity and equal opportunity 405–1 Diversity and equal Core Our board and board committees 1–6 opportunity – Diversity of Our workforce in review governance bodies and Governance and Ethics Review employees Human rights investment 412 Management approach Core See 102–47 disclosures – Human rights investments 412–3 Human rights assessment Applying the Equator Principles 1–10 – Significant investment Governance and Ethics Review agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 412–2 Human rights assessment Core Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 – Employee training on human rights policies or procedures human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 55 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Non-discrimination 406 Management approach Core See 102–47 disclosures – Nondiscrimination 406–1 Non-discrimination – Core Governance and Ethics Review 1–6 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Local communities 413 Management approach Core See 102–47 disclosures – Local communities 413–1 Local communities – Core Applying the Equator Principles 1–10 Operations with local Corporate social investment community engagement, Stakeholder Report impact assessments, and Transformation Report development programmes FS13 Access points in lowCore Improving financial inclusion 1–10 populated or economically Transformation Report disadvantaged areas by type FS14 Initiatives to improve access Core Improving financial inclusion 1, 2 to financial services for Transformation Report disadvantaged people Anti-corruption 205 Management approach Core disclosures – Anti-corruption 205–1 Operations assessed for Core Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 10 risks related to corruption Governance and Ethics Review 205–2 Communication and training Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 10 about anti-corruption Governance and Ethics Review policies and procedures 205–3 Confirmed incidents of Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 10 corruption and actions taken None for the period 415–1 Political contributions Nedbank policy does not allow for contributions to 10 political parties Products, service and labelling 417 Management approach Core disclosures – Products, service and labelling 417–1 Requirements for product Detailed product brochures that comply with all 1, 2, 7–10 and service information and relevant legislation, such as the National Credit Act, labelling are available for the group’s clients. Relationship managers are also responsible for explaining the characteristics, benefits and implications of products to clients in accordance with the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act. Product policies and procedures and product review committees are in place. 417–2 Incidents of non-compliance Core A total of 105 incidents of non-compliance were 10 concerning product and reported in 2018. Incidents relating to anti-moneyservice information and laundering (AML) regulatory requirements continue labelling to represent a significant portion of these, but with no fines or warnings issued. 102–43 Approach to stakeholder Value to stakeholders 1–10 engagement Stakeholder Report 102–44 Key topics and concerns Value to stakeholders 1–10 raised Stakeholder Report 56 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Customer privacy 418 Management approach Core See 102–47 disclosures – Customer privacy 418–1 Substantiated complaints Core In 2018 Nedbank received three complaints from the 1, 2, 10 concerning breaches of Information Regulator that are currently being customer privacy and losses substantiated. The nature of the complaints relates of customer data to retention periods and requests to have related data deleted. In addition, there were 45 internally reported incidents during the same period that were not material and resulted primarily from staff oversight, losses through third parties and data leakage. Where required, remediation efforts are underway and are underpinned by strong staff awareness and training programmes. In addition, new tools to enhance our ability to manage data leakage are being investigated. Compliance (society, product and service) 419 Management approach Core See 102–47 disclosures – Socioeconomic compliance 419–1 Non-compliance with laws Core The Central Bank of Mozambique (CBM) issued a 1–10 and regulations in the social contravention notification letter to the Banco Único and economic area in 2017 relating to the management and reporting of suspicious and unusual transactions. A fine of MZN32m (R7,3m) was imposed and paid in 2018. Product portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio Core Overview of Nedbank Group for business lines by specific Our value-creating business model region, size (eg micro/SME/ Delivering our strategy through our business clusters large) and by sector Ten-year Review FS7 Monetary value of products Core Applying the Equator Principles 1, 2, 7–10 and services designed to Sustainable development finance deliver a specific social Transformation Report benefit for each business line, broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products Core Applying the Equator Principles 7–9 and services designed to Sustainable development finance deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line, broken down by purpose Active ownership FS10 Percentage and number of Core Managing social and environmental risk 1–10 companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental and social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject Core Committed to responsible investment 1–10 to positive and negative Ten-year Review environmental or social screening FS12 Voting policies applied to Core Proxy voting guidelines: environmental or social Responsible Investing Guidelines: issues for shares over which the reporting organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 57 CONTACTS DETAILS Driekie Havenga Nedbank Ethics Officer Enterprise Governance and Compliance driekieh@nedbank.co.za Kerri Savin Snr Manager: Sustainability Strategy and Reporting Group Strategy kerris@nedbank.co.za DISCLAIMER Nedbank Group has acted in good faith and has made every reasonable effort to ensure the accuracy and completeness of the information contained in this document, including all information that may be defined as ‘forward-looking statements’ within the meaning of United States securities legislation. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as ‘believe’, ‘anticipate’, ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘project’, ‘target’, ‘predict’ and ‘hope’. Forward-looking statements are not statements of fact, but statements by the management of Nedbank Group based on its current estimates, projections, expectations, beliefs and assumptions regarding the group’s future performance. No assurance can be given that forward-looking statements will be correct and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. The risks and uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements contained in this document include, but are not limited to: changes to IFRS and the interpretations, applications and practices subject thereto as they apply to past, present and future periods; domestic and international business and market conditions such as exchange rate and interest rate movements; changes in the domestic and international regulatory and legislative environments; changes to domestic and international operational, social, economic and political risks; and the effects of both current and future litigation. Nedbank Group does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document and does not assume responsibility for any loss or damage arising as a result of the reliance by any party thereon, including, but not limited to, loss of earnings, profits, or consequential loss or damage. 58 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2018 Fintech partnership of the year Nedbank is proud to have won The Banker magazine’s 2018 fintech partnership award for our ‘Satellite and drone imagery analytics experimentation’. Together with Aerobotics (Pty) Ltd, a disruptive technology company that builds advanced analytics on top of aerial drone and satellite imagery, we deliver precision farming tools for our agricultural clients.
