Sustainability Report 2018 The report in brief Nordea’s Sustainability Report 2018 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The report has been subject to third-party assurance by PwC. Nordea’s Sustainability Report 2018 is divided into two sections. In the front section, pages 4–27, we tell our sustainability story focusing on how Nordea enables the transition to a sustainable future by working with our material topics and providing sustainable solutions, products and services to our customers. In the back section, pages 28–49, we provide supplementary information to disclosures in the front section as well as information about our materiality analysis, stakeholder engagement, governance structure, policies and processes. This is also where we report on limitations in scope and omission statements according to GRI (where relevant). This is also where we present the GRI Content Index with application level according to the GRI Standards as well as a Responsible Banking Principles Reporting Index and a TCFD Disclosure Index. The assurance report can be found on page 50. If you have any questions about the Sustainability Report, you are welcome to address them to sustainability@nordea.com Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Contents 3 Contents 4 CEO statement 6 This is Nordea 8 Business ethics 10 Living our mission 12 Climate action 16 Human rights 18 Responsible supply chain 20 Well-being at work 22 Diversity and inclusion 24 Community engagement 26 Digitalisation 28 Sustainability notes 43 Responsible Banking Principles Reporting Index 44 TCFD Disclosure Index 45 GRI Content Index 50 Assurance Report Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 4 Nordea’s role in the transition to a sustainable future Sustainability embedded in Board processes To be effective, Nordea’s approach to sustainability must be embedded in the work of the Board. That way, the Board plays its role in supporting and promoting the transition to a sustainable future, strengthening the trust of our customers and society as well as the ability to provide longterm value creation to shareholders. As part of its activities, the Board has received regular updates on progress and priorities in relation to sustainability and climate-related risks and opportunities and how they are 2018 was a year in which sustainability and the effects of embedded in business processes. The climate change were very evident. Here, CEO Casper von Board approved an updated Group Board Directive on Risk in which we Koskull (CvK) and Head of Group Sustainable Finance Sasja include environmental, social and govBeslik (SB) share their views on sustainability and sustainable ernance (ESG) risk as a risk category in its own right. We have continued to finance, and the impact on Nordea. support the agile approach to work and investments in digital capabilities to remain current and relevant to the CvK: I would say that sustainability has and build resilient banking solutions. It is needs of our customers. The Board become fundamental to resilient busibold to say that we don’t have a sustainpromoted and maintained a strengthness. It’s about trust and the ability to ability strategy, but rather a focus on ened approach to compliance and provide long-term value creation to sustainability throughout our business. conduct matters to satisfy both regulashareholders. In the past two years, at To have a future, finance must be tory and society’s expectations and we Nordea we have evolved our sustainsustainable. have received and discussed feedback able finance efforts. We believe that, on the work of the Business Ethics together with our customers and partSB: A decade ago, sustainable finance and Values Committee. The Board also ners, we can and should enable the was a niche pursuit, relegated to the challenged and supported progress transition to a sustainable future, or at back pages of the business press if in matters such as the adoption of a least a more sustainable one. reported at all. Now, it’s increasingly directive on the promotion of gender moving towards the front and centre. balance. “To have a future, finance Sustainable finance is one of the key must be sustainable.” ‘answers’ to evolving and reshaping the On behalf of the Board of Directors economy. For that to happen, our sector Our aim is to take a leadership posirequires a different kind of leadership Sarah Russell tion in sustainable finance. Our approach – one that is bolder, more transparent Chairman of the Board builds on the notion that we need to and more outward-looking than Audit Committee understand and mitigate consequences presently. of climate change in relation to our Today, the world is heading in a perilBirger Steen banking business. We know that Nordea ous direction, as the recent IPCC report Chairman of the Board Operations and society at large need to adapt for makes very clear. At the same time, and Compliance Committee lasting change in a volatile, uncertain, renewable fuels still only make up 15% complex and ambiguous (VUCA) world of the global energy mix. In transport, Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 5 only 1% of US car sales are electric. In An example we are very proud of is that collective transparency. We've been construction, the carbon footprint of Nordea Life & Pensions (NLP) has supporting the UN Global Compact for buildings is stuck at a stubborn 39% of decided to improve the environmental over 15 years and will continue to do so. total greenhouse gas emissions. As susprofile of all its pension products and Now we have to take the next collective tainable financiers, we need to become has already cut the carbon footprint of step. We must agree on a common sysbolder at addressing the energy shift. its traditionally managed equity portfotem for disclosing climate finance flows We need to meet the climate targets set lio by 70%. and – equally importantly – for the in the Paris agreement. For too long, the action they finance. The recommendafinancial sector has been giving to cliSB: Sustainable finance is not yet servtions of the Task Force on Climate-relatmate with one hand while taking with ing as the beacon for everyone. Spotting ed Financial Disclosures (TCFD) cover the other. This counterproductive use of trends or identifying meaningful patmuch of the groundwork. We support capital won’t stop until we start acting. terns is – apart from for the keenest these recommendations, and now all analysts – almost impossible. At Nordea, that remains to be done is acting on CvK: In 2018 we worked even harder on we are doing what we can to change them. developing our financial products to this. In 2018, Nordea’s Markets division Also, as the only Nordic bank, we contribute to this shift. Nordea is one of published several insightful reports on have been part of developing the Globthe first banks in Europe and the first in the value of ESG in the investment area, al UN Standards for the banking industhe Nordics to have implemented a as well as correlation with performance, try, UNEP FI Principles for Responsible green loan product. We have launched with top ESG-rated companies outperBanking, and we are honoured and a green mortgages product for our forming laggards by up to 42% annually. proud of our contribution and engageretail segment as well as green corpoment for the greater good. rate loans for companies that need CvK: If we are to genuinely show the financial solutions to shift their business way for others, we need to engage our SB: As part of our efforts, Nordea is in a more sustainable and climate-resilindustry at several levels and demonassisting the EU with technical experient direction. strate far greater levels of individual and tise in the field of green bonds in develYears ago, we launched one of the oping a European system for managing most successful asset management and reporting climate-related issues relproduct ranges – Stars – that has been “Showing the way and being evant to the banking and financial delivering superior returns in several industry in general. categories while at the same time helpa forerunner in advocating ing make companies more sustainable. sustainable finance put CvK: Showing the way and being a foreWe are one of the leading market propressure on us to have our runner in advocating sustainable finance viders in the Nordics of green bonds put pressure on us to have our own and our efforts in this field will continue. own house in order.” house in order. In 2018, we conducted a new materiality analysis, identifying the sustainability areas that are material for us to work with as a bank. Based on the outcome of our materiality analysis, we have set targets for 2019 and onwards, and are working hard to reduce both our direct and our indirect impact. We have significantly strengthened our efforts in preventing financial crime in the last few years. This includes strengthening our transaction monitoring capabilities through investment in technology, additional employees and more sophisticated assessment techniques. Today, more than 1,500 Nordea employees work in preventing financial crime. At the same time, we have approximately 12,000 employees who are in direct contact with our customers, and they are trained regularly in identifying signs of financial crime. Casper von Koskull President and Group CEO Sasja Beslik Head of Group Sustainable Finance Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 This is Nordea 6 An agile and resilient bank – now and in the future Nordea wants to make a real difference – for our customers and for the communities in which we operate – by sharing our extensive expertise based on 200 years in the banking business. Nordea is a Nordic bank with global led by a shared purpose and living our we operate and, in so doing, to make an presence. We are the largest financial values to the fullest, we can build a appropriate contribution to each society. services group in the Nordic region and Nordea with a strong culture and busiWe manage tax costs and risks carefully, one of the biggest banks in Europe. As a ness foundation. Together, we lead the and by paying and reporting taxes in bank, Nordea has three main tasks – to way, enabling dreams and everyday due time, we aim to maintain a good convert savings into financing, to manaspirations for a greater good. To meet local tax reputation. age credit and other financial risks, and customer demands, our people must At Nordea we strive to deliver great to enable payments and other financial feel empowered to make their own customer experience, and to build trust transactions efficiently and securely. decisions. Our values – collaboration, through acting with integrity. This Trust in the financial sector and in the ownership, passion and courage – includes upholding the ethical standards financial system is crucial to financial stadefine our behaviour and help us make outlined in Nordea’s Code of Conduct, bility. Our success relies on the confithe right decisions. They are how we do Tax Policy on Customer Advice and Susdence our stakeholders have in us – trust things. By living our values, we can tainability Policy when advising customthat is ultimately safeguarded by laws build an agile, adaptive and resilient ers about the tax implications of differand regulations. Ensuring financial stabilculture with a customer-first mindset, ent products. We also take care to comity forms part of Nordea’s social responsiwhich will put us ahead of our ply with external regulations regarding bility. As a financial entity, we strive to competitors. the provision of proper information and find the financial solutions that best suit not mislead customers in their decisions. our customers’ needs so they can achieve Building a resilient For details on our tax payments by their goals and realise their dreams. business for the future country, see sustainability note S2. on Nordea, like any other business, is conpage 30. We are operating in a volatile stantly facing global challenges. In and unpredictable world terms of our business, this means that In order to meet customer demands, we need to take responsibility when Nordea is going agile. We need to be mitigating risks, managing our customNordea among the more flexible, adaptable and fast-movers´ money and in terms of environmenworld’s top 100 most ing. Our customers will see this as we tal impact. What we can change about sustainable corporations will make new products and services the future are the choices we make. available frequently. We have already We expect that, in the future, being For the second year in a row, Nordea started, and in 2018 we launched for led by our purpose and guided by our has been ranked as one of the top 100 instance a new mobile payment soluvalues every day, we will significantly most sustainable corporations in the tion and a new mobile banking app. improve our customer satisfaction as world by Corporate Knights. As the We need to work closely with our well as our return on equity, and reduce only Nordic bank to qualify among the customers to make sure we understand our costs. Sustainable choices, as well top 100, Nordea climbed up the ranktheir needs. Being agile is one way of as strong accountability in terms of ing from number 86 to 47. Analysis doing just that and we measure cuscompliance and risk, will be integral of the age composition and financial tomer satisfaction on a regular basis to parts of our culture. performance of the 2019 Global 100 make sure we are on the right track. At demonstrates that top sustainability the present time we have not reached We are committed to meeting performers tend to last longer and our desired level of customer satisfacexpectations on tax transparency perform better for investors than comtion, and we receive complaints from At Nordea, we generate value for the parator companies. some of our almost 10 million customers societies in which we operate both every day. All complaints are important through the taxes we pay in relation to to us, providing valuable input we can our business, and by withholding taxes apply to improve our services, solutions on dividends and interest for customers Moving into and products on our journey to improve on behalf of the government. Our Tax the European customer satisfaction, both in absolute Policy for the Nordea Group is a Group banking union terms and in relation to competition. Directive that ensures we manage tax On 1 October 2018, The results from our customer satisefficiently and compliantly, thereby proNordea was re-domiciled from Swefaction surveys are presented in sustecting Nordea’s shareholder value. The den to Finland. Nordea Bank Abp is tainability note S1. on page 30. transfer of the Nordea headquarters to legally registered in Finland, with its Finland has no impact on how we pay headquarters in Helsinki. The shares of Our purpose and core values help taxes or our commitment to transparenNordea Bank Abp are traded on the us make the right decisions cy in how we manage taxes. Nordea’s Helsinki, Stockholm and Copenhagen Nordea has a long history of working policy is to pay taxes in accordance with stock exchanges. with values. We believe that by being local regulations in all countries in which Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 This is Nordea 7 Key data 2018 Market presence Representation in 18 countries including our four home markets – Denmark, Finland, Norway and ~9.9 ­customers m Four business areas designed to support the relationship strategy for each specific customer segment: Sweden – together representing the Personal Banking, Commercial and world’s 10th largest economy. of which 9.3 million are houseBusiness Banking, Wholesale Banking hold customers and 572,000 and Asset & Wealth Management. are corporates and institutions. Financials EUR 9.0bn EUR 518bn Total operating income Total liabilities EUR 551bn EUR 33bn Total assets Total equity Our People Women Men 52% 48% Average hours of Our values: training per employee: Collaboration Number of employees: 31,528 13.5 Ownership Passion Courage Climate action Total carbon emissions: We helped 40,294 100% issuers raise more than tonnes CO2e of total assets have been subject USD 2.7bn of which fuel and energy 11,687 to negative environmental and/or in total green bond and business travel 28,607 social screening financing For details on boundary, scope and calculation methods for the data disclosed above about our people and carbon emissions, see sustainability notes S12. on page 40 and S10. on page 38–39. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Business ethics 8 Ethical conduct is how we build trust with our customers Banks are the lifeblood of the economy. Our role is to ensure that capital is available in the right areas of the economy – not to make money for the sake of the money, but to help individuals and companies fulfil their dreams and aspirations. As a financial services company, we are in the business of trust. Our success relies on the confidence our stakeholders have in us, and each and every one of us has a crucial role in building and maintaining that trust. Good risk management and regulatory compliance are the cornerstones of sound and sustainable business To safeguard the interests of Nordea’s stakeholders, including customers and society, it is important that risks are managed effectively and kept under control. Effective management of risks and capital is crucial for Nordea’s sustained profitability and a part of our social responsibility to mitigate systemic risk in the Nordics. Maintaining risk awareness in the organisation is an integral part of our business strategy. To ensure Nordea is a responsible corporate citizen and to prevent the banking system from being used for illegal activity, it is important that regulations are followed, and that compliance is monitored. With our recent re-domiciliation to Finland, Nordea is operating in a regulatory regime with high standards overseen by the European Central Bank’s Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM). The move into the Banking Union is a significant strategic consider the impact of our decision on business strategy, the design and develstep in our transformation journey, our stakeholders. opment of products, our sales, and the securing a fair, stable and predictable All our employees are required to ongoing service we provide. In line with regulatory environment for the bank on complete annual training in the Code of this approach, new internal rules relating a par with European peers. Conduct as part of their Licence to Work to product governance, handling custo ensure proper awareness and knowltomers in the provision of investment Doing the right thing edge of the ethical principles. All new services, and advisors’ knowledge and Our Code of Conduct and corporate valemployees also undergo this training. In competence have been established and ues underpin our culture and set the 2018, 91% of all employees (excluding implemented. parameters for our conduct. The those on long-term leave) and 97% of all high-level principles that guide our businew employees completed their Licence Encouraging our people to speak up ness, how we treat our customers and to Work. Nordea´s whistleblowing function the conduct expected from our employIn 2018, we continued to develop our “Raise Your Concern” encourages ees are defined in our Code of Conduct. approach for ensuring that our culture employees to speak up if they have Ensuring that we do the right thing is and behaviour are consistent with our concerns about misconduct, unethical the essence of our Code of Conduct. values, and that we deliver fair outcomes behaviour or irregularities. This This means asking ourselves not only for our customers across all stages of the includes any action that constitutes a “can we do it?”, but also “should we do customer lifecycle. This means a strong violation of laws or regulations, or of it?”. When we ask these questions, we focus on putting the customer first in our Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Business ethics 9 Nordea’s internal policies, instructions sustainability into Nordea’s risk manPreventing financial crime or guidelines. agement framework and to continue to protect society In 2017 this framework was strengththe efforts that commenced in 2017 to Financial crime is a serious threat to the ened by implementing an electronic develop a framework for sustainability security and integrity of the global reporting channel called WhistleB that risk assessment. financial system, and we must ensure allows for anonymous two-way comIn 2018, we included sustainability in that past incidents are not repeated in munication. Increased awareness our Group Board Directive on Risk and the future. Money laundering is a seriaround the Raise Your Concern process incorporated ESG risk in our risk taxonous issue for society, and increased throughout the whole Group, the culturomy at the same risk level as other key cooperation between banks and authoral transformation of Nordea as well as risks, e.g. credit risk, operational risk ities is needed to fight it. It is a joint the enhanced reporting possibilities and market risk. Risks related to susresponsibility to improve safety in the through WhistleB provide for an even tainability factors in general and climate global financial system. stronger and encouraging environment risks in particular cannot be treated in We are committed to complying with for whistleblowing and internal isolation as they can have a financial applicable laws and regulations coninvestigations. impact. Furthermore, ESG risk is defined cerning anti-money laundering, counter as being a potential cause of reputaterrorist financing, sanctions and bribery Managing risks to keep Nordea tional risk. Risks related to sustainability and corruption in the jurisdictions in and our customers safe shall be managed and governed based which we operate, and to prevent It is fundamental that banks have on Nordea’s guiding principles on susNordea from being used for any illegal strong internal controls in place to protainability, as set out in the Group Board activity. tect shareholders, customers, employDirective on Sustainability, which We have established global policies ees and society from unwanted surprisimplies that it shall be integrated into that we update each year, and all our es, hence ensuring we run a sustainable our investment and financing activities employees must undergo mandatory business. as well as in our advice to customers. financial crime risk training annually to Our risk management framework Efforts have commenced to embed protect society. In 2018, 95% of all staff focuses on managing the risks in line risk assessment and control activities as had completed the training by the end with our risk appetite and has defined a part of our regular risk management of the year. clear risk, liquidity and capital manageprocesses and will continue into 2019. ment frameworks. In the current dynamic This includes further reflecting sustainenvironment with increasing regulatory ability considerations in the credit risk requirements, changing customer framework used to manage credit risk We have more than 1,500 ! behaviour, new competitors and new on an ongoing basis. employees working with finantechnologies, Nordea continuously develFor further information on the risk cial crime prevention and 12,000 ops its risk management framework, management framework, please see employees in direct contact with ensuring that material risks are captured. sustainability note S3. on page 31–32. our customers who are trained to One of our short-term sustainability identify signs of financial crime. goals for 2018 was to further integrate Protecting our customers to ensure that neither they nor Nordea are used in perpetrating financial crimes We have a challenge and an obligation to manage risks and acceptance of a customer, all customers are then relating to financial crime and anti-money laundering subject to regular review procedures, for which review activities for each of the 1.8 billion transactions passing frequency is based on the customer’s risk profile. through Nordea each year. Over the last few years, Nordea To detect suspicious transactions, we have monitoring has significantly strengthened its transaction monitoring systems that produce daily, weekly and monthly alerts capabilities through investment in technology, additional on customer transaction activities that are outside of employees and more sophisticated assessment technormal thresholds for the different customer types, or that niques. meet transaction activity patterns that are known to be Our customers encounter our preventative efforts in difsuspicious. Each year, these systems generate hundreds of ferent ways. When we welcome new customers to Nordea, thousands of alerts. All of these are managed and, where we must ask several questions to get to know and undernecessary, investigated for potential suspicious activity stand who they are, how they will fund their accounts, and which may result in a Suspicious Activities Report being their anticipated pattern of transaction activity. The latter filed with the relevant authorities across our jurisdictions. is crucial to ensure that funds from illegal sources are not In addition to the systems, an equal number of Suspicious introduced into the financial system. Similarly, it must be Activities Reports arise from observations and reports confirmed that the customer is not a sanctioned individual. directly from Nordea staff. It must also be confirmed whether the customer has any Nordea also has an obligation to comply with all interpolitical exposure, as politically exposed persons may carnational and local sanctions programmes. Our customers ry a higher financial crime risk through the nature of their and their transactions are therefore screened daily against work and connections. Depending on the risk profile of the several sanctions lists to ensure that they are not sanccustomer, we may also perform additional, more in-depth tioned individuals and that no sanctions breaches occur checks and verification processes. Following onboarding through the execution of the transactions. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Living our mission 10 On a mission to enable the transition to a sustainable future Contributing to economic growth and prosperity through capital allocation and interaction with companies is part of our responsibility. Nordea has set the mission to enable nesses and sectors shifting their existconnection with advice, investing and the transition to a sustainable future in ing carbon-intensive business models financing. We therefore integrate ESG our capacity of a major bank and towards more sustainable solutions. issues into our investment analysis meththrough the choices we make. odology to ensure that investment and We address the UN's Sustainable Identifying and focusing on our portfolio construction decisions are based Development Goals (SDGs) as part of material sustainability issues on a full set of information. All Nordea our efforts. Enabled by sustainable In 2018, we set our sustainability direcfunds are subject to annual norm-based finance, we adapt to changes in our tion and focus. This is based on the screening which identifies companies business environment – in demand, materiality analysis we conducted that are allegedly involved in breaches of expectations and opportunities – to during the year, considering the megainternational law and norms on environbecome increasingly digitalised and clitrends, such as climate change and digimental protection, human rights, labour mate-friendly. We mitigate risks related talisation, as well as the SDGs and the standards and anti-corruption. The to the environment, social issues, corpoParis Agreement. screening also identifies companies that rate governance, financial crime, credit In the materiality analysis, we identiare subject to exclusion based on our losses, reputation and an uncertain fied climate as the lead area for our exclusion criteria. Our exclusion list is future. We do so by integrating sustainefforts, followed by a focus on human updated on a regular basis and can be ability throughout the bank, into our rights, a responsible supply chain, being found at nordea.com. We also initiated products and processes in our core an inclusive employer with satisfied efforts to integrate ESG risk evaluation areas of investment, financing and employees and community engagement. into our credit decision-making and to advice, and in our internal operations. See sustainability note S6. on page include customers’ ESG risk category in The critical need for the transition to 33–34 for detailed information about credit memorandums. These efforts are in be both fast and fair is recognised in the our materiality analysis. the early stages and we have a long way Paris Agreement. The evidence shows to go before all our customers are that the shift to a resilient, low-carbon Integrating sustainability evaluated. economy will boost prosperity and be a throughout the bank net driver of job creation. However, Nordea’s Sustainability Policy was We want to make it easy for there will be transitional challenges for approved by the Board of Directors in our customers to make more workers, communities, countries and December 2017. It is our guide for conduct sustainable choices business sectors as this shift takes in our day-to-day work and when making As a leading bank, we want to redirect place. To address this, banks and finanbusiness decisions. We are committed to capital allocation to companies with a cial institutions need to incorporate the taking the policy and other relevant ESG sustainable business model and the full range of ESG dimensions of sustainprinciples into consideration when evaluability to conduct their business able finance including support for busiating business risks and opportunities in responsibly. On the investment side, our Stars funds empower customers to make a difPromoting economic growth and job creation ference by investing in sustainable and in society by supporting the start-up ecosystem responsible companies. We also offer a Global Climate and Environment Fund Entrepreneurs are a cornerstone of In 2017 Nordea, as the first bank which focuses on companies that provide much of the progress in our society in the Nordics, launched a dedicated climate solutions. Both the Stars funds with 2,700,000 corporations active start-up and growth unit in Finland, and the Global Climate and Environment in the Nordics, 80% of Nordic GDP focusing on serving start-ups with Fund are part of our Sustainable Selecgenerated by corporations and three the potential for global scale. In 2018 tion. This is a new group of products with out of four jobs being within corporait was also established in Denmark, a certain required sustainability threshold tions. Helping entrepreneurs to build Sweden and Norway. The start-up that was made available to all our Nordic sustainably successful businesses is and growth unit helps scalable private customers in December 2018. The the best way for a bank to engage in companies accelerate their growth Sustainable Selection is the result of society. by providing them with our expertise, work initiated in 2017, when we examAt Nordea we support entreprestrong network and flexible financing ined our savings offerings to identify how neurs on their entire journey, from solutions, tailored to their specific we can help our customers make more start-up to large company, with the needs. The unit has had a strong sustainable choices. aim of tying them to the right financreach in the target group, workOn the financing side, sustainability is ing, the right networks and the needing with about 2,500 companies in becoming an increasing part of discused skills. We also keep a close eye on Finland, comprising about 75% of all sions about future financing opportunithe underrepresentation of women scalable companies, and with strong ties with our corporate and institutional and minorities in the start-up ecosysrole model companies across all customers. We launched the first green tem and engage in various initiatives, markets such as Wolt and Epidemic bond of our own in 2017. In 2018 we such as Female Round Table. Sound. launched green loans to our corporate customers in Sweden and will expand Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Living our mission 11 this offer to the other Nordic countries in about our voting, both at the annual well as companies identified for our 2019. In order to also encourage our general meetings we physically attend, ESG-enhanced funds. household customers to reduce carbon and our proxy voting. Besides voting, emissions from their homes, we we also demonstrate stewardship and We seek to facilitate change through launched green mortgages in Sweden active ownership through representacollaboration in 2018. tion on nomination committees and We engage with companies and other We also want to give our customers through dialogue and engagement stakeholders including policymakers. As an opportunity to see how funds (and activities with companies. an example, in 2018 Nordea participated their included companies) are performas one of 28 leading banks in the develing on sustainability risks and opportuWe believe that company engageopment of the UNEP FI Principles for nities relative to peers. All funds offered ment is key for us to be a responsiResponsible Banking, which were in our online channels are therefore ble owner launched in November 2018. The princinow rated from 0 to 100 based on When we want to improve a company’s ples provide banks with a vision linked research from MSCI, which is recmanagement of its ESG risks, we start to society’s goals, and a comprehensive ognised as the leading sustainability an engagement process with the comframework for hardwiring sustainability data provider in the industry. pany. During the process, we clearly into the bank’s DNA at all levels and communicate our engagement goal to across all business areas. The principles Being an active owner is crucial to the company. We set milestones and were presented in November 2018 but creating responsible returns for our review the company’s progress periodiwill be officially released and ready for investee companies cally with visits or conference calls. The signing in September 2019. However, At Nordea, we exercise our right to timeframe of the engagement process Nordea is already working towards the influence companies, through attending can vary depending on the complexity principles and on page 43–44 we presor voting at the companies’ annual genof the engagement goal. ent an index of where relevant informaeral meetings. We are active in compaIn 2018, we engaged with 126 compation in relation to the principles can be nies around the world and in 2018 we nies representing 19% of assets under found. voted in companies in about 35 different management (AuM) to ensure that Details on our stakeholder engagecountries. We might even put forward material ESG risks were being adequatements and participation in international shareholder resolutions at the meetings. ly managed, or ESG opportunities were initiatives can be found in sustainability We strive for transparency and show being fully harnessed. These companies notes S7. on page 35 and S13. on page 41. how we have voted in our voting portal include some of our largest holdings as on nordea.com. It includes information Our sustainable products Stars Funds Green Loans We have created a family of investment funds under the Green loans are used to finance specific investments with Stars brand. The Stars funds are about positive selection environmental benefits and give our corporate customers and selecting quality companies with well-managed the opportunity to address climate change in their financESG profiles that generate long-term financial value. It is ing. The customer commits to using the financing for a about finding tomorrow’s best performers, which – from sustainable investment, which requires them to report the our point of view – will be companies with sustainable positive impact from the investment on energy or water business models and the ability to conduct their business consumption, for example. responsibly in relation to their stakeholders – employees, suppliers, customers, investors and society at large. Green Mortgages Our green mortgage is a product for customers who The Global Climate and Environment Fund reside in climate-smart homes that fulfil criteria relating The Global Climate and Environment Fund invests in to either energy classification of buildings, the Nordic companies which, through their climate solutions, are Swan eco-labelling or certification by the Sweden Green changing the world for the better – because saving Building Council. electricity is as important as generating clean electricity. It focuses on businesses operating in resource efficiency, ESG research reports environmental protection and alternative energy. As a service to our customers, we provide dedicated ESG research. We have manually gathered data to form a truly Green Bonds unique ESG data set covering 230 Nordic companies, 40 To support companies’ transition to more sustainable individual ESG metrics and data from 2009–2017. In 2018, business models, we offer green bonds. We work with we published several well-received reports on sustaingreen bonds in two different ways. Firstly, we issue our ability demonstrating a solid connection between ESG own green bonds where proceeds are earmarked to and value creation. finance such loans to customers which have environmental benefits and mitigate climate change. The projects are Our sustainable products are presented more in detail in typically aimed at energy efficiency, pollution prevention, sustainability note S8. on page 36. sustainable water management and sustainable agriculture. Secondly, we serve as the intermediary between our customers as issuers and investors, by helping them to issue, or invest in, green bonds via the capital markets. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Climate action 12 Taking climate action is our way of future-proofing the business As a financial institution, Nordea has a considerable role to play in the transformation towards a sustainable society in general, and to combat climate change specifically. The global environment is under great tion on which to base investment and ing of investment portfolios. By the end pressure, and catastrophes due to clifinancing decisions. Inadequate inforof the year, the first pilots were conduc­ mate change and scarcity of natural mation can lead to mispricing of assets ted on a selected number of portfolios. resources are part of life. The state of and allocation of capital to companies Assessment of climate-related risks and the environment affects individuals and that are not striving towards a low-caropportunities in the large corporate companies alike, and poses a serious bon economy. Therefore, both Nordea lending portfolio is ongoing, and in 2018 threat to global prosperity. At Nordea, Bank Abp and Nordea Asset Managewe also reviewed methodologies for cliwe recognise that climate change will ment (NAM) support the recommendamate scenario analysis and stress testpose risks as well as present opportunitions from the Task Force on Climate-reing and their applicability for lending ties for our customers and our business lated Financial Disclosures (TCFD). portfolios. – both indirectly through our stakeholdThe recommendations provide a See page 44 for an index on where to ers’ activities, and directly through the foundation for climate-related financial find our first TCFD-related disclosures. operations we run. It is an area that will disclosures for all companies, aiming at have long-term financial implications encouraging companies to report on the Challenging climate targets for our business, but also an area in climate-related risks and opportunities to support the transition to which we see that we can have an that are most relevant to their business a low-carbon economy impact in the transition to a low-carbon activities. For us, this means that we We have not had any specific quantitaeconomy. A transition that is urgent, as now agree to disclose climate-related tive environmental and climate targets pointed out in IPCC’s special report on financial information in relation to our since 2016. For 2017 and 2018 we had global warming that was released in investments and financing, but also to short-term sustainability goals. These October 2018. put pressure on our investee companies goals are to be seen as activities needand customers to disclose such ed for us to reach a certain level of preImproving disclosure of information. paredness to meet the sustainability climate-related risks However, implementing the TCFD challenges ahead and to take on longThe large-scale and long-term horizon recommendations is not done overterm goals. of problems relating to climate change night. TCFD expects it to take five years. One of our short-term sustainability makes it challenging to estimate its conIn 2018, NAM participated in UNEP FI’s goals for 2017 was to establish a scisequences, especially when relating it to investors’ working group on TCFD, idenence-based target that places focus on the potential financial impact on a comtifying methodologies for how to perclimate action in our entire value chain. pany. Investors need reliable informaform scenario analysis and stress testIn 2017 we therefore evaluated this possibility. However, there is an absence of established market norms for financial institutions to create science-based targets that include scope 3 emissions, i.e. Nordea representative appointed as a driver emissions from downstream activities in EU work on sustainable finance such as investments and financing. We are closely following the development In March 2018, the EU Commission • guidance to improve corporate and alignment of methodologies that presented ten action points for disclosure of climate-related help financial institutions to create such sustainable finance followed by the information. targets. first legislative proposals in May. The A short-term sustainability goal for Commission set up a technical expert TEG has 35 members from business, 2018 was to identify a baseline for climate group (TEG) with a task of assisting academia and civil society plus change, our carbon footprint for our interthe Commission in developing: additional observers and represennal operations. This work was initiated in tatives from the EU bodies. Aila Aho, 2018 and will be finalised in 2019. • an EU classification system – the Based on our work in 2018, we have Executive Advisor Sustainability in so-called taxonomy – to deterset a sustainability direction for 2021 Wholesale Banking at Nordea was mine whether an economic activand targets for 2019 for both our direct selected to be the rapporteur for ity is environmentally sustainaand indirect impact. The new direction the Green Bond Standard subgroup. ble; and targets were approved by Group TEG started in July 2018 and plans • an EU Green Bond Standard; to publish its recommendations in Executive Management (GEM) in early June 2019. February 2019. • benchmarks for low-carbon For the status of all our short-term investment strategies; and sustainability goals in 2017 and 2018, see sustainability note S9. on page 37. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability direction and targets We commit to taking an active part in the banking industry’s role and responsibility in shaping a sustainable future. We see that sustainable finance will enable Nordea to be a responsible and resilient bank. We have therefore developed a new direction for 2021 and targets for 2019 to benefit from the current strong sustainability momentum. Our direction and a selection of our targets are presented below. Direction 2021 • Be acknowledged as a leading European bank in the transition to a sustainable future. • Be acknowledged as the leading business partner in sustainable finance and perceived as a leader for s­ ustainable financial service offerings for household customers. • Our investment portfolios will be well on their way to being aligned with the Paris Agreement. • Be the leading arranger of sustainability bonds and the leading bank on green lending in the Nordics. • We commit to actively reach out to our employees, customers and broader ­society on climate and finance. Targets 2019 Products • Develop and launch green corporate • Increase asset under management in loans in all four Nordic countries. ­sustainable savings offering. • Complete sustainable savings offering • Evaluate to expand green mortgages which will be part of models portfolios. in the Nordics. Processes • Develop scenario analysis for climate risk • 7% reduction in air travel for internal for our large corporate lending portfolio. meetings. • Integrate sustainability into our savings • New vendor agreements aligned with ­advisory process. the Supplier Code of Conduct. • Measure investment portfolio alignment • Launch Position Statement on Human and set strategy to work towards the Rights and Sector Guidelines on Gambling, Paris Agreement. Oil & Gas, Real Estate and Forestry. Awareness • 80% completion rate group wide for the Sustainable Finance e-learning for all staff. Climate action 14 We have guidelines to refrain business travel, driving group-wide from financing a carbonaccountability and awareness. intensive economy Another contributor to our carbon In 2017, we launched Nordea’s Position emissions is our energy consumption. Statement on Climate which sets out The majority of our Nordic large offices In 2018, we the scope and principles of Nordea’s cliare LEED or BREAM certified. However, mate change agenda. Therein, we condue to our strategy to become more digidecreased our business sider the nature of our business, in tal, we expect to see energy consumptravel activities which investments, credits and purchastion in the data centres going up. We are by 21% es can have both a local and global doing what we can to reduce this impact. We also take into consideration increasing energy consumption with varrelevant international conventions, such ious energy efficiency measures, such as as the United Nations Framework Concontinuously making sure our servers in vention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the data centres are up to date and enerthe Paris Agreement and the ten princigy efficient. Furthermore, in connection ples of the UN Global Compact as well with building the new Copenhagen as the recommendations from TCFD office, we have established a new data and pass on their knowledge, to cusand the views of our stakeholders. The centre which will gradually take over tomers, family and friends – creating a statement presents our position on clifrom one of the older data centres. Since chain of change for a sustainable future. mate change with initiatives on how to 2011, we have been purchasing 100% To put focus on carbon emissions approach the challenges. Furthermore, renewable electricity through Guaranfrom different types of food, we have we commit to refraining from providing tees of Origin equal to our electricity introduced a couple of different meatnew financing to energy production or consumption in the Nordics, Poland free initiatives in some of our canteens. mining companies that are primarily and Estonia. In Denmark and Norway we serve only dependent on thermal coal. We may Water users – from communities, to fish as the hot meal once a week and in continue to finance existing customers industries, to ecosystems – are or will Sweden we introduced a monthly vegebut will encourage them to transform to be affected by changes in the water tarian day, “Green Monday”, in 2018. less carbon-intensive production. cycle due to climate change. Rising Waste is an issue we know matters a In 2017, our existing corporate cuswater competition and stress at the surgreat deal to our employees. A positive tomers were screened and assessed for face are likely to drive greater use and side effect of “Green Monday” in Sweutilisation of thermal coal. As a result, potential overuse of this resource. den is that we have 19% less food waste we identified only three customers on Nordea is not a large water user, neverwhich we then performed further due theless we measure our water condiligence or engaged in dialogues with sumption to make sure we not overuse to make sure that risks are highlighted, it. In 2018, our total water withdrawal assessed and mitigated. In 2019, we will was 157,035 cubic metres. continue to develop position statements for various sustainability-related topics Raising awareness among our including the transition to a low-carbon employees and building a more Green Monday economy, and sector guidelines. sustainable credit portfolio reduces food waste We aim to increase awareness among by 19% Reducing climate impact from our employees on how to battle climate our internal operations change. We hope and believe that, by The materiality analysis we conducted taking visible measures internally at in 2018 shows that our greatest impact Nordea, we can inspire our employees and contribution to sustainable develto reduce their own carbon footprint opment is our indirect impact. However, we cannot neglect that our internal operations have a negative impact on the environment and climate. In our internal operations we therefore apply The transition to a low-carbon economy the precautionary principle. requires a collective systemic shift Our greatest direct climate impact is Tools and approaches towards sake of appearing responsible and business travel which stands for 71% of climate-heavy sectors to achieve sustainable. Many, but not all, comour carbon emissions in 2018. As a Nora low-carbon economy are many panies in these sectors are willing dic bank with colleagues spread out and different depending on region, to change and shift their business across different locations, we travel a maturity, and culture – divesting, models towards a sustainable great deal, mostly by air. However, our engaging, naming and shaming, just future. Their leadership and boards business travel activities decreased by to mention a few. understand implications related to 21% in 2018 in comparison with 2017. As a large financial institution, lack of action. We know this too, and Even so, we will focus on reducing it Nordea is expected by stakeholders continuously work with our clients further from 2019 and on­-wards with to act on our exposure to companies and investee companies to assist targeted measures. One challenge with and sectors where carbon emissions them in their transition regardless business travel is that it is too easy to are high and current sustainabilof business sector or region as only book a flight without having to face the ity business practices still in their a well-anchored and planned colenvironmental consequences. We are infancy. We know this as much lective systemic shift will result in a therefore investigating the possibility of as we know about the intricate transition we all need. introducing an internal carbon fee on complexity of doing so just for the Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Climate action 15 on an average those days. Since we see A bank’s own funding is one more that proper waste management has siginternal aspect to consider. The issuIn 2018, Nordea Liv & Pension ! nificant implications for improving enviance of Nordea’s green bond enables reallocated the global equity ronmental performance and reducing building a more sustainable credit portportfolio of SEK 7bn to climateclimate change, and at the same time folio ourselves as we allocate more smart investments, reducing saves money, we hope to be able to funds to sustainable lending. carbon footprint by approximately measure it in the near future in order to Our own issuances of green bonds are 70 %. take the right measures to reduce it. As built on a long-term focus on sustainof today we lack consistent data ability and are well-aligned with between the countries due to depenNordea’s key principles to preserve dency on landlords and lease agreemarket capacity by seeking diversificatypes while maintaining proactive ments to receive reliable data. tion of the investor base and product behaviour. Carbon emissions from our internal operations Total CO2e emissions: 40,294 tonnes CO2e emission intensity : 4.47 tonnes/EURm of total operating income Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 (Direct) (Indirect) (Other indirect) Emissions from diesel generators Emissions from electricity, district Emissions from business travel and and leasing cars: heating and district cooling: fueland energy-related activities: 1,791 6,539 31,964 tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e For details about our carbon emissions and a description of the boundary, scope and calculation methods, see sustainability note S10. on page 38–39. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Human rights 16 Working to improve human rights and transparency We believe that human rights are fundamental to sustainable finance and provide the core values on which a sustainable financial system should be built. Human rights-related risks is a salient allegedly involved in breaches of interCode of Conduct training, which is manand at times material factor affecting national law and norms, including datory for all employees as part of their many industries and sectors. Nordea’s human rights. If a company is identified Licence to Work training. relationships with corporate customers in this screening process, we will initiate We work systematically to embed are founded on a deep understanding an internal assessment process of the human rights into all parts of the organof their business and the industries in company and the incident. isation and to strengthen our due diliwhich they operate. ESG is one paramegence processes. In the beginning of ter in our risk evaluation in the credit Integrating human rights into our 2019, we will conduct an independent decision-making process for a customer. guidelines and addressing human assessment of Nordea’s human rights As part of these evaluations, we analyse rights across our value chain performance. The result of the assessand assess companies’ risk exposure, Nordea supports the UN Universal Decment will be used as a baseline for our risk management and performance laration of Human Rights and the UN continuing work on implementing related to human and labour rights. FurGuiding Principles on Business and human rights initiatives and a means of thermore, we investigate whether comHuman Rights. We have included measuring progress. panies have been involved in controverhuman rights in our Code of Conduct, sies, and the actions they have taken to Sustainability Policy, Responsible Working in partnerships and mitigate and rectify the potential Investment Policy, Supplier Code of clusters is crucial to achieving impacts of such controversies. Conduct and in our Sector Guideline for results within human rights All Nordea funds are subject to annuthe Defence Industry. In 2019, we will Nordea is a funding member and a al norm-based screening. The screening launch a position statement on Human member of the Advisory Council of the is used to identify listed companies Rights. Human rights form part of our Corporate Human Rights Benchmark Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Human rights 17 (CHRB). The benchmark aims to measure, on an annual basis, the human rights performance of the world’s 500 largest publicly listed companies, looking at the policies, processes and practices the companies have in place to CASE address their human rights efforts, and how they respond to serious allegations of human rights violations. Engaging for basic human rights The 2018 benchmark assesses 101 companies from the Agricultural ProdThe right to health and clean water are human ucts, Apparel, and Extractives industries that were chosen on the basis of their rights. They are also among the largest global risks size (market capitalisation) and we are facing. revenues. At Nordea, we believe that the CHRB Two million people around the world ment with the pharma companies in will raise the level of awareness of the have no access to medicine. At the which we are invested, as well as with materiality of human rights and help same time, Antimicrobial resistance the industry-led Pharmaceutical Supcompanies meet investor expectations (AMR) is one of the largest global ply Chain Initiative (PSCI) on these on human rights. It will also enable threats today and kills more than issues, and we have clearly communifinancial institutions such as ourselves 700,000 people annually. If nothing is cated our expectations on water polluto assess and help clients to ensure they done, AMR could cost USD 100tn and tion related to pharmaceutical manuare not linked to human rights abuses. kill 10 million people by 2030. facturing. To address the expectations, Following the first benchmark the pharmaceutical industry develassessment in 2017, an engagement Nordea believes that oped an action plan. Several activities with the assessed companies was initihave been implemented already, and ated by the CHRB investors Nordea, pharmaceutical companies we meet regularly with the companies APG Asset Management and Aviva, have an important role to to discuss progress. We have also comtogether with 85 other asset owners missioned two independent on-theand managers with more than USD play in addressing health ground investigations about pharma5.3tn in AuM supporting the UN Guiding and clean water, which we ceutical manufacturing in India and Principles Reporting Framework. The believe can be material to published reports on the results. investor coalition is now following up To further promote better business on the 2018 assessment results. long-term shareholder practices in this area, we work with value creation. the Access to Medicine Foundation in Addressing children’s rights is part two areas. Nordea sits on the Expert of our focus on human rights Committee of The AMR Benchmark, Nordea is a board member of the FinanWater pollution related to pharmawhich tracks how 30 large pharmacial Coalition against Commercial Sexuceutical manufacturing in India has ceutical companies are responding to al Exploitation of Children – a collabobeen identified as an important driver the increase in drug resistance. The ration between Swedish banks, other of AMR. With expected growth to USD first assessment report was launched financial companies in Sweden, the 100bn by 2025, the pharmaceutical at the World Economic Forum in Swedish Bankers’ Association, ECPAT industry is one of the fastest-growing Davos in January 2018. We also work Sweden and other relevant participants. segments of the Indian economy and a with The Access to Medicine Index, The coalition aims to prevent crime in major supplier to global pharmaceutiwhich analyses the top 20 researchcooperation with the Swedish Police cal companies. At the same time, 163 based pharmaceutical companies on and to eliminate the means of making million people out of India’s population how they make medicines, vaccines payments for child pornography. In of 1.3 billion lack access to clean water. and diagnostics more accessible in 2018, several working groups were Nordea has a long-term engagelowand middle-income countries. established to advance these efforts. For information about other initiatives in which we participate, see note S13. on page 41. Water, ecosystems and human development in focus at the World Water Week 2018 The World Water Week is the annual (SEI) and SIWI an interactive seminar global focal point for water. It is organto discuss solutions and how safe ised by Stockholm International Water water, sanitation and hygiene can Institute, SIWI. Experts, practitioners, contribute to good health and reduce decision-makers, business innovathe need of antibiotics. tors and young professionals from a The information exchange and range of sectors and countries come discussions during the World Water to Stockholm to network, exchange Week fosters an important dialogue ideas, foster new thinking and develop between different stakeholders. The solutions to the most pressing waevent also provides a constructive In August 2018, The Corporate ! ter-related challenges of today. platform for Nordea’s continued focus Human Rights Benchmark was In 2018, Nordea co-hosted togethon water pollution resulting from listed in the Financial Times as one er with Swedish International Agripharmaceutical manufacturing and of six projects that drive quality cultural Network Initiative (SIANI), how this drives AMR – an issue as imand assurance in ESG. Stockholm Environmental Institute portant and urgent as climate change. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Responsible supply chain 18 Reducing sustainability impact in close collaboration with our suppliers With approximately 1,300 active contracted suppliers and a spend of around EUR 2.39bn, we recognise the significant impact of where we choose to spend our money. We are aware that a big part of our We are working on a risk-based mapof Conduct including audit and terminasocial, environmental and ethical ping of the supply chain to ensure that tion rights and the sustainability clauses impact is driven as much through our we focus our efforts where they have in our standard contract template. These supplier relationships as by our core the greatest impact. The mapping takes updates have been communicated to business activities. Nordea’s overall susaccount of factors other than country, our procurement professionals and are tainability performance within the supsector and reputational risk, as it also now in force. ply chain is largely based on the actions captures the importance of the supplier Supplier-related data can be found in and maturity of our suppliers. to Nordea, as well as concentration and sustainability note S11. on page 39. monopoly risk. This work will continue Knowing our suppliers to in 2019. Joining forces with peers and ensure risks are mitigated and Focus in 2018 was on improving the participating in global initiatives to opportunities harnessed already established framework. The impact and influence stakeholders Our supply chain primarily features purCEO Instruction on Procurement has As part of the journey to mature our chasing IT, Facility Services, Cards, Travbeen updated, so we now apply a riskefforts in the supply chain, we are lookel, Consulting Services and Office Supbased approach, with a view to ensuring into expanding our partnership with plies. Our suppliers operate primarily in ing that all spend is channelled through peers. We already have a formal diathe Nordics, and our largest single the approved procurement channels. logue in place with several peer banks. spend area is within IT. We have also revised our Supplier Code In this forum we seek to investigate Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Responsible supply chain 19 opportunities for additional cooperation in areas like screening processes, joint audits, sector-specific requirements and codes of conduct. From 2018, Nordea has representation on the Advisory Board on Atea SusCASE tainability Focus (ASF). ASF serves as the link between the purchasing organisations within IT in the Nordics and the Supplier engagement global IT industry. The purpose of the Advisory Board is to influence the IT in action industry towards more sustainable proAt Nordea, sustainability is an integral part of supplier duction. The Advisory Board provides recommendations on an annual basis to risk management with the purpose of enabling the the Responsible Business Alliance (fortransition to a sustainable future. The process consists merly the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition), which is the world’s largest of many steps before a new supplier is onboarded. industry coalition dedicated to supply chain responsibility. Since IT is a key area in our supply chain, the opportunity We initiate cooperation with a potenare put into practice. The outcome of to impact with a joint voice is paramount tial supplier by conducting an inherent the review is a jointly agreed mitigating for us. risk screening of the supplier. This is action plan, which can contain actions done in an external database, which from both Nordea and the supplier. The Favouring a more sustainable covers country risk, sector risk, sancpurpose of the action plan is always to purchasing pattern to reduce tions and reputational risks. If, after drive positive developments from a susclimate impact this initial risk screening, the prospectainability perspective. In 2019, the key focus area for Nordea’s tive supplier qualifies to participate in Digitalisation and Nordea’s ambitions procurement activities in relation to susa tendering process, the company to engage with fintech and start-ups tainability will be on climate action and must complete a mandatory self-ascalled for an update of the current on addressing how we can reduce our sessment questionnaire. If the supplier screening process to accommodate impact. We recognise that positive is marked as high-risk after respondagile adoption of new technologies impact can be achieved through puring to the self-assessment questionwithout compromising risk managechasing behaviour that favours sustainnaire, the next step is to initiate a diament. While these companies are of able products and services, and we logue. The purpose of the dialogue is course subject to risk screening, their intend to work collaboratively with our to evaluate risk areas and, if Nordea lower degree of formalisation and core suppliers to achieve this. We want deems necessary, to agree upon a mitmaturity requires a simpler self-assessto investigate how sector-specific igating action plan. After contracting, ment questionnaire. requirements can be applied in procureall suppliers are monitored throughout When cooperating with suppliers in ment and maintain active communication the contract lifecycle in our external a global context, there will obviously be with stakeholders, capitalising on the databases. instances where we are not fully benefits that can be reaped from this. As supplier risk management is a aligned in our approach to sustainabilicontinuous process, each year we select ty. In these cases, the aim is always to a number of suppliers with which we engage and find a solution that is conduct an in-depth sustainability acceptable to both parties. Contract terreview. During the review we validate mination is the last resort, and we the suppliers’ compliance with our Supalways seek to influence suppliers into plier Code of Conduct. We spend adaptation and constant improvement. approximately two days with employBecause, it is only when we work New Supplier ees and management of the supplier to together that can we achieve sustainunderstand how processes and policies able results. Code of Conduct In January 2019 we released a new Supplier Code of Conduct replacing the Supplier Sustainability Policy. It outlines our expectations on suppliers and is aligned with the 68 20 new suppliers in 2018 suppliers assessed for Nordea Code of Conduct and the sustainability issues UN Global Compact. We expect our suppliers to not only abide by the laws and regulations of the coun91% 3 of new contracted tries in which they operate, but also suppliers screened for in-depth supplier work to move beyond compliance. sustainability issues reviews By encouraging suppliers to share our standards and continuously collaborate on improvements, we believe that we can have a significant impact and at the same time mitigate risks. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Well-being at work 20 Empowering our people to contribute, grow and enjoy We aim to be an attractive employer, laying the foundation for a sustainable work environment where people can perform at their best. We want to attract and retain employsupport our employees’ rehabilitation to In 2018, we improved awareness on ees with an agile mindset and a deep ensure they return to work healthy. Our opportunities for internal mobility with passion to create value for our customsickness rate is 3.34% and has a career mobility day. A day that, from ers and society. We want our people to decreased compared with that of 2017 now on, we will run as a bi-annual take responsibility for their careers, feel (3.38%) and our People Pulse survey event. We also launched a career planvalued as employees, have the opportushows that 84% of our people feel that ner tool to our people for releasing their nity to grow and learn, and make an they are often or always physically and full potential and supporting their impact at work and in society: to con81% mentally in good shape to carry out employability. tribute, grow and enjoy. their work. We recognise the challenges Focus on engagement and We aim to be a purpose-led and our transformation creates well-being enhances our values-guided organisation for our people business performance Our objective remains becoming a purWe recognise that our extensive transWe strive to support the very fundapose-led and values-guided organisaformation and significant workforce mental elements of well-being by suption. We have set a clear tone from the changes create both more challenging porting our people’s health and work top level of the organisation regarding and rewarding conditions for our people. life quality. Leadership, culture, flexible the conduct and culture reflected in our We can see that our transformation has working arrangements and physical Code of Conduct, and for leadership resulted in increased workload, which environment all play a role, as well as through our leadership principles and we are closely monitoring as a potential providing new social platforms for how behaviours. We have created awareness risk to our people’s health and productivwe work together. and set expectations through consistent ity. We have launched group-wide initiaOur focus in 2018 has been on increascommunication. In 2018, 79% of our tives to empower us to spend our time ing engagement, knowing that engaged people felt that, at Nordea, we act more effectively, focusing on where we employees drive performance and proaccording to our values. can add value the most. ductivity. Happy people are more proOur purpose and values also play a ductive, stay longer and are absent less. crucial role in the quarterly perforWorking in partnerships with They are eager to win and drive business mance and learning dialogues all our our unions momentum. We will deepen our underpeople have with their people leader. In Our commitment to our partnership standing of our people’s engagement Q3–Q4, 78% of our people participated with our unions remains strong, demonand well-being with our quarterly peoin such a dialogue. strated by the constructive discussions ple survey, the People Pulse. For details We express our opinions via the Peowe are able to have on organisational on our People Pulse survey, see sustainple Pulse, and in 2018 we piloted new changes and our shared objectives to ability note S12. on page 40. team-based performance conversations ensure the long-term employability of We see an opportunity to make the to ensure actions are taken based on our people. We strive for early engageengagement of our people our differentithe results of our People Pulse. Based ment with our unions on changes at ator. Focus groups across most parts of on a simple tool, our teams have conNordea and open communication to the bank that were conducted in Q2 versations regarding how they can promote a positive employee relations show that the majority of engagement remove impediments and barriers to environment. opportunities are found in the team engagement that hold us back from We recognise that the world of work with the immediate leader and ways of performing optimally and turning busiis changing, as are the relationships that working having the single greatest ness challenges into opportunities. We people, companies and unions have impact. Leadership matters, hence we are thus constantly working on raising with each other. We very much want to have invested heavily in leadership develthe bar for how we contribute, grow be part of shaping the future partneropment in recent years. Next up is our and enjoy together. ship and ensuring collaboration and leadership foundations’ programme to sustainable opportunities for people as strengthen leadership performance Supporting our people’s digitalisation, automation and robotics throughout our yearly cycle. employability are changing many of our traditional When it comes to preventing sickIn 2017, we announced that we will be roles at Nordea and in society. ness and promoting good health, we significantly fewer in the years to come. In For data on collective bargaining want to go beyond the minimum 2018, we supported those of our people agreements, employment contracts and requirements of the law and our collecwho will leave Nordea whether with findtotal workforce, see sustainability note tive agreements. We offer support on ing a new job internally or outside S12. on page 40. occupational health and safety and Nordea, returning to education or starting educate our people to take care of their a new business. We are happy to see that health and well-being. We conduct approximately 75% of the people who health examinations on a regular basis received support have found a solution Nordea is included in Bloomberg's to assess the health risks of our people for their next step. 2019 Gender Equality Index for and focus on recognising health issues We want to strengthen employability the third consecutive year. ! early to prevent long-term sickness. We also for those who will remain with us. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Well-being at work 21 79% 75% 78% feel we often or feel valued as had a performance and always act according an employee. learning dialogue during to our values. Q3–Q4. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Diversity and inclusion 22 Leading the way for diversity and inclusion At Nordea, we want everyone to feel that they can bring their whole selves to work and be appreciated, respected and valued for their unique qualities. Nordea’s people are our greatest asset. the way for inclusion. We promote resource group ‘Funkisgruppen’ has Diversity of backgrounds, experiences inclusion for all people by striving to raised awareness on (dis)abilities and personal qualities helps us gain offer equal opportunities to all through a successful seminar series. broader perspectives on our challenges, customers. We have a broad diversity of nationstimulates innovation and development, alities at Nordea and together we speak helps us to better understand and meet Nordea is enriched by variations 50 languages, which contributes to our our diverse customers, and enriches our in ability and cross-cultural development, innovation and culture in culture. Inclusion is our tool to embrace perspectives important ways. Our employee resource this diversity. Our people are great champions for groups are particularly valuable in We understand the value of attractdiversity and inclusion and we have bringing us knowledge about how we ing and retaining a diverse workforce employee resource groups to help us can include and utilise this great diverand strive for gender balance and diverfoster an inclusive workplace. At the end sity even better. sity in all areas and at all levels. Equal of 2018, we are proud of our ten employopportunities – regardless of gender or ee-led groups covering four subject Celebrating human rights and gender identity, age, ethnicity or culture, areas. equality – LGBT+ and Pride sexual orientation, religion or creed, Through the ‘Specialisterna’ proWe participate in the Pride festivals to variation in abilities, or any other traits gramme, which focuses on the inclusion take a clear stance for human rights and that are not relevant to the job descripin professional life of people with e.g. to show our people, customers and socition – are a commitment. We recognise autism, Nordea Denmark has found eties how we can live our values. We our position in the societies where we new talent and added diversity to IT partnered with Stockholm Pride for the operate and see our opportunity to lead functions. The Swedish employee second time in 2018. This year, StockNordea Sustainability Report 2018 Diversity and inclusion 23 holm and Gothenburg hosted the EuroPride and Nordea participated with Commitment from the top seminars at Pride House, with activities Since GEM launched a gender divertee is gender-balanced, diverse and in Pride Park, and in the Pride Parade. In sity initiative in 2013, diversity has has representation from across the Copenhagen and Oslo, we joined the been a focus area. In 2018, our top entire organisation, we have a solid Pride celebrations by decorating our executives took the next step for an foundation for creating a common ATMs in the colours of the rainbow, and even more active role to better serve understanding and shared ownership more than a hundred Danish Nordea our customers and to be an attractive for developing equality, diversity and employees joined the Copenhagen Pride and motivating workplace for all our inclusion at Nordea. Monitoring our Parade. Our LGBT+ groups in Denmark, people, through establishing a Diverprogress is an important task for the Finland, Sweden and Poland collaborate sity & Inclusion Committee. committee; a factor that enables us across borders to identify best practice “Focus on diversity and inclusion to deepen our understanding of both in the workplace and to extend the is crucial to our development and challenges and success,” says Julie Nordea Pride celebrations to all growth. This committee ensures Galbo, Head of Group Risk Managecountries. that the strategic direction is clearly ment and Chairperson of the Diversity defined and anchored in the top exec& Inclusion Committee. Gender equality tops the agenda utive management. Since the commitWe want to lead the way for gender equality in the finance sector. We prioritise to improve the gender balance and cases. Our goal is to further improve our believe that this overall project will contribute to securing equal participapeople’s trust in an open culture in enable us to identify areas of concern in tion at all levels in decision-making and which they can raise any misconduct, terms of fair and equal pay and seek to across the organisation. In 2018, our such as harassment, sexual harassment address equal pay challenges in a total workforce consisted of 52% and bullying, and be confident that meaningful way. Our ambition towards women and 48% men while 39% of all Nordea will address this properly. There2019 is to further enhance our efforts to our leaders were women and 61% were fore, we will continue with raising ensure that equal pay is a core considmen. As we are transforming into the awareness and our proactive efforts. eration among people leaders. digital age, we also meet new challenges in terms of gender balance. Today We acknowledge the 75% of all people working in IT are men importance of equal pay and 25% are women. In 2018, we continued our work towards We integrate gender perspectives into equal pay. This has included reviewing all recruitments, we challenge our bias in pay at the time of hiring to ensure that talent management processes and moniwe consider our remuneration offer tor our developments closely. Our Board from an equal pay perspective. We have Gender balance of Directors, with 50% men and 50% developed a new hire pay guideline for women, is a guiding beacon for gender people leaders that includes guidance Total balance and has adopted a directive on for offering fair and equal pay purely workforce the promotion of gender balance that based on role without gender or other guides us in our efforts. personal bias. For details on gender balance on difFurthermore, we have raised the 52% 48% ferent levels in the organisation, please awareness of people leaders of the see sustainability note S12. on page 40. need to consider equal pay for equal work during pay reviews, so that people Zero tolerance of harassment, leaders consider this when making pay bullying and other violations decisions. An example of a local initiais fundamental to inclusion tive is related to the pay review in SwePeople Nordea does not tolerate any form of den, where we established an equality leaders harassment, sexual harassment, bullying pay pool and participated in an equal 39% 61% or similar violations in the workplace. In pay initiative as part of our continuing 2018, we strengthened that commitment efforts to bridge the equal pay gap in and created new group-wide guidelines Sweden. In 2018, we undertook an exerwith clear instructions for all leaders cise to identify areas we felt merited and employees. During the year we also special attention in terms of equal pay had a particular focus on this to create and allocated spend to those areas. GEM awareness and an even more inclusive For us it is important to have a robust workplace through team discussions. framework that can allow proper equalThey included guidance and support for role identification. We have been at the 18% 82% people leaders with harassment cases forefront of an industry-wide pay to have a positive and meaningful diabenchmarking initiative that will suplogue with their teams about our differport our efforts in delivering fair and ent ways of perceiving a safe workplace. equal pay. We continue to work towards We measure the proportion of our peoimplementing a job framework alongBoard of ple who have felt harassed on the basis side our pay benchmarking project, Directors of any grounds for discrimination, annuwhich should facilitate the identification (excl. employee representatives) ally in our People Pulse survey. In 2018, of equal roles. This work commenced in 3% of the respondents to our People 2018 to support our aim to report met50% 50% Pulse survey stated that they have been rics in this area and, to this end, we will subjected to some sort of harassment or continue through 2019 to be in a posiother maltreatment, and we handled 33 tion to disclose relevant metrics. We Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Community engagement 24 Contributing to a greater good through community engagement Nordea’s community engagement strategy focuses on building financial skills and accelerating entrepreneurship. It is a key function for building up and developing communities and society, and an integral part of our business. Building financial skills increases finanhours in in-house programmes and Week. It is part of the European Money cial literacy and inclusion and contribsponsored partnerships. The lion’s share Week that takes place in March every utes to financial well-being in a person’s happened in Finland, where we have a year. The event involves pupils from 7th life and business. Entrepreneurship number of well-established initiatives to 9th grade across Denmark and plays an important role in society in allowing large-scale volunteering. In Nordea volunteers help to improve terms of creating growth, innovation total 2,300 Finnish employees, or 33% of young people’s financial capabilities. and jobs. By focusing on these areas, in the workforce in Finland, participated in In Sweden, Nordea partners with which Nordea’s employees have extenvolunteering activities. Teach for Sweden – a non-profit organisive expertise, we can make a real differsation engaging highly qualified employence. Many of the activities are based Helping people to build a ees in schools located in socially chalon volunteering, and Nordea’s volunsuccessful financial life lenged areas. Employees at Nordea can teering policy encourages all employees We run programmes and partnerships become mentors with the opportunity to to spend two days per year doing volunin all our four Nordic countries, engagcreate more equal schools in Sweden. tary work promoting the two focus ing hundreds of employees every year In Finland, we engage with both the areas of our community engagement and reaching thousands of young peoyoung and the elderly. For instance, we strategy. ple. Below are some examples of initiareach out to senior citizens and promote In 2018, close to 3,000 employees tives we run in the different countries. financial skills through use of digital spent a total of approximately 18,900 In Denmark, we participate in Money services. Besides banking services, we Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Community engagement Personal Banking 25 assist them with identifying themselves digitally to functions and services such as the police, social insurance, tax authority and social welfare and healthcare services. In 2018, Nordea volunteers spent close to 800 days supportCASE ing nearly 10,000 senior citizens in this initiative. Embodying our community Supporting entrepreneurs – from start-ups to large companies engagement strategy At Nordea, we are eager to share our expertise in financial skills and entrepreHello Nordics was initiated in 2018. It is a partnership neurship and engage both employees and customers through start-up accelerbetween Nordea and Ashoka – the world’s leading ator programmes and partnerships with organisation for social entrepreneurship and change­ fintech hubs, to reach out to entrepreneurs. We participate in various initiamaking – with additional support from pro-bono tives in all our Nordic countries, and partners Acando, Oliver Wyman and Vinge. below are a few of them. In Denmark, the Danish Foundation for Entrepreneurship works to ensure that innovation capabilities form a funThe large influx of refugees from 2015 ers and legislators, communities and damental element in all education from created significant integration chaltarget groups. Nordea and the other primary school to PhD level. We co-oplenges in the Nordic countries, leading partners support the entrepreneurs in erate with the foundation to ensure that to a more polarised public debate and terms of issues such as funding, strateinnovation and entrepreneurship are budget constraints regarding the use gy, operations and legal matters. The integrated into education and deeply of government money. entrepreneurs also gain access to rooted at educational institutions. Nordea’s network of experts, customIn Finland, Kasvu Open is a year-long ers and partners. mentoring programme open to growth Tackling the “I’m proud to be one of the top ten companies. Nordea employees mentor integration challenges entrepreneurs in Hello Nordics,” comselected participants throughout the ments Admir Lukacevic, founder of programme, and Nordea was also an requires fresh thinking and Idrott Utan Gränser (‘Sports Without active partner in the 2018 annual main innovation to reach Borders’) and one of the participating event Kasvu Open Karnevaali. sustainable and scalable entrepreneurs. “By reaching out to In Norway, we support Ungt Entrekids at an early age, we have the prenørskap (UE), a nationwide organisolutions. opportunity to shape their future in sation that works with entrepreneurship the best possible way, and this proin schools and stimulates cooperation In response to this, Hello Nordics was gramme will help me expand my idea between school and business. The initiated in 2018. It is a four-month to new markets,” he continues. organisation works for young people to accelerator programme, offering supLiina Aagedal is one of the advisors gain insight into the conditions of busiport to ten selected social entreprefrom Nordea who will support the ness and the importance of value creneurs who work in different ways to entrepreneurs throughout the proation and innovation in the workplace. improve social and financial inclusion gramme. “Supporting this programme In Sweden, we are a main partner to of newly arrived immigrants. The parhas been both insightful and educaNorrsken, a creative cluster for impact ticipants have shown their ideas work tional. Interacting with the entrepreentrepreneurs with a vision to make the in the current situation and the aim of neurs to reach their goal is living proof world a better place. Together, we have the programme is to help them scale of Nordea’s values,” says Liina. created a platform where Nordea voltheir solutions through expansion into unteers meet start-ups to share our one or several Nordic countries. expertise and gain a better understand“Ashoka’s ambition is to create posiing of our customers’ needs. tive systemic change in society. With this partnership, we bring together, on the one hand, Nordea’s know-how, networks and volunteering expert employHello Nordics participants ees with, on the other hand, Ashoka’s • Foreningen Nydansker experience, network of social entreprefrom Denmark neurs and innovative approach, to sup• GAME from Denmark In Poland, Nordea has supp­orted SOWOP, a hostel ! port proven and impactful innovations that can be scaled across the Nordic • Catalysts from Norway • Sisters in Business from Norway for victims of domestic violence, region,” comments Emma Lindgren, • Startup Refugees from Finland for many years in both the financial head of Ashoka in Sweden and part of • Icehearts from Finland and educational area. We organise the Ashoka Nordic team. • Mitt Liv from Sweden events twice a year for both chilThe ten entrepreneurs – two each • Idrott Utan Gränser from dren and adults at which we offer from Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden the children fun activities and teach Sweden and two international – have • Welcoming International from the adults entrepreneurship skills all been carefully selected because of USA and Germany and share our values. their ability to address root causes in a • ACAF/Winkomun from Spain systemic way by involving policymakNordea Sustainability Report 2018 Digitalisation 26 Exploring the digital mindset Our digital transformation embodies an entire new mindset for doing business and servicing the needs of our customers and our communities. At Nordea, “digital” means much more Runway is Nordea’s intrapreneurship Heading for digital and taking part than the digitalisation of our existing programme. It has already generated in the digital revolution offerings. Through this new mindset, we ideas for the creation of features that We’ve seen a surge in fintechs providing have embarked on a transformation could help customers automatically niche solutions challenging the way journey on which we look for opportusupport their preferred charity by banking can be done. Nordea has chonities to do things differently and do difrounding up pennies for every transacsen to take part in this digital revolution ferent things altogether. tion, or the use of AI to assist customers through meaningful partnerships with with accessibility challenges in their technology providers and entreprePartnerships to provide customers everyday banking needs. neurs, who want to make the world a with innovations helping them imWe are only at the learning phase of bit more digital and a bit more prove their finance management this new way to innovate, but the sustainable. In Denmark, we partner with Subaio to results have been encouraging and we By providing digital experiences, we empower our customers to take more will continue to tap into non-traditional enable our customers to focus on what control of their financial lives by sources of innovation to find products they find important. By becoming a digenabling them to manage subscriptions that address our customers’ needs. ital bank, we are changing not just the straight from their Nordea wallet app. format of our offerings, but our mindset This feature gives a straightforward Nordea participates in role modelas well. overview of recurring payments set up ling to create a positive social impact in the customer’s account and enables We are embracing new aspects outside them to cancel or suspend any of these of banking in which Nordea can become subscriptions at the push of a button. involved in supporting sustainable initiaThis feature adds transparency to the tives. In partnerships, we are creating New mobile game customer’s accounts and is particularly opportunities for our colleagues to voluseful for vulnerable customers that unteer to help resolve society’s most teaches financial skills can be lured into third-party recurring pressing problems. to young people subscriptions for services they did not To create Hello Nordics, a pan Nordic Taloussankari is a new Finnish intend to buy in the first place. accelerator for Social Entrepreneurship, mobile game designed to help Nordea established a partnership with young people manage their Impacting social development by Ashoka and collaborations with Acando, personal finances and make nurturing social intrapreneurship Oliver Wyman and Vinge. This is the better financial decisions in their We leverage experimentation to test first project of its kind for Nordea. It is everyday life. Nordea’s savings, new ways in which Nordea can get role modelling how organisations can investment and financing speinvolved in supporting sustainable inicome together and lead the way in cialists lent their expertise to the tiatives. This involves experimenting making social change, not just by supgame development project. with aspects that have traditionally porting social entrepreneurs but by The game enables young been outside banking, like supporting involving employees, customers, policy­ people to learn more about social entrepreneurship and creating makers and other businesses in changthe various areas of personal opportunities for our colleagues to innoing the conversation on social finance either by themselves or vate for the greater good. challenges. at school and to better understand how the economy works. Taloussankari is designed to Using digital channels to approach vulnerable groups teach teenagers aged 13–17 about the various areas of perBanks are often criticised for their lack of services for vulnerable groups, such sonal finances. as the elderly, people with ability variations and other with low access to digThe game has been develital service. Digital channels are utilised to approach both young and elderly oped for Economic Information customers. For young customers, Nordea call centres offer specific outbound Office TAT and Nordea by the calling. We also have advice agents meeting customers on Snapchat. Call 10Monkeys game studio and centres are active in digital advisory towards all customer groups and online funded by TAT, Nordea and the meetings are offered to all customers. More hands-on advisory is offered in Finnish Foundation for Share the digital corners at our branches where we introduce customers with no Promotion. or low digital awareness, who step into one of our branches, to our digital Playing the game is free for all services and products. players. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 XXX Sustainability notes 28 Sustainability notes 29 About this report 30 S1. Customer experience 30 S2. Tax 31 S3. Governance and risk management 32 S4. Data privacy 33 S5. Fines and legal actions 33 S6. Materiality analysis 35 S7. Stakeholder engagements 36 S8. Sustainable products 37 S9. Short-term sustainability goals 38 S10. Carbon emissions 39 S11. Suppliers 40 S12. People 41 S13. Participation in international initiatives 42 S14. Association memberships 42 Glossary Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 29 About this report Nordea reports on sustainability performance on an annual equity funds managed by Blackstone. The transaction is subbasis. Nordea’s Sustainability Report 2018 refers to the period ject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to 1 January to 31 December 2018, i.e. Nordea’s financial year. close in H1 2019. Neither of these two transactions will influThe previous report covered our 2017 financial year and was ence data presented in this sustainability report. published in February 2018. The report has been subject to third-party assurance by PwC. The assurance report can be Disclosure in relation to commitments and initiatives found on page 50. This sustainability report is our disclosure in relation to several of the commitments and initiatives we participate in. Scope of the report • It is our Communication on Progress (COP) submission to Similar to the financial statements, this report covers Nordea the UN Global Compact, of which Nordea has been a parBank Abp. Data in the report has been gathered from all busiticipant since 2004. See the GRI Content Index on page ness areas and group functions in the Nordic countries and 45–49 for references. Poland, if not otherwise stated. This is indicated in conjunc• The report is a start in covering information in line with tion with presented data where we also present restatements. recommendations proposed by TCFD. See the TCFD DiscloIn January 2018, UBS and Nordea announced an agreesure Index on page 44 for references. ment on the acquisition of part of Nordea’s Luxem• In the report we list where relevant information regarding bourg-based private banking business by UBS. Nordea Asset our work with the UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Management continues its business activities in Luxembourg Banking can be found. See the UNEP FI Principles for after UBS having acquired part of Nordea Bank S.A.’s private Responsible Banking Reporting Index on page 43–44 for banking business. The transaction was completed in October references. 2018. When data from the operations in Luxembourg is in • The report serves as a description of our actions to mitiscope for this sustainability report, it will cover Nordea Asset gate climate change in accordance with the commitment Management and not the private banking business. made by Finance Finland to promote actions that seek to In July 2018, Nordea entered into an agreement to acquire limit global warming to below 2ºC in our work. all shares in Gjensidige Bank. The acquisition is expected to • It partly fulfils the reporting requirements of the Equator close during Q1 2019, and the plan is to transition Gjensidige Principles (EP), which Nordea endorsed in 2007. For full EP Bank’s customers to Nordea during 2019. In September 2018, reporting, see Nordea Equator Principles Reporting at norNordea, together with DNB, entered into an agreement to dea.com. jointly sell 60% of Luminor to a consortium led by private Reasons for omissions from the GRI Standards We claim to report in accordance with GRI Standards: Core option but have a few omissions as specified in the table below. GRI Standard Reason for omission Explanation 102-8 Not applicable We do not report total number of employees by employment contract (permanent or temporary) by region as we do not collect that information for any purpose. We do not therefore expect to align our reporting by contract by region in the future. 205-2 Not applicable Data regarding the mandatory training Licence to Work as disclosed on page 8 is our disclosure for GRI 205-2 regarding training about anti-corruption. Anti-corruption is included in our Code of Conduct and the Licence to Work training is our Code of Conduct training and as such includes our anti-corruption policies and procedures. We report the number of employees who have completed their Licence to Work training as a percentage of the total workforce, which includes all employees regardless of region and employee category. The training Licence to Work is only for employees. However, our large suppliers are covered by the Nordea Supplier Code of Conduct in which adherence to anti-corruption as stated in UN Global Compact is a requirement. The Code of Conduct is published on Nordea's Intra and nordea.com, i.e. communicated to all, both employees and external parties. 302-1 Not applicable Fuel consumption and total energy consumption are not reported in joules as we receive it in litres and MWh, respectively from our suppliers of data. 303-1 Not applicable We only use water in e.g. canteens and for sanitary purposes, hence the only relevant measure for us is our water withdrawal from municipal water supplies in cubic metres. We therefore only report on GRI 303-1 a). 401-1 Information We do not report new employee hires but only employee turnover rate. Employee turnover rate is reported accordunavailable ing to the following definition: Number of permanent FTEs who have left Nordea at their own request divided by average number of FTEs within a chosen period. We can only obtain data on Group level, which is sufficient for our purpose of tracking this measure and we do not plan to report it by age group, gender or region. 404–1 Not applicable Reporting training hours as a total and per employee is sufficient for our purposes of tracking this measure and we do not plan to report this indicator by gender or employee category. 404–3 Not applicable Reporting employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews as percentage of total workforce is sufficient for our purposes of tracking this measure and we do not plan to report this indicator by gender or employee ­category. 406-1 Confidentiality We disclose the number of harassment cases, which can include discrimination. In order to protect the integrity of constraints the reporters we won't disclose status of the incidents or specific actions taken. However, we report general actions taken as a result of the reported cases. 412–1 Information We have not yet performed a human right assessment but will do so in the beginning of 2019. We cannot therefore unavailable report the total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human right reviews or human rights impact assessments by country for 2018, but aim to do so for 2019. 418–1 Confidentiality We describe our process for ensuring compliance with GDPR but cannot disclose the number of complaints conconstraints cerning breaches of customer privacy due to confidentiality constraints. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 30 S1. Customer experience Listen, learn and act are key elements in our approach in relaCustomer satisfaction tion to our customers. Every day, we receive complaints from Relationships are at the core of our strategy and customer some of our 10 million customers. All complaints are importsatisfaction is measured regularly through a Customer Propoant to us, providing valuable input we can apply to improve sition Survey and by external service providers with extensive our services, solutions and products. We receive many types questionnaires and interviews. of feedback from our customers and employees. Applying our In Personal Banking, Sweden has had a very positive service-design approach, customer insights help us shape our development in terms of reversing the negative development understanding of how we can deliver even more value to in customer satisfaction from 2017 and reducing the gap to them in both large and small matters. our competitors. Denmark, Finland and Norway have stabilised on a slightly higher level than 2017. We listen, learn and act Building on last year's positive trend, we see a continued Our initiative regarding continuous improvements, #WeFix, positive development in our customer satisfaction scores for places the customer at the centre of our business developour Business Banking customers, with Denmark, Norway and ment. In our customer-facing units, the listen, learn and act Sweden all improving their scores while Finland remains at a approach is embodied in our #WeCare initiative. These conrelatively high but stable level compared to 2017. cepts aim to ensure our customers feel we listen to their In Asset & Wealth Management, we measure customer feedback and act on it. satisfaction for our Private Banking customers. In 2018, an Traditionally, large projects are planned for a long time and intensified focus has resulted in increased satisfaction among then implemented. In 2017, we launched a new agile business these customers in Norway and Sweden and a stable high development set-up. This means that products are released level in Finland and Denmark. incrementally; the 1.0 version is launched soon after the projIn 2018, Wholesale Banking strengthened its position comect start. Wherever possible, we first deploy the solution to a pared to the previous year and was rated sole number one in small group of customers, adapt it, and then offer the the Nordics, including first place in two of the four countries. improved solution to all customers. After each deployment, we The leading position amongst Nordic large corporates and actively listen, learn, and adapt, launching new versions when institutions is further underlined by number one positions in needed and fixing customer pain points. These learning loops the league tables for relevant capital markets areas. form an infinite process to continually improve our deliveries. S2. Tax We are a substantial corporate income tax payer in our main Tax payments (EURm) 2018 2017 countries of operation – Denmark, Finland, Norway and SweTotal 1,481 1,728 den – and we also pay social security contributions and bank levies in our countries of operation. Local corporate tax payBy country ments is not affected by the transfer of our headquarters to Denmark 333 422 Finland. Statutory tax rates, contributions and levies vary in Finland 137 261 our countries of operation, as does the size of Nordea’s business operations in each country. The total amount of tax paid Norway 290 284 in each country is determined by a combination of these variSweden 600 585 ables. Corporate income tax includes current taxes booked as Others 121 176 an expense for the year and adjustments to the previous year’s taxes. By tax type Corporate income tax 890 1,017 Social security fees 424 489 Bank levy 167 222 Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 31 S3. Governance and risk management Sustainability governance monitors and influences selected relevant focus areas as well Our sustainability governance structure provides a solid founas provide recommendations to business areas and group dation that enables developing and anchoring our strategic functions on various dilemmas and themes. sustainability direction, focus areas and targets. It ensures Each business area and group function is represented in that we focus on embedding sustainability including climate the Sustainability Committee. The committee prepares susrisks and opportunities into the business by implementing tainability issues related to policies, guidelines and strategy. decisions in the relevant business areas. Business areas and group functions are responsible for impleThe Board of Directors decides on Nordea’s Code of Conmenting sustainability policies, products and risk manageduct and Sustainability Policy and approves the Non-Finanment processes in the business. cial Statement that is published in the Board of Directors’ Group Sustainable Finance is our group function responsiStatement in the Annual Report in accordance with the Finnble for sustainability. Group Sustainable Finance is responsiish Accounting Act. In order to increase the effectiveness of ble for setting the strategic sustainability direction and our the Board work, the Board of Directors has established sepafocus areas. It supports the business areas in implementing rate working committees to assist the Board in preparing policies and processes in the business, i.e. how to integrate matters, belonging to the competence of the Board and to sustainability into products and offerings in financing, investdecide in matters delegated by the Board. The Board Operament and advice. For Nordea’s whole governance structure, tions and Compliance Committee (BOCC) assists the Board of please see the Corporate Governance Statement in the Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities concerning Nordea Annual Report 2018. conduct, sustainability including climate-related issues, compliance and operations/systems, as well as related frameKey governance principles works and processes. Nordea operates with a governance setup consisting of three The CEO in GEM decides on the strategic sustainability lines of defence, referring to the functions within Nordea that direction and focus areas including plans, targets and perforare responsible for addressing and managing risks. The first mance indicators. To ensure that social and environmental line of defence is the business areas and group functions. The topics including climate-related issues are represented at second line of defence is Group Risk Management & Control senior-management level, we have our CEO and one member and Group Compliance. The third line of defence is Group of GEM who are directly responsible for sustainability-related Internal Audit – an independent and objective assurance matters. function. All three lines are dedicated to maintaining a strong Sustainability-related matters is monitored by the Business internal control framework that protects Nordea’s stakeholdEthics and Values Committee (BEVC) chaired by the CEO. The ers, including shareholders and customers, and prevents our BEVC reviews and approves relevant Group Internal Rules services from being used for illegal purposes. At Nordea, we including external position statements and sector guidelines, believe everyone is a risk manager. Nordea’s Sustainability Governance Board of Directors Decides on Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy and approves Non-Financial Statement Board Committee Assists the Board in its oversight concerning sustainability Group Executive Management CEO decides on strategic sustainability direction and focus areas including plans, targets and performance indicators Business Ethics and Values Committee Monitors and influences sustainability-related matters, and reviews and/or approves relevant Group Internal Rules and external position statements and sector guidelines, prior to decision-making in other fora Sustainability Committee Business Areas and Group Functions Operational sub-committee to BEVC which prepares Responsible for implementing sustainability policies, sustainability issues related to policies and strategy products and related risk management processes Group Sustainable Finance Sets strategic sustainability direction and focus areas and supports business areas and group functions in implementation Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 32 S3. Governance and risk management, cont. Specific committees assist the Group Board in its oversight and distribution channels. The Internal Control Framework is of risks related to sustainability factors. These include, but are designed to ensure effective and adequate identification, not limited to the BEVC, the Consequence Management Commeasurement and mitigation of risks and compliance with mittee, the Risk Committee and the Non-Financial Risk Comlaws, regulations, supervisory requirements and Nordea’s mittee (established in 2018 as a sub-committee to the Risk internal rules. It is also designed to support efficient operaCommittee). The BEVC monitors and influences the status and tions, prudent conduct of business, sound administrative and progress of the ethical, conduct and sustainability topics and accounting procedures and reliability of financial and nonissues within the Group in alignment with Nordea’s purpose financial information. and values. The Consequence Management Committee further Risks related to sustainability are managed and governed aims to strengthen personal accountability and develop a conbased on Nordea’s guiding principles on sustainability as set sistent approach to risk-adjusted remuneration assessments out in the Group Board Directive on Sustainability, which through recommending revisions to the compliance and risk implies that it shall be integrated into our investment and criteria assessment made by managers. The Risk Committee lending activities as well as in our advice to customers. Risks decides on and recommends changes to the Risk Management related to sustainability factors in general and climate risks in Framework, and the Non-Financial Risk Committee supports particular cannot be treated in isolation to other risks as they the Risk Committee within the area of non-financial risks. can have a financial impact. Therefore, sustainability considerations are being integrated into Nordea’s existing risk manRisk Management Framework agement framework. Managing risks and capital effectively is crucial for Nordea’s For example, initiatives to integrate ESG risks into the credsustained profitability and a part of our social responsibility it risk framework have been implemented, such as reflecting to mitigate systemic risk in the Nordics. Maintaining risk sustainability considerations in the Group CEO Instructions on awareness in the organisation is an integral part of our busiCredit, embedding these in credit policies and guidelines to ness strategy. Nordea has defined clear risk, liquidity and enhance the bank’s capability to identify and monitor ESG capital management frameworks. risks, in order to highlight the potential credit risk impact of The Board of Directors bears the ultimate responsibility for ESG risks at both customer level and portfolio level. Screendeciding on Nordea’s risk appetite, comprising of all the risk ing and evaluation of ESG risk aspects has become an intetypes to which Nordea is or could be exposed. The Board of gral part of Nordea’s credit risk assessment for corporate cusDirectors is furthermore responsible for the risk strategy, settomers. The impact of ESG risks is taken into account in credit ting the overall risk appetite limits and overseeing that decision-making, including escalation to credit committees as Nordea has an adequate and effective Internal Control Framedetermined by Nordea’s governance. work. Risk is measured, managed and reported according to The risk management framework for relevant risk areas common principles covered by Group Board Directives and will be enhanced to take account of sustainability considerGroup CEO Instructions. Management of risks includes all ations, in line with regulatory developments and Nordea’s activities aimed at identifying, measuring, assessing, monitorbusiness strategy. This will be achieved by further developing ing and controlling risks as well as measures to limit and mitirisk assessment processes that are forward-looking and take gate the consequences of the risks. Risk management is prointo account the time horizons that are relevant for our cusactive, with an emphasis on training and risk awareness. tomers, embedding second-line-of-defence controls and The Internal Control Framework includes the senior manestablishing metrics and targets for monitoring and reporting. agement responsibilities towards internal control, all group functions and business areas including outsourced activities S4. Data privacy Well-managed data is a strategic priority, and one that will vacy throughout the Nordea Group. The data privacy policies help prepare Nordea for the future. Data controls being are closely linked with our polices on information security implemented today need to not only continue to protect and risk management. Nordea and our customers, but also enable us to succeed in a To ensure awareness on key elements of GDPR, mandatory more agile competitive environment. Information security training was conducted for all employees. Furthermore risks require constant monitoring and both proactive and approximately half of all our people participated in targeted reactive action. Proactive controls and improvement efforts training to put specific focus on the elements that would will continue as we adjust to an ever-changing landscape of mostly affect their daily working life. According to GDPR, custhreats. But, we also must react in a timely way to emerging tomers have a number of rights to ensure that they are in types of threat. This constant and evolving activity is at the control of their data. Nordea has established a group-wide foundation of protecting Nordea’s assets and customer inforprocess to ensure that we too reply consistently and within mation, ensuring we live up to our customers’ trust in us. the given timeline to such requests. Information Technology will remain both a source of competiA Group Data Protection Office was, in accordance with tive advantage and a source of risk. Managing complex sysGDPR, established in late 2017, and has been responsible for tems to ensure service availability remains essential. overseeing the GDPR implementation work in progress Substantial efforts were put into preparing for the new EU throughout Nordea. The Office handles all reports on inciGeneral Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that entered into dents, which could potentially be breaches of personal data, force in May 2018. We have established group-wide data priand if so ensures notification to the Data Protection Authority. vacy policies in order to achieve robust and consistent stanThe Group Data Protection Officer reports monthly to top dards of compliance. These policies support a uniform set of management on key indicators for GDPR compliance. data privacy principles and mandatory standards for data priNordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 33 S5. Fines and legal actions We strive for transparency, take accountability and learn from and monopoly legislation. In October 2016, it was announced past mistakes. In 2018, European Securities and Market that EFTA Surveillance Authority has opened proceedings Authority fined five Nordic banks EUR 495,000 each, includagainst DNB, Nordea, Finance Norway, and BankID for susing Nordea Bank AB (publ), due to non-compliance with the pected breaches of the competition rules in the EEA Credit rating agency regulation in relation to shadow ratings Agreement. practice. Nordea has appealed the decision. The Finnish FSA Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, market imposed a penalty payment of EUR 400,000 on Nordea Bank standards and business ethics is a fundamental aspect of our AB (publ), Finnish Branch for omissions concerning transaccorporate culture. We try to implement controls in our protion reporting. Nordea Funds Oy was issued with an adminiscesses e.g. mitigate the risks of human error so that similar trative fee of SEK 375,000 from the Swedish FSA for late notievents can be avoided in the future. fication of changes in major shareholdings. We still have one legal action pending from 2016 regarding alleged anti-competitive behaviour or violations of antitrust S6. Materiality analysis To effectively identify and prioritise key sustainability topics, trust in the banking industry, and that must be managed well we regularly conduct a materiality analysis based on internal to ensure going concern. Our focus areas in the middle are and external dialogues. In 2018, we conducted a new materithe ones that are important to us and/or our stakeholders in ality analysis, replacing the analysis conducted in 2016. The enabling the transition to a sustainable future, and which purpose of the materiality analysis is to identify the sustainpotentially have a material impact on our business and/or ability topics that are material for Nordea. Not only does it brand perception. The top of the pyramid is our lead area – provide a basis for the 2018 Sustainability Report, but also for climate action. It’s a prioritised area that will have a long-term our strategic direction and sustainability focus from 2018 and financial impact on our business, and that forms part of socionwards. Because of the new materiality analysis and the ety’s goals as described in the SDGs and the Paris Agreement. transition to GRI Standards, we have updated the indicators Given the IPCC report released in October 2018 and also our on which we report this year compared with last year. stakeholders’ priorities, climate is our obvious lead area. The materiality analysis 2018 was conducted as a combinaOur materiality pyramid tion of a desktop study to identify potential relevant sustainabilIn our materiality pyramid we have clustered topics into ity topics and areas, and workshops and interviews with interareas. The materiality pyramid is based on a foundation connal and external stakeholders in order to prioritise the topics sisting of the sustainability areas that are fundamental to and validate the findings. All business areas and relevant group Results from materiality analysis Prioritised area that will have long-term financial impact on our business and that are part of society’s goals as described Lead in the SDGs and the Paris Climate Agreement. action Areas important for us and/ Focus or our stakeholders in order Human rights to enable the transition to a Responsible supply chain sustainable future and that has a Well-being at work potential material impact on our Diversity and inclusion business or brand perception. Community engagement Foundation Areas that are fundamental to Business ethics trust in the banking industry Governance and must be managed well to Digitalisation ensure going concern. Purpose and values Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 34 functions participated, as well as board members, owners, evant for our internal operations), or outside the organisation investors, customers and suppliers. Our stakeholders shared (i.e. relevant for suppliers, customers or investee companies). their views on the sustainability areas they consider important The results are shown in the table below. Most of the relevant for Nordea to work with and report on, and what they expect of sustainability topics impact Nordea directly. However, the Nordea. One challenging element of the process was defining magnitude of the impact is greater outside of Nordea given materiality. Basically, there are as many interpretations of matethat we are a large financial institution investing in compariality as there are stakeholders. We therefore concluded to nies, granting credits and providing advice to our customers. illustrate our materiality analysis as a pyramid, rather than a This year we are able to report on all the below topics except matrix. data for waste, for which we lack consistent data between the countries. Sustainability impact in the value chain Another challenge in the materiality analysis was determining whether an impact occurs inside the organisation (i.e. relImpact in the value chain Suppliers Internal Customers Investee operations companies Climate action ● ● ● ● Energy ● ● ● ● Water ● ● ● ● Emissions ● ● ● ● Waste ● ● ● ● Human rights ● ● ● ● Responsible supply chain ● Well-being at work ● ● Health and safety ● ● Non-discrimination ● ● Employee turnover ● ● Qualified and competent workforce ● ● Diversity and inclusion ● ● Equal opportunities ● ● Community engagement ● ● Business ethics ● ● ● ● Anti-corruption and bribery ● ● ● ● Anti-competitive behaviour ● ● ● ● Data privacy ● ● ● ● Financial crime ● ● ● Tax ● ● ● ● Compliance ● ● Financial inclusion ● Treating customers fairly ● Governance ● ● Governance structure ● Active ownership ● ● Digitalisation ● ● Purpose and values ● Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 35 S7. Stakeholder engagements We performed a stakeholder analysis in 2016 that was revised logues held with all stakeholders, management and board repin 2017, identifying nine key stakeholder groups – employees, resentatives, customers, owners and suppliers all took part in management, Board of Directors, customers, owners, supplidialogues specifically relating to the materiality analysis. Issues ers, regulators, NGOs and media. We believe stakeholder diaraised in the different dialogues, as shown in the table below, logues are a good way of collecting valuable input for our have been taken into consideration when preparing this report. sustainability agenda. In 2018, we engaged in dialogues in different ways with all our key stakeholders. In addition to regular stakeholder diaSummary of outcome from stakeholder dialogues Stakeholder Type of dialogue/channel Main aspects Employees Coffee corners Culture transformation People Pulse Well-being Management GEM TCFD BA Heads Sector guidelines for the defence industry and the shipping industry BEVC ESG risk in risk taxonomy Sustainability Committee Supplier Code of Conduct Materiality analysis Energy-efficient mortgages Tax and Customer Advice Community Engagement Sustainability Report Board of Meetings Non-Financial Statement Directors Sustainability updates Group Board Directive on Risk including ESG risk in risk taxonomy Materiality analysis Customers Customer satisfaction surveys Customer satisfaction Individual customer meetings Materiality analysis Customer contact center Sustainable business solutions, e.g. green loans Change of domicile AML Owners Annual General Meeting TCFD Individual investor meetings Materiality analysis Investor questionnaires SDGs Sustainability performance Suppliers Qualifying questionnaire Adherence to Nordea Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier audits Materiality analysis Individual meetings Regulators EU Commission EU Action Plan on Sustainable Finance FSA AML NGOs Fair Finance Guide Sustainable Finance Amnesty Human rights Media Interviews AML Press releases Sustainable Finance Change of domicile Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 36 S8. Sustainable products We have a variety of sustainable products to offer our customto exclusion based on our exclusion criteria. This means that ers. The products are described in detail on page 11. 100% of AuM is subject to negative ESG screening. Share of All Nordea funds are subject to annual norm-based screenassets that have been subject to positive ESG screening ing which identifies companies that are allegedly involved in equals the Stars Funds and the Global Climate and Environbreaches of international law and norms on environmental ment Fund, i.e. 2.5% of AuM. protection, human rights, labour standards and anti-corruption. The screening also identifies companies that are subject Sustainable Products 2018 Stars Funds AuM in EURm 4,083 Share of AuM in relation to total portfolio (%) 1 2.0 The Global Climate and Environment Fund AuM in EURm 1,014 Share of AuM in relation to total portfolio (%) 1 0.5 Green Bonds Number of green bonds we arranged 22 Total apportioned deal value green bonds (USDbn) 1,276 Share in relation to total deal value (%) 0.95 Green Loans Number of customers with green loans 15 Volume of green loans (SEKm) 1,505 Share in relation to total loans (%) 0.9 Green Mortgages Number of green mortgages 340 Volume of green mortgages (SEKm) 304 Share in relation to total mortgages (%) 0.06 Other Share of AuM in companies that have been identified as having high ESG standards (%) 2 19 Share of AuM with ESG integration (%) 1 90 Share of equity funds with carbon footprint (%) 100 Number of companies we have interacted with on environmental and social issues 126 Share of AuM for companies with which we have interacted on environmental and social issues (%) 1 19 1) Total AuM for Asset Management in Asset & Wealth Management is EUR 205bn. 2) As per 31 October 2018. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 37 S9. Short-term sustainability goals In 2016 we set nine short-term sustainability goals, all to be Establishing a baseline for human rights is dependent on a addressed in 2017. By the end of 2017 we had reached six of human rights assessment that we will be performed in the our nine goals. The remaining three were transferred to 2018. beginning of 2019. Fulfilling the remaining short-term goal in We also added three short-term goals for 2018 that needed to the beginning of 2019 will allow us to then focus on the new be addressed promptly for us to stand prepared to take on targets that were decided by GEM in February 2019, as long-term goals. In total, we had six short-term goals to focus described on pages 12 and 13. on in 2018. Five of them were fulfilled in 2018. Short-term sustainability goals Fulfilled In progress Goal Description Comment Status Enhance the ESG screening tools to The ESG screening tools for investment, financing and procureimprove the consolidation capabilities ment have been developed and enhanced during the year. As an for responsible investment, responsible example, we have included ESG in the development of a light financing and responsible procurement. evaluation process to increase evaluation coverage of our corporate customers and in the revised Supplier Code of Conduct. Launch a risk management framework In 2018, we included sustainability in our Group Board Directive in order to identify key risks in the value on Risk and incorporated ESG risk into our risk taxonomy at the chain (focus on human rights, labour same risk level as other key risks, e.g. credit risk, operational risk rights, anti-corruption measures and and market risk. environment). Establish a KPI framework with Contributing to sustainability is a common priority across individual KPIs. Nordea. In 2018, we developed targets based on the materiality analysis conducted in 2018. Based on this, starting in 2019, KPIs will be included in scorecards where relevant and appropriate. Continue implementation of the The implementation of the principles for sustainable financing, updated Sustainability Policy and the investment and advice included in the Sustainability Policy conprinciples for sustainable financing, tinued in 2018. Main focus areas included raising internal awareinvestment and advice. ness and knowledge, enhancing ESG screening tools and the launch of a new position statement and sector guidelines. Establish a baseline for climate change We have initiated work to establish a baseline for climate change and human rights-related risks and to define the carbon footprint for our internal operations. This throughout the value chain. work will continue in 2019. A human rights assessment of our internal operations will be performed in the beginning of 2019. Launch position statement and We have launched sector guidelines for the defence industry guidelines in relevant areas, e.g. and the shipping industry. defence and shipping. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 38 S10. Carbon emissions Climate impact 2018 Fuel and energy consumption -fuel consumption for diesel generators (litres) 1 24,835 -fuel consumption for leased cars (litres) 662,469 -electricity (MWh) 71,716 -district heating (MWh) 42,256 -district cooling (MWh) 9,750 Energy intensity (MWh/EURm of total operating income) 2 13.74 CO2e emissions from fuel and energy consumption (tonnes) -diesel generators (scope 1) 67 -leased cars (scope 1) 3 1,724 -electricity (scope 2) 0 -district heating (scope 2) 5,509 -district cooling (scope 2) 1,030 -fueland energy-related activities not included in scope 1 and 2 (scope 3) 3,357 CO2e emissions from business travel (tonnes) -air travel (scope 3) 23,424 -own car (scope 3) 2,759 -taxi (scope 3) 534 -hotel (scope 3) 1,890 Total CO2e emissions (tonnes) 40,294 CO2e emission intensity (tonnes/EURm of total operating income) 4.47 1) Includes 1,440 litres EcoPar A. 2) Calculated based on electricity, district heating and district cooling. 3) Biogenic emissions from E85 corresponds to 0.03 tonnes CO2e. To reduce the carbon footprint from our own activities, we are emissions from our operations in Denmark, Finland, Norway, taking steps to mitigate contribution to carbon emissions, and Sweden, Poland and Estonia as that is where we have our in our operations we have committed to being a carbon-neumain operations. There are still a few limitations in scope, tral company. This ambition is visible in three different ways. which are stated below, that we hope to be able to include First, we strive to reduce emissions generated from our direct next year. Since we have changed boundary and scope from operations. Second, we ensure that energy used in our buildlast year, comparison with 2017 is not possible and we have ings is renewable. Since 2011, we have been purchasing 100% therefore chosen not to include those figures in this report. renewable electricity through Guarantees of Origin equal to Consumption figures for diesel generators, electricity, district our electricity consumption in Denmark, Finland, Norway, heating and district cooling include headquarters, head offices Sweden, Poland, and Estonia. Carbon emissions from electricand data centres in Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, ity in the table below are disclosed as market-based, i.e. after Poland and Estonia. Branch offices are not included this year, buying Guarantees of Origin. Third, for the remaining but our ambition is to include them for 2019. Consumption for unavoidable emissions in 2018 we continued with the off-setleased cars covers all employees in Denmark, Finland, Norway, ting activities that we have carried out since 2015. The combiSweden, Poland and Estonia regardless of location/office. nation of measures ensures that Nordea has a programme for Carbon emissions from stationary combustion (diesel genbeing CarbonNeutral® certified in line with The CarbonNeuerators), purchased electricity, district heating, district cooling tral Protocol. and fueland energy-related activities include headquarters, head offices and data centres in Denmark, Finland, Norway, Boundary and scope Sweden, Poland and Estonia. When it comes to disclosing carbon emissions from our interCarbon emissions from mobile combustion (leased cars) nal operations we have experienced challenges in collecting and business travel covers all employees in Denmark, Finland, data necessary to calculate a carbon footprint with the same Norway, Sweden, Poland and Estonia corresponding to almost boundary and scope between the years, hence making it 97% of the total number of employees in 2018. Carbon emisimpossible to compare numbers and spotting trends. In 2018 sions from business travel covers the material emissions of we therefore decided to put effort in re-defining the boundary Nordea's business travel: air travel, taxi travel, use of own cars and scope for our carbon footprint. We now disclose carbon and accommodation. For Estonia, no travel data was available, Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 39 and the emissions were therefore extrapolated. The Estonian Activity Emission factor reference offices only account for approximately 1% of the employees Stationary combustion Department for Business, Energy and covered, but are a growing branch. Industrial Strategy (DBEIS), 2018 Calculation methods Mobile combustion DBEIS, 2018; Värmeforsk, 2011 The GHG accounting is performed according to the GHG ProElectricity IPCC, 2014; “European Residual Mixes 2017” tocol, including scope 1–3 and the following sources: Scope 1 by Association of Issuing Bodies; The Swedish is mobile combustion of leased cars and stationary combusEnergy Markets Inspectorate, 2018; DBEIS, 2018 tion from diesel generators. Scope 2 is purchased electricity, heating and cooling. Scope 3 is production of energy carriers Heating Swedenergy, 2018; Danish Energy Agency, and business travel. Excluded from the scope are train and 2017; Finsk Energiindustri, 2018; Statistics Norway, 2015; Euroheat & Power, 2017 ferry travel and rental cars as well as purchased goods and services such as mail/freight, paper, IT equipment, etc. Cooling Helen AB, 2018; Stockholm Exergi, 2018; All emissions in this report are stated in tonnes of CO2Göteborgs Energi, 2018; “2017 Country by Country” by Euroheat & Power equivalent. The calculations cover the relevant greenhouse gases (GHGs), namely CO2, CH4 and N2O. Business travel DBEIS, 2018 In the below table we disclose the emissions factors that Greenhouse Gas (GHG) GWP (100 years) we have used as basis for our calculations and applied Global CO2 1 Warming Potentials (GWP) based on IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) (2007). CH4 25 N2O 298 S11. Suppliers In 2018 Nordea initiated different cost savings initiatives that has led to fewer suppliers and a decrease in spend with around 20% in comparison to 2017. Besides that, we haven't had any significant changes in our supply chain during 2018. Supply chain 2018 Total spend (EURm) 2,386 Total number of suppliers 15,537 Estimated number of active contracted suppliers 1,322 One-time suppliers 7,455 Suppliers with multiple interaction 8,082 Number of new suppliers 68 Environmental assessments New suppliers screened for environmental issues (%) 91 Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts 20 Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impact 0 Suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment (%) n/a Suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment (%) n/a Social assessments New suppliers screened for social issues (%) 91 Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts 20 Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impact1 1 Suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment (%) 100 Suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment (%) 0 1) We have one supplier that has been convicted for bribery. The evidence on mitigating actions taken resulted in a decision to continue the relationship with the supplier. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 40 S12. People Employee-related data is disclosed as headcounts in this Susto do their work and 54% feel they ‘always’ or ‘often’ take the tainability Report which is different from the Nordea Annual time to focus on learning and reflect on everyday actions. Report in which data is disclosed as FTE (full-time equivalents). The significant portion of our people are employed by A flatter, more agile organisation Nordea. with new ways of working We are creating a simpler and flatter organisation with less People Pulse Survey hierarchy, faster decision-making processes and better commuIn December 2018, we launched a new People Pulse survey nication. We have reduced management layers and increased measuring the key drivers for employee engagement and the size of our teams at the end of 2018, bringing us close to well-being of our people in addition to culture and conduct. our target of an average of ten people reporting to one leader. The People Pulse is conducted on a quarterly basis and the This is an important step in further empowering our people. It results are discussed with the teams in quarterly Team Perallows faster decisions and better communication and helps us formance and Learning dialogues. 68% of our people particibe adaptable and take ownership. pated in the first People Pulse Survey. In alignment with a simpler structure, we are also rapidly moving into new ways of working. More and more of our peoApproach and framework for learning ple are working agile as well as becoming certified in SAFe, To differentiate Nordea in the market, we have identified six Nordea’s framework for Agile at scale, and being trained in capabilities – Customer Experience, Analytics, IT Management, Nordea’s Operational Excellence (Lean). Partnerships, Risk Management and People Management – that we believe will support our strategic business priorities Employee turnover and ensure we stay competitive also in an unknown future. Our employee turnover rate for 2018 was 8.27 %, which is in We want to support our people to learn and enhance these line with 2017. capabilities by focusing on their personal development at Nordea. In 2018, we created a common approach and frameCollective bargaining agreements work for Learning@Nordea by adopting common learning In 2018, 76.8% of all our employees were covered by collecprinciples and streamlining our learning teams into six aligned tive bargaining agreements which is not really comparable to academies to support building our differentiating capabilities. the 79.4% reported for 2017 as that only covered our employ66% of our people feel that they ‘always’ or ‘often’ have the ees in the Nordic countries. learning opportunities they need to be relevant and competent 2018 2017 Number of 2018 2017 Number of employees employees Men Women Total Men Women Total by country Nordea Group 15,190 16,338 31,528 15,631 17,539 33,170 of ope­ration Men Women Total Men Women Total Permanent 14,764 15,939 30,703 14,757 16,532 31,289 Nordea Group 15,190 16,338 31,528 15,630 17,540 33,170 contract Denmark 4,888 3,953 8,841 5,413 4,542 9,955 -full-time 14,293 14,494 28,787 14,337 14,944 29,281 Finland 2,552 4,531 7,083 2,642 5,013 7,655 -part-time 471 1,445 1,916 420 1,588 2,008 Norway 1,617 1,459 3,076 1,736 1,565 3,301 Temporary Sweden 3,560 3,925 7,485 3,866 4,288 8,154 contract 426 399 825 874 1,007 1,881 Poland 1,953 1,644 3,597 1,284 1,250 2,534 Estonia 120 248 368 41 121 162 Employee training 2018 2017 Russia 142 240 382 165 371 536 Number of hours 424,465 465,811 International 358 338 696 483 390 873 Average number of hours/employee 13.5 14.0 offices 2018 2017 Composition of governance bodies Men Wo­men Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Men Wo­men Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Board of Directors 5 5 2 8 5 4 2 7 Group Executive Managers 9 2 6 5 8 2 6 4 People leaders 2,118 1,354 125 2,304 1,043 2,233 1,514 113 2,459 1,175 Employees 13,063 14,982 6,243 13,813 7,989 13,388 16,025 6,297 14,396 8,720 Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 41 S13. Participation in international initiatives As the largest financial services group in the Nordic region, The Montreal Carbon Pledge: Nordea signed the Montreal we seek to encourage best practice through active participaPledge in 2014 as one of the first signatories. By signing this tion in international initiatives. Below are a few examples. pledge, we commit to measuring and publicly disclosing the carbon footprint of our investment portfolios on an annual basis. The Access to Medicine Index: The index analyses the top 20 research-based pharmaceutical companies on how they UN Environmental Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI): make medicines, vaccines and diagnostics more accessible in Nordea signed the UNEP FI in 1994. It is a partnership between lowand middle-income countries. It highlights best and United Nations Environmental Programme and the global innovative practices, and areas where progress has been financial sector created in the wake of the 1992 Earth Summit made and where action is still required. with a mission to promote sustainable finance. More than 200 financial institutions – including banks, insurers and investors The Antimicrobial Resistance Benchmark: The AMR Bench– work with UNEP FI to understand today’s ESG challenges, mark tracks how pharmaceutical companies are responding why they matter to finance, and how to actively participate in to the increase in drug resistance. Nordea is a member of the addressing them. In 2017, we were elected as Social Issues repExpert Committee. resentative for the UNEP FI Banking Committee and member of the UNEP FI Social Issues Advisory Group. We are also part Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): Nordea is a signatory to of the UNEP FI water and finance work stream. the CDP, a project that aims to collect and share information on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies. UN Global Compact (UNGC): UNGC was initiated by the UN The CDP is a cooperation arrangement between 655 instituto encourage businesses to align their strategies and operational investors with a combined asset holding of USD 78tn. tions with ten universal principles building on UN convenWe use the database information in our ESG analysis. We are tions in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environalso represented on the CDP Water Advisory Council. ment and anti-corruption. Nordea became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2002, first through Nordea Bank FinClimate Action 100+: Nordea Asset Management (NAM) has land. From December 2004 the coverage was extended to the joined Climate Action 100+, a collaborative five-year global whole Group. initiative led by investors to engage with the world’s largest corporate greenhouse gas emitters to improve governance on UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights climate change, curb emissions and strengthen climate-relat(UNGP): UNGP from 2011 is the first global standard for preed financial disclosures. venting and addressing the risk of adverse impacts on human rights linked to business activity, and continues to provide the The Corporate Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB): Nordea internationally accepted framework for enhancing standards is a funding member and on the CHRB Advisory Board. The and practice regarding business and human rights. CHRB ranks the top 500 globally listed companies on their human rights policy, process and performance, harnessing the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI): As one of competitive nature of the markets to drive better human rights the first major banks in the Nordic countries, Nordea signed performance. the PRI in 2007. The PRI is the world’s leading proponent of responsible investment. It works to understand the investThe Equator Principles: Nordea was the first Nordic bank to ment implications of ESG factors and to support its internaadopt the Equator Principles, endorsing them in 2007. It is a tional network of investor signatories in incorporating these set of guidelines on how to prevent, manage and mitigate factors into their investment and ownership decisions. environmental and social risks in project financing. The World Benchmarking Alliance (WBA): Nordea is an ally The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI): to the WBA. The alliance seeks to generate a movement Nordea is a supporting investor and board member of the around increasing the private sector’s impact towards a susEITI. The initiative is a multi-stakeholder coalition of governtainable future for all. The WBA brings together a broad, balments, companies, investors and civil society organisations. anced group of stakeholders with SDG 17 (Partnership for the The aim of the initiative is to ensure transparency and Goals) at its core. Allies represent a large mix of voices accountable management of revenues from natural resources. aligned with the universality of the SDGs. These range from civil society and business networks, to financial institutions Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC): and multilateral organisations. IIGCC provides investors with a collaborative platform to encourage public policies, investment practices, and corporate behaviour that address long-term risks and opportunities associated with climate change. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability notes 42 S14. Association memberships Nordea is member of a number of associations, see examples in the table below. Besides holding board member positions, we also often participate in working groups and committees. Association/Forum Type of engagement Swedish Bankers’ Association Board member Finance Denmark Board member Finance Finland Board member Finance Norway Board member European Banking Federation Nordea is represented via the local bankers’ associations which are members GFMA – Global Financial Markets Association Board members EFR – European Financial Roundtable Member EBG – European Banking Group Member AFME – Association for Financial Markets in Europe Member Swedish Securities Dealers Association Board member FEAM – Forum of European Asset Managers Member EFAMA – European Fund and Asset Management Association Board member ICMA – International Capital Markets Association Member ISDA – International Swaps and Derivatives Association Member Glossary A AMR – Antimicrobial resistance I IPCC – The Intergovernmental S SDGs – The Sustainable Develop(AMR) is the ability of a microorPanel on Climate Change (IPCC) is ment Goals (SDGs) are a collection ganism (like bacteria, viruses, and the United Nations body for assessof 17 global goals set by the United some parasites) to stop an antimiing the science related to climate Nations General Assembly in 2015. crobial (such as antibiotics, antivichange. In October IPCC released a The SDGs are part of Resolution rals and antimalarials) from workspecial report on the impacts of 70/1 of the United Nations General ing against it. As a result, standard global warming of 1.5°C above Transforming our World: the 2030 treatments become ineffective, pre-industrial levels and related Agenda for Sustainable Developmajor surgery and cancer chemoglobal greenhouse gas emission ment that has been shortened to therapy are compromised, and pathways, in the context of “2030 Agenda”. The goals are an infections persist and may spread to strengthening the global response urgent call for action by all counothers. to the threat of climate change, sustries – developed and developing tainable development, and efforts – in a global partnership. They recAML – Nordea’s Anti-Money Launto eradicate poverty. ognise that ending poverty and dering (AML) work is based on other deprivations must go hand-ininternational regulations with the P Paris Agreement – At COP 21 in hand with strategies that improve ultimate goal of ensuring that funds Paris, on 12 December 2015, parties health and education, reduce from illegal sources cannot be launto the United Nations Framework inequality, and spur economic dered through the banking system Convention on Climate Change growth – all while tackling climate or used to finance terrorism or ille(UNFCCC) reached a landmark change and working to preserve our gal operations of any kind. The puragreement to combat climate oceans and forests. pose of AML is to protect not only change and to accelerate and intenthe financial system and our cussify the actions and investments tomers, but also society at large. needed for a sustainable low carbon future. The Paris Agreement brings C COP – Communication on Progress all nations into a common cause to (COP) is the report that all signatoundertake ambitious efforts to comries to the UNGC have to submit bat climate change and adapt to its every year. effects, with enhanced support to assist developing countries to do so. E ESG – This term refers to how environmental, social, and governance issues can affect the performance of investment portfolios (to varying degrees across companies, sectors, regions, asset classes and over time). ESG screenings are used in evaluations of partners and suppliers. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Responsible Banking Principles Reporting Index 43 UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking Reporting Index Nordea was one of 28 banks from around the world who founded the Principles for Responsible Banking under UNEP FI. The principles were launched for global consultation in November 2018 and will be ready for signing in September 2019. However, Nordea already works towards the principles and in the table below we list where relevant information in relation to our work with the principles can be found. Question Description Location Principle 1 Alignment “We will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as expressed in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris Climate Agreement and relevant national and regional frameworks. We will focus our efforts where we have the most significant impact.” 1.1 Link to business model including structure of the bank, sectoral focus Website: Who we are https://www.nordea.com/en/about-nordea/ areas, products and services, client base and geographic coverage. who-we-are/ Website: Policies and commitments https://www.nordea.com/en/sustainability/sustainability-in-nordea/commitments-and-policies/ Sustainability Report 2018: Living our mission (p. 10) 1.2 Link to business strategy aligned with individuals’ needs and society’s Annual Report 2018: Leading platform (p. 6–7) and Strategic vision goals. (p. 10–11) Sustainability Report 2018: Sustainability direction and targets (p. 13) Principle 2 Impact “We will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, people and environment resulting from our activities, products and services.” 2.1 Link to identification process of risks, opportunities, and impacts and Sustainability Report 2018: ESG in risk framework (p. 9, 31–32), How explanation of materiality criteria. we work with TCFD (p. 12), Climate action (p. 14–15), Responsible supply chain (p. 18–19), Materiality analysis (p. 33–34) 2.2 Link to most significant positive and negative environmental and social Sustainability Report 2018: Our Sustainable products (p. 11, 36), Hurisks, opportunities and impacts associated with activities, products and man Rights (p. 16–17), Responsible supply chain (p. 18, 39) services. Sustainable Finance Annual Report: Sustainable finance approach (p. 6), Responsible investment approach (p. 7) Green Bond Impact Report 2018: Impact overview – Inaugural Green Bond (p. 4), Impact overview – Green Bond Asset Portfolio (p. 5) 2.3 Link to progress of positive impacts and reduction of negative impacts Sustainability Report 2018: Digitalisation (p. 26), Materiality analysis associated with activities, products and services. (p. 33–34) Green Bond Impact Report 2018: Green Bond Asset Portfolio (p. 7) Principle 3 – Clients and customers “We will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable economic activities that create shared prosperity for current and future generations.” 3.1 Link to policies and practices to ensure sustainable and responsible Website: Sustainability Policy including customer advice https:// relationships with clients and customers. www.nordea.com/Images/33-207037/Sustainability%20policy%20 20181001.pdf Sustainability Report 2018: Our sustainable products (p. 11, 36), Customer experience (p. 30), Materiality analysis (p. 33–34) Green Bond Impact Report 2018: Impact overview – Inaugural Green Bond (p. 4), Impact overview – Green Bond Asset Portfolio (p. 5), Green Bond Asset Portfolio (p. 7) 3.2 Link to how sustainable practices are encouraged with clients and Website: Sustainability Policy including customer advice https:// customers to enable economic activities that create shared prosperity. www.nordea.com/Images/33-207037/Sustainability%20policy%20 20181001.pdf Website: Responsible investment policy https://www.nordea.com/ Images/33-43678/RI_Policy_DECEMBER_2017.pdf Sustainability Report 2018: Our Sustainable products (p. 11, 36) Principle 4 Stakeholders “We will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to achieve society’s goals.” 4.1 Link to description of stakeholders with whom we have consulted, or are Website: Memberships https://www.nordea.com/en/sustainability/ planning to consult in relation to risks, opportunities, and impacts. sustainability-in-nordea/commitments-and-policies/#tab=Memberships Sustainability Report 2018: Stakeholder engagements (p. 35), Participation in international initiatives (p. 41), Association memberships (p. 42) 4.2 Link to bank’s description of how stakeholders are identified and deterSustainability Report 2018: Stakeholder engagements (p. 35) mined to be relevant. 4.3 Link to proactive stakeholder engagement and results in relation to Sustainability Report 2018: Stakeholder engagements (p. 35) the PRBs, SDGs, Paris Climate Agreement and relevant national and regional frameworks. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 TCFD Disclosure Index 44 Question Description Location Principle 5 – Governance and target setting “We will implement our commitment to these Principles through effective governance and a culture of responsible banking, demonstrating ambition and accountability by setting public targets relating to our most significant impacts.” 5.1 Link to how social, environmental and economic risks and opportunities Website: Code of Conduct https://www.nordea.com/Imaare managed, with a focus on governance structures, roles and responges/33-227364/Code%20of%20conduct%20A5_May_2018_v2_ sibilities, and processes. External.pdf Website: Sustainability Policy https://www.nordea.com/Images/33-207037/Sustainability%20policy%2020181001.pdf Sustainability Report 2018: Governance and risk management (p. 31–32) 5.2 Link to targets in relation to SDGs, Paris Climate Agreement, and releSustainability Report 2018: Sustainability direction and targets (p. 13), vant national and regional frameworks. Human rights (p. 16–17), Diversity & inclusion (p. 22–23), Short-term sustainability goals (p. 37) 5.3 Link to targets that have been set, activities and measures to achieve Sustainability Report 2018: Sustainability direction and targets (p. 13), these targets, KPIs, resources and responsibilities assigned, and procesShort-term sustainability goals (p. 37) ses to monitor and review progress. 5.4 Link to short, medium and/or long-term objectives and performance Sustainability Report 2018: Sustainability direction and targets (p. 13), over the year. Short-term sustainability goals (p. 37) Principle 6 – Transparency and accountability “We will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these Principles and be transparent about and accountable for our positive and negative impacts and our contribution to society’s goals.” 6.1 Link to progress and status of initiatives supporting PRBs, SDGs, Paris Sustainability Report 2018: UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Climate Agreement, UNGC, Equator Principles, PRI, TCFD, and/or releBanking Reporting Index (p. 43), TCFD Disclosure Index (p. 44), GRI vant national and regional frameworks. Content Index including reference to UNGC (p. 45–49) TCFD Disclosure Index This year we have progressed climate-related financial disclosures in line with TCFD. Below is a cross-reference to where the recommended disclosures can be found in this Sustainability Report and in Nordea’s Annual Report 2018. Disclosure Page Governance a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. 31 b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. 31 Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long 12, 14 term. b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s business, strategy, and financial 12, 14 planning. c)  escribe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, D 12, 14 including a 2oC or lower scenario. Risk Management a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. 31–32 b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks. 9, 12, 14, 35–36 c) D  escribe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the 31–32 organisation’s overall risk management. Metrics and Targets a)  isclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with D 13–15, 38 its strategy and risk management process. b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. 15, 38 c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance 13, 37 against targets. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Content Index 45 GRI Content Index Nordea’s Sustainability Report 2018 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option, and with relevant parts of GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures. Reason for GRI UNGC omission on Standard Disclosure Page principle page 29 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102–1 Name of the organisation 6 102–2 Activities, brands, products and services 6–7, 11 102–3 Location of headquarters 6, Back cover 102–4 Location of operations 7, Annual Report 130 102–5 Ownership and legal form 6 102–6 Markets served 6–7, Annual Report 130 102–7 Scale of the organisation 7 102–8 Information on employees and other workers 40 6 X 102–9 Supply chain 39 102–10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 39 102–11 Precautionary Principle or approach 14 7 102–12 External initiatives 41 102–13 Memberships of associations 42 102–14 Statement from most senior decision-maker 4–5 102–16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 8, 10, 12, 16 10 102–17*) Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 9–10 102–18 Governance structure 31–32 102–20*) Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 31 102–26*) Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 31 102–30*) Effectiveness of risk management processes 31–32 102–32*) Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 31 102–40 List of stakeholder groups 35 102–41 Collective bargaining agreements 40 3 102–42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 35 102–43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 35 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised 35 102–45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 29 102–46 Defining report content and topic boundries 29, 33–34 102–47 List of material topics 33–34 102–48 Restatements of information n/a 102–49 Changes in reporting 29 102–50 Reporting period 29 102–51 Date of most recent report 29 102–52 Reporting cycle 29 102–53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside front cover 102–54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 45 102–55 GRI content index 45–49 102–56 External assurance 50 *) Not required for Core option. Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Content Index 46 Reason for GRI UNGC omission on Standard Disclosure Page principle page 29 Material topics ANTI–CORRUPTION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 9, 33–34 10 103–2 The management approach and its components 8–9, 37 10 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 8–9, 37 10 GRI 205: Anti–corruption 2016 205–2 Communication and traning about anti-corruption policies and procedures 8 10 X ANTI COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 8–9, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 8–9, 37 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 8–9, 37 GRI 206: Anti–competitive behaviour 2016 206–1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 33 ENERGY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 12, 33–34 7, 8 103–2 The management approach and its components 12–15, 37 7, 8 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 12–15, 37 7, 8 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302–1 Energy consumption within the organisation 15, 38 7, 8 X 302–3 Energy intensity 15, 38 8 WATER GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 14, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 14 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 14 GRI 303: Water 2016 303–1 Water withdrawal 14 X EMISSIONS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 12, 33–34 7, 8 103–2 The management approach and its components 12–15, 37 7, 8 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 12–15, 37 7, 8 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 15, 38–39 7, 8 305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 15, 38–39 7, 8 305–3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 15, 38–39 7, 8 305–4 GHG emissions intensity 15, 38 8 Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Content Index 47 Reason for GRI UNGC omission on Standard Disclosure Page principle page 29 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 18–19, 33–34 8 103–2 The management approach and its components 10–11, 18–19, 37, 39 8 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 10–11, 18–19, 35, 37, 39 8 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308–1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 39 8 308–2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 39 8 EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 20, 33–34 6 103–2 The management approach and its components 20 6 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 20, 35, 40 6 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401–1 New employee hires and employee turnover 40 6 X TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 20, 33–34 6 103–2 The management approach and its components 20 6 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 20, 35, 40 6 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404–1 Average hours of training per year per employee 7, 40 6 X 404–2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes 20 404–3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 20, 21 X reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 23, 33–34 6 103–2 The management approach and its components 23 6 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 40 6 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405–1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 7, 23, 40 6 Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Content Index 48 Reason for GRI UNGC omission on Standard Disclosure Page principle page 29 NON–DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 23, 33–34 6 103–2 The management approach and its components 4, 23 6 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 23 6 GRI 406: Non–discrimination 2016 406–1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 23 6 X HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16–17, 33–34 1, 2 103–2 The management approach and its components 8–9, 16–17, 37 1, 2 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 8–9, 35, 37 1, 2 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412–1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 16, 37 1, 2 X SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 18–19, 33–34 1, 2, 4, 5 103–2 The management approach and its components 10–11, 18–19, 37, 39 1, 2, 4, 5 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 10–11, 18–19, 35, 37, 39 1, 2, 4, 5 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414–1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 39 2, 4, 5 414–2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 39 2, 4, 5 CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 32, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 32 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 32 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418–1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 32 X privacy and losses of customer data PRODUCT PORTFOLIO GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 10–11, 33–34 1, 4, 5, 6 103–2 The management approach and its components 10–11, 37 1, 4, 5, 6 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 10–11, 35 1, 4, 5, 6 GRI G4: Financial Services Sector Disclosures FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose 36 9 Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Content Index 49 Reason for GRI UNGC omission on Standard Disclosure Page principle page 29 ACTIVE OWNERSHIP GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 11, 36 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 11, 36 GRI G4: Financial Services Sector Disclosures FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolia with which the 11, 36 reporting organisation has interacted on social and environmental issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 7, 36 CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 6, 10–11, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 6, 30 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 6, 30, 35 Own indicator Customer satisfaction surveys 30 FINANCIAL CRIME GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 9, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 5, 9 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 9, 35 Own indicator Financial crime training 9 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 24, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 24, 26 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 24, 26, 35 Own indicator Engagement in volunteering activities 24 Own indicator Volunteering hours 24 Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Assurance Report 50 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report To the Management of Nordea Bank Abp We have been engaged by the Managedards and applicable legal and regulaA limited assurance engagement conment of Nordea Bank Abp (hereinafter tory requirements. sists of making inquiries, primarily of also the Company) to perform a limited persons responsible for the preparation assurance engagement on sustainability Practitioner’s responsibility of the Sustainability Information, and disclosures for the year ended 31 DecemOur responsibility is to express a limited other limited assurance procedures. Our ber 2018, disclosed in Nordea Sustainassurance conclusion on the Sustainwork consisted of, amongst others, the ability Report 2018 (hereinafter Sustainability Information based on the procefollowing procedures: ability Information). dures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. Our assurance • Interviewing senior management of Management’s responsibility report has been prepared in accordance the Company. The Management of Nordea Bank Abp with the terms of our engagement. We • Interviewing employees responsible is responsible for preparing the Sustaindo not accept, or assume responsibility for collecting and reporting the Susability Information in accordance with to anyone else, except to Nordea Bank tainability Information at the Group the Reporting criteria as set out in the Abp for our work, for this report, or for level. Company’s reporting instructions and the conclusions that we have reached. • Assessing how Group employees the GRI Sustainability Reporting Stanapply the Company’s reporting dards of the Global Reporting Initiative. We conducted our limited assurance instructions and procedures. The Management of Nordea Bank Abp engagement in accordance with the • Testing the accuracy and completeis also responsible for such internal conInternational Standard on Assurance ness of the information from original trol as the management determines is Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance documents and systems on a sample necessary to enable the preparation of Engagements Other than Audits or basis. the Sustainability Information that is Reviews of Historical Financial Informa• Testing the consolidation of informafree from material misstatement, tion”. That standard requires that we tion and performing recalculations on whether due to fraud or error. plan and perform the engagement to a sample basis. obtain limited assurance about whether Practitioner’s independence the Sustainability Information is free Limited assurance conclusion and quality control from material misstatement. Based on the procedures we have perWe have complied with the indepenformed and the evidence we have dence and other ethical requirements In a limited assurance engagement the obtained, nothing has come to our of the Code of Ethics for Professional evidence-gathering procedures are attention that causes us to believe that Accountants issued by the International more limited than for a reasonable Nordea Bank Abp’s Sustainability InforEthics Standards Board for Accountants, assurance engagement, and therefore mation for the reporting period that which is founded on fundamental prinless assurance is obtained than in a reaended 31 December 2018 is not properly ciples of integrity, objectivity, professonable assurance engagement. An prepared, in all material respects, in sional competence and due care, confiassurance engagement involves peraccordance with the Reporting criteria. dentiality and professional behaviour. forming procedures to obtain evidence about the amounts and other discloWhen reading our assurance report, the PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies sures in the Sustainability Information. inherent limitations to the accuracy and International Standard on Quality ConThe procedures selected depend on the completeness of sustainability informatrol 1 and accordingly maintains a compractitioner’s judgement, including an tion should be taken into consideration. prehensive system of quality control assessment of the risks of material misincluding documented policies and prostatement of the Sustainability cedures regarding compliance with ethInformation. ical requirements, professional stanHelsinki, 26 February 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Juha Wahlroos Sirpa Juutinen Authorised Public Accountant Partner Sustainability & Climate Change Nordea Sustainability Report 2018 Layout and production: Chimney Group Photo: Tomi Westerholm, page 4, Oskar Lind, page 5. Print: Hylte tryck, 2019 Nordea Bank Abp Corporate registration no. 2858394-9 For more information about sustainability at Nordea Hamnbanegatan 5 | FI-00020 Helsinki please visit our website, nordea.com/sustainability. Tel +358 200 70000 | www.nordea.com For feedback, contact us at sustainability@nordea.com
