TRANSTEC Communication on Progress 2019 Presentation of Transtec Transtec is a Belgian development consulting company operating internationally. For 35 years, we have been providing professional assistance to official development agencies, international organisations and governments. We have adopted an integrated and sustainable approach to projects and programmes funded under official development assistance (ODA).Signatory and Participant of the United Nations Global Compact, Transtec provides a full range of technical and consulting services on projects and programmes funded by the United Nations, the European Union, the World Bank, the African Development Bank, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), Bilateral Agencies including the UK Department for International Development (DfID), the Belgian Technical Cooperation (ENABEL), the French Agency for Development (AFD), Affaires Mondiales Canada (AMC), the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), the Swedish International Development Cooperation (SIDA), the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), the aid and development agency of the government of Luxembourg (Luxdev), the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCA)… The Services provided by Transtec cover: ▪ Studies and Strategic Advice: Providing expertise to conduct studies, analysis and strategic foresight. ▪ Technical Assistance: Designing and developing quality proposals, finding solutions to meet our clients’ needs. Ensuring smooth implementation of projects in complex environments. ▪ Management of Framework Contracts / Long-Term Agreements: Mobilisation, rapid deployment and safeguarding of specialists in the field, throughout the whole project cycle. ▪ Monitoring and Evaluation: Providing innovative and independent M&E solutions for donors and operators. Our aim is to measure real-time performance of their actions, evaluate results and impact, and inform strategic future programming. To address global challenges, Transtec proposes innovative and creative services. Security, peace, mediation ▪ Transtec operates in Fragile and Conflict-Affected States (FCAS), designing and implementing actions within the complete peace-building cycle of civilian actions. Human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy ▪ By strengthening and building the capacities of democracy’s guardians, Transtec empowers NGOs, CSOs, parliaments, and electoral processes. Justice, rule of law, good governance ▪ Transtec supports good governance by building and strengthening the capacities of governments, institutions and oversight actors, thus promoting rule of law and ensuring fair access to justice. Human development and social cohesion ▪ Transtec provides technical expertise in the education sector to support vocational education and training (VET), employment, and youth and gender equality in order to build inclusive, sustainable and equitable societies. Inclusive sustainable economic development ▪ Transtec strengthens institutional capacities to improve regulatory environments and foster economic development. Environmental sustainability, climate change, sustainable management of natural resources ▪ Transtec advises stakeholders, designs policies and implements projects addressing the challenges of sustainability. Annually, approximately 600 professionals are deployed in the field corresponding to more than 27,000 working days per year on Transtec-led assignments worldwide. The company has successfully conducted over 5,000 shortand long-term projects and programmes across 150 countries worldwide. Transtec is an ISO 9001:2015 certified company. Statement of Continued Support “Corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principled approach to doing business1”. Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is at the core of Trantec’s business; by integrating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into the way we operate, we directly and indirectly support the progress of the SDGs. By adhering to the UN Global Compact and its principles based on the respect for Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption, Transtec formally endorsed this alternative approach to doing business. Now, at the occasion of the annual Communication on Progress, we hereby wish to reiterate our continued commitment to supporting and promoting the initiative and its principles. This first year of Transtec’s participation in the Global Compact has been the opportunity to organise and develop further our good practices into a comprehensive set of policies and their corresponding procedures. These now form the backbone of our corporate strategy, operations and day-to-day activities. They constitute the essence of Transtec’s Charter of Conduct and Ethics; have been included in our ISO 9001:2015 system; and will now soon form an integral part of our different contractual commitments. These policies and procedures have been elaborated and agreed upon in an internal working group comprised of a representative from each department, the Ethics Officer and myself. This process has ensured not only senior management support which is essential for the successful application of these policies but also a sense of real ownership from the entire staff. To guarantee that our policies remain effective and useful we have set in place an assessment mechanism to monitor and review them on a regular basis. Over the course of the next year we will focus on the implementation of these policies. Marie Astrid Corbisier Managing Director TRANSTEC 1 https://www.globalcompact.de/wAssets/docs/Nachhaltigkeits-CSRManagement/un_global_compact_guide_to_corporate_sustainability.pdf Implementation of the Global Compact Principles in 2018-2019 (Year 1) Yearly Overview This first year of Transtec’s participation in the Global Compact has been the opportunity to organise and develop further our good practices into a comprehensive set of policies and their corresponding procedures. These form the backbone of our corporate strategy, operations and day-to-day activities. They have been included in our ISO 9001:2015 system and form an integral part of our different contractual commitments. Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.2 Human Rights lie at the heart of Transtec’s actions. Many of our projects and programs directly focus on their protection and promotion. But supporting Human Rights goes above and beyond implementing projects in this field. It requires that we, as a business, act in a way that ensures these are promoted, respected and protected in all of our activities and day to day actions. To that end, Transtec has set in place a Safeguarding Policy that aims to protect people’s physical and mental health as well as their general wellbeing by enabling them to interact with our company free from harm, abuse or neglect in any shape or form. Firstly, we create and maintain an environment that prevents safeguarding violations from taking place. This applies both at corporate level and is included in Transtec’s Labour Regulation (Règlement de Travail) and at project level where we design and undertake all of our programs and activities in a way that prevents people as much as possible from being at risk of harm. This entails making sure that all concerned parties (experts, staff, partners, subcontractors) are fully aware of their rights in relation to safeguarding but also of their responsibilities in preventing any safeguarding violations. Secondly, if abuse would however occur in spite of the prevention measures set in place, we have established clear reporting procedures so that anyone victim or witness of any form of Human Rights violation knows how to report it. Any person reporting will be protected by our Whistleblowing Policy from any form of retribution or victimisation. Finally, should a claim be received, our Safeguarding Policy clearly outlines the measures to be taken to support the victim, protect it from further harm and prevent the reoccurrence of the violation. A Safeguarding Focal Person has been appointed as responsible for coordinating this Policy and ensuring its implementation at all times. 2 The Principles of the UN Global Compact: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles Measurement of outcome: The Safeguarding Focal Person will monitor the application of the policy and will review it on an annual basis. This evaluation will form the basis of any changes to the policy, which will then be communicated to concerned staff, consultants and partners and subcontractors. Tools: ❖ Safeguarding Policy and Procedures ❖ Safeguarding Register ❖ Whistleblowing Policy and Procedures Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; The effective abolition of child labour; and The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. As a Belgian company, Transtec complies with a series of national laws and international conventions and regulations that ensure the respect for international principles on labour and ethical employment. This includes legislation: against sexual exploitation, abuse and harassment at work; against child abuse and exploitation; against inequality or discrimination on the basis of race, age, religion, sexuality, culture of disability; prohibition of slavery; for the promotion of equality between men and women; Transtec also recognises and upholds the right of its employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. All of these commitments form an integral part of Transtec’s Charter of Conduct and Ethics. Transtec’s Labour Regulation (Règlement de Travail) also ensures that the national legislation on working hours and leave entitlements is complied with, thereby providing decent working conditions for all its staff. In parallel, Transtec’s Recruitment Policy makes a clear and strong statement against any form of discrimination in our recruitment process. It ensures that all the necessary procedures are put in place to guarantee that our equal opportunity policy is complied with at all stages of recruitment. With this policy any person in charge of a recruitment is bound to make sure that applicants are evaluated and selected in a consistent and fair manner based on criteria related to their ability to meet the requirements of the job description and specifications. Our Recruitment Policy has been updated to make sure that all relevant legislation regarding the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is adhered to at all times. Measurement of outcome: The Managing Director organises an annual review and when applicable amends the Recruitment Policy and internal Labour Regulation. Any changes to these documents will be discussed and agreed with the Board of Directors. Tools: ❖ Recruitment Policy and Procedures ❖ Internal Labour Regulation ❖ Statement of Compliance with Ethical Employment Standards Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental protection and climate action (Sustainable Development Goal 13) constitute an important action area for Transtec. We therefore consider that we have an environmental responsibility that goes beyond legal and regulatory requirements. In addition to the projects and programs it implements in the field of environmental protection, Transtec has incorporated an environmentally responsible approach to all of its actions and day to day activities. The cornerstone of this approach is Transtec’s Environmental & Sustainability Policy which includes a clear statement on our approach to environmental protection. It also details procedures to be followed both at headquarters and field projects by all teams to mitigate their negative environmental impact and carbon footprint, whether or not said projects concern environmental protection. An Environmental and Sustainability Focal Person has been appointed to ensure that all aspects of the Environmental and Sustainability Policy are implemented. This includes inter alia: awareness raising about Transtec’s environmental commitments to all staff and external consultants as well as any third parties we may enter into a collaboration with; information to all current and potential stakeholders through publication on our website of our Environmental and Sustainability Policy; incorporation of environmental factors into our business actions; Design and undertake all projects and programs in an environmentally friendly way concrete actions to be taken every day at both office and project level, as feasible in each country we operate in; Environmental Risk Registers for headquarters on the one hand and in each individual project on the other hand, will record identified environmental risks as well as the mitigation measures to put in place. Measurement of outcome: Transtec will ensure continuous improvement of its Environmental and Sustainability Policy and its corresponding procedures. The Environmental and Sustainability Focal Person will be responsible for monitoring and regularly reviewing its progress and performance based on both Headquarters and Projects Environmental Risk Registers. Tools: ❖ Environmental & Sustainability Policy and Procedures ❖ Headquarters Environmental Risk Register ❖ Project Environmental Risk Register Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Transtec is committed to conducting business in an ethical and honest manner and to ensuring the highest possible standards of conduct when implementing projects and programs financed by bilateral and/or international donors. This requires mechanisms that ensure corruption in all its forms and conflict of interests are prevented throughout our activities, wherever we operate. To that end, Transtec has set a robust system in place consisting of some procedures that reduce the risk of corruption and conflict of interest, and help those working for Transtec to recognise and report any potential or actual case of malpractice which would arise. Firstly, our Anti Fraud and Corruption Policy sets out the responsibilities of Transtec and those who work for us with regards to observing and upholding our zero-tolerance position on fraud and corruption. This policy is based on a three pillared approach of prevention, reporting and response. Prevention constitutes the main aspect of our policy as we aim to create an environment free from any form of malpractice. This includes making sure all concerned parties receive an explicit information on this policy at mobilisation/recruitment; are informed of their responsibility in the prevention, detection, and reporting of any perceived, potential or actual malpractice; are required explicitly in their contract, to avoid any activities that could lead to or imply, a breach of Transtec’s work ethics. The policy also details our approach to procurement and requires a procurement manual whenever necessary in a given project defining the procurement thresholds and the respective procurement procedures to be implemented by the project team. Regarding conflict of interests, these can occur in the course of our work. For that reason we have set up procedures which reduce the risk of conflict of interest on the one hand while also ensuring concerned parties know how to react in case such a situation would involuntarily arise. Transtec has therefore set up a Conflict of Interest Policy, which purpose is to protect the integrity of Transtec and inform concerned parties of the reporting procedures for any potential, perceived or actual conflicts of interest they may come across during their work with Transtec. Here too Transtec has followed a three pillared approach based on prevention, reporting and response. Prevention means to ensure all concerned parties have access to, are familiar with, and know their responsibilities within our Conflict of Interest Policy; design and undertake all our programs and activities in a way to avoid possible conflicts of interest; ensure the involved staff receive sufficient information/training on the possible cases of conflict of interest, and the ways to address such cases; communicate to all third parties Transtec’s zero-tolerance attitude towards fraudulent and corrupt practices. The Anti Fraud and Corruption Policy as well as the Conflict of Interest Policy also detail very clearly how to report any instance of perceived, potential or actual bribery, corruption, fraud or conflict of interest as well as the steps to be taken as a response. These principles that we apply to ourselves we also expect from our partners in all our supply chains as outlined in our Supplier Management Policy. With this policy we define the standards expected from our suppliers as well as the control requirements and due diligence in line with our ISO 9001:2015 certification to follow throughout the entire collaboration with suppliers. This covers suppliers’ capabilities, performance, security systems and controls, ethical standards. It also outlines how Transtec can support new or potential partners in complying with our standards on anti-corruption as detailed in our Charter of Conduct and Ethics. To uphold these standards of integrity and ethics it is essential that any staff member, partner, external consultant or contractor is able to communicate any concern without fear of reprisals and in the knowledge that they will be protected from victimisation and/or dismissal. For that reason we have drafted a Whistleblowing Policy which protects individuals from reprisal whilst also providing clear procedures on confidential communication channels for reporting any potential, perceived or actual malpractice one may come across during their work with Transtec. A Whistleblowing Focal Person has been appointed to deal with all whistleblowing issues and to ensure the application of the Conflict of Interest and Anti Fraud & Corruption Policy. Measurement of outcome: The Whistleblowing Focal Person will monitor the application of these policies and procedures and will report on an annual basis to the Managing Director regarding their application. This evaluation will form the basis of any amendments to these policies which would then be communicated to all concerned parties. Tools: ❖ Anti Fraud & Corruption Policy and Procedures ❖ Anti Fraud & Bribery Register ❖ Gifts & Hospitality Register ❖ Conflict of Interest Policy and Procedures ❖ Conflict of Interest Register ❖ Supplier Management Policy and Procedures ❖ Whistleblowing Policy and Procedures Links with the UN Sustainable Development Goals Since its inception in 1983, Transtec’s core activity has been that of promoting what is now referred to as the SDGs. From a small consulting practice working on poverty eradication in rural areas and designing famine early warning systems we have now become an organisation that bilateral and multilateral funding agencies can rely on to promote the progress of SDGs. Indeed, Transtec continues in 2019 to actively contribute through the projects and programs it implements to the advancement of several SDGs, namely: ➢ Goal One and Two “No Poverty” and “Zero Hunger” by improving the livelihoods of pastoralists and agro-pastoralists communities in Somalia and Djibouti and through a framework contract for the evaluation of food security, food aid, food assistance and livelihood recovery projects worldwide ; ➢ Goal Four “Quality Education” through our framework contract with the European Training Foundation; we support over 20 countries in their efforts to improve their vocational education and training systems, analyse their skills needs, and develop their labour markets; ➢ Goal Eight “Decent Work and Economic Growth” with an Employment Enhancing Program in Egypt and an Enterprise Strengthening Project contributing to the socioeconomic development of Djibouti; ➢ Goal Nine “Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure” promoting research and innovation with the development of the Borj-Cedria Scientific and Technological Park in Tunisia; ➢ Goal Eleven “Sustainable Cities and Communities” through an Early Recovery Program rebuilding urban infrastructures, improving economic livelihoods and strengthening social resilience in Ukraine; ➢ Goal Thirteen and Fifteen “Climate Action” and “Life on Land” in Morocco assessing budget support of the Competition and Green Growth Program; assisting the French Bilateral Cooperation’s Climate Division in implementing the Paris Agreement and through a comparative analysis of ex-post evaluations of climate projects ; ➢ Goal Sixteen “Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions” through election observation missions worldwide, supporting ECOWAS Regional, Peace, Security and Stability Mandate or providing technical assistance in Support of the Reform of the Security Sector in the Democratic Republic of Congo, or by developing the High National Elections Commission’s capacity to prepare for and administer inclusive and credible elections in Libya; ➢ Goals Five and Ten “Gender Equality” and “Reduced Inequalities” are addressed as horizontal issue in all our projects; In the coming years, Transtec will continue to reinforce its actions in the SDGs it currently covers while at the same time expanding its activities to promote other SDGs. Action Plan for the 2019-2020 Year Over the course of the next year we will focus on the implementation of these policies, carry out the annual review and amend the policies if and where needed based on the findings of the review.
