UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2018 Vision Core values To be the provider of choice • Nurturing Welcome to the United for innovative and quality • Excellence Nations Global Compact healthcare solutions in Africa. • Integrity Communication Progress Mission • Heritage Report 2018 To provide healthcare solutions that make a difference to life. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 2 Table of contents CEO Statement of Continued Support 04 Scope of This CoP 05 About AAR Health Care Holdings Limited 06 Kenya 06 About AAR Healthcare Kenya Limited 06 Human Rights 07 Labour 08 Environment 09 Anti-Corruption 10 Uganda 11 About AAR Healthcare Uganda Limited 11 Human Rights 12 Labour 13 Environment 14 Anti-Corruption 15 Tanzania 16 About AAR Healthcare Tanzania Limited 16 Human Rights 17 Labour 18 Environment 19 Anti-Corruption 20 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 3 Message from the CEO AAR Healthcare Holdings Group CEO’s Statement of Commitment 2018 to the UN Global Compact. I am pleased to acknowledge that whilst the organisation has expanded its presence across East Africa the organisation has remained committed towards ensuring that the organizations value system remained aligned to corporate sustainability. As an organization, AAR Health Care prides itself in ensuring that its operating model meets the fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti – corruption. AAR Health Care continues to demonstrate unwavering support of the United Nations Global Compact, since joining in 2008 and has aligned the company’s business practices to support the UNGCs Ten Principles. AAR Health Care continues to align the companies “Mission and Vision” with the provision of high quality healthcare services aimed at improving health and providing education and economic wellbeing to the citizens in the countries where AAR Health Care operates. AAR Health Care is one of the leading medical service providers in East Africa and continues to grow and diversify its services ensuring that Mr Indren Poovan the organizations strategy remains focussed on its core mission which Group CEO is to “Provide healthcare solutions that make a difference to life.” AAR Health Care Holdings As AAR Health care continues to expand its services and presence across East Africa, the organization will remain committed towards improving business solutions that are aligned to sustainable development. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 4 1. 2. Human Labour rights 3. 4. AntiEnvironment Corruption Scope of this COP This COP report covers our operational internal processes in relation to our customers, our staff , our suppliers and our community in adhering to the four main areas of the UN Global Compact: Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption for the financial period 2017-2018. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 5 About AAR Healthcare Kenya Limited AAR Health Care Holdings Limited is one of the leading medical service providers in East Africa. As one of the pioneers in the provision of private healthcare in the region, AAR’s success has largely been driven by our staff and their commitment to always offer high quality and affordable healthcare by operating responsibly, executing with excellence, applying innovative technologies and capturing new Kenya opportunities for profitable growth. Being one of the largest providers of outpatient inception in 1984 and with it is the satisfaction of healthcare, we employ experienced medical and a dream-lived-on as envisioned by its founders. other staff members. We also use internationally AAR has a long, robust history and at inception its approved disease management protocols and services were accident and medical evacuation drug formulary supported by the state of the by road and air within the country. AAR has art information technology systems to provide grown and offers a diverse portfolio of services consistent treatment for our clients from and has retained its values of quality, innovation anywhere in East Africa. and excellence. We differ significantly from other providers in the region, not only because of our comprehensive value chain, which can successfully treat those who are unwell, but because we have a strong focus on clinical risk management and provision of preventive care. This ensures that our clients receive quality and affordable healthcare on a sustainable basis. AAR Healthcare Kenya has 21 outpatient centres and is marking 35 years in Kenya since its UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 6 1. HUMAN RIGHTS AAR Healthcare Kenya compensates its staff in Our Promise accordance to the provisions of an up to date job evalaution, for a 44 hour work week. Staff specializing in medical courses or management AAR HealthCare Limited tagline, as human as you, courses are allowed less working hour contracts emphasizes and recognizes the inherent dignity to enable them meet their study hours. of all members of the human family who include our employees, patients who walk in through our We have ensured our staff not only are free to doors day in day out seeking quality care as well as express themselves but as part of our culture contracted third party companies. We subscribe culture change training, ensured we empower to local legislation that address employment staff to know it is their right to express their issues, labour standards and the environment opinions. These among many other issues (Labour Relations Act, 2008, Employment Act, such as provision of a safe and healthy working 2014 and Occupational Safety and Health Act, environment, provision of privacy for staff and our 2007). clients has culminated into the company being named as one of the top 100 companies to work for in Kenya. AAR Healthcare Kenya staff in one of our training sessions Businesses should support Human Rights and respect the protection Principle 1 of internationally proclaimed human rights Businesses should make sure Human Rights they are not complicity in Principle 2 human rights abuses UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 7 2. LABOUR Businesses should uphold the Our Promise Labour freedom of association and the Principle 3 effective recognition of the right to AAR Healthcare will continue collective bargaining to ensure that labour relations policies and laws are adhered to. We provide a safe and healthy work environment for all employees and we have embarked on having We do not policies that will ensure that any discriminate on the Businesses should eliminate all suppliers and third parties will or basis of race, gender, Labour forms of forced and compulsory have adopted responsible labour practices. religion or tribe. Principle 4 labour Freedom of association is regarded as a fundamental right in the workplace and we strive to ensure employees are not victimized for this. At national level, some of our staff subscribe to trade unions that Businesses should uphold the govern the healthcare industry. Labour effective abolition of child labour At company level, employees are given the opportunity to freely Principle 5 discuss with their managers on issues pertaining to work, either for improvement, raise questions or addressing of grievances. We have a non-discrimination policy embedded in our human Businesses should eliminate resource policies. This has been Labour discrimination in respect of our foundation in ensuring that we promote diversity which has Principle 6 employment and occupation focussed on gender, skills, tribe, religion, cultural background, etc. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 8 3. ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support and respect the Environment protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 7 human rights Businesses should support and respect the Environment protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 8 human rights Businesses should support and respect the Environment Taking time to protection of internationally proclaimed plant trees Principle 9 human rights Our Promise How we implement We have interested all our staff in ensuring At AAR Healthcare Limited, we recthat we all join together to conserve the environment. Our annual tree planting ognise that environmental considday that is normally held during short rains erations are not separate from our in November was a great success and core business, but an integral part we brought on board over 25 corporate of our overall business sustainabilorganizations schools and universities to partner with us as we planted 10,000 trees in ity and success. 4 hours. This was in support of the National Reform Policy in Forestry to ensure the Our environmental responsibilattainment of 10% forest cover in Kenya. ity is an issue that continues to grow in importance as we conWe also recognise that responsible and effective environmental management offers tinue to expand in our operation. a host of benefits, including financial savings We remain committed to environfrom reduced waste generation and efficient mentally sound and sustainable energy consumption, easier compliance growth in communities we operwith environmental legislation, increased staff morale and pride, as well as improved ate in through our CSR arm named customer relations. We continue to take our Trees for Health -T4H project. social and moral responsibility to manage our environment very seriously. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 9 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION We believe that corruption hinders sustainable development and impacts companies negatively by hindering economic growth, and eliminating healthy competition. Doing business in Kenya entails many challenges, and corruption has been singled out as a vice that has negative impact on business and sustainable development. Despite the pressures of competition, AAR Healthcare has continued to conduct business ethically, based on its values of integrity. We have fostered a strong, value based corporate culture and this is repeatedly outlined in our communication to staff. Our policies cover anti-corruption and bribery. Every staff member signs a this policy. External and internal audit has also shown that there is no issue as far as this is concerned. We also have in place an online whistle blowing policy which the management staff have been trained on. A staff training Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Principle 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 10 About AAR Healthcare Uganda Limited AAR Healthcare Uganda Limited ( AHCU ) is a leading pioneer private outpatient medical service provider in Uganda with a growing branch network of 11 Out-Patient Centers currently attending to an average of 18,000 clients per month. Uganda Being one of the largest providers of outpatient healthcare, we engage qualified and duly licenced medical practitioners with a robust non medical support teams. We use internationally approved disease management protocols and drug formulary supported by the state of the art information technology systems to provide consistent treatment for our clients. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 11 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Our Promise AAR Healthcare Uganda Limited upholds the All staff have their statutory benefits remitted in AAR Healthcare Uganda also operates under inrights and diginity each of its employees, clients, a timely manner but over and above the compaternal systems and policies that promote protect and all other business stakeholders. We not only ny provides life insurance, work man’s compenhuman righty like; The grievance policy and whissubscribe to the International Human Rights Act, sation, medical insurance, a pension fund, and tle blower’s policy among others. AAR subcribes 1998, Uganda Employment Act, 2006 and Occuprofessional indemnity insurance for all employto and upholds the patients’ right charter to maxpational Safety and Health Act, 2006 but also conees and also compensates staff for hours worked imize benefits and protect rights of all clients that duct sensitization trainings about the same with beyond the national recommended maximum walk through our doors. all employees. We also conduct regular monitorhours of labour per month. ing and evaluation by the Strategic Quality Management and Human Resources Departments to assess adherence to the expected standards. AAR Healthcare Uganda staff in one of our team building activities Businesses should support and Human Rights respect the protection of interPrinciple 1 nationally proclaimed human rights Businesses should make sure Human Rights they are not complicity in huPrinciple 2 man rights abuses UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 12 2. LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freeOur Promise Labour dom of association and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective AAR Healthcare Uganda Limited promotes and encourages its staff to join bargaining professional associations and unions and goes ahead to pay subscription to these associations for staff with outstanding performance. These include the Institute of Public Cerfirifed Public Accountant (CPA), The Allied Health Professionals Council (AHPC) and The Pharmacutical Society of Uganda (PSU) Businesses should eliminate all The associations to which our staff subcribe include both medical and Labour forms of forced and compulsory lanon-medical associations. At company level we run an open door policy where all staff can easily access managers at the highest level to relay any Principle 4 bour concerns or grievancies. AAR Healthcare doesn’t discriminate on the basis of gender, race, tribe, religion, or anyother stereotypes before and after recruitment of employees. AAR promotes gender equity through human resources policies that enable both male and female employees thrive at work. One of such policies is the 3 months paid maternity leave on top of the one month annual Businesses should uphold the effecleave for female employees who give birth. Male employees are equally Labour tive abolition of child labour entiled to 14 days paid paternity leave. Principle 5 Businesses should eliminate disLabour crimination in respect of employPrinciple 6 ment and occupation UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 13 3. ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support and respect the Environment protection of internationally proclaimed huPrinciple 7 man rights Businesses should support and respect the Environment protection of internationally proclaimed huPrinciple 8 man rights AAR Healthcare Environment Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed huUganda Staff engaged in Principle 9 man rights a tree planting exercise. Our Promise AAR Healthcare Uganda is cognisant AAR Healthcare Uganda also runs a of the possible threats of its program called Trees for Health (T4H) operations to the environment has in which all staff led by appointed taken a proactive approach towards champions (but on a voluntary basis) protecting the environment and actively participate in conserving the promoting environmental preserving environment by planting trees. In this activities. program we mainly target schools where we plant trees depending We run a robust waste management on the school’s available space but program through the strategic also give health talks and deworm quality management department children. This year we have planted using companies certified by 1,638 trees. local authorities and following internationally recommended waste management protocol. We also regularly monitor clinic effluent especially from the laboratory to determine the extent of threat to the environment and as such institute preventive measures. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 14 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION We believe that corruption hinders sustainable development and impacts companies negatively by hindering economic growth, and eliminating healthy competition. Doing business in Uganda entails many challenges, and corruption has been singled out as a vice that has negative impact on business and sustainable development. Despite the pressures, AAR Healthcare Uganda has continued to conduct business ethically, based on its values of integrity. We have fostered a strong, value based corporate culture and this is repeatedly outlined in our communication to staff. Our policies cover anti-corruption and bribery. Every staff member signs this policy. External and internal audit has also shown that there is no issue as far as this is concerned. We also have in place an online whistle blowing policy which the staff have been trained on. A staff stakeholder activity with institutional corruption as one of the key topics discussed Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Principle 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 15 About AAR Healthcare Tanzania Limited AAR Healthcare Tanzania Limited ( AHCT ) is the leading private provider for outpatient medical care in Tanzania. With a branch network of 8 outpatient centres and 1 factory clinic, our facilities serve an average of over 400 patients a day. Tanzania UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 16 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Our Promise AAR Healthcare Tanzania in its Recruitment Polbanks to negotiate friendly check of rates for our including civil society organizations,and finally the icies and practices adheres to requirements on staff. Staff have feedom of religious association, company have an explicit policy to ensure that its safe and healthy working conditions. We guaranfreedom to join relevant professional associations security arrangements do not contribute to hutee freedom of association with relevant Trade and other registered bodies relating with individuman rights violations, adhering lay off by involving Unions & ensure non-discrimination in personnel al beliefs, grouping or associations. trade unions without impeding staff rights due practices. We comply with internaional labor laws payments and fairly compensation for salary rise to ensure no direct or indirect forced labour or AAR Healthcare Tanzania has in place explicit polbased on assessed performance and non perchild labour in our operations. We support staff icies that protect the human rights of workers in former awarded accordingly in documentation for bank loans to enhance perits direct employment, confidential information of sonal ecomomic empowerment by engaging an individual and families, disability, private level of education, tribal beliefs or civil and criminal incidences, tax payment to the govt, loan payments AAR Healthcare Tanzania staff status the company actively engage in open diadonating a sanitary towels to a Primary logue with stakeholder groups, school in Arusha Region Businesses should support and Human Rights respect the protection of interPrinciple 1 nationally proclaimed human rights Businesses should make sure Human Rights they are not complicity in huPrinciple 2 man rights abuses UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 17 AAR Healthcare Recruitment Policy proadvancement of staff at all levels , We grievance procedures are followed to 2. LABOUR hibits recruitment of underage employassign responsibilities for equal employaddress complaints, handle appeals and ment in line with provisions in theTanzament issues at a high level, issue clear provide recourse for employees. We nia Employment and Labour Relations company-wide policies and procedures provide staff training on non-discrimiAct, 2004 section 5 (1) We ensure that to guide equal employment practices, nation policies and practices, including Our Promise all company officials have a full underand link advancement to desired perfordisability awareness. We commit to reastanding of what forced labour is. Our mance in this area. We Keep up-to-date sonably adjust the physical environment empoyment contracts are clear on the records on recruitment, training and to ensure health and safety for employAAR Healthcare Tanzania treats all its terms and conditions of service, the volpromotion that provide a transparent ees, customers and other visitors with employees as an individual; and as partuntary nature of employment, the freeview of opportunities for employees and disabilities and provided by ELRA , 2004 ner in negotiations. Further, the repredom to leave (including the appropriate their progression within the organizaunder section 7 (1) “Every employer sentative Trade Union has been given procedures) and any penalties that may tion. Where any form of discrimination shall ensure that he promotes an equal free will as per the Tanzania labor law be associated with a departure or cessais identified, opportunity in employment and strive to to recruit members accordance with tion of work; We write employment coneliminate discrimination in any employnational law. We have also put in place tracts in languages easily understood ment polict or practices” non-discriminatory policies and proceby workers, indicating the scope of and dures with respect to trade union orgaprocedures for exit. nization, union membership and activity in such areas as applications for employAAR Healthcare Tanzania is aware of ment and decisions on advancement, country, regions, sectors, economic dismissal or transfer; we do not interfere activities where there is a greater likeliwith the activities of worker representahood of child labour and proactively mittives while they carry out their functions igates this through relevant policies and in ways that are not disruptive to regular procedures. We adhere to minimum age company operations. Moreove we allowprovisions of national labour laws and ing the trade union to do collection of regulations and, where national law is inunion dues on company premises, postsufficient, take account of international ing of trade union notices and Address standards. We use adequate and veriany problem-solving or other needs of fiable mechanisms for age verification in interest to workers and management, recruitment procedures . AAR Healthcare trade union being involved in redundanTanzania End cy procedures, safety and health issues, We have instituted company policies grievance and dispute settlement proceand procedures which make qualificaYear Party dures ,counselling on disciplinary relattions, skill and experience the basis for ed issues. the recruitment, placement, training and Businesses should uphold the freedom Businesses should uphold the effective Labour of association and the effective recogniLabour Principle 5 abolition of child labour Principle 3 tion of the right to collective bargaining Businesses should eliminate Labour Businesses should eliminate all forms of Labour discrimination in respect of employment Principle 4 forced and compulsory labour Principle 6 and occupation UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 18 3. ENVIRONMENT Environment Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 7 Environment Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 8 Environment Businesses should support and respect the protecStaff Tree Planting tion of internationally proclaimed human rights in Tanzania Principle 9 We are taking initiatives in protecting the Our Promise environment through use of modern machines and instruments which use minimum AAR Healthcare Tanzania has established difenergy and water consumption during operferent supporting procedures and manuals ations (energy serving bulbs/lamps, modern on environmental and safety matters. Such generators, water metres to control water documents include Standard Operating Proconsumption). cedures, Environmental Management Policy AAR Healthcare Tanzania also runs a volManual, Occupational Health and Safety Poluntary staff Corporate Social Responsibilicy Manual, Environment Health and Safety ity program called Trees for Health (T4H). Policy, Management of Harzadous Wastes Through this program, we promote enviroGuidelines, Infection Prevention and Conmental sustainability while ensuring health trol Guidelines which act as reference and for the communities within which we work. guidelines during its operations and deciWe do this through planting and nurturing sion making. trees, dewormng of primary school children AAR Healthcare Tanzania has been involved as well as Health and career talks for these in environmental audits, environmental talks students. and trees planting to promote environmenThrough this progam in 2018, tal responsibility within and outside the company. Regular facility audits and annual • 37,545 children were dewormed Water Effluent Tests have been carried out to measure the extent of adherence to the • 93,372 trees were planted guidelines. Training on Environmental and • 27,661 Health talks and career talks Safety matters has been conducted whenwere presented. ever gaps were identified through audit reports. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 19 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION All AAR Healthcare Tanzania staff are trained on elements of bribery and corruption at work places. Staff was trained on: • Main Legislations & laws governing corrruption • How corruption in the workplace presents • How to identify & avoid corruption at workplaces There is in place an anticorruption working document which will be signed by all employees. This document will form a guideline on reporting any corruption practices through sharing experiences and best practices across the region. Signing of the “Anti-corruption Call to Action”, will be for all employees which is a call to address corruption and foster effective governance. Through AARHC Tanzania this, AAR Healthcare Tanzania will continue to integrate anti-corruption into our strategies and management team in a operations. training The whistle blower policies ensures that all staff and our partners can voluntarily provide information on any intended or occured events that may be perceived as accomodating corruption or unacceptable practices. Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Principle 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 20 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 | 21
