Sustainability Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2 Content Maersk Drilling 3 Letter from the CEO 4 Our approach to sustainability 6 Our position and role in the at a glance oil and gas value chain Maersk Drilling supports global oil and 7 Safety 9 Climate and environment gas production by providing high-efficiency 11 Our people drilling services to oil and gas companies 13 Local content 14 Responsible business around the world 16 Ambition and progress 18 ESG index Geographical 23 Rigs presence Revenue 2018 Asia Rest of 5% the world 10% North Sea Founded 1972 59% 15 Jack-up rigs 8 Floaters ~2,850 employees Africa 1.4 bn Revenue 2018 26% (USD) Statutory Report for §99a and b according to the Danish Financial Statements act MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3 Letter from the CEO Dear reader, today and actively prepare for tomorrow. By looking through our local content programmes. We provide 2018 has been a year of change for Maersk Drilling. ahead, we stay ahead. To build the right team and great opportunities and professional development With the pursuit of a separation from A.P. Mollerattract good people, we prioritise our employees for our people, and we strive to conduct business in a Maersk through a demerger and separate listing, and strive to give them good working conditions. responsible and sustainable manner through acting we are facing a future of great opportunity. The We value our name, because it embodies our values, with integrity and upholding a high degree of busi2018 Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report marks our passion and our tradition. Our values inform our ness ethics. Respecting human rights and working an important step on our way to becoming a standactions as individuals and as a company, and they against corruption in all forms is at the centre of our alone company. will continue to define who we are in our future as values. We believe this is not just the best, but also a stand-alone entity. We take pride in these values the right way to do business. Our commitment to sustainability remains strong. being part of our heritage. The world continues to be dependent on oil and Looking ahead, we are excited to see what the next gas; our ambition is to ensure that this demand is Above all, the safety of our people is, and always will years will bring. The changing industry context brings met in a responsible way, while continuously trying be, our number one priority. A strong safety culture challenges as well as opportunities. At Maersk to reduce the negative impact on the environment. permeates everything we do and stand for, offshore Drilling, we are ready to unlock those opportunities Our commitment to long-term value creation is as well as onshore. After losing one of our colleagues with the aim of generating long-term shared value built on the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact, in a fatal accident in 2017, we have continued our – for us as a company, our investors, and for society and we are inspired and guided in our activities by quest to find ways to prevent fatal accidents in the fuas a whole. the UN Sustainable Development Goals. As we will ture. This has informed a redefinition of how we think be separating from A.P. Moller-Maersk's UN Global of safety in Maersk Drilling, and led to the launch of Compact membership, we decided to reconfirm our a new Safety as Capacity strategy in 2018. We have membership by rejoining the Global Compact as a worked, and will continue to work, strategically and stand-alone entity. This report constitutes our first innovatively with safety in our operations in line with own Communication on Progress (COP) Report to our ambition to achieve industry leadership in HSSE the UN Global Compact. performance. We do this because safety is the foundation of the operational success that Maersk Drilling A company is defined by its values. Sustainability is is known for, and because we will not accept that our not only our license to operate – it is a reflection of employees do not return home safely. our core values. Through humbleness we give space to other, and pay attention in order to learn and grow We are committed to contributing to economic and as a company. Uprightness defines our way of doing social development. We take pride in the fact that business with customers, suppliers and partners. we help provide affordable energy to the world and Jørn Peter Madsen Constant care is important to us. We take care of contribute to the development of local communities CEO MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 4 Our approach to sustainability Our business model rigs, whether our own employees, the employees The Board of Directors is the highest authority of At Maersk Drilling, we support the oil and gas inof our customers or subcontractors, follow Maersk Maersk Drilling and oversees our sustainability work. dustry by providing high efficiency drilling solutions Drilling’s safety procedures. At the beginning of 2019, Maersk Drilling established for the Exploration and Production (E&P) and Plug a new Safety and Sustainability Committee compris& Abandonment (P&A) of oil and gas activities. The Apart from the impacts resulting directly from our ing of, among others, the Chairman of the Board. The E&P constitutes the early phases of the oil and gas drilling activities, we have a number of other susSafety and Sustainability Committee will be the main lifecycle that require the construction of wells in tainability topics related to our daily business opergoverning body in managing sustainability issues ­order to access oil and gas reservoirs, while P&A ations. These include engagement with suppliers across Maersk Drilling in the future. The main funcconstitutes the last stages of the drilling activities. and other third parties, human and labour rights, tions of the Sustainability Committee will include: As a drilling contractor we are the first and last ones security, and economic and social contribution to the present at the drilling site, and we provide customcommunities in which we operate. These aspects are – Overseeing the identification, management and Sustainability ers with a drilling rig, associated drilling equipment, all reflected in how we work with sustainability. mitigation of risks, including the related policies is not only our license to operate and the skills and human resources necessary to associated with sustainability – it is a reflection conduct drilling operations. The natural resources Sustainability governance and risk management – Endorsing strategies and positions on sustainof our core extracted as a result of this process are the propSustainability is an integrated part of how we do ability within Maersk Drilling values. erty of our customers. business. Sustainability performance is part of our general decision-making structures within key areas, The Senior Management Team, consisting of the Due to this inherent division in our business model, such as health, safety, security and environment seven top executives in charge of daily operations in the operational and legal responsibilities of the (HSSE), procurement, legal, and manning. As part of Maersk Drilling, has the overall responsibility for our environmental impact of drilling activities are the preparation for the separation from A.P. Mollersustainability programmes and performance with divided between Maersk Drilling and our customers. Maersk through a demerger and separate listing, specialist support from appointed working groups. This division is illustrated in the value chain on page Maersk Drilling has developed our own policies and 6, along with the most material environment and approaches during 2018, as well as taken over a Sustainability is integrated into the overall Entersafety areas related to our core business activities. ­number of sustainability-related processes from prise Risk Management, and sustainability risks are A.P. Moller-Maersk. identified, evaluated and managed together with In addition to our own direct operational responsiother business risks. bility, we also work to ensure that all people on our MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 5 Sustainability focus areas daily business. These goals cover issues that are Maersk Drilling’s Sustainability Policy provides already core to our sustainability efforts, including guidance on how we conduct business. The policy is safety, climate and environment, anti-corruption, hubuilt on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, man and labour rights, responsible procurement and the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, and diversity. While Maersk Drilling contributes positively the Fundamental Labour Conventions of the Interto a number of the SDGs, we also have a negative national Labour Organisation (ILO). This high level impact on SDG 13 related to Climate Action, as we Sustainability Policy is supported by a number of contribute to the production of fossil fuels. Due to subject-specific policies, which guide us in our daily the projections for oil and gas dependence for the operations. The Sustainability Policy was formulated next decades, we see it as our main duty to ensure in 2018, and approved in the beginning of 2019. that this demand is met in a responsible way, with a focus on minimising the negative environmental In 2018, we mapped out the UN Sustainable Develimpacts where possible. Through our growing focus opment Goals (SDG’s), and identified the goals on on innovation, we will continue to seek ways to minwhich we have the largest impact through our busiimise our negative impact on the climate, as well as ness operations. Our business impacts all of the 17 continue to strengthen our positive contribution to SDGs, either directly or indirectly. However, we have the other SDG’s. Please refer to the section Ambition identified and focused on the SDGs that we belive and Progress on page 16 for further information on Maersk Drilling can influence the most through our how we impact the SDGs. Our Sustainability Focus Areas Safety Climate & Environment Our People and Human Rights Local Content Responsible Business MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 6 Our position and role in the oil and gas value chain Maersk Drilling Offshore drilling rig service Reliability – Safety – Efficiency Maersk Drilling operational responsibility Training and technical skills of Production employees and contractors Refinery platform Seismic Safety of employees and third exploration Storage Fuels parties on board our rigs vessel Lubricants Petrochemicals Power Handling of chemicals on rigs Pipeline Heating Spills of hazardous Tanker materials to sea Sorting of household waste on board our rigs Fuel use in between operations Customer operational responsibility Appropriate disposal of drilling waste (cuttings) Impact assessment of drilling activities prior to drilling Fuel consumption during Value chain UPSTREAM MIDSTREAM DOWNSTREAM drilling operations Exploration Development Production Transportation Refining, marketing Security of wells after drilling and storage and distribution Well life cycle Safety of customer staff and Decommissioning upholding of Maersk Drilling safety instructions MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7 Safety The safety of our people is our number one priority. This provides all employees, customers and other reality of work and the emerging hazards. To do Safety is our foundation for delivering the operathird parties access to safe and efficient process this, we need to identify and deeply implement tional excellence that Maersk Drilling is known for, flows and reference documents that describe how Safety ­Behaviours and control mechanisms that safety permeates everything we do and stand for, activities are performed by Maersk Drilling. will ­enable us to manage barriers and prevent the offshore as well as onshore. Reaching our ambition emerging hazards from becoming incidents. of ZERO serious incidents requires excellent safety The system is built to support delivery of high efmanagement and procedures, as well as commitficiency, high quality and high HSSE performance, This has redefined how we work with safety at Maersk ment from leadership and all our employees. We and to support continuous improvement. SIRIUS is Drilling, and has led to the launch of our new Safety work to strengthen the overall safety performance designed to comply with ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001, ISO as Capacity strategy in 2018. Safety as Capacity of the industry as a whole through close cooperation 14001, IMO ISM Code, IMO ISPS Code and API Q2. is built around three projects: Project X, Simple to Be Reaching our and knowledge sharing. Safe, and Out of Harm’s Way. ambition of ZERO In December 2017, we lost one of our colleagues in a serious incidents requires excellent A strong safety culture fatal accident in the North Sea. Investigating the root Our safety performance 2018 2017 2016 safety management Building and maintaining a strong safety culture is cause of this has had high priority throughout 2018, LTI Frequency 0,92 0,53 0,49 and procedures, as a key objective for Maersk Drilling, as well as for our and we have seen it as our prime responsibility to enwell as commitment TRC Frequency 2,61 2,66 2,44 from leadership and customers. We support the continuous involvement sure that we have the capabilities to prevent similar all our employees Fatalities 0 1 0 of our workforce in HSSE issues, and the developincidents in the future – not just at Maersk Drilling, but ment and improvement of the safety culture for all in the industry as a whole. We have therefore shared people working on board our rigs, whether customer, our learnings at a number of industry conferences, In 2018, we experienced an increase in our Lost Time supplier or Maersk Drilling representative. Our safety and have implemented several operational modificaIncidents (LTI) frequency with low severity. Although culture is built around our four Safety Behaviours: tions, such as updating our lifting procedure. this was mainly due to an increase of incidents related Safe Start. Do It Right. Say Stop. Watch Out. Our funto dropped objects and lifts at the beginning of 2018, damental operational mandate Authorised to Say The assumption is that our employees will often the development has not been satisfactory, and we Stop gives everyone, offshore and onshore, the right have to deviate from the planned procedure in order have not been able to meet our safety targets for and the obligation to stop any job that he or she to accommodate for the changing environment in 2018. To reverse this trend and to make sure that our deems unsafe. Anchoring these safety behaviours which they work. To manage the constant changes employees can return safely to their homes, we have into the DNA of how we work benefits each in the workplace, we have to identify and develop completed a Safe Working with Loads project aiming employee’s personal safety and that of their colthe capacity and controls that need to be in place at improving lifting competencies across our rigs. The leagues and contractors, as well as the safety of our in order to secure that our workers are equipped to updated lifting manual was rolled out in October 2018 customers and third parties on board our rigs. follow safety procedures in spite of changes in the and our focus is now on embedding the learning in external environment. When we deviate, we have the organisation. Focus has also been on Hands and To support our HSSE efforts, we utilise our inteto acknowledge that hazards also develop, and Finger injuries and an updated Hands and ­Fingers grated digital Safety Management System SIRIUS. then make sure to maintain the barriers between Injury Prevention campaign has been rolled out MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 8 simultaneously with a review of personal protective if the prior barrier misses this. We are currently in the equipment. To manage drops, we have in 2018 piloted 3rd generation of our barrier management, and we Safety as capacity the use of augmented reality for drop inspections and have in the past years been working on reviewing and if the pilot is successful, we expect full roll out in 2019. updating the barrier management on board all of our Project X rigs to ensure that we have the highest and most up We have been improving our ability to conduct to date standards and procedures. In 2018 we have, Project X is about building the capacity In 2018, we have: of our people to prevent incidents from – Conducted training for 100% advanced root cause analysis through training of among other things, rolled out our e-learning courses escalating, and recognise when someof our Offshore Installation our investigators in STAMP Advanced Root Cause to all of Maersk Drilling with focus on our strengththing could go wrong. Managers, HSSE advisors, and Senior Management Team Analysis. All these initiatives make us confident ened barrier management strategy. This is one of the We are redefining how we manage – C onducted master classes about that we can further strengthen the prevention of activities to support our building capacity philosophy. safety, from measuring incidents and the Safety as Capacity philosophy near-misses to also measuring capacity. for the majority of our customers accidents from occuring on Maersk Drilling rigs, – W orked on developing a framework for measuring capacity as as well as improve our performance within Total Making safety smarter a safety indicator Recordable Cases (TRC) frequency Control of Work is a new innovative project under Simple to be Safe, aimed to make Maersk Drilling’s work Strengthened processes simpler, smarter and more fit for purpose. barrier management Through use of innovative technology we work to: Simple to Be Safe – Improve visibility and make it easier to share Nobody should ever be in doubt of In 2018, we have: Barrier management is about setting up barriers to knowledge related to safety on a real time basis how to perform a task safely. We are – P iloted our Control of Work project reduce the risk of a major accident. Maersk Drilling’s – Make it faster and easier for our employees to removing complexity, reducing adminison four rigs. Expected fleet-wide tration, and innovating new solutions to implementation is April 2019 Barrier Management programme provides a robust, make informed safety-related decisions digitalise and make our work processes – D igitalised our safety cards integrated and consistent approach for management – Significantly reduce administrative burdens in more transparent. We want to make it – Continued implementation of our 3rd Simple to Be Safe. generation of barrier management of these barriers using the Swiss Cheese logic – hazardous or complex work, and thereby free up – U pdated our lifting procedures meaning that the following barrier will catch the error, time for high-quality safety conversations to reduce the risk of incidents If barriers are not in place and kept intact, Out of Harm’s Way there is a risk of a major accident In Maersk Drilling, we truly want to bring In 2018, we have: our people Out of Harm’s Way. We are – A ll rigs have submitted 5 Out of Harm’s challenging how we work with safety, not Way initiatives and implemented 4-5 of only as a priority but as a commitment. their own initiatives on their rig. ! We are thinking out of the box for ways to eliminate risk, and use of innovative technology and redesign of existing – All submitted initiatives have been assessed by HQ specialists and 12 have been identified for implementaprocedures, to move our people Out of tion on rigs across our fleet. This will Hazards Harm’s Way. be the focus in 2019. Barriers Accident MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 9 Climate and environment Governments around the world are increasingly Number of spills to sea 2018 2017 2016 and commercially viable solutions to reduce the fuel ­focused on enacting laws and regulations regarding >10m3 0 0 0 use and thereby the carbon footprint in the oil and climate change and regulation of greenhouse gases, gas supply chain. > 0.16 m3 < 10 m 3 0 1 0 and implementing measures aimed at reducing reliance on oil. While we at Maersk Drilling support Even though few drilling rigs were originally dethe Paris Climate Agreement, the transition to a low have also implemented a number of behavioural signed with fuel efficiency in mind, we have develcarbon economy will take time, and projections show initiatives to reduce minor spills to sea. An example oped a fully digitalised fuel and energy monitoring that the world will be dependent on oil and gas for of this is our approach of always carrying everything system – Energy and Emissions Efficiency (EEE) decades to come. We are committed to supporting a over the deck – this way we may not be able to pre– which provides near real time information. The smooth transition by providing drilling services in an vent the spill, but we can contain it to ensure that it system uses advanced analytics that can be used to environmentally responsible way and reducing the does not contaminate the sea. This way, we manlearn and optimise towards more fuel efficient beenvironmental footprint of our operations. Our Corpoaged to avoid any larger spills to sea in 2018. haviour. While EEE is still in the development phase, We are working rate Major Accident Prevention Policy is set in place and the commercial viability therefore still needs to systematically to reduce the risk of major accidents occurring within Energy efficiency be verified, we have worked with EEE on board an towards achieving our ambition of ZERO our organisation to as low as reasonably practicable, At Maersk Drilling, we are actively working to reduce Ultra Harsh Environment Rig in Norway during 2018, spill of hazardous and to comply with all relevant health and safety and the carbon footprint of our operations, and our fuel resulting in a reduction of energy consumption of materials into the environmental legislations. optimisation team calculates optimal load and approximately 20% from the baseline, and a saving world’s oceans. speed of our rigs to ensure minimum fuel consumpof 25 thousand tons CO2 emissions for our customSpills tion. In 2018, we saw a slight increase in our own fuel ers. The EEE monitoring system also allows more We are working systematically towards achieving oil usage and scope 1 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emisprecise decision making in terms of potentially our ambition of ZERO spills of hazardous materials sions, mainly due to an increased number of rigs in introducing tailored energy efficiency solutions into the world’s oceans. We are closely monitoring operation, and longer transportation distances of such as flywheels, battery based systems or equipspills through a number of initiatives, including our our rigs. Having said this, our main climate footprint ment upgrades. In 2018, we have also worked with Work Execution Process for planning and assessing in this area relates to fuel use of our customers, advanced analytics to be able to predict GHG emisrisks, our incident report and investigation process, while operating our rigs. We are supporting the carsions and energy consumption per well, in order to and our Plan Do Study Act (PDSA) methodology and bon reduction ambitions of our customers, and are be able to target process optimisation and energy after-action reviews focusing on major spills. We working through partnerships to find new innovative efficiency even further. MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 10 Chemical management Waste Apart from energy consumption and GHG emissions, At Maersk Drilling, we are committed to using rethe use of chemicals at our rigs pose a risk to the sources efficiently, reducing our impact on the local environment, as well as the health and safety of our environment and saving operational costs in line employees. with our legal responsibilities. Our waste management can be divided into two main areas: waste from At Maersk Drilling, we work systematically with our operations (including hazardous waste) and chemical management to reduce the risk of negative household waste at our rigs. We work systematically impact to the long-term health of our workers, and to reduce our operational waste, including cleaning to avoid a negative impact on the environment. Our and reusing our drilling mud. chemical management team conducts risk assessments of all chemicals used by Maersk Drilling as Cuttings (drilling waste such as earth and mud), well as third parties, and chemicals with a high risk are legally the responsibility of our customers. factor are replaced with less hazardous chemicals Though waste handling of our customers is not wherever available. In 2018, we conducted a total of an integral part of our contract, we offer to assist 497 chemical risk assessments. our customers with handling and disposal, in order to ensure that this is done in an environmentally ­responsible manner. Furthermore, we sort all of our household waste at our rigs. Innovation for climate change resilience Maersk Invincible In 2018, we mapped our existing innovation portfolio, and Since May 2017, Maersk Invincible has been the world’s defined focus areas for innovation to respond to the risks first harsh environment jack-up drilling rig to operate that climate change will pose to our business model and entirely on shore-power. Positioned in the North Sea, the operations in the future. rig is 100% powered by Norwegian hydropower through a 294 km long cable, and is thereby running entirely on In 2019, we will intensify our focus on innovation through green energy. our new Green Greener Sustainable project. Initiatives include further optimisation of energy efficiency of our rigs, The shore-based power not only reduces emissions from exploring possible alternative sources for use of our assets, operations, but also reduces cost and time for mainas well as investigating the development of our capabilities tenance of diesel engines and generators, and gives a to be able to engage in alternative energy solutions. better work environment on the rig due to reduced noise and vibrations. MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 11 Our people At Maersk Drilling, we are committed to fostering a we have further strengthened our focus on feedback work environment and company culture characterand meaningful career development conversations ised by trust and respect. We believe in developing as a tool for People Performance Management. our employees and providing opportunities for healthy personal and professional growth for everyCareer development and training is not only key one employed. for us onshore, but also offshore. For our offshore employees, we have developed a three-level compeAs a company operating all over the world, we keep tence matrix that all our employees, including cona strong focus on the working conditions of our tractors, go through: employees, and we are committed to respecting human rights, including the principles set forth in – Level 1: Our license to operate is the compliance the International Declaration of Human Rights and training that guarantees compliance with regulathe Fundamental Labour Conventions of the ILO. tory and customer requirements. Our commitment to human and labour rights goes beyond our own employees, and also includes con– Level 2: In addition to level 1 training, we build tractors and other people operating on our rigs and specific Maersk Drilling competencies for all of within our supply chain. our employees. This layer contains our procedural training, which secures the ability to comply with At Maersk Drilling, we aim to create the best opporour operating procedures and systems. tunity for our employees to grow and thrive. With a strong focus on maintaining a good, inclusive – Level 3: Our leadership, values and performance and collaborative working environment and strong training is designed to enable our leaders and feedback culture, we ensure the best conditions for teams to deliver consistent, high performance. the personal and professional development of our ­employees, which is in line with our Core Values. Our strong focus on development of our people not only ensures that we attract and maintain the Developing our people strongest talent, but also ensures the employability Maersk Drilling provides strong opportunities for of our employees in the future. Furthermore, it dedevelopment within international careers for our velops the skill base of employees locally, which is a people. People Performance Management is an benefit for our people, Maersk Drilling, and the local ongoing process throughout the year and is an communities in which we operate. integrated part of our everyday leadership. In 2018, MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 12 Compass – our new employee experience survey our commitment to our customers. We strive to build Throughout 2018, a key focus was to empower a culture of professionalism, agility, innovation and our employees. As a step in this process, we have reliability, and for this we need skilled, broad-minded replaced our annual engagement survey with and tolerant employees of diverse backgrounds. Compass, a quarterly experience survey launched in September 2018. The aim of the transition is to We do not tolerate discrimination against any emfacilitate feedback from the organisation, and to ployee or job applicant based on the individual’s race, focus on employee experience throughout the year colour, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national rather than on an annual basis. origin, age, disability, or any other personal attributes. In 2018, we have formulated a new Diversity The first survey showed that our employees truly and Inclusion policy, emphasizing our commitment care about the values of Maersk Drilling – these to ensuring a diverse workforce and management, values define who we are, and will continue to do so, and to maintaining an inclusive work environment also as a stand-alone entity. Furthermore, Compass that builds on our core values. showed that our employees feel empowered to innovate through continuous improvement in their work. In 2018, our Board of Directors consisted of three However, the past two years of insecurity about the members, all of which were male, which means that future of Maersk Drilling also resulted in our emthe diversity target for the Board of Directors was ployee loyalty score being below our target. In 2019, not met in 2018. As part of the preparation process we will follow up on this through further studying for the demerger through a separate listing from the employee experience, and take diligent action to A.P. Moller-Maersk, new members for the board were strengthen employee loyalty in the future. announced in January 2019. The new board consists of five members, of which one is female. Our target Maersk Drilling employees in 2018 Female Male is to have two female board members elected no Employees – total 11% 89% later than at the annual general meeting to be held in 2022. Employees – onshore 35% 65% Employees – offshore 2% 98% Our industry is statistically dominated by males, Managerial positions (level 5+) 19% 81% ­especially among our offshore employees. However, Maersk Drilling works actively, to increase the level of Diversity women in managerial positions. When assessing emAt Maersk Drilling, we work to create a diverse and ployees for promotion, we take into account that the inclusive organisation. We firmly believe that inclusion population is diverse in terms of gender. Furthermore, increases company performance and enables us to our maternity policy is aimed at attracting and retainmeet challenges and generate sustainable value. One ing talent across Maersk Drilling. The policy gives all feof our most important differentiators is our people; we male employees a minimum of 18 weeks of maternity depend on being able to attract and retain diverse talleave (or longer, if set by local legislation), and the opents globally to succeed in our strategy and deliver on portunity for a 4 day work week for the first 12 months. MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 13 Local content It is at the core of Maersk Drilling’s values to contribvalues of Maersk Drilling. Through these initiatives, Contractors Maersk Drilling ute to economic and social development, develop we have managed to reach our targets in the the maIn Maersk Drilling, we hire local employees directly in Ghana local employees, and transfer knowledge to local jority of our local content programs. whenever possible. However, when we do not have Maersk Drilling has been communities. In order for an operation to be a sucemployment entities at the countries of operation, engaged in Ghana since 2015. Through our contincess, it has to be mutually beneficial to both the opIn Egypt and Azerbaijan it has been difficult to find which mostly applies to shorter contracts, we use uous engagement with erator, the country in which we operate, and Maersk local employees for staffing highly qualified posimanning agencies to contract local employees. local stakeholders and communities, and through Drilling. For this reason, we prioritise our ­local contions, which is why our target has not been met in In these cases, we contractually demand decent continuous investments in building capacity locally, tent programmes in our operations, focusing on these countries. Therefore, we are working on working conditions of our contractors. Our comwe have been able to reach employment, procurement, local investments and providing employees with additional experience at mitment to respecting and promoting human and our local content target in 2018. We have invested community engagement. Our overall ambition is to our rigs during our trainee programs and to facilitate labour rights is also reflected in our approach to approximately USD 3 increase shared value by proactively engaging with practical experience, which is aimed at developing contractors, and we oppose all forms of forced and million in the Rigworld Training Centre in Takoradi. the different stakeholders. Many of the countries the skills of local employees. bonded labour, child labour, human trafficking and in which we have a long-term presence, have very all other forms of exploitation. All our manning agenThe centre specialises in providing customer high local content requirements for employment Local vendors are selected in accordance with cies are subject to risk assessments in line with our focused safety training services and products to and ­procurement. Nevertheless, our aim is to move our Third Party Code of Conduct and our ResponResponsible Procurement programme. In 2018, we several industries, includbeyond compliance by reaching or, where possible, sible Procurement program, and we conduct local have conducted on-site audits of manning agencies ing offshore oil and gas, maritime, underwater and outperforming these targets. We do this by actively ­Supplier Days, where we inform, develop skills and in Ghana, Malaysia and the United Kingdom. For construction. Rigworld engaging to develop the skills and capacity of emcapacity, and work together with local suppliers to each of the audits, corrective action plans have been Training Centre was OPITO certified in 2018 ployees and suppliers in the local communities in help them meet the expectations in our Third Party ­established, and we are following up on these on an and thereby strengthens which we operate, which in turn allows us to recruit Code of Conduct. ongoing basis. Ghana’s training capacity by providing a world class and source locally as much as possible. facility for offshore and onOverview of Local Content programs in 2018 shore industrial training. Working with local employment is a natural part of Local Staff Local Procurement our value set, growth ambitions and way of working. Target Result Target Result When a local employee is hired, an individual training Ghana* 40% 54% 40% 40% plan is prepared based on the employee’s previous Brunei 70% 78% 34% 42% experience, competencies and allocated training programme. These programmes include courses to upEgypt 70% 62% N/A 30% skill employees to the required level prior to attending Azerbaijan 90% 86% N/A 37% regular courses as part of the rig specific training maMalaysia** N/A 25% N/A 16% trix or on-the-job training. Furthermore, all employees Trinidad** N/A 15% N/A 40% attend an Offshore Starters Day course, with focus on safe behaviour, successful collaboration, and the * 40% is average across categories. ** Stacked. No longer in operation. MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 14 Responsible business Anti-corruption Corruption is illegal, harms society and is against our Anti-corruption and legal compliance risk assessments in 2018 Core Values. Maersk Drilling works actively to ensure that we do not engage in corruption of any kind. Risk category Due diligence level Number of assessments Maersk Drilling is committed to acting in an upright manner when dealing with customers, suppliers, govI Providers of Compliance-Neutral Goods & Services 7,335 assessments of MD suppliers and suppliers’ banks ernment representatives and all other third parties. II Consulting & Professional Services 35 assessments In order to ensure that our suppliers and business III New Potential Customers with 100% Local Ownership 2 assessments partners comply with our Code of Conduct, and to IV Providers of Compliance Sensitive Goods and Services 70 assessments mitigate the risk of third parties engaging in corrupt practices on our behalf, we have developed an exV Business Partners, eg. JV partners 3 assessments tensive legal compliance due diligence framework, consisting of identifying and assessing risks, and In 2018, defining mitigating measures to address those risks. we conducted 22 Ensuring a high degree of business which specifies training topic, audience and type supplier assessments Our legal department conducts anti-corruption and ethics among Maersk Drilling employees (in-person, e-learning, written information briefs). within the framework legal compliance due diligence of the third parties of our Responsible It is of utmost importance to us that our employwith which Maersk Drilling transacts. The risk asProcurement ees share the commitment to anti-corruption and We have strict requirements regarding giving and sessments are conducted using a set of pre-defined programme maintain a high degree of business ethics in our daily receiving gifts and entertainment, which are specirisk screening parameters and tools, depending on operations. In September 2018, we launched a new fied in our gifts and hospitality guidelines. We only the risk category of the third party. Code of Conduct for employees, consultants and provide and accept gifts and entertainment that are third parties, which specifies our commitment and for genuine business purposes, of a legitimate naFurthermore, legal compliance risk assessments are expectations within the areas of HSSE, Our People, ture and not overly extravagant or frequent. All gifts an integrated part of our operations when entering Our Assets, and Our Interaction with Third Parties. and entertainment events given to third parties are new jurisdictions or countries. We assess specific The Code of Conduct has been extensively commutransparently captured in our Enterprise Resource compliance risks related to the country’s relative nicated throughout the organisation, both onshore Planning system, and any gift or hospitality received incidence of corruption, its competition laws and the and offshore. on an exceptional basis in excess of the pre-defined foreign trade controls that apply to transactions inlimits must be recorded in our Hospitality Book. volving the country, as well as the general rule of law All of our onshore employees receive regular antiand any risk of acute disregard of human rights. For corruption, fair competition, foreign trade controls Ethics Hotline each of the identified risks, appropriate risk mitigaand data protection compliance training as defined In 2018, Maersk Drilling launched our new Ethics tion measures are defined and implemented. by the Maersk Drilling compliance training matrix, Hotline, a reporting tool accessible via our website MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 15 which is available to internal and external stakewith our security management framework, which Conduct, we work to ensure that our suppliers live holders, and is managed by an independent third is based upon industry best practice standards, up to our requirements of anti-corruption, health party. The aim of the Ethics Hotline is to enable ­including ISO 31000, as well as the IOGP and API and safety, labour and human rights, environment, reporting of any observations of legal violations ­Security Risk Assessment (SRA) guidelines. and subcontractor management. or violations of Maersk Drilling policies or Code of Conduct, and we have communicated the launch The team provides and maintains an overview of In order to ensure a targeted supply chain due diliof our Ethics Hotline extensively in connection with the security threat and risk landscape of Maersk gence process with an emphasis on suppliers with the launch of our new Code of Conduct. All legitiDrilling’s global operations. Security risk assessthe highest risk of adverse impacts on human rights mate reports received are investigated according ments are conducted in countries of medium-high and the environment, we have defined a number to our established procedures. security risk, and are an inherent part of all of our of high risk categories, on which our due diligence business decisions and operations, from our choice is focused. This encompasses our Responsible Reported cases in 2018 of entering a new market or area, and throughout Procurement questionnaire, desktop supplier asNumber of reported cases closed in 2018 8 the operational life cycle. For each identified risk, sessments, supplier audits and supplier corrective Number of substantiated cases closed in 2018 4 appropriate control and mitigation measures have action plans. In 2018, we conducted 22 supplier asbeen defined, in order to mitigate the identified sesessments within the framework of our Responsible curity risks for our people and operations. Procurement programme, as well as six on-site auHigh risk In 2018, we closed four substantiated cases relating dits focusing on human rights and labour conditions, categories to conflicts of interest, theft/misuse of company We never use non-approved protection measures in environmental management, and health and safety. Rigs under assets, and improper modification of company our security operations, and our security policies and Corrective action plans have been established by the construction records due to lack of understanding of applicable measures are in accordance with UN Global Comaudited companies, and non-conformities have been procedures. All cases have been duly handed and pact, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, duly handled. Security and safety (guard services) appropriate remedial and mitigating actions taken Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, to minimise risk of future reoccurrence. Mitigating GDPR, as well as international and national laws and Professional actions were mainly related to reinforcement and standards. We did not have any severe security inciservices (HR services) insurance of proper execution of existing processes, dents in 2018. as well as HR disciplinary measures. Responsible procurement Security At Maersk Drilling, we are committed to working Maersk Drilling operates across the world in areas with our business partners to promote responsible with diverse security risks. Wherever we conduct practices throughout our supply chain around the business, it is our priority to ensure our employees and world. Our aspiration is to ensure that all our partanyone physically present at a Maersk Drilling facility, ners acknowledge our values and share our comas well as our assets and operations, are secure. mitment to conducting business in an ethical, legal and socially and environmentally responsible manMaersk Drilling’s security team is responsible ner. Through our Responsible Procurement profor onshore and offshore security in accordance gramme, which is based on our Third Party Code of MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 16 Ambition and progress Issue Safety Climate Environment People Impact on people Safety at work is a basic human right. The ultimate risk is Air emissions from our drilling activities have a negative Major spills of hazardous materials to the world’s oceans Our people are at the centre of our performance, and the and society that a major accident or fatality will occur in connection impact on the natural environment and contribute to climay have serious and long-lasting impacts on the key enablers of our business results. A working environwith our operations. mate change. More severe weather events, higher extinc­environment, ocean health and biodiversity, as well as ment without sufficient motivation or opportunities for tion rates for animals, more acidic oceans and higher sea human health. development will not only impact the overall well-being levels are the consequences of rising temperatures due to and job satisfaction of our employees, but may also imclimate change. pact our business performance. Discrimination prevents people from living up to their full potential, creates inequality as well as less stable and prosperous societies. Ambition Keeping our employees safe is our ultimate responsiOperating in the oil and gas sector, we are a part of a value Our ambitions is to achieve ZERO major spills of hazardWe are committed to fostering a work environment and bility as an employer. Safety goes beyond compliance chain in which the end-product is contributing to greenous materials to the world’s oceans. company culture characterised by trust and respect. and l­ icense to operate – it is about our key values. Our house gas emissions. Nevertheless, the world will remain ­ambition is to achieve ZERO serious incidents. dependent on oil and gas for a foreseeable future. In partWe work to create a diverse and inclusive organisation benerships with our customers, we are working to reduce cause we believe it strengthens our company and enables the carbon footprint of drilling activities in our operations. us to meet challenges and generate sustainable value. We do not tolerate discrimination against any employee or job applicant based on personal attributes, and we aim to achieve an equal gender distribution in managerial positions. Progress We have redefined our approach to safety and launched In collaboration with our customers, we have worked to We work to minimise spills to sea through our Work We have launched Compass, our new quarterly employee in 2018 our Safety as Capacity strategy, including a number of develop and implement new viable solutions to reduce Execution Process for planning and assessing risks, experience survey. innovative initiatives related to the three projects Project the carbon footprint in the oil and gas supply chain, for our i­ ncident report and investigation process, and our X, Simple to Be Safe and Out Of Harm’s Way. We have example through implementing our new EEE program on Plan-Do-Study-Act (PDSA) methodology and after action We have increased the level of women in the organization worked to transform our safety system, developed further an Ultra Harsh Environment Rig in Norway. reviews focusing on major spills. from 10% in 2017 to 11% in 2018, as well as increased the controls and capacity to recover from major incidents, and level of women in managerial positions from 17% in 2017 embedded new safety habits among our employees. We have increased our focus on innovation and defined As a result, we have managed to avoid any major spills of to 19% in 2018. our focus for green innovation projects for the next years. hazardous materials. Impact 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against on sdg’s safe and secure working environments capacity to climate-related hazards and sound management of chemicals and all all women and girls for all workers natural disasters in all countries wastes throughout their life cycle, 8.5 By 2030, achieve employment and 17.7 Enhance the global partnership for 14.1 By 2025, prevent and significantly redecent work for all sustainable development to support the duce marine pollution of all kinds achievement of the SDGs Outlook We will continue to work strategically and innovatively In 2019, we will look into possible innovative solutions We will continue our targeted efforts to reduce In 2019, we will work to raise employee loyalty across with safety, focusing on strengthening the capacity of our as a part of our Green Greener Sustainable project. spills to sea. all of Maersk Drilling to reach our target. employees as well as utilising new technology to make our safety systems simpler, smarter and more fit for purpose. We will conduct an in-depth assessment of how We will increase our focus on handling the drilling waste We will closely examine the possibility of conducting climate change risks may impact out business in the of our customers, in order to ensure that this is done in gender bias training in our recruitment process. short, medium and long term, drawing on the TCFD the most environmentally correct way. recommendations MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 17 Ambition and progress (continued) Issue Local content Anti-corruption Security Responsible procurement Impact on Local employment, procurement, and transfer of knowlCorruption is a systemic issue in many of the countries Many of the locations in which we operate have diverse Procurement practices of companies have an impact on society edge to local communities is a pre-requisite for our operin which we operate, undermining social and economic ­security risks. If these risks are not managed and mitienvironmental, social and economic conditions around ations to contribute to economic and social development development and destabilising the business environment. gated correctly, they may pose significant security risks the world, either furthering or holding back the developin the countries, in which we operate. However, lack of Non-compliance with legislation on bribery and corrupfor our people, assets and operations. ment of a more sustainable world. At Maersk Drilling, we local talent, as well as the inability of local suppliers to live tion may lead to legal and reputational risks, extra costs, engage with a considerable number of local and interup to our expectations in our Third Party Code of Conduct, inefficiencies in our business, and ultimately debarment national suppliers, not all of which necessarily share our may result in an inability to fulfil our local content targets, from markets. commitment to responsible business practice. and therefore limit our contribution to the countries and local communities in which we operate. We have identified three procurement categories, which we deem as having an especially high risk of adverse impacts on human rights and the environment; 1) Rigs under construction, 2) Manning agencies and 3) Security personnel. Ambition Our overall ambition is to move beyond compliance with We work actively to ensure that we do not engage in corOur ambition is to achieve ZERO security incidents. We fulOur commitments and values oblige us to ensure that our local content requirements, and to increase shared value ruption of any kind. We are committed to acting in an upfil our duty of care by applying the PEARS model, protectsuppliers’ business practices do not impact negatively on by proactively engaging with stakeholders. We work right manner when dealing with customers, our suppliers, ing in order of importance, People, Environment, Assets, environmental or social issues. to build capacity of local employees, and host supplier government representatives and all other third parties. Reputation, and Stakeholders from potential harm. days to raise awareness of the possibilities and our exOur overall ambition is to be able to stay true to our Core Our commitment to respecting and promoting human pectations regarding ethical business conduct for local Values by always complying with all applicable laws reand labour rights are applied to everyone engaged in suppliers. garding ethical business conduct. our supply chain, and we oppose all forms of forced and bonded labour, child labour, human trafficking and all other forms of exploitation. Progress We have managed to achieve local employment ratio beIn 2018, we have launched a new Code of Conduct for emWe have continued to conduct security risk assessments We have conducted six on-site audits related to human in 2018 yond our target in four out of six of our local content proployees, as well as our own ethics hotline. of all countries in which we operate from our choice of rights and labour conditions, environmental managegrammes. All of our procurement initiatives are beyond ­entering a new market or jurisdictions, and throughout the ment, and health and safety. Three of these audits have legal requirements, and thereby Maersk Drilling driven. operational life cycle. We have not had any severe security been of manning agencies in Ghana, Malaysia and United incidents in 2018. Kingdom, respectively. Impact 8.5 By 2030, achieve employment and 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and 16.3 Promote the rule of law and 8.7 Take immediate and effective meason sdg’s decent work for all bribery in all forms ensure equal access to justice ures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and 12.6 Encourage companies, especially eliminate the worst forms of child labour, large and transnational companies, to by 2025 end child labour in all its forms adopt sustainable practices 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers Outlook We will continue to work to fulfil the local content plans In 2019, we will continue to work to ensure a high degree We will continue to prioritise security in our operations. We will continue to assess suppliers through our Responregarding staffing and procurement for the countries, of compliance and business ethics in our operations. We will look into the possibility of an ISO 31000 Risk sible Procurement programme, and engage with local in which we have not reached our target. We will continue to conduct risk assessments of the third Management certification. suppliers to increase their focus on the principles outlined parties with whom we transact. in our Third Party Code of Conduct. We will set up a process for re-assessing our high risk categories bi-annually. MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 18 ESG index 2018 2017 2016 Accounting practice 2018 2017 2016 Accounting practice Environmental performance Other resource consumption Waste 1.7 1.2 1.3 Quantity of waste disposed of, resulting from worksite activities, (1,000 tonnes) spill response/ clean-up; and replacement or upgrade of existing facilities Energy consumption Scope Financial. Ship recycling activities are out of scope Fuel oil 22.6 20.9 23 Direct and indirect fuel oil on board a ship for activities like steam & electricity (1,000 tonnes) generation, in marine boilers, heating, ship’s main & auxiliary engines etc. Water 11.4 12.7 14 Total quantity of fresh water withdrawn Financial scope (1,000 m3) Financial scope. Ballast water, water for re-injection and water produced/ desalinated for use is out of scope Excluding exported fuel Gas fuels 0 0 0 Direct and indirect gas fuel in gas engines, gas turbines, gas boilers, Spills (hydrocarbon) (1,000 tonnes) gas heaters Financial scope Number of spills 0 0 0 Number of hydrocarbon liquids spilled to water greater than 10 m3 / 63 barrels Natural gas is converted to metric tonnes based on temperature and pressure to water >10 m3 (bbl) / 9938 Litres, resulting from any unintended release associated with at point of delivery, using appropriate conversion factors. current operations, from primary or secondary containment. Operational scope Other fuels 0 0 0 Fuels (petroleum derived) used in engines, such as stationary diesel generators, Once previously reported, spilled materials in the environment from historical (1,000 tonnes) lifts, trucks, forklifts, container handlers, aviation activities, building heating etc. losses (i.e. historical or past leakage/spills that reached the environment from Excluding fuel used for company cars and employee business travel tanks, pipes or other vessels, but not associated with a current release) and controlled discharges to water are out of scope Electricity 2.1 1.9 2 Purchased electricity heating consumed in operational activities for use in (1,000 MWh) onshore offices, industrial machines, etc. divided by country of purchase Number of contained 0 0 0 Number of hydrocarbon liquids contained greater than 10 m3 / 63 barrels (bbl) spills >10 m3 / 9938 Litres, resulting from any unintended release associated with current operations, from primary or secondary containment. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (1,000 tonnes CO2 eq) Operational scope Once previously reported, spilled materials in the environment from historical GHG emissions 78.5 72.3 79 The reporting boundaries reflect the Green House Gas Protocol (scope 1 and 2). losses (i.e. historical or past leakage/spills that reached the environment from Quantity of greenhouse gas emissions (carbon dioxide and methane) emitted tanks, pipes or other vessels, but not associated with a current release) and to the atmosphere from combustion and other processes. Greenhouse gas controlled discharges to water are out of scope emissions are defined as the emission of all greenhouse gases expressed as carbon dioxide equivalents over a 100-year time horizon. Number of spills 0 1 0 Number of spills of hydrocarbon liquids spilled to water, greater than 0.16 m3 / to water one barrel (bbl) / 159 Litres, and less than 1590 Litres / 10 barrels (bbl) resulting Direct GHG emissions 77.7 71.6 78 Direct GHG emissions: total GHG emitted from sources at a facility owned from any unintended release associated with current operations, from primary – 0.16 m3 < 10 m3 or secondary containment. (scope 1) (partly or wholly) and/or operated by the company. Direct GHG emissions correspond to Scope 1 emissions as defined by WRI/WBCSD. Operational scope Once previously reported, spilled materials in the environment from historical Indirect GHG emissions 0.8 0.7 1 Indirect GHG emissions from imported energy: GHG emissions that occur at the losses (i.e. historical or past leakage/spills that reached the environment from (scope 2) point of energy generation (owned or operated by a third party) for electricity, tanks, pipes or other vessels, but not associated with a current release) and heat or steam imported (i.e. purchased) for use on site by the reporting entity. controlled discharges to water are out of scope Indirect GHG emissions from imported energy correspond to Scope 2 emissions as defined by WRI/WBCSD Number of contained 4 0 0 Number of spills of hydrocarbon liquids contained, greater than 0.16 m3 / one spills – 0.16 m3 < 10 m3 barrel (bbl) / 159 Litres, and less than 1590 Litres / 10 barrels (bbl) resulting from any unintended release associated with current operations, from primary or Other air emissions secondary containment. Operational scope SOx 0.05 0.04 0 Emissions for SOx energy values follow the same principles as defined by the GHG protocol, using various schemes for default conversion factors. Once previously reported, spilled materials in the environment from historical (1,000 tonnes) losses (i.e. historical or past leakage/spills that reached the environment from tanks, pipes or other vessels, but not associated with a current release) and NOx 1.8 1.6 2 Emissions for NOx energy values follow the same principles as defined by the controlled discharges to water are out of scope (1,000 tonnes) GHG protocol, using various schemes for default conversion factor. MAERSK DRILLING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 19 ESG index (continued) Colophon 2018 2017 2016 Accounting practice Social performance Board of Directors, Maersk Drilling Holding A/S Claus V. Hemmingsen, Chairman Our employees Robert M. Uggla, Vice Chairman Number of employees 2,854 2,865 3,325 FTEs calculated per compensated hour Robert Routs (FTEs) Calculated based on average throughout the year Kathleen McAllister Martin Larsen Gender – female/total 11% 10% 9% Female/total % based on headcount Mads Winther All Brands /Segments, global service centres, Group Functions, and Boards; Out of scope: joint ventures and data not included in SAP Executive Management, Women in leadership 19% 17% 13% Gender Women in management at level 5 and above (% based on headcount) Maersk Drilling Holding A/S (% based on headcount) All Brands /Segments, global service centres, Group Functions, and Boards; Out of scope: joint ventures and data not included in SAP Jørn Madsen (CEO) Jesper Ridder Olsen (CFO) Fatalities (headcount) 0 1 0 A death directly resulting from work related injury regardless of time between the injury and death, excluding suicide or death resulting from an attempted suicide, criminal or terrorist activity, and incidents which occur off vessel, but Editors where the consequences appear onboard at some later time. Maersk Drilling Corporate Operational scope Communication and Branding Lost-time Incident 0.92 0.53 0.49 LTI: The sum of fatalities, permanent total disability (PTD), permanent partial frequency disability (PDD) and lost work day cases (LWC). Design and layout A Lost Workday Case (LWC) is any work related injury, other than a fatal injury, e-Types which results in a person being unfit for work on any day or shift after the day of occurrence of the occupational injury. “Any day” includes rest days, weekends, leave days, public holidays or days after ceasing employment. Any time Produced in Denmark 2019 spent on delays in connection with medical assistance is not included in this determination. Calculation is based on exposure hours: The total number of work hours in which an employee and Mode 1 & 2 contractors, where applicable, is exposed to work related hazards and risks. Excludes leave and non-work-related sickness. Operational scope. Governance Reports in Ethics Hotline 8 N/A N/A Total number of reported cases in the Ethics Hotline that were closed in 2018. Includes reports through the A.P. Moller-Maersk Ethics Hotline and the Maersk Drilling Ethics Hotline. Reports that still are being investigated are excluded. Substantiated reports 4 N/A N/A Total number of closed reported cases in 2018, that have been classified as in Ethics Hotline substantiated; meaning cases related to corruption/bribery, health/safety/ environment/ working conditions, harassment, retaliation, financial accounts fraud, conflicts of interest. Reports that still are being investigated are excluded. MAERSK DRILLING Our five core values Constant care Take care of today, actively prepare for tomorrow Our values are part of our heritage Humbleness from our founders, the Moller Maersk Listen, learn, share, family. We take pride in these values, and give space to others and they continue to guide us in our development and everyday operations. Uprightness Our word is our bond Our employees The right environment for the right people MAERSK DRILLING Lyngby Hovedgade 85 2800 Kgs. Lyngby Denmark Our name The sum of our Values: Phone: +45 6336 0000 passionately striving higher Company reg. no. 32 67 38 21 maerskdrilling.com
