Pfizer Austria 2018 Communication on Progress 2 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT Dear Reader, We at Pfizer are obligated to understand the legal and ethical aspects that influence our actions. It is everyone's responsibility to Pfizer Austria signed the UN ensure that our actions always comply with the principles of integGlobal Compact in April 2009 rity. Integrity means more than simply obeying the law and guideand is proud to present its 2018 lines. It is one of Pfizer's core values. Integrity reflects who we are as Communication on Progress a company and as individuals. Acting with integrity means that the report, affirming our continued people for whom we perform our services trust and respect us. commitment to supporting the ten United Nations Global ComWe have managed to achieve a lot in the past years – and we are pact principles, along with our really proud of this. However, we also know that we still have a lot to continued drive to align with the do. This is why we are continuously working to further advance our United Nations Sustainable responsible actions and to improve them. In order to ensure that we Development Goals. can keep our promises to our patients, customers and shareholders in the future, we want to concentrate on our business methods, on In accordance to our vision „Together for a healthier world“ Pfizer transparency, and on the inclusion of the views of all the people who researches, develops and produces modern medicines and does are involved in decision making in health care. everything in its power to make these available to patients. That is our core business. This is how we want to contribute to a healthier The following ‘Communication on Progress’ illustrates the systems world while at the same time remaining economically successful. and measures used at Pfizer Austria to integrate the ten principles into its business activity. Protecting human rights and other values of respectful human interaction have been integrated into all business activities at Pfizer Austria. Pfizer Austria also demands from its business partners to observe human rights. Pfizer is an attractive employer offering diverse opportunities for advancement in an international organization. Our colleagues can Sincerely yours, make the most of their ideas and initiative to drive the company. Yet Pfizer also supports efforts to strike the right work/life balance with flex time and the possibility of working in a home office. In keeping with the spirit of its modern corporate culture, Pfizer also champions internal and external projects and initiatives that fly the banner of diversity and inclusion. Robin Rumler Our environment and its resources are a vital asset for us and future Country Manager Pfizer Corporation Austria generations. For this reason, we at Pfizer are planning the necessary measures to reduce CO2 and to deal with resources in a conscious and careful manner. We assure you, our internal and external customers, that we take environmental protection extremely serious and will do everything to promote it. We are working on this continuously with all of our contracting parties and suppliers. 3 PFIZER AUSTRIA AT A GL ANCE (as of November 2018) Business location Manufacturing at Sales in Warehouse in Orth an der Donau Vienna Leopoldsdorf Our core business 135 medicinal products 3new 11.6 mpackages ≈12 m vaccine doses produced in (520 articles) approvals sold Orth/Donau Transparency ≈ €1.2 m ≈ €4.1 m ≈ 46.2 m to physicians and other to institutions/ in research & development healthcare professionals (HCPs) healthcare organizations (HCOs) (R&D) Family-friendly Workforce employer audit berufund­ familie [work and Diversity Member of Unter­ Charter nehmen für Fami­ 533 48.6 % 4.905 family audit] lien [companies employees of management positions home office days for families] held by women ø7 ø 13 26 Employees have been with Pfizer for sick days in Vienna per person sick days at Orth per person mentoring relationships established in 2018 10 years on average 4 Our diversity in numbers More than 24% of Pfizer employees are 28 nations are Nearly 15% of Pfizer employees over 50 years old represented at Pfizer Austria are under 30 years old Product stewardship 97.4% 659 0.000057% delivery capacity product or of packages sold 247 patient inquiries in 2018 complaints Support to non-profit organisations and patient organisations 2018 € 124,530 Donations (Donations to Patient organisations: € 44,500) € 54,039 Sponsorings (Sponsoring to Patient organisations: € 41,039) € 86,657 Drug Donations 625 hours of Corporate Volunteering (Hours of Corporate (Drug Donation to Patient organisisations: € 57,943) Volunteering to Patient organisations: 35 hours) 5 Clinical trials in Austria (2018) 15 clinical and nonTotal of 77 patients interventional studies Corporate Volunteering Total (since 2008) 2018 2,671 119 hours of volunteer work CV days 11 4 21 625 10 days secondparticihours community ments pants service agencies Ecological footprint: 7,796 t Total GHG* emissions 33% air travel 1% material input 9% vehicle fleet 1% shipment 9% Employee commuting 45%energy input 1% paper use 1% IT *greenhouse gas 6 WORKING TOGETHER FOR A HEALTHIER WORLD Many things can change for people when they get sick; it is the start of an often difficult journey. Our employees around the world are working to help people on this journey. They research, develop and distribute innovative medicines and vaccines to treat or prevent diseases such as cancer, rheumatism and pain. Pfizer is headquartered in New York and has branches worldwide, including in Austria. Pfizer has been furnishing medicines to the Austrian market since 1956. The company is a reliable partner to patients, doctors, pharmacists and the healthcare system, working together to enable patients to live healthier and longer lives. Pfizer Corporation Austria's core business is providing state-of-the-art medicines and therapies to Austrian patients. In Austria, the company offers 135 medicinal products in various dosage forms, package sizes and potency levels (for a total of 520 articles as at November 2018). Most are prescription drugs. Generics have been part of the portfolio since 2011. Pfizer Austria also sells over-thecounter (OTC) health products. Three new active ingredients for patients were brought to market in 2018. Our direct customers are primarily wholesalers and hospitals. Pfizer Austria's activities are not limited to sales; we are also an important partner to the country's medical research and development community. 135 medicinal products (520 articles) 3new 11.6 m packages (as at November 2018) approvals sold The company has operated as two entities in Austria since December 1, 2014: • Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH is headquartered in Vienna's Floridotower. An important partner to Austria's medical research and development community, the company markets prescription drugs and over-the-counter products. • Pfizer Manufacturing Austria GmbH is our production site at Orth an der Donau, a plant that meets global demand for vaccines to protect against meningitis caused by serogroup C meningococci and tick-borne encephalitis. The production site at Orth/Donau borders on a nature reserve. Pfizer Manufacturing Austria was founded in 2014 with the acquisition of Baxter's approved vaccines. 7 Our corporate philosophy Our business activities are guided by our vision, mission and goals. And our actions are guided by our imperatives and values, which contribute materially to the company's success and further development. Our guiding principle—Working together for a healthier world—epitomizes Pfizer's goal. We want to drive innovation to provide patients with therapies that improve their quality of life. Our products are designed to help all members of society live healthier and longer, with a better quality of life at every stage. We rise to this challenge by engaging in intensive research, taking innovative approaches, and assuring high quality standards in every area of our activities. 1. Ensure a productive, industry-leading innovative core. 2. Make capital allocation decisions that maximize patient benefits and enhance shareholder value. 3. Be a responsible corporate citizen. 4. Continuously strengthen our ownership culture. Our sustainability strategy We want to be a responsible company in all areas. Our sustainability strategy is based on our corporate strategy, identified key topics, and the following international guidelines and principles: • the ten internationally recognized principles of the United Nations Global Compact • the principles of ISO 26000, an international guideline for corporate social responsibility • the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations Imperative SDG SDG subgoals Key topics Maintain a 3) Ensure healthy lives and 3.5 Strengthen the prevention and treatment of • Protecting consumers' health and safety productive, promote wellbeing for all at substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse – Prevent product counterfeiting and industryall ages and harmful use of alcohol manipulation leading • Access to essential medicines innovative • Research and develop drugs in Austria 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including core. – Provide information on studies financial risk protection, access to quality – Drive innovation essential health-care services and access to safe, • Education and awareness effective, quality and affordable essential – Make (product insert) information useful medicines and vaccines for all for everyone 3.a Strengthen the implementation of the WHO – Offer information on diseases and support Framework Convention on Tobacco Control in all – Use/administer medication correctly countries, as appropriate – Promote safety in self-medication Allocate 8) Promote sustained, 8.2 Achieve higher levels of productivity of • Responsible organizational governance capital to inclusive and sustainable economies through diversification, technological • Creating benefits for the surrounding region maximize economic growth, full and upgrading and innovation, including through a – Create jobs benefits for productive employment focus on high value added and labor-intensive – Invest in the greater good patients and and decent work for all sectors – Promote education & knowledge exchange boost – Pursue health initiatives 8.4 Improve progressively through 2030 global shareholder • Health and safety at work resource efficiency in consumption and value. – Human development and training in the production, and endeavor to decouple economic workplace growth from environmental degradation in – Promote employee accountability accordance with the 10-year framework of • Social dialog and co-determination programs on sustainable consumption and • Conditions of work and social protection production with developed countries taking the – Offer fair terms of employment lead – Diversity & inclusion 8.5 By 2030 achieve full and productive – Equal opportunity, non-discrimination employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value 8.6 By 2020 substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training 8 Imperative SDG SDG subgoals Key topics (12) Responsible consump­ 12.2 By 2030 achieve sustainable management • Protection of the environment tion and production and efficient use of natural resources – Safe handling of biohazards • Promoting social responsibility in the value chain – Consider social & ecological aspects when 12.4 By 2020 achieve environmentally sound selecting suppliers management of chemicals and all wastes – Foster supplier awareness throughout their lifecycle in accordance with – Avoidance of complicity; child labor, forced agreed international frameworks and signifi­ labor, etc. cantly reduce their release to air, water and soil to • Sustainable resource use minimize their adverse impacts on human health – Materials, energy, water, effluents & waste and the environment • Prevention of pollution (from end to end) – Production, products, packaging 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste – Medicinal products disposal generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse 12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and trans-national companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle 12.8 By 2030 ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness of sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature Be a (13) Take immediate action 13.3 Improve education, awareness raising and • Climate change mitigation and adaptation responsible to combat climate change human and institutional capacity on climate – Reduce CO2/ greenhouse gas emissions corporate and its effects change mitigation and adaptation, adaptation, – Efficient use of renewable energy sources citizen. impact reduction, and early warning (16) Promote peaceful and 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery • Ethical behavior inclusive societies for in all its forms – Participate responsibly in public policymaking sustainable development, – Compliance and anticorruption provide access to justice for – Fair competition 16.7 Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory all and build effective, • Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and representative decision-making at all levels accountable and inclusive and fair contractual practices institutions at all levels • Transparency 16.10 Ensure public access to information and • Consumer service, support, and complaint and protect fundamental freedoms, in accordance dispute resolution with national legislation and international • Respect property rights agreements • Data protection and privacy (17) Strengthen the means 17.17 Encourage and promote effective public, • Stakeholder engagement of implementation and public-private, and civil society partnerships, – Dialogs with patient organizations, charitable revitalize the global building on the experience and resourcing organizations, etc. partnership for sustainable strategies of partnerships development Continuously (5) Achieve gender equality 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all • Ethical behavior strengthen and empower all women women and girls everywhere – Respect human rights our and girls • Conditions of work and social protection ownership – Offer fair terms of employment culture. 5.4 Recognize and value unpaid care and – Diversity & inclusion domestic work through the provision of public – Equal opportunity, non-discrimination services, infrastructure and social protection • Promote team spirit (ONE Pfizer) policies, and the promotion of shared responsi­ bility within the household and the family as nationally appropriate 5.5 Ensure women's full and effective participa­ tion and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic, and public life 9 TOGETHER FOR ENHANCED ETHICS & TRANSPARENCY We pledge to market our products responsibly and report transparently on our business practices. Pfizer is committed to conducting all business with integrity and complying with all applicable laws and regulations from both ethical and legal vantage points. This applies to all employees without exception. We expect the same commitment from our business partners. The Medicinal Products Act (AMG), the Medicinal Products Import Act (AWEG) and the Arzneimittelbetriebsordnung (Medicinal Product Plant Regulations; AMBO) are among the key statutory provisions that provide the legal underpinning for Pfizer's activities in Austria as a pharmaceutical company. As a subsidiary of an US corporation, we also comply with the Federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Our actions at Pfizer Austria are also guided by the Code of Conduct (VHC) of the Association of the Austrian Pharmaceutical Industry (Pharmig). This code reflects the legal developments and industry-specific compliance requirements for the pharmaceutical industry. It sets out anticorruption rules and competition and advertising constraints. There were no violations of the VHC in 2018. Compliance & anticorruption The Blue Book, our corporate code of conduct for business activities, provides the underpinning for our principled behavior (http:// www.Pfizer.com/purpose/transparency/code-of-conduct). Serving as a guide and reference for all employees, the Blue Book goes to ensure compliance in all business activities. Drafted by Pfizer for global use at all subsidiaries, it sets out corporate guidelines and binding codes of conduct. These surpass industry standards in many areas. Pfizer also has a whistle-blowing system in place. Both locations in Austria are regularly audited internally by Pfizer Inc. 100% of employees Top marks for the internal audit are trained of Pfizer Corporation Austria Transparency & fair competition Transparency is an important and sensitive issue. We firmly believe that the right way to convey a better understanding of our joint services is to afford better insight into our collaborations with medical experts and institutions. This is why we support the initiative of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and Pharmig (local advocacy group) for greater transparency, and disclose benefits-in-kind granted to physicians and other medical professionals as well as to healthcare organizations at www.Pfizer.at/verantwortung/transparenz.html. The purpose of this reporting is to create transparency, thereby helping the public gain a better understanding of the collaboration between the medical community and the industry, and building trust in our company. This disclosure shows all benefits granted in the previous year, either individualized by name or aggregated. It requires consent, whereby the approving party can decide if this information is to be individualized or aggregated. 10 Figures for 2018 23% individual approval rate for HCPs ≈ €1.2 m to physicians and other ≈to€4.1 m institutions/ ≈ €46.2 m in research & development 99.7% approval rate for healthcare professionals healthcare organizations (R&D) institutions (HCPs) (HCOs) Fair business practices goals Actions taken in 2018 to achieve goals Prevent corruption, promote compliance within the company 100% of employees in relevant business units trained on Pfizer's Blue Book anticorrup­ tion guidelines Implement suggestions for improvement gleaned from the audit to continue developing the company Create transparency inside the company and out Disclosed benefits granted to physicians and other healthcare professionals (HCP) and to institutions/healthcare organizations (HCO) (EFPIA Disclosure Initiative) Disclosed all benefits and donations granted to patient organizations and self-help groups Sustainability in procurement Assessed and defined measures to promote sustainable procurement Video: Transparency Breeds Trust Augmented reality: To view AR content, download the free Layar app from the App Store or Google Play Store and scan the marked area. 11 ACHIEVING MORE TOGETHER Pfizer Austria's success is attributable to our engaged employees. In keeping with our corporate responsibility, we want to offer every employee the best possible professional and personal development prospects. Pfizer also attaches great importance to employees' health and safety. To this end, two sites in Vienna and Orth an der Donau are constantly pursuing a host of programs to ensure a safe working environment, actively promote employees' health and enable staff to find a good work/life balance. Pfizer is committed to treating all employees and applicants with fairness and respect. Our policies prohibit discrimination, harassment and personal disadvantagement. These apply worldwide and are intended to create a positive and productive working environment. Co­­opera­tion, teamwork and trust are very important to us. This contributes to a positive and productive working environment. Hostilities and harassment will not be tolerated. Protecting human rights and other values of respectful human interaction have been integrated into all business activities at Pfizer Austria. Pfizer Austria also demands from its business partners to observe human rights. Labor practices goals Actions taken in 2018 to achieve goals Maintain and promote employee Conducted regular Pfizer Voice employee survey to analyze opportunities for improvement satisfaction Drove on with the OWN IT! initiative for cultural change at Pfizer Support employees' work/life balance Made use of the Consentiv service offering for Vienna: Counseling for employees (anonymous) for burnout prevention, financial woes, family problems, bereavement, childcare matters, problems at the workplace Be a family-friendly employer Buddy system kept people on parental leave connected to the company by offering support Organized a Family Day at Pfizer Provide childcare on working days when school is out Train and educate employees well Launch Rep2020 training program for the Sales force Assure equal opportunity and prevent Raised diversity & inclusion awareness discrimination at the workplace Conduct inclusion training for managers and employees Promote employees' health Focus on burnout prevention / raise awareness for mental health Earn Company Health Promotion seal of approval Took measures to prevent all types of accidents and boost employees' awareness on the job at Orth/Donau (Good Saves) 12 TOGETHER FOR AND WITH PATIENTS As a pharmaceutical company, we are committed to health. Our day-to-day business decisions focus on patients. It is for their benefit that we research and develop drugs and vaccines to prevent, cure or alleviate diseases. When people get sick, they need more than just medicine. This why Pfizer strives to make a contribution that goes beyond the development and delivery of medicines. We manufacture and market our products in a responsible way, and inform patients, physicians and pharmacists about benefits and risks. The Medicinal Products Act (AMG), the Medicinal Products Import Act (AWEG) and the Arzneimittelbetriebsordnung (Medicinal Product Plant Regulations; AMBO) provide the legal underpinning for Pfizer's activities in Austria as a pharmaceutical company. Our production facilities operate according to the rules of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). Geared specifically to pharmaceuticals, these quality standards are internationally valid and rank among the strictest in manufacturing. In the area of transport, Pfizer works exclusively with suppliers whose vehicles are equipped with suitable temperature recording devices and who comply with local (AMBO, Transport Code) and international (Good Distribution Practice) statutory requirements. Compliance with these guidelines is audited on an ongoing basis. Product stewardship goals Actions taken in 2018 to achieve goals Assure patient health and safety Product and drug safety: Introduced packaging with seals that cannot be restored to their original condition after opening. Aim: Rule out the possibility of manipulated content. Packaging implemented step by step Increase customer satisfaction Responded rapidly to customer complaints (659 complaints in 2018 = 0.000057%) Updated Pfizermed.at; introduced a brochure ordering tool for physicians Protect customer privacy Introduce new data protection and privacy rules in the company Inform and raise awareness Extended digital product information channels alongside established channels (relaunched www.pfizer.at with a new design, value-adding content and a new concept for addressing patients to raise awareness & educate) www.pfizermed.at, medinfo, Material safety data sheets Ensure access to essential medicines Ensured Pfizer medicines were available to patients 13 TOGETHER FOR OUR ENVIRONMENT Environmental responsibility extends across our medicines' entire product lifecycle. Pfizer strives to understand and effectively manage all environment, health and safety (EHS) risks associated with the discovery, development, manufacture, use and disposal of our products for each of our active ingredients. Our global EHS management program based on ISO 14000, OHSAS and other internationally applicable regulations guide us in this effort, which combines data collection and verification, internal audits, facility self-assessments and management system reviews of the site, functions and company. Pfizer is producing more and more active ingredients in green chemical processes. For example, wherever possible we strive to develop new tablets and capsules with formulations that can be produced without using water. Pfizer also aims to produce packaging materials for all products from sustainable raw materials. Oriented on the United Nations' sustainability goals, Pfizer's global environmental strategy focuses on three areas – reducing CO2 emissions, using water efficiently and conscientiously, and searching for innovative ways of minimizing waste. We are continuously working towards these goals in a joint effort with all our contractual partners and suppliers. Environment goals Actions taken in 2018 to achieve goals Reduce resource consumption and emissions Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 1% at Orth/Donau Use water resources conscientiously Reduce water consumption by 1% at Orth/Donau Minimize our products' impact on the environment Set up expired/unused medicine drop-off point for employees at the Vienna office Promote responsible waste handling Reduced amount of waste at Orth/Donau AfB social & green IT – donated used IT hardware to charity Reduce amount of waste at Orth/Donau by 2.3% Promote green commuting and transport Offered incentives for eco-friendly commuting, public transportation allowance/job tickets, and supported 'Pfizer Cycles toWork'; factory bus at Orth/Donau Raise awareness of environmental protection Set up environmental protection suggestion scheme at Orth/Danube (Green Saves/Orth) Ensure sustainable procurement Green printing – Complied with the 'Print products' guideline, used eco-friendly, materials for printed products, with onshore production in Austria 14 TOGETHER FOR OUR SOCIET Y Pfizer has pledged to engage in the regions in which we do business and take action to their benefit. At Pfizer. we are aware that our contribution to society benefits everyone. We want to enhance people's well-being by acting responsibly, by continuing to engage in the community, and by improving access to medicines and health care. We work with select local organizations to this end. Community goals Actions taken in 2018 to achieve goals Creating benefits for the region Pfizer’s corporate volunteer program, the Pfizer Corporate Volunteering Days, celebrated its 10th anniversary at the end of May 2018. Organized a blood donation drive for employees at the Vienna & Orth/ Donau locations Social investments Pfizer invested 46,2 Mio EUR in R&D for the benefit of patients in Austria Donated 86.657 EUR of medicines for patient organizations and non-profit organizations Donated 124.530 in service of patient organizations and non-profit organizations Partnership with charitable organizations Nurtured long-term relationships and collaborated with social services such as Caritas and the Austrian Youth Red Cross Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. Floridsdorfer Hauptstraße 1, 1210 Wien PP-PFE-AUT-0685/09.2019
