SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 FROM BUD TO GLASS ABOUT TWE Treasury Wine Estates (TWE) is one of the world’s leading wine companies, listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. With a portfolio of outstanding wine brands, prized viticultural assets and world-class production facilities, the Company’s commitment to delivering shareholder value is underpinned by its passion for crafting, marketing and selling quality wine for consumers. It achieves this through building sustainable partnerships with customers and other industry partners, globally. TWE employs approximately 3,500 talented people across four key regions, with wine sold in more than 100 countries around the world. 3,500 100+ 4 13,000 employees countries regions hectares We employ approximately Our iconic wines are We are focused on four We access approximately 3,500 talented people sold in more than 100 principal regions across 13,000 planted hectares across the globe countries across the world the world: Australia of vineyards in and New Zealand; some of the world’s the Americas; Europe; most sought-after and Asia winemaking regions CONTENTS Our locations 1 Product 22 Message from the CEO and Chairman 2 Key Performance Indicators 28 Performance 4 References Inside Back Cover Planet 10 Contact Back Cover People 16 IMPORTANT INFORMATION This 2019 Sustainability Report (Report) has been prepared to provide a general overview of TWE’s performance with respect to environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. It should be read in conjunction with TWE’s 2019 Annual Report, which provides a detailed overview of TWE’s financial and operating performance for F19. The Report contains certain forward looking statements, which may be identified by the use of terminology including ‘expects’, ‘believes’, ‘targets’, ‘likely’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘intends’, ‘aims’ or similar expressions. These forward looking statements are not guarantees or predictions of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of TWE, and which may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements. Whilst TWE has, where appropriate, verified the source and accuracy of the information contained in the Report, no independent assurance has been obtained in relation to it. Information in the Report is current as at 30 June 2019 unless otherwise stated. References to ‘TWE’, ‘Company’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ are to Treasury Wine Estates Limited and/or, except where the context otherwise requires, its subsidiaries. References to ‘F19’ and ‘F20’ are to the time periods 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 and 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020 respectively. All currency referred to in the Report is in Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. OUR LOCATIONS 1 TWE EUROPE TWICKENHAM, UK TWE AMERICAS NAPA VALLEY, CALIFORNIA TWE ASIA TWE EUROPE SHANGHAI, CHINA TWE AMERICAS TUSCANY, ITALY OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA TWE ASIA SINGAPORE TWE ANZ MARLBOROUGH TWE ANZ MAGILL, SOUTH AUSTRALIA TWE ANZ MELBOURNE, VICTORIA AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND2 AMERICAS2 EUROPE 2 72 9 44 2 AU NZ US EU vineyards vineyards vineyards vineyards AU 8,651 NZ 498 US 3,728 EU 148 planted hectares planted hectares planted hectares planted hectares AU 8 NZ 1 US 7 EU 1 wineries winery wineries winery AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND US UK Corporate head office: Country head office: Regional head office: Regional head office: Melbourne, Victoria Marlborough Napa Valley, California Twickenham, Middlesex Regional head office: ITALY Oakland, California Country head office: ASIA Gabbiano, Tuscany SOUTH EAST ASIA NORTH ASIA Regional head office: Regional head office: Singapore Shanghai, China 1. Locations marked on the global map represent corporate and regional head offices. TWE also maintains other major operations across all regions of its business. 2. Information current as at 30 June 2019. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO AND CHAIRMAN It is with pleasure that we present Treasury Wine Estates Limited’s (TWE) second annual Sustainability Report. At the core of the Company is a commitment to being Our work is informed by relevant best practice sustainable in everything we do. This Report highlights initiatives and frameworks including the Global the strong progress we have made across every aspect of Reporting Initiative (GRI), the United Nations (UN) our Corporate Responsibility (CR) agenda throughout F19. Global Compact, and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). TWE has identified seven priority SDGs TWE is a leading global wine producer with a with which to align and our programs that contribute significant global footprint. As such, we acknowledge to their achievement are highlighted in this Report. the leadership role we play in sustainability across the many communities in which we operate. In F20, TWE will continue to support the UN Global Compact and its ten principles relating to human TWE has continued to integrate a greater environmental, rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. social and governance (ESG) focus across the business We will continue to participate in the UN Global and considered external financial reporting benchmarks. Compact local network as a means of engaging, sharing As highlighted in last year’s report, our CR framework and learning from other Global Compact signatories. has been structured to reflect four key pillars, being TWE has for many years built a firm foundation in Performance, Planet, People and Product, under sustainability and ESG management, and we are proud which sit a number of priority actions designed to of the progress we have made over the past financial year. support the business’ long-term growth strategy and ESG commitments. We look forward to continuing to share our journey with you in the coming years. Building on the work we completed in F18, we have progressed a number of important initiatives under each CR pillar, including: • assessing and preparing our internal roadmap in response to the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Taskforce on Climate-related Michael Clarke Paul Rayner Financial Disclosures (TCFD); Chief Executive Officer Chairman • embedding the Sustainable Future program across TWE’s supply network and signing the Porto Protocol, 28 August 2019 an external commitment to do more to mitigate and adapt to climate change; • improving gender balance within TWE leadership and Board member roles; and • continuing to engage our employees on responsible consumption of alcohol, demonstrated by the launch of our internal program – Smart Drinking. 2 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Figure 1: TWE’s Corporate Responsibility framework and F19 Highlights VISION To be the world’s most celebrated wine company MISSION Create long term value for TWE and everyone who touches our Company by being sustainable in everything we do TWE STRATEGIC IMPERATIVES PARTNERS MODEL PEOPLE BRANDS MARKETS CR PILLAR formance Planet People Product Per GUIDING PRINCIPLE Be transparent and hold Be sustainable and Respect and enhance the Create quality wines that ourselves to account efﬁcient when sourcing lives of our people and are consumed and promoted and producing our wine our communities responsibly and safely AMBITION Our stakeholders believe Our environmental impact Our peoples’ human rights, Our wines are produced, in and trust our Company is sustainable and reducing safety and wellbeing marketed and consumed to operate sustainably over time is protected responsibly F19 HIGHLIGHTS •Established four key •Continued to deliver the •Achieved a reduced Serious •Launched Smart Drinking, roadmaps for the CR pillars Sustainable Future program, Injury Frequency Rate TWE’s internal responsible •Assessed and prepared which resulted in ANZ and •Improved gender balance consumption program our internal roadmap Americas supply sites within TWE leadership •Innovated to provide greater in response to the achieving TWE’s internal and Board member roles choice in lower alcohol recommendations environmental standards options for consumers •Increased employee of the TCFD •Continued to drive greater participation and •Continued to drive •Strengthened corporate energy and water contributed over 9,000 responsible packaging governance through efficiencies across our volunteer hours during choices through updates to existing, and supply network Global Volunteering Week lightweighting for the introduction of new, •Maintained an average selected glass and plastic policies, standards and waste diversion rate packaging formats procedures of more than 96% PRIORITY UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 3 PERFORMANCE formance Per GUIDING PRINCIPLE Be transparent and hold ourselves to account AMBITION Our stakeholders believe in and trust our Company to operate sustainably F19 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Established four Implemented Embedded group Corporate Government environment Responsibility Engagement Policy and social risk roadmaps assessments Revised Anti-bribery Identified climate and Corruption and related risks Share Trading Policies and opportunities, aligned to TCFD 4 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We believe that Corporate Responsibility (CR) yields strong value creation, positive reputational impact, and is part of doing business. TWE’s CR framework is integrated across its core operating model and business processes. GOVERNANCE AND PROGRAM UPDATE In F19, TWE continued to embed its CR framework and drive action across four CR pillars – Performance, Planet, People and Product. The Global CR Council (the Council) remained the program’s governing body. The Council continued to comprise a mix of members from the Executive Leadership Team (ELT), including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), and senior representatives from regional and functional areas of the business. The Council is chaired by the Global Director Corporate Affairs, Carolyn Coon3. The governance structure of TWE’s CR framework is represented in Figure 2. During F19, the Council oversaw the development United Nations Global Compact of four detailed CR roadmaps that sit under the CR pillars. The roadmaps focus on addressing priority TWE remains a committed signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics and a member of the local chapter Global Compact the seven priority Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Network Australia. TWE continues to focus identified through the Company’s F18 CR materiality on integrating the UN Global Compact’s assessment, as well as implementing changes to ten principles on human rights, labour, the continue to drive high levels of ESG performance. environment, and anti-corruption into its business and supplier base. TWE’s F19 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress is published in conjunction with this Report and is available on the Company’s website at www.tweglobal.com/sustainability. Figure 2: Governance structure of TWE’s Corporate Responsibility framework BOARD LEVEL BOARD MANAGEMENT LEVEL RISK, COMPLIANCE AND GLOBAL CR related risks GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COUNCIL REGIONAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FUNCTIONAL TEAM REPRESENTATIVES LEGAL AND PEOPLE AND GLOBAL BUSINESS MARKETING SALES SUPPLY GOVERNANCE CAPABILITY FINANCE SERVICES 3. Carolyn Coon replaced Tim Ford, Chief Operating Officer, as Council Chair on 28 March 2019. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 5 PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Transparent and effective governance practices are critical to creating and delivering value to our shareholders; promoting investor confidence; and underpinning effective decision making, accountability, and transparency. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement During the year, TWE complied with the Australian A comprehensive summary of TWE’s corporate Securities Exchange (ASX) Corporate Governance governance practices for the year ended 30 June Principles and Recommendations. 2019 can be found in its Corporate Governance Statement. This document includes details on As part of its corporate governance responsibilities, the following: the Board oversees the Company’s approach to, and • the Board of directors, including composition, management of ESG matters, and as part of this directors’ skills and experience, and director oversight receives bi-annual updates from the CR Council independence; on the CR framework and status of key priorities. • the role and responsibilities of the Board, The Board also has oversight of the Company’s key including the division of responsibility between the Board and management; ESG disclosures, including the Sustainability Report (which in 2019, has been reviewed and approved by the • risk management and internal controls; Board), the UN Global Compact Communication on • TWE’s commitment to promoting ethical and Progress, and the Board-approved Statement on Human responsible behaviour, including information Rights and Modern Slavery. on key governance policies; • TWE’s commitment to diversity and inclusion, including an overview of the measurable POLICIES objectives and progress made; and • market disclosure and communications TWE’s continued commitment to promote ethical with shareholders. and responsible behaviour has been reflected through enhancements made to a number of its key policies. TWE’s F19 Corporate Governance Statement is available at www.tweglobal.com/investors. During F19, TWE refreshed its Anti-bribery and Corruption and Share Trading Policies to align them with best practice and emerging governance requirements. Since the end of F19, the Company updated its Whistleblower Policy, aligning it with recent reforms to Australian whistleblower legislation. Further, the Company strengthened its processes relating to engagement with governments with the adoption of the Government Engagement Policy, which amongst other areas, confirms that TWE does not make donations to political organisations. Relevant employees received training on these revised policies to promote a strong culture of compliance. 6 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RISK, ECONOMIC VALUE AND TAX Effective risk management enhances the likelihood of TWE achieving its business objectives whilst improving stakeholder value, confidence and trust. RISK MANAGEMENT ECONOMIC VALUE AND TAX TRANSPARENCY During F19, TWE’s Audit and Risk Committee updated TWE places importance on maintaining high standards its Risk Management Policy and Risk Management of tax governance and compliance, and supports the Framework to include a specific ESG risk profile and work on tax transparency performed by the Organisation explicitly consider climate as a key risk for the business. for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the Group of Twenty (G20), the Australian Taxation This update was the result of two cross regional and Office, and other organisations. functional risk workshops that were undertaken in F19, and focused on environmental and social topics. TWE’s total Australian federal tax contribution includes a number of costs in relation to employee The outcomes from the environmental risk workshop, benefits, Wine Equalisation Tax (WET), customs duty, in combination with a separate Senior Leader climate and company income tax, which in F18 equated to impact workshop, were foundational in informing and approximately A$160 million within Australia alone. preparing TWE’s internal roadmap in response to the Financial Stability Board’s Taskforce on ClimateFor more information refer to TWE’s 2019 Annual related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which is detailed Report, which details the value of income taxes paid on page 9 of this Report. by the Company in F19. TWE’s material business risks, and how those risks are managed, are set out in the Operating and Financial Review (OFR) published in the Company’s Tax Transparency Report 2019 Annual Report. TWE produces an annual Tax Transparency Report, which outlines the Company’s: An extract of the 2019 OFR is set out in Figure 3 on • tax governance and strategy; page 8, which includes a summary of material business • income tax reconciliation; risks and mitigating actions that relate to ESG topics. TWE has mapped these to the seven priority SDGs that • Australian federal tax contribution; and were identified in F18. • international related party dealings. You can view TWE’s most recent Tax Transparency Report on the Company’s website at www.tweglobal.com/sustainability. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 7 PERFORMANCE MATERIAL BUSINESS RISK EXTRACT Figure 3: Extract from TWE’s 2019 material business risks as it relates to priority ESG topics4 INFORMATION ON SUSTAINABLE SUMMARY OF ESG RELATED SUMMARY OF MITIGATING ACTIONS DEVELOPMENT MATERIAL BUSINESS RISKS MITIGATING ACTIONS FOUND IN THIS REPORT GOALS Climate, TWE’s ability to effectively • Innovation investment, including collaboration PERFORMANCE respond to and manage the impacts with research institutes Taskforce on Climate-related of climate-related change may lead to • Environment Policy and Standard, monitoring Financial Disclosures adverse effects on business operations and reporting systems and performance. PLANET Environmental • Strategic climate change remediation investment Management plan and vineyard capital investment plan PLANET Water • Innovative agronomic practices • Sustainable Future program to drive best PLANET Energy practice and gain consistent measurement PLANET Climate Change of, and reduction targets for, water and energy Constrained grape supply, TWE’s • Vintage planning and ongoing demand PERFORMANCE ability to fulfil demand, in particular planning processes Taskforce on Climate-related growing demand for Luxury wine, is • Strategic climate change remediation investment Financial Disclosures restricted by the availability of grapes. plan and vineyard capital investment plan Climate change, agricultural and other PLANET Environmental factors, such as disease, pests, extreme • Multi-regional growing and sourcing Management weather conditions, water scarcity, • Innovative agronomic practices PLANET Water biodiversity loss and competing land • Strong grower relationships use, create increased risk that TWE PLANET Climate Change will be unable to fulfil demand. • Innovation investment Loss of key leadership talent, • Strategically aligned and targeted learning PEOPLE Health, Safety TWE’s ability to deliver on strategic and development programs and Wellbeing targets is reliant on attracting and • Talent review and succession planning processes retaining experienced, skilled and PEOPLE Performance, motivated talent in core functions such • Employee safety (including health and Leadership and Development as winemaking, sales and marketing. wellbeing) program It also requires strong, resilient and effective leaders as the business grows at pace. Brand reputation/damage, • Code of Conduct, Responsible Marketing PERFORMANCE which can be impacted by social and Guidelines, Responsible Consumption program, Corporate Responsibility environmental risks, unsatisfactory Responsible Procurement Code, Environment PLANET Environmental supplier performance, supplier Policy and Standard, Media Policy and Social Management environmental or social incidents, Media Policy and incident management and product quality issues, amongst procedures PEOPLE Supply Chain other things. Management • Corporate Responsibility framework PRODUCT Responsible Marketing and Consumption PRODUCT Product Quality and Safety Partner performance and market • Multi-regional and diversified supplier, PLANET Waste and Packaging concentration, TWE relies on a distributor and retailer base PEOPLE Supply Chain number of key partners (suppliers, • Defined and pre-approved terms of engagement Management distributors and retailers) to support delivery of key strategic initiatives. • Investment in strong and multifaceted key PRODUCT Partnerships and partner relationships Industry Leadership • Joint business planning processes to support and align internal and partner incentives • Quarterly performance reviews Changing laws, regulations • Company-wide policies, standards and procedures PERFORMANCE and geopolitical landscape • Crisis, Business Continuity and Disaster PLANET TWE operates in a highly regulated Recovery Plans industry in many of the markets PEOPLE in which it makes and sells wine. • Specialised and experienced resources and teams PRODUCT Each of these markets have • Executive Leadership Team oversight via the differing regulations and geopolitical Risk, Compliance and Governance Committee landscapes that govern many • Relationships and engagement with government, aspects of TWE’s operations. industry advocacy and regulatory bodies Significant business disruption • Crisis, Business Continuity and Disaster PLANET Environmental and/or catastrophic damage Recovery Plans, training and resources Management or loss, TWE’s scope of operations • Dedicated health and safety team oversight, exposes it to a number of business PEOPLE Health, Safety audit programs and training and Wellbeing disruption risks, such as environmental catastrophes, natural and man-made • Preventative repair and maintenance program. hazards and incidents, or politically • Multi-regional and global sourcing and motivated violence. production capability • Comprehensive insurance program 4. For a full description of TWE’s material business risks and the relevant mitigating actions undertaken by the Company please refer to the Operating and Financial Review of the 2019 Annual Report. 8 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TASKFORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES TWE acknowledges the challenges and impacts posed by climate change and the opportunities and risks (both physical and transitional) it presents for the Company. For TWE, the physical impacts of climate change include acute risks resulting from increased severity In F19, TWE became a signatory to the Porto of extreme weather events and long-term risks resulting Protocol, a global forum and commitment to from changes in climate patterns. Transitional risks sharing and learning best practices that help and opportunities arise from a variety of policy, legal, reduce the impact of climate change. This technological and market responses to the challenges commitment will enable TWE to align with organisations across the world to ensure good posed by climate change and the transition to a lower environmental practices guide business activity. carbon economy. During F19, TWE considered in detail the recommendations of the TCFD. In particular, the Company conducted a detailed gap analysis and STRATEGY benchmarking of TWE’s existing frameworks, practices TWE considers its business strategy suitably enables and disclosures against the TCFD recommendations it to leverage opportunities and minimise the risks posed and current market practice. by climate change. Effectively managing these impacts is The analysis identified areas where TWE is performing a very important part of our commitment to creating long well, acknowledging that TWE has been investing in term value and we are committed to ongoing dialogue minimising and adapting to climate change impacts with our stakeholders to identify and address the impacts for more than a decade. The analysis also highlighted and opportunities associated with climate change. areas for improvement, including the need to continue Flexible multi regional sourcing, expanding our countryto build a whole-of-business approach to assessing of-origin offerings and premiumising of our portfolio climate-related risk and opportunity. of world-class wines ensures TWE is agile and adaptive, TWE has since developed an internal roadmap to enable whilst our focus on supply chain optimisation encourages the business to draw on these findings and drive future efficiencies and innovation. For more information on risks action as appropriate, with a view to enhancing the and mitigating actions relating to climate change, see Company’s practices and disclosures relating to climate Figure 3 on page 8 and the Planet section of this Report. change. The following summarises the actions undertaken in line with the four core elements of climate-related financial disclosure. RISK MANAGEMENT During F19, a group of Senior Leaders, including those GOVERNANCE from the ELT and the Risk, Compliance and Governance Committee, participated in a climate change impact TWE’s Board is responsible for the overall corporate workshop. The workshop was held to specifically identify governance of the Company, assisted by its committees. the most impactful risks and opportunities for the One of the Board’s objectives is to optimise TWE’s organisation and elevate consideration of the transitional performance and shareholder value within a framework and non-supply focused physical impacts of climate change. of appropriate risk assessment and management, Outcomes of the workshop were then used to inform the including in relation to climate change. Company’s material business risks as well as this Report In F19, the Board approved amendments to the Risk and actions within the CR roadmaps that sit under the Management Framework to incorporate specific CR pillars – Performance and Planet. responsibilities relating to ESG risks; enhance the categorisation of a number of risks, including climate and environment risk; and reference the Company’s METRICS AND TARGETS consideration of the TCFD recommendations. TWE monitors and reports annually against several Further, the Environment Policy was updated environmental metrics, including carbon emissions during the year to emphasise TWE’s commitments and intensity, water and energy use and efficiency, in relation to assessing climate change impacts, and waste generated and diverted from landfill. monitoring environmental performance and Greater detail on these metrics and how they are engaging with management and the Board measured is found in the Planet section and Key to drive environmental sustainability. Performance Indicator table of this Report. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 9 PLANET Planet GUIDING PRINCIPLE Be sustainable and efﬁcient when sourcing and producing our wine AMBITION Our environmental impact is sustainable and reducing over time F19 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Retained 100% 100% ANZ and Americas Signatory to third party site compliance with sustainability TWE’s internal certification environmental standards Improved efficiency: Reduced carbon Diverted 96.8% emissions by water improved 15.8% 11.9% of waste from landfill energy improved CO2 15.4% CO2 10 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TWE is committed to being sustainable and efficient when sourcing and producing its wine. Those material business risks5 relevant to the • clearly define the role of management and the Board environment are summarised below: in driving environmental sustainability within the • Climate business and the communities in which we operate. • Constrained grape supply During F19, TWE maintained its record of zero findings • Brand reputation/damage of non-compliance, incidents, fines or penalties related to environmental regulations. • Partner performance and market concentration • Changing laws and regulations Fundamental to ensuring TWE’s production is • Significant business disruption and/or catastrophic sustainable is the retention of regionally appropriate damage or loss and independent third party sustainability certifications. These certifications verify that our sites are following Aspects of how these risks are managed are detailed regional requirements and industry best practice. in this section. In F19, TWE retained the following certifications for all of its owned and leased vineyards and wineries: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Australia Entwine Australia6 New Zealand Sustainable Winegrowing New Zealand Environmental impacts are managed at a global, regional and site level. At a global level, TWE’s Italy VIVA Sustainable Wine and ISO 14001 Environment Policy is the core document that sets – Environmental Management out the Company’s commitment to environmental Americas Sustainability in Practice, Certified compliance and sustainability initiatives. In F19, California Sustainable Winegrowing, this policy was updated to: Fish Friendly Farming, or Napa Green • reflect the revised Corporate Responsibility (CR) framework; • broaden its scope to include the Company’s whole value chain; and CASE STUDY A Sustainable Future at TWE In F19, TWE’s Sustainable Future program was embedded at sites throughout the supply business. TWE’s Sustainable Future working group analysed the program’s first Best Management Practice (BMP) self-assessment results. This analysis assessed sites’ performance against TWE’s internal environmental standards and drove improvement through each site’s F19 environmental action plan. Through this process several best practices were identified and shared across the Company’s supply and non-supply network. In addition, Regional Supply Leaders led engagement initiatives on topics including water, energy and waste. Targeted and pre-prepared communications delivered a consistent message on ways of working, whilst focusing on driving innovation and improving efficiencies. TWE will continue to build on its Sustainable Future program in F20. 5. A full account of TWE’s material business risks is located in the Operating and Financial Review of the 2019 Annual Report. 6. Sustainable Winegrowing Australia is Australia’s new national third party certification scheme. It replaces Entwine, commencing 1 July 2019. At the time of publishing, TWE’s Australian vineyards and wineries are transitioning to the new scheme. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 11 PLANET WATER TWE acknowledges that water availability, use and conservation are ongoing challenges and embraces an adaptive and agile approach to mitigating such challenges. Water is a precious resource used in our grape growing and winemaking. In F19, TWE’s vineyard, winery and INFRASTRUCTURE AND TECHNOLOGY packaging centre water was sourced through a mixture of: In F19, TWE invested in various infrastructure • Recycled water (incoming and onsite) upgrades designed to replace less efficient equipment. • Irrigation channel or pipe Upgrades included installing both scrubbers and high efficiency barrel washers, improved refrigeration • Municipal mains equipment and control technology as well as rainwater • Surface water (rivers, creeks and dams) capture and storage instalments, such as tanks and • Stormwater vineyard drain tiles. • Groundwater, bore or well TWE also deployed drone technology to complement • Trucked in or bought water existing aerial imagery at selected vineyards to easily TWE continues to invest in its people, infrastructure and accurately locate zones of water stress, leaks, and and technology to improve water efficiency and soil variation. This allows our people to more rapidly demonstrate water stewardship within local respond to and manage water related incidents. communities. Across TWE’s winery and packaging network, the Company continued to install technologies that enable PEOPLE major water savings. These include ‘pigging’, which is a process that uses gas instead of water to push wine In F19, TWE focused on engaging its people through through pipework and pulse cooling, which conserves the Sustainable Future program. This has led to water at the refrigeration process. both process and behavioural changes that have had a significant contribution to TWE’s daily water WATER EFFICIENCY (L/9LE)7 conservation. Examples include: 15.8% • collection and re-use of grey water for 25.2 secondary purposes; 23.5 24.0 22.4 • sweeping rather than hosing down winery floors 20.2 during cleaning; • water efficient barrel washing methods; • night cooling of wine tanks resulting in water improvement in water usage efficiencies; and efficiency between • improved reporting of leaks and maintenance issues. F18 and F19 F15 F16 F17 F18 F19 CASE STUDY Beringer captures rainwater TWE is committed to reducing its environmental impact over time and continually looks for ways to utilise natural resources more efficiently. To reduce the amount of groundwater being pumped from wells at our Beringer winery (United States), the site repurposed two wine tanks and dedicated these to capture and store rainwater. During the wet season over 1,700 kilolitres (kL) or 450,000 gallons (gal) of rainwater was able to be captured and stored for use in the facility’s condensers. Not only does this reduce the amount of groundwater being extracted, but it significantly reduces the chemical treatment needed to soften and descale the water before use. 7. For more detail on TWE’s water use and efficiency, refer to the Key Performance Indicator table at the back of this Report. 12 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENERGY Energy efficiency is key to TWE’s wine production and its commitment to operate sustainably, safely and responsibly. TWE purchases and utilises a mix of energy sources across all vineyard, winery and packaging sites. INFRASTRUCTURE AND TECHNOLOGY In F19, these included: In F19, TWE invested in numerous upgrades to • Fuel (diesel, LPG, petrol, biogas, natural gas) infrastructure across the TWE supply network. These • Electricity (non-renewable sources) included upgrades to LED lighting and refrigeration equipment and technology, optimising automated • Solar aeration systems in water treatment ponds, and Similar to managing water, TWE achieves improvements continued transition to variable speed pumps. to energy efficiency through investment in its people, During the year, TWE continued to install pulse cooling infrastructure and technology. and heating across its winery and packaging network. In addition, in F19, TWE invested in the development PEOPLE of fluidised bed crystallization, a winemaking tool, which is scheduled to become operational in F20. In F19, TWE focused on engaging its people through Where operational, these instalments result in the Sustainable Future program. This has driven significant energy and, in some cases, water savings. both process and behavioural changes that have had a significant contribution to TWE’s daily energy ENERGY EFFICIENCY (MJ/9LE)8 conservation. Examples include: %22 15.4% • switching off major equipment when not in use 10.4 and monitoring power usage through online 9.3 9.0 9.1 systems where applied; • night cooling of wine tanks as temperature 7.7 differences between tank and air are smaller; • optimising wine storage temperatures; and improvement in • reporting of damaged lighting or other energy related repair and maintenance issues. energy efficiency between F18 and F19 F15 F16 F17 F18 F19 CASE STUDY Karadoc winery optimises vintage crush In F19, the Karadoc Winery (Australia) team has focused on continuous improvement to drive energy efficiency. During vintage, the winery crushes over 95,000 tonnes of grapes making this period the most energy intensive for the site. In F19, the site optimised vintage processes to improve energy use and efficiency. As an outcome, various energy saving projects were trialled and integrated into business systems. These include: • temperature increase on red wine fermentation; • turning off mixing ‘agitators’ on all white wine ferment tanks in cellars; and • change to white wine clarifying process, replacing centrifugation with floatation (tank pictured). The process changes implemented in F19 will support Karadoc Winery to deliver an estimated energy savings that equate to more than 900,000 kilowatt hours (kwh) for F20. 8. For more detail on TWE’s energy use and efficiency, refer to the Key Performance Indicator table at the back of this Report. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 13 PLANET CLIMATE CHANGE AND EMISSIONS As a producer of wine, TWE has a responsibility to minimise, monitor and mitigate the negative impacts of climate change. TWE responds to the impact of climate change Specifically, TWE is investing in technologies, trials by following a strong and climate-adaptive business and partnerships that will enable the business to strategy; monitoring carbon emissions; investing in better understand why certain processes, rootstocks research, development and extension; and fostering or viticultural areas are more effective or adaptive cross-sector partnerships and engagement. to weather events or natural resource stress. TWE BUSINESS STRATEGY TWE’s strategy and flexible sourcing model is a strength of the business and mitigates some of the risks posed by climate change. Aspects of this strategy include: Flexible Diversification of sourcing reduces multi-regional exposure to lack of quality or supply sourcing in any one region Balanced grape Sourcing from owned or leased vineyards, intake growers, and the bulk wine market means TWE has flexibility in the instance of significant weather events Supply chain Concentration of infrastructure across optimisation Luxury, Masstige and Commercial categories delivers an efficient asset base CASE STUDY MONITORING CARBON EMISSIONS The Johnson Block The Johnson Block is the oldest block of Cabernet TWE tracks and monitors its carbon emissions from Sauvignon (pictured) in Coonawarra, Australia. It is the Company’s direct operations (Scope 1 and 2). It does pre-clonal, on own roots and predominantly dry grown. not currently include indirect emissions (Scope 3). The vineyard has experienced 64 years of varying climate In Australia, TWE continued to report under the including wet decades (1970s) and dry decades (1980s). National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting In 2016, one of Coonawarra’s hottest (and driest) Scheme (NGERS). vintages on record, the Johnson Block vineyard provided a unique opportunity to evaluate and select The Company’s carbon emission intensity ratio is dry grown old vines with adaptation and tolerance 0.90 kilograms (kg) CO2e emissions per 9LE of wine. to drought. TWE found this selection to be naturally drought tolerant and is working to propagate these vines for future Cabernet Sauvignon planting. CARBON EMISSIONS (CO2e kt)9 11.9% 58.6 57.8 53.4 54.0 PARTNERSHIPS AND ENGAGEMENT 47.6 TWE collaborates with research institutes, universities and industry peers on an array of monitoring, adaptation and mitigation efforts, including: reduction in CO2e • sponsorship of PhD research projects; emissions between • working with local weather bureaus such as the F18 and F19 Bureau of Meteorology (BOM) in Australia, and F15 F16 F17 F18 F19 various commercial providers in New Zealand and the United States, to understand short and long-term RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND EXTENSION weather patterns and impacts; and • attendance and presentation at relevant industry In F19, TWE continued to use drought resistant grape conferences and seminars. rootstocks, installed frost fans at selected sites due to Proudly, in F19, TWE became a signatory to the Porto increases in frost events, and invested in vineyard data Protocol, a global forum and commitment to sharing capture technology that facilitates the ability to readily and learning best practices to help reduce the impact adapt our practices to a changing climate. of climate change. 9. For more detail on TWE’s carbon emissions and intensity, refer to the Key Performance Indicator table at the back of this Report. 14 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 WASTE AND PACKAGING TWE is committed to minimising wastes generated and maximising recycling or re-use, from within its operations to the wine consumer. Each year, TWE diverts a significant proportion of In F19, TWE worked with suppliers to lightweight its vineyard, winery, cellar door and packaging waste selected glass and plastic product packaging. Refer to from landfill. This continued in F19 with a diversion the Product section of this Report for more information. rate of 96.8%. Within TWE’s wineries most wastes are organic WASTE DIVERSION FROM LANDFILL RATE (%)10 %22 byproducts of the winemaking process. Grape skins and seeds are sent to be specifically treated by third parties 96.3 96.0 96.9 96.0 96.8 96.8% or to composting facilities to extract further value from the waste. The stalks and stems leftover from vintage crush are also treated in this way and in some cases collected by local farmers to use as livestock feed. Where infrastructure permits, our winery, packaging, cellar door and various office sites carefully separate of waste diverted cardboard, glass, plastic and organic material to ensure they are reused, recycled, composted or disposed from landfill in F19 F15 F16 F17 F18 F19 of appropriately. TWE works with its suppliers to optimise product packaging and develop improved supply chain systems that secure high quality raw material inputs. These systems ensure less is wasted through defect, conflict with design specifications, or through inefficiency in operations. CASE STUDY TWE sites avoid, reduce, reuse and recycle TWE’s waste management practices, including its waste audit process, incorporate the waste hierarchy – avoid, reduce, reuse, and recycle. In F19, several of our sites undertook waste audits, with our Penfolds Packaging Centre (Australia) making significant contributions to reducing its impact. The waste audit resulted in the establishment of a site-specific recycling plan, which has encouraged the following initiatives and savings: • separation and appropriate disposal of ‘hard to recycle’ items from general waste, such as freshness sachets, wine filter cartridges, and broken or old lighting. This has resulted in the diversion of almost four tonnes of waste from landfill over a four month period; • site bin review, re-labelling and employee education to encourage correct waste separation. This includes separating oil or oily material, different types of plastic, paper, and cardboard; and • installation of air hand dryers to remove paper towels, which is avoiding the use of approximately 40 kilograms (kg) of paper towel each month. 10. For more detail on TWE’s waste, refer to the Key Performance Indicator table at the back of this Report. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 15 PEOPLE People GUIDING PRINCIPLE Respect and enhance the lives of our people and our communities AMBITION Our peoples’ human rights, safety and wellbeing is protected F19 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS 50% reduction in SIFR Engaged third party to assess suppliers and customers Launched ‘Inspiring Growth’ capability program % CR Council approved Improved female Contributed over A$735,000 human rights representation: roadmap Leadership roles 39.0% in direct value to the community Board member roles $ 37.5% 16 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING TWE aims to provide a healthy and safe workplace for its people, and eliminate work-related injury and illness across all operating regions. The Health, Safety and Wellbeing (HSW) of our people During F19, TWE recorded an increase in its Lost Time is paramount. Our global HSW strategy continues Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR). During the same period, to be refined as we measure ourselves against industry TWE recorded a 63% reduction in Lost Time Injury best practice. We believe that a strong, risk-focused (LTI) days lost, indicating the business has recorded safety culture is necessary to drive improvements more minor, but experiencing far less major LTIs. in safety performance. There has been a minor adjustment to both LTIFR Key achievements for F19 include: and SIFR indicators for the prior and current year • a 50% reduction in our Serious Injury Frequency due to a global audit of hours worked, which are used Rate (SIFR); and to calculate the frequency rates. • an increase in the number of safety conversations, a measure of our leadership’s engagement on health HSW INDICATORS11 and safety with people across our business. %22 5.0 5.0 5.2 These achievements are attributed to a company-wide focus on reporting, monitoring and engagement. In F19, 4.2 4.1 TWE continued the delivery of its Destination Zero 3.4 Harm program, which ensures everyone keeps safety top of mind. Additional key initiatives implemented 2.4 in F19 include: 1.7 • development of Senior Leader safety leadership skills; LTIFR • establishment of a Health and Wellbeing Program SIFR focused on physical and mental health and resilience; F15 F16 F17 F18 F19 • introduction of lead indicator measures, including hazard and near miss reporting; • introduction and measurement of leadership engagement through safety conversations; and • embedding the SIFR metric into global reporting and Executive Leadership Team (ELT) scorecards. 11. Comparable SIFR data is only available from 1 July 2016. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 17 PEOPLE HUMAN RIGHTS, MODERN SLAVERY AND LABOUR TWE is committed to upholding human rights and labour practices aligned to global best practice. TWE employs over 3,500 winemakers, viticulturists, marketing, sales, distribution and support staff across GOVERNANCE four key regions. As such, TWE, and its suppliers, In F19, TWE continued to align to the United Nations operate in regions governed by a wide range of laws, (UN) Global Compact and its ten principles, six of which are reflected across a range of company-wide which relate to human rights and labour. As necessary, policies, standards, and procedures that are designed to these principles are incorporated and inform internal protect the human rights of permanent, temporary and resources and are embedded across the Company by contract employees. A summary of the risks12 associated TWE’s People and Capability function. with human rights, labour and the supply chain include: The People and Capability function reports regularly • Loss of key leadership/talent to the Human Resources Committee of the Board • Brand reputation/damage and relevant initiatives are publicly reported in: • Partner performance, including suppliers, • TWE’s Annual Report; distributors, retailers • Workplace Gender Equity Agency (WGEA) Report • Changing laws and regulations (Australia); and • Significant business disruption and/or catastrophic • TWE’s Statement on Human Rights and Modern damage or loss Slavery, which was updated in F19 to align with the Aspects of how these risks are managed are detailed principles of the Australian Modern Slavery Act (2018). in this section. These reports are available on the Company’s website at www.tweglobal.com. Figure 4: TWE People – a snapshot of our employees across the world13 40.8% 59.2% 53.3% 46.7% 52.7% 47.3% 36.2% 63.8% MALE 60.4% PERMANENT 93.0% FULL TIME 94.1% GLOBAL FEMALE 39.6% TEMPORARY 7.0% PART TIME 5.9% ANZ AMERICAS EUROPE ASIA14 PERMANENT 98.2% PERMANENT 96.4% PERMANENT 95.3% PERMANENT 32.6% TEMPORARY 1.8% TEMPORARY 3.6% TEMPORARY 4.7% TEMPORARY 67.4% FULL TIME 93.7% FULL TIME 93.9% FULL TIME 92.7% FULL TIME 99.6% PART TIME 6.3% PART TIME 6.1% PART TIME 7.3% PART TIME 0.4% 12. A full account of TWE’s material business risks is in the Operating and Financial Review of the 2019 Annual Report. 13. The information in this table is current as of 30 June 2019 and does not include contractors, which make up six percent of TWE’s workforce. 14. The Asia region has a higher proportion of employees listed as ‘temporary’ due to common legal practice in Asia to place employees on three-year fixed term contracts. After ten years, an employee is considered permanent. 18 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CASE STUDY Human Rights Roadmap In F19, a human rights roadmap was developed by members of TWE’s Legal and Governance, People and Capability, Procurement and Corporate Responsibility (CR) teams. The roadmap was approved by the Global CR Council and details how TWE plans to enhance its response to human rights and labour impacts, which will be founded in an internal human rights impact assessment scheduled to commence in F20. LABOUR SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT TWE policy, standards and procedures are designed TWE’s expectations of its suppliers regarding human to protect our people from forced or child labour and rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption having their freedom of association restricted. are outlined in the Company’s Responsible Procurement Code (RPC). In F19, the RPC continued to be embedded The Global Payroll Policy recognises the importance as a prerequisite in TWE’s partner engagement and of paying employees fairly, completely and accurately, tender processes, and is included in TWE issued and is intended to protect employees from being bonded supplier contract templates globally. to the organisation by debt, having their pay withheld, or having their movement restricted due to inconsistent During F19, training on the RPC and its contents payment times. was provided to employees who deal with suppliers or have the authority to enter into transactions on On occasion TWE employs minors and this is done behalf of TWE. This was administered by regional in accordance with local legislation15. In F19, TWE Procurement teams. employed a small number of people under 18 years of age in Australia and New Zealand, typically TWE also undertook further analysis of its supply chain in apprentice, vintage or hospitality roles. with a specific desktop audit performed on its current supplier base to determine suppliers who posed an The Company’s Employing and Engaging Minors elevated level of human rights risk. Further engagement Policy ensures that these relationships are was undertaken between TWE and those identified managed appropriately. suppliers, and through this process the Company’s TWE’s Whistleblower Policy and confidential whistleblower expectations in regards to supplier risk were satisfied. service provide a channel for employees and third parties To build on this work, TWE has engaged a third party to raise matters in a confidential manner. The service to introduce a system to assess TWE’s current and is offered in a range of local languages and the Board, potential supplier and customer network. When fully via the Audit and Risk Committee, receive periodic reports implemented the system will alert the business to on whistleblower matters. Since the end of the financial supplier and customer risk using public and private year the Policy was updated to align with the reforms intelligence databases. to the Australian whistleblower legislation, which came into effect on 1 July 2019. The system will be globally implemented in F20. TWE respects employees’ freedom of association in the workplace by recognising the right of employees to negotiate either individually or collectively. Where they represent employees to negotiate employment agreements, TWE engages with trade unions. 15. The definition of minor depends on the relevant country, jurisdiction, and legislation. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 19 PEOPLE DEVELOPING AND CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE TWE is committed to building a high performing organisation by driving an inclusive, supportive and collaborative culture; growing capability; and operating efficiently and sustainably. 39.0% DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION The Executive Leadership Team (ELT) has accountability for defining and managing TWE’s diversity and inclusion goals and objectives. These objectives are approved by the Human Resources female representation in leadership roles 37.5% Committee of the Board, and are detailed in the Company’s Annual Report. In F19, TWE committed to the following objectives to deliver sustainable diversity and inclusion improvement: 1. Increase gender diversity in leadership female representation on TWE’s Board Continue the journey towards achieving an increase in females in leadership roles16 to 38% by 2020 In F19, a total of 98.0% of Senior Leaders met or 2. Develop inclusive leaders exceeded expectations on Inclusive leadership. In F20, A total of 75% of senior leaders meet or exceed TWE has committed to continue to foster inclusive expectations on Inclusive leadership leadership through: Throughout the year the following initiatives have • the introduction of a Global TWE Pride network, and maintained TWE’s momentum towards achieving TWEforME, our wellbeing and resilience investment; these goals: • People Manager Inclusion and Ways of Working toolkits; • executive mentoring and sponsorship of female talent; • continuing to undertake annual 360 Senior Leader • investment in TWEforShe global capability program; surveys and action plans; and • celebrate outstanding female leadership through the • ongoing focus on bias awareness in people processes Mary Penfold Award; and and training. • maintain 360-degree survey to measure Senior Leaders’ Inclusive Leadership. The ELT, including the CEO, supports the achievement of diversity and inclusion measures and targets as part of their annual key performance objectives. As at 30 June 2019, TWE had 39.0% female representation in leadership roles, reaching its stated target of 38% by 2020. TWE has since set a Board approved target to achieve 40% female representation CASE STUDY in leadership roles by 2025. TWEforShe continues Additionally, the Board is committed to ensuring it is comprised of individuals with appropriate skills, to unlock potential 1 TWE define leadership roles as senior leaders, professionals and specialists, including general, department and functional management. experience and diversity to develop and support the Company’s strategic imperatives. The Board recognises the importance of cultural, geographic and gender In F19, following the successful launch of the TWEforShe diversity amongst its members which is reflected in the ‘She Leads’ capability initiative, the ELT committed to running an additional ‘She Leads Best of Series’ globally. current representation on the Board, with four nonThis series will continue during F20. executive directors based offshore in regions in which A second phase of TWE Tasker, the TWEforShe ‘On the Job’ the Company operates. learning program, launched in Australia, New Zealand During F19, the Board achieved its gender target and the Americas with over 80 participants. The program of at least 30% female representation, with women is designed to support women improve their business representing 37.5% of the Board as at the date of this acumen and knowledge of TWE’s core functions and will roll out for a second time across Asia and Europe in F20. Report. In 2019, in order to maintain gender diversity the Board set itself a measurable objective that at least Finally, TWEforShe launched an ELT Sponsorship 30% of its directors will be of each gender going forward. program for high performing women. This program matches a group of women with members of the extended ELT to support leadership development with the intention of nurturing their career progression and increasing female representation in senior leadership roles. 16. TWE define leadership roles as senior leaders, professionals and specialists, including general, department and functional management. 20 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT TWE’s Leadership Framework outlines five capabilities beginning of the financial year, and have these goals – lead self, manage others, business acumen, strategic reviewed throughout the year. thinking and deliver results – which guide leadership In F19, to support the performance and development of development. These underpin our four growth our people, TWE formally launched its global LinkedIn behaviours – be focused, inspire belief, build trust, and Learning partnership, which will facilitate our people collaborate to win. These capabilities and behaviours to build skills aligned to the TWE leadership framework, guide how we act and play a critical role in setting the growth behaviours, ways of working and becoming business up for sustainable success. a people leader. All employees participate in performance and This global initiative complements the F19 success of development conversations with their People Manager, our regional development programs, and will be further set performance and development goals at the integrated in TWE’s capability offering from F20 onwards. CASE STUDY Investing in our people – Regional highlights ANZ Asia TWE launched an intensive two-week capability event In Asia, we have implemented a Health – ‘Inspiring Growth: Vintage 19’ – designed to improve and Wellbeing program to recognise the importance business acumen and knowledge for all Melbourne head of enhancing employee health and their physical office employees. The program involved 26 presenters over and psychosocial working environment. 34 sessions and was attended by more than 500 employees. Initiatives include: Following the success of the Australian based program, • Provision of fruit in the office an Inspiring Growth series commenced in our Americas region and will extend to Asia and Europe in F20. • Lunch and learn sessions with external guest speakers • Onsite counselling Americas • Local gym passes In the Americas, a region-wide initiative to develop employees’ business acumen and understanding of TWE’s Europe Wine Value Chain was launched as part of the ‘Inspiring TWE Europe has established five cultural teams that Growth’ capability program. focus on the areas of Diversity and Inclusion, Corporate Open to all Americas employees, the program builds Responsibility, Health and Wellbeing, Wine Culture and knowledge of how the business operates and how its core Ways of Working and Communication. functions work together to achieve our vision. Over 500 Each cultural team has a leadership team sponsor and attendees have participated as of 30 June 2019. is led by a group of employees who have created a calendar Additionally in F19, ‘Wellness 365’ was launched, a region of key initiatives, including mental health awareness, wide wellness program designed to support employee unconscious bias training, and knowledge and information mental, physical and emotional wellbeing. sharing forums. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT TWE continues to focus on its ambition of respecting CASE STUDY and enhancing the lives of its people and its communities through volunteering, employee fundraiser matching Global Volunteering and brand partnerships. Week 2019 In F19, TWE’s community engagement initiatives The centrepiece of TWE’s community engagement included: is its annual Global Volunteering Week. This event • Global Volunteering Week, a week to encourage forms a platform to co-ordinate employee volunteering employees to volunteer within their local community; efforts across the world and build long-term partnerships with organisations. • Fundraising Boost, TWE’s employee fundraiser matching scheme; and In F19, the week saw 1,458 employees volunteer with more than 90 charitable partner organisations across • brand partnerships, such as the BV Coastal and Oceana the globe. Our people contributed more than 9,000 Save Something Beautiful campaign (United States). hours across activities that align to the Planet and People pillars of our CR framework. Activities included: In F19, when combined, these initiatives contributed more than A$735,000 in direct value to social and environmental • food packing, sorting, preparation, delivery and serving; causes in the communities in which we operate. • packing and sorting household and school items for those in need; Contributed more than • clearing local waterways; A$735,000 • removing litter and weeds from $ local conservation areas; and • rehabilitating natural areas through tree and seedling planting. in direct value to community partners TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 21 PRODUCT Product GUIDING PRINCIPLE Create quality wines that are consumed and promoted responsibly and safely AMBITION Our wines are produced, marketed and c onsumed responsibly F19 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Zero findings of Launched Updated Food Safety non-compliance with and Quality Policy marketing regulations or voluntary codes 96.3% of employees completed Expanded lower in alcohol and smaller format range for Lightweighted select glass and plastic product packaging Alcohol Policy training consumers % KG 22 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND MARKETING As one of the world’s largest wine companies, TWE aims to enrich the culture and the lives of the millions of adults around the world who enjoy our brands by promoting the responsible consumption of alcohol. Risks relating to the responsible consumption, These documents are available for our people in marketing and sale of alcohol are identified through English, Spanish and Mandarin and are embedded TWE’s Risk Management Framework. The related within the business through TWE’s learning risks17 include: management system and the Company’s internal • Brand reputation/ damage responsible consumption awareness program. 96.3% • Partner performance and market concentration • Changing laws and regulations Aspects of how these risks are managed are detailed in this section. EMPLOYEE ADVOCATES of employees completed compliance training on TWE’s Alcohol Policy 18 TWE endeavours to ensure its employees act as champions for responsible consumption. The key documents that In F19, TWE rebranded its internal responsible govern this are TWE’s Alcohol Policy, Alcohol Policy consumption program as ‘Smart Drinking’. This Guidelines and Alcohol Policy Guidelines for Winemakers. program encourages employees to consume alcohol In F19, TWE’s Alcohol Policy and Alcohol Policy in a responsible manner by providing tips, tools and Guidelines were updated to clarify the expectations information through regular global communications. of employees relating to the consumption of alcohol In November 2018, the Company conducted Smart and workplace health and safety, including the Drinking Week, to engage employees with activities, expectation that employees are not to perform work third party speakers, and other resources to aid them that is ‘high risk’ if they are under the influence 14 It is anticipated that 3.7% of employees who have not completed in understanding and promoting responsible consumption. of alcohol, regardless of legal limits. the training are new-starters who are yet to complete the training within their first three months of commencing with TWE, as well as a minor number of employees who may be overdue in completing refresher training. 17. A full account of TWE’s material business risks is located in the Operating and Financial Review of the 2019 Annual Report. 18. It is anticipated that the 3.7% of employees who have not completed the training are new-starters who are yet to complete the training within their first three months of commencing with TWE, as well as a small number of employees who may be overdue in completing refresher training. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 23 PRODUCT PROMOTING WINE RESPONSIBLY TWE’s Alcohol Policy is supported by Responsible In F19, TWE continued to provide a range of information Marketing Guidelines and a Responsible Sales and via the labels of our products, many of which assist Marketing Handbook, which outline requirements consumers to drink responsibly and safely. Our internal for promoting our wines in the diverse markets in policies on labelling are aligned with regional legislation which we operate globally. and best practice and specify that we must provide the following information: In F19, these resources were reviewed and updated19 to provide additional guidance to the marketing and • Number of standard drinks or alcohol content sales teams on current legislative and voluntary code of the product requirements, emerging digital trends and current • Responsible consumption message ways of working. • Warning message on drinking alcohol TWE’s marketing team ensures that all marketing during pregnancy communications are vetted against these guidelines In TWE F19, the firstwere was there global wine company to commit ZERO during development. This is undertaken through to providing calorie information on its products, which reference to a comprehensive marketing checklist is done via an online product database. In F19, this and seeking legal guidance, and escalating approval continued to be maintained and promoted via our as required. product labels. These documents will be recommunicated to the In addition, TWE places a recycling logo on the majority 20 marketing team and embedded in their ways ofndings fi ofwhich its products, non-compliance with the correct signals to consumers of working in F20. disposal avenue. marketing regulations or voluntary codes In F19, there were In F19, there were ZERO 20 findings of non-compliance with marketing regulations or voluntary codes ZERO findings20 of non-compliance with labelling regulations or voluntary codes In F19, there were ZERO findings20 of non-compliance with labelling regulations or voluntary codes 19. The updates were published after 30 June 2019. 20. A finding refers to a determination by the responsible external body. 24 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PARTNERSHIPS AND INDUSTRY LEADERSHIP TWE cultivates relationships with governments and In F19, TWE commenced a partnership with Community other stakeholders in markets across the world to Alcohol Partnerships (CAP) in the United Kingdom identify shared opportunities to promote responsible (UK). CAP brings together a range of local stakeholders consumption activities. with the view to implement schemes to prevent underage drinking and promote responsible drinking Throughout F19, TWE continued to work in partnership among young adults. with organisations that lead alcohol education and responsible consumption initiatives, including In addition, Michelle Brampton, TWE’s Managing DrinkWise (Seppelt Wines and DrinkWise Spring Director Europe, was appointed to the Wine and Spirits Racing Carnival partnership pictured), Drinkaware, Trade Association (WSTA) Board, which oversees the Alcoholic Beverages Advertising Code (ABAC), several responsible consumption campaigns in the UK. and national organisations such as Alcohol Beverages In Australia, Angus McPherson, TWE’s Managing Australia (ABA), who are partners of the International Director ANZ, Europe, South East Asia and Middle Alliance for Responsible Drinking (IARD). East Africa continued to represent industry association Australian Grape & Wine on the DrinkWise Board and TWE maintained representation on the Social Media sub-Committee of the DrinkWise Board. CASE STUDY Lower in alcohol product leadership Throughout F19, TWE continued to develop its alternate product offerings for those consumers looking for smaller format and lower, low and non-alcohol wine choices. These product variations are summarised below. Smaller format alternatives have less standard drinks than their 750ml glass bottle counterparts. These include: • Sterling Vineyards Chardonnay, Cabernet Sauvignon and Rosé in 375ml aluminium bottles • A’tivo, T’Gallant, Main & Vine, Lindeman’s and Squealing Pig 250ml aluminium cans Lower, low or non-alcoholic21 alternatives, include: • Lindeman’s Early Harvest • Lindeman’s Maiden Press • Lindeman’s Alcohol Free • Lindeman’s 5.5% range • Wolf Blass Yellow Label Moscato • Rawson’s Retreat • Lightly spritzed and lower in alcohol cans22 for brands: A’tivo, T’Gallant, Main & Vine, Blossom Hill, Lindeman’s and Squealing Pig 21. Non-alcohol wines contain no more than 0.5% alcohol by volume from natural fruit fermentation. 22. Lower in alcohol cans are in comparison to their non-spritzed glass bottle alternatives. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 25 PRODUCT PRODUCT QUALITY, SAFETY AND INNOVATION Product quality, safety and innovation is a core priority for TWE and critical to the business’ success. PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY Food safety and quality policy updated TWE’s focus on food safety and product quality continues to remain a core focus of our wine production and packaging standards. Product quality and safety risks identified through TWE’s Risk Management Framework, include: • Brand reputation/damage • Changing laws and regulations TWE maintained third party accreditation of its quality and food safety systems, demonstrating Aspects of how these risks are managed are detailed the robustness and effectiveness of these systems. in this section. Third party quality and safety accreditation varies TWE continues to review and improve our food safety depending on region and includes: and quality systems to ensure that we deliver consumer • Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points expectations and comply with all internal and external food safety, regulatory and quality requirements. • British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety In F19, our Food Safety and Quality Policy was updated • International Featured Standards (Food) to ensure alignment with our strategic business • Food Safety System Certification 22000 direction, the Global Food Safety Initiative and changes in International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) • ISO 22000 system standards. 26 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PRODUCT INNOVATION TWE is committed to investing in innovation and TWE has continued to build its smaller format research to underpin sustainability improvements. aluminium can product offerings. In Australia, TWE Our continued focus on improving packaging quality is a market leader with its spritzed products, across the and product stewardship has identified opportunities A’tivo, T’Gallant, and Squealing Pig brands. Aluminium to optimise packaging formats, remove material from cans are highly recyclable, are lighter compared to several glass and bag-in-box categories, and invest in glass bottles of the same size, and the smaller format the development of aluminium can packaging formats. allows for minimised product waste. In F19, TWE’s ‘Simplify for Growth’ work stream commenced a glass weight review with a view of rationalising glass across those products below RRP A$20 and US$15. The review considered cost, packaging efficiency, sustainability, quality, marketing and sales impacts. As a result, more than 70 individual product lines were identified to transition to lighter weight glass across F19 and F20. The lightweighting will decrease glass use per bottle by between 70 and 300 grams, totalling in excess of one million kilograms (kg) of glass reductions across the TWE portfolio. More than 1M KG glass reduction through lightweighting KG Australian Packaging Covenant In F19, TWE continued to be a signatory to the Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation (APCO) and was one of the founding members of the APCO Wine Industry Working Group. The Working Group encourages cross-industry collaboration to solve waste and packaging In addition, TWE’s Europe team refined the carry challenges from wine production, to in store handle and dispensing spout in its bag-in-box packaging recycling and final disposal. format. Over a year, this change reduces the plastic This commitment complements TWE’s broader packaging used by 13,200kg. objective to reduce the impact of our product packaging through global glass and plastic lightweighting initiatives. TWE’s APCO Annual Report for calendar year 2018 is available on the Company’s website at www.tweglobal.com/sustainability. TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | 27 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS METRIC UNIT OF MEASURE F15 F16 F17 F18 F19 PLANET1 Environmental Findings of non0 0 0 0 0 incidents2 compliance with environmental regulations Total water consumed3 GL 27.0 27.1 22.3 24.6 28.8 4 Water efficiency L/9LE 25.2 22.4 23.5 24.0 20.2 3 3 Total energy consumed GJ x 10 498.5 488.7 487.5 501.2 452.5 4 Energy efficiency MJ/9LE 10.4 9.3 9.0 9.1 7.7 Total CO2-e emissions5 Kilotonnes CO2-e 58.6 57.8 53.4 54.0 47.6 Carbon emission Kg CO2-e/9LE – – – 1.09 0.90 intensity ratio6, 7 Total solid waste Kilotonnes 63.0 55.1 65.4 56.8 68.6 generated3 % solid waste to % 96.3 96.0 96.9 96.0 96.8 recycling PEOPLE Female representation % 33.8 35.9 37.3 37.1 39.0 in leadership roles8 Female representation % 12.5 12.5 22.2 25.0 37.5 on TWE’s Board Participation in Global Number of employees 1,291 1,290 1,369 1,412 1,458 Volunteering Week Lost time injury Lost time injuries per 4.2 4.1 2.4 5.0 5.2 frequency rate (LTIFR)9 million hours worked Serious incident Serious incidents per – – 5.0 3.4 1.7 frequency rate (SIFR)9, 10 million hours worked PRODUCT Alcohol Policy training11 % of compliant – 96.8 98.0 97.1 96.3 employees Non-compliance findings Number of findings – – – 0 0 with marketing regulation or voluntary codes7 Non-compliance findings Number of findings – – – 0 0 with labelling codes or regulations7 1. Every year, due to timing requirements of reporting and billing latency from third party suppliers, most of the June environmental performance data for energy, water, waste and carbon emissions is estimated. Prior to annual publication, the June figures of the previous year are replaced with actual values. Similarly, any other discrepancies in the previous year’s data are amended. 2. In previous years this indicator has been referred to as ‘Environmental incidents – number of incidents reported by external body’ 3. Absolute figures include all wineries, packaging centres and Company-owned or leased vineyards. They do not include data from all offices and cellar doors. 4. Energy and water efficiency for TWE’s wineries and packaging centres include non-TWE volumes packaged at our facilities under contract. TWE uses a unit of nine litre equivalent (9LE) to represent volume. Efficiencies do not include energy and water used at Company-owned or leased vineyards, or all offices and cellar doors. 5. Includes all wineries, cellar doors, packaging centres and Company-owned or leased vineyards. Does not include emissions from all offices, wastewater treatment plants, refrigerants or Scope 3 emissions. 6. The carbon emission intensity ratio for TWE’s wineries, packaging centres and some cellar doors include non-TWE volumes packaged at our facilities under contract. TWE uses a unit of 9LE to represent volume. The intensity ratio does not include carbon emitted at Companyowned or leased vineyards or all offices. 7. This indicator was established in F18 and as such TWE does not have information for previous financial years. 8. TWE define leadership roles as senior leaders, professionals and specialists, including general, department and functional management. 9. There has been a minor adjustment to safety frequency rate indicators for F18 and F19 data due to a global audit of hours worked, which are used to calculate the frequency rates. 10. SIFR data is only available from 1 July 2016. 11. This indicator was established in F16 and as such TWE does not have information for previous financial years. 28 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 REFERENCES DOCUMENTS REFERRED TO THROUGHOUT REPORT TWE POLICY, STANDARD OR CODE1 PUBLICLY AVAILABLE Alcohol Policy ● www.tweglobal.com/investors Alcohol Policy Guidelines & Alcohol Policy Guidelines for Winemakers Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy ● www.tweglobal.com/investors Code of Conduct ● www.tweglobal.com/investors Disclosure Policy ● www.tweglobal.com/investors Employing and Engaging Minors Policy Environment Policy ● www.tweglobal.com/investors Environment Standard Food Safety and Quality Policy Global Payroll Policy Government Engagement Policy Media Policy Responsible Marketing Guidelines ● www.tweglobal.com/sustainability Responsible Procurement Code ● www.tweglobal.com/investors Responsible Sales and Marketing Handbook Risk Management Policy ● www.tweglobal.com/investors Risk Management Framework Share Trading Policy ● www.tweglobal.com/investors Social Media Policy Whistleblower Policy ● www.tweglobal.com/investors Workplace Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policy ● www.tweglobal.com/investors TWE PRODUCED REPORTS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE 2018 Australian Packaging Covenant Report ● www.tweglobal.com/sustainability 2018 Tax Transparency Report ● www.tweglobal.com/sustainability 2019 Annual Report ● www.tweglobal.com/investors 2019 Corporate Governance Statement ● www.tweglobal.com/investors 2019 Statement on Human Rights and Modern Slavery ● www.tweglobal.com 2019 UN Global Compact Communications on Progress ● www.tweglobal.com/sustainability 2019 Workplace Gender Equality Agency Report ● www.tweglobal.com/careers 1. This is not a full list of TWE policies, standards or codes. This list reflects those policies, standards and codes that are referenced in the Sustainability Report 2019. Additional TWE policies are listed on the Company’s website at www.tweglobal.com/investors. Front and back cover image: Sterling Vineyards, TWE Americas CONTACT Corporate Responsibility crprogram@tweglobal.com www.tweglobal.com
