SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 – TABLE OF CONTENTS About this report 4 Our economic responsibility 44 Foreword  6 Our environmental responsibility  50 We are Biesterfeld 8 Our company profile Our social responsibility  58 A look at the details: our business units We at Biesterfeld Our product and service portfolio Training and further development Our stakeholders Biesterfeld social benefits Objectives and strategies Our social commitment Reporting method Our future perspective 68 Our sustainability concept 32 Sustainability progress GRI content index  72 What are we doing in...? Compliance Publication details  80 2 • Table of contents BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 3 • Table of contents ABOUT THIS REPORT We want to communicate the values and standards of the Biesterfeld Group with our annual reporting and set a clear sign for sustainability. Our commitment at a global level is very important to us, which evaluations can be compared with others. We use the emission is why we continue to work to conserve resources and the factors from the GEMIS database (GEMIS = Global Emission environment and to ensure human and labour rights. Model for Integrated Systems), which was prepared by the German Environment Agency (UBA) in cooperation with the We provide our internal and external stakeholders as well as Öko-Institut (Institute for Applied Ecology). the interested public with transparent and comprehensive MORE THAN 6 BUSINESS information on all data and key figures relevant to sustainability In this year’s report, which takes into account developments in UNITS 860 EMPLOYEES at the Biesterfeld Group. Our sustainability report applies to 2018, we have documented our sustainability management and the entire group of companies. It includes the Communication on its extension to our branches in Austria, Poland and Switzerland. Progress as specified by the United Nations Global Compact, For a detailed list of our sites included in the 2018 report, see 112YEAR OVER 50 RENOWNED which we joined in 2014 and the principles of which we are have Chapter 1 – World Map. FAMILY TRADITION PARTNERSHIPS been committed to ever since. We have chosen to use the “core option” of the latest framework of the internationally recognised We generally use the male form in this report when designating INTERNATIONAL AT Global Reporting Initiative, known as the GRI Standards. This groups of persons and occupations for ease of readability. It OVER 40 LOCATIONS enables transparent presentation and ensures that data and goes without saying that we always address all sexes equally. 102-7, 102-8 102-1, 102-3, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52 4 • About this report BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 5 • About this report FOREWORD Dear reader, I am pleased to present the 2018 Biesterfeld Group Sustainability In recent years, we have succeeded in further expanding our sustainable and economic goals. Each individual plays a crucial Report. sustainability management thanks to a range of measures. For role and contributes to our collective success through his or her VALUE ADDED IS example, our Biesterfeld Plastic division supports the worldwide individual strengths and qualities. THE FRUIT OF Sustainability has long been an integral part of our business Operation Clean Sweep initiative. The objective of the initiative is VALUING OTHERS activities and is firmly anchored in all areas of the company. As a to ensure that plastic particles do not end up in the marine Ethical and responsible conduct is a core principle of our family-owned company, we attach great importance to aligning environment. All companies in the plastics supply chain need corporate culture as a family-owned company. Over the next few our economic goals with ecological and social aspects at all to comply with strict storage site management and retention years, we will continue to expand our activities in line with all the times. measures. In Malawi, the Biesterfeld Group also supports the aims of a sustainably operating company. overhaul of well systems. The affected region is one of the least As a key industry, chemicals provide a fundamental basis for developed countries in the world and about half the population I hope you enjoy reading our Sustainability Report. progress and innovation. For this reason, this Sustainability lives with no access to clean drinking water. Together with local Report conveys a message that is particularly close to my heart: communities, this project identifies and repairs defective we take responsibility – socially, ecologically and economically. boreholes and wells to give the people in this region unrestricted We succeed in handling sensitive products in a safe, responsible access to clean drinking water. and resource-conserving way by defining standards and specifications, which are in a constant state of development, We primarily have our employees to thank for the implementation Thomas Arnold throughout the company. It is and remains our goal to rigorously and development of our sustainability activities as well as our advance the concept of sustainability and to make our processes renewed positive business development, for they work together and structures more environmentally conscious and efficient. across divisional and country boundaries to achieve our Thomas Arnold, chairman of the board 102-14, 102-16 102-14, 102-16 6 • Foreword BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 7 • Foreword COMPETENCE IN SOLUTIONS WE ARE BIESTERFELD 8 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 9 • We are Biesterfeld OUR COMPANY PROFILE The Biesterfeld Group has been a service and distribution company, as well as being active in the worldwide trade of raw materials, for more than 112 years. Initially specialising only in the salt trade, today Biesterfeld standards.These specialised sales and distribution organisations requirements and industry developments. Our technical experts thrives in the distribution of plastics, rubber, speciality chemical are supported by the Biesterfeld service companies, Biesterfeld work closely and in partnership with both sides, thus managing products and international trade in the sectors of industrial and ChemLogS GmbH and BIT-SERV GmbH. Together, all business to exploit synergies and achieve added value for all stakeholders. STRONG agricultural chemicals, pharmaceutical raw materials and salts, divisions operate under the umbrella of Biesterfeld AG, which INDIVIDUALLY, with its four business divisions and more than 46 international as a holding company, creates the framework for the overall We achieve all this through direct customer and supplier contact, UNBEATABLE subsidiaries. development of the Biesterfeld Group. personal on-site support and our group-wide feeling of together­ TOGETHER ness as “Biesterfelders”. Close professional interaction between Based on our many years of market and product experience, we This parent company assumes strategic tasks, central control colleagues and a joint sense of purpose shape our everyday life have developed sound expert knowledge to provide our functions for standards and processes, as well as overarching and our way of working. customers with comprehensive advice and support in finding functions in finance, human resources, legal affairs, communications the right products for their applications. Our extensive product and controlling. The demand for a sustainable corporate structure is firmly portfolio is based on long-term and trusting partnerships with More on this: a look at the details. anchored in all divisions and levels of our company hierarchy. our many well-known suppliers. Biesterfeld Group’s positive Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and our business development testifies to the success of this approach. We regard advising and serving our customers and suppliers in own Code of Conduct reflect the importance of sustainability for a professional and customised manner as our responsibility. Our the Biesterfeld Group. The principles and requirements defined Our four operating divisions Biesterfeld Plastic, Biesterfeld in-depth market knowledge, comprehensive services and a here are anchored in our business strategy. Our economic success Spezialchemie, Biesterfeld Performance Rubber and Biesterfeld specialised skills profile in the individual segments set us apart is always pursued in harmony with the needs of people and the International specialise in taking into account the latest market from the rest. As the linchpin between producer and customer, environment. findings concerning economic, ecological, social and safety we know exactly which products meet our customers’ demands aspects and always incorporating the latest industry trends and and expectations and can inform our suppliers about new 102-5, 102-16, 102-18 102-16, 102-18 10 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 11 • We are Biesterfeld A REVIEW OF OUR HISTORY 1906 Wilhelm Ernst-Hinrich Biesterfeld moves into 1961 First European subsidiary founded in the 1988 Founding of Biesterfeld Plastic GmbH as well as new 2007 Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH founded a small office in Hamburg and starts his salt Netherlands subsidiaries in France, Italy, Poland and Spain trading business 2008 Acquisition of Milar Sp. z o.o. in Poland 1964 Company founder Wilhelm Biesterfeld dies at the 1994 Joint venture Biesterfeld Scheibler Linssen GmbH & 1918  lourishing trade in rock salt from northern F age of 84 years; steady growth of the business Co. KG with HQ in Hamburg 2013 Founding of Biesterfeld Nordic AB, Sweden, Germany for the domestic and Scandinavian ensured by Walter Biesterfeld, his nephew and Acquisition of Küttner GmbH, Germany market adopted son 1998 Founding of Biesterfeld Spezialchemie GmbH 2015 Founding of Biesterfeld Simko Distribuição S.A. joint 1930s Development of the three pillars of the 1970 Following the death of Walter Biesterfeld, his son 2000 Founding of BIT-SERV GmbH, Biesterfeld venture, Brazil company: trading in salt, chemicals and Dirk J. Biesterfeld inherits the company as a International GmbH and Interowa GmbH & Co. KG fertilisers personally liable partner 2016 Founding of Biesterfeld Performance Rubber GmbH, 2004  ransformation of parent company Wilhelm E. H. T acquisition of Schütz & Co. (GmbH & Co. KG) 1945 Takeover of the chemical plant Gunter, 1976 Founding of the subsidiaries Biesterfeld do Brasil Biesterfeld GmbH & Co. KG into Biesterfeld AG Schröder & Co. in Hamburg-Harburg with its Ltda. in Brazil and Biesterfeld U.S., Inc. in the USA Today International distributor of plastics, rubber, base and own warehousing and transshipment facilities 2005 Full takeover of Biesterfeld Siemsglüss special chemical products, with over 40 subsidiaries 1981 Core areas of the new company Wilhelm E. H. International GmbH in more than 120 countries From 1950 Own subsidiaries in the business divisions Biesterfeld Group: chemical plants, import, export, of importing/exporting chemicals, salt and packaging, salt, agrochemicals and international 2006 The name Siemsglüss International GmbH changed fertilisers as well as chemical plants; freight forwarding to Biesterfeld International GmbH, founding of joint Biesterfeld Packaging division founded venture Biesterfeld Petroplas Ltd. 1980s Expansion into Asia with subsidiaries in China, 1956 Relocation to the centre of Hamburg, Hong Kong and Indonesia Ferdinandstrasse 41, the present headquarters of the company 102-5, 102-10 102-5, 102-10 12 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 13 • We are Biesterfeld A LOOK AT THE DETAILS: supporting the operating divisions with its expertise and skills as an independent service company since 2007. This division also OUR BUSINESS UNITS produces professional safety data sheets, which are vital when using our products as they provide important safety information and recommendations for proper handling of our products. Biesterfeld Plastic of customer-specific problem solutions, the continuous supply Finally, the team of experts ensures day-to-day compliance with As a leading distributor for plastics and additives in Europe, capability from regional warehouse locations and their broad national and international standards, regulations and internal North Africa, Latin America and the CIS region, Biesterfeld product range. guidelines in order to guarantee smooth business transactions Plastic maintains many long-standing, mostly exclusive sales in all Biesterfeld processes while adhering to international legal partnerships with various global market leaders within the Our extensive product portfolio focuses on the needs of selected standards. plastics industry. This division was founded in 1988 and is notable industries including personal care, healthcare, cleaning, paints for its almost complete and homogeneous product portfolio in and coatings, high-quality intermediates, polyurethanes, polymer Biesterfeld International BIT-SERV over 40 countries. Around 300 employees offer international additives, construction, adhesives and lubricants, composites, Biesterfeld International has specialised since its founding in BIT-SERV is a full-service provider offering high-quality IT services customers comprehensive services such as development-related, food, electrical, electronics and energy. 2005 in the trade of inorganic and organic industrial chemicals, for the chemical, plastics, pharmaceutical and agricultural technical consulting and tailor-made logistics solutions. This is salts, agricultural chemicals and pharmaceutical raw materials sectors. Specialised in SAP® ERP applications, CRM in-house made possible by a comprehensive, decentralised infrastructure Biesterfeld Performance Rubber and active substances as well as additives for fodder and developments, web developments and system technology, complete with personal contact points on site. The product Biesterfeld Performance Rubber is the youngest division of foodstuffs. Our worldwide sales department has approximately BIT-SERV provides active support to our business divisions. The portfolio includes plastics and additives for industries such the Biesterfeld Group and has been active as a distributor for 100 employees at 14 locations offering expert and customeremployees here are specialists with many years of experience as automotive, healthcare, industrial and consumer goods, the rubber processing industry since its foundation in 2016. It focused services in the consulting, product development, logistics and comprehensive expertise in industry-specific applications. construction, toys, packaging, household appliances as well as deals internationally in high-performance polymers, technical and financing fields of application. Its local presence near The principle objective of these employees, who are consultants, electrics and electronics. elastomers, silicone rubber compounds and additives. Business customers and suppliers as well as existing long-term partner­ designers and project managers at the same time, is to offer a activities have focussed on application technology consulting ships are this division’s distinguishing features. stable, solution-oriented and user-friendly IT service. Their range Biesterfeld Spezialchemie and the development of innovative local customer solutions, of services is tailored to the needs of medium-sized companies Biesterfeld Spezialchemie is one of Europe’s largest distributors carried out by around 40 qualified employees. As well as synthetic Biesterfeld ChemLogS and is subject to strict security guidelines. of speciality chemicals needing explanation. With around 265 rubber, compounds of high-quality silicone and fluorosilicone The Biesterfeld ChemLogS team is responsible for compliance, employees, it offers solution-oriented application technology rubbers and carbon black, the product range also includes sustainability, QSHE in the international chemicals trade, support expertise in the field of speciality chemicals and the food industry. high-performance polymers and the complete portfolio of of management systems, REACH as well as customs and export The supporting pillars of their range of services are the development corresponding additives. control throughout the entire Biesterfeld Group. It has been 102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 102-8 102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 102-8 14 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 15 • We are Biesterfeld ALWAYS CLOSE TO CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS Biesterfeld AG Biesterfeld Plastic Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Spezialchemie International Performance Rubber Hamburg, HQ (DE) Abingdon (GB) Athens (GR) Barcelona (ES) Bangkok (TH) Abingdon (GB) Barcelona (ES) Bratislava (SK) Beijing (CN) Bangkok (TH) Culemborg (NL) Budapest (HU) Chongqing (CN) Barcelona (ES) Florianópolis (BR) Bucharest (RO) Guatemala City (GT) Budapest (HU) Hamburg (DE) Culemborg (NL) Hamburg (DE) Bucharest (RO) Istanbul (TR) Grodzisk Hong Kong (CN) Culemborg (NL) Kiev (UA) Mazowiecki (PL) Istanbul (TR) Hamburg (DE) Cologne (DE) Hamburg (DE) Jakarta (ID) Istanbul (TR) Liestal (CH) Istanbul (TR) Mexico (MX) Kiev (UA) Limhamn (SE) Kiev (UA) Miami (US) Limhamn (SE) Milan (IT) Liestal (CH) Mumbai (IN) Milan (IT) Moscow (RU) Milan (IT) São Paulo (BR) Moscow (RU) Nuremberg (DE) Moscow (RU) Shanghai (CN) Prague (CZ) Oporto (PT) Prague (CZ) Warsaw (PL) Römerberg (DE) Römerberg (DE) Rueil Malmaison (FR) Rueil Malmaison (FR) Rueil Malmaison (FR) Warsaw (PL) Saint Ouen l’Aumone (FR) São Paulo (BR) Vienna (AT) Chrisy (FR) Warsaw (PL) Zagreb (HR) São Paulo (BR) Vienna (AT) Warsaw (PL) Vienna (AT) Zagreb (HR) BIESTERFELD LOCATIONS COUNTRIES IN WHICH BIESTERFELD IS REPRESENTED  Biesterfeld locations included in this year’s Sustainability Report 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-45 102-3, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-45 16 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 17 • We are Biesterfeld OUR PRODUCT AND SERVICE PORTFOLIO As a family business, we are committed to sustainable development in our industry and to raising awareness in our partners so they will make their own contribution here. OUR CLIENT INDUSTRIES Sustainable product solutions In the personal care division, Biesterfeld Spezialchemie offers an We support our customers in producing sustainable products, alternative to traditional glycols such as propanediol derived from improving their ecological footprint and implementing sustainable corn, which is used as a moisturizer as well as a preservative business practices. booster and is marketed under the trade name Zemea®. The port­folio also includes Genencare®, an active ingredient produced We contribute to the development of more environmentally from sugar beet that naturally strengthens the skin barrier, Adhesives & Sealants Automotive & Transportation Coatings & Construction Composites & Tooling friendly products with our sustainable product solutions. improving the water balance in the cells. Biesterfeld Spezialchemie SPECIALISED offers Saccharomyce Ferment DeoPlex® as a sustainable alternative Biesterfeld Plastic, for example, sells compostable biopolymers for use as an odour absorber in detergents and cosmetic products. IN A NUMBER made from renewable raw materials. These fully biodegradable OF WAYS polymers are a sustainable substitute for petroleum-based Biesterfeld International also offers palm and soy wax as a polymers. Due to their low processing temperatures, they are natural alternative in candle production. Palm wax is extracted more environmentally friendly and sustainable during production, from oil palm fruits and is most commonly used to make pillar Electro, Electronic & Energy Food & Feed Household & Consumer Goods Industrial Markets & Synthesis resulting in large energy savings. candles. Soy wax is made from soy bean oil. Soy wax is becoming increasingly popular in candle production as it is a renewable Biesterfeld Spezialchemie’s product portfolio includes halogenraw material. free flame retardants based on functional polymers and especially developed for polyolefin-based plastics. In the event of fire, they trigger an endothermic cross-linking reaction which promotes charring while reducing smoke density and toxicity as well as the heat release rate. The flame retardants offered are easy to Packaging Personal Care & Cleaning Pharma & Healthcare Plant Protection & Plant Nutrition process as well as being compatible with UV stabilisers and other common additives. 102-2, 102-6 102-2, 102-6, 302-4, 302-5 18 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 19 • We are Biesterfeld One Biesterfeld Strategy Our supply chain Our business model As a traditional business with a successful family history, we are Our goal is to achieve long-term success along with our suppliers We offer our customers an extensive product portfolio of renowned EXPERIENCE, constantly striving to find a good balance between long-standing and customers. For this reason, we work closely with our producers and well-known producers and directly deliver the raw materials proven methods and innovative approaches. Over the years, and support them in developing and refining a sustainable at the agreed time or temporarily store them accordingly. Our KNOWLEDGE our business divisions have developed a variety of identical product range. Our proximity to our customers creates valuable direct customer contact helps us to best respond to specific AND CURIOSITY workflows that we aim to make the most of. Our One Biesterfeld knowledge of customer needs, which we in turn share with our customer requirements. We see ourselves as idea generators, CREATE NEW strategy strives for closer integration of our business divisions in producers so as to target new market trends. This enables us to always managing to find customer-specific solutions and answers POSSIBILITIES order to improve workflows, create synergies and centralise meet the wide-ranging needs of our customers and to continually thanks to our development-related technical consulting. processes. This also includes merging companies, such as in expand our product range. In sales, we ensure that all legal and France. political requirements are complied with for all orders and deliveries. This merger will simplify processes and place a stronger focus commitments in order to ensure compliance with the law at all on business activities. The leaner structures increase the agility times. The introduction of an Internal Compliance Program as of the company, meaning that we can adapt more quickly to part of the compliance management system is a structure which challenges presented by the market. is intended to ensure that all companies in the Biesterfeld Group act in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements in the Export control field of logistics and that any processes and conduct that could The Biesterfeld Group has a central cross-group department potentially damage business are prevented from occurring in the for export control which ensures that goods are traded with first place. foreign countries in compliance with legal requirements and directives. This department screens deliveries with regard to The Internal Compliance Program also ensures compliance with national and international export control regimes, various other obligations and responsibilities arising from export controls. prohibitions and restrictions as well as our own internal Biesterfeld 102-10, 102-16 102-9, 102-10 20 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 21 • We are Biesterfeld The way we work and think The combination of our skills in the individual business divisions OUR STAKEHOLDERS distinguishes us and has made us what we are today: one of the leading international distributors of plastics, rubber, basic and speciality chemicals. Our corporate culture of teamwork and Lively and close interaction with cooperation is based on trust and partnership. Our customers our stakeholders is particularly and suppliers are impressed by our transparent work processes, Investors a high level of commitment and strict compliance with legal important to us. Banks requirements. Holders Only in this way can we ensure that we act in accordance with Our highest goal is to live up to the trust placed in our company their expectations and fulfil all their requirements. by our customers and partners. In doing this, we always ensure mutual respect and honesty in our dealings with others. Our We give our stakeholders insights into our corporate structure Associations experienced employees are always on hand to advise our using various means of communication and keep them informed Employees BIESTERFELD customers, numbering around 20,000, supporting them in making on the latest developments, creating transparency and trust in GROUP the best selection and use of our products. Our long-term supplier our actions. relationships with well-known producers are testament to our open and honest cooperation. We attach great value to reliable Open and honest communication is very important to us. This Competitors Suppliers and trusting partnerships. active exchange provides us with important assessments on ecological, economic and social challenges at an early stage and The mutual insight and dialogue in questions of sustainable enables us to adapt to changes in good time and to exploit development and procurement in the chemical industry raises potential in a more targeted manner. Authorities Customers awareness of these important topics in a very special way. We demand compliance with social standards based on regular supplier surveys. INDIRECT DIRECT STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS 102-13, 102-16, 102-44 102-13, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 22 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 23 • We are Biesterfeld Initiatives: • AGA employers’ association • FECC (European Association of Chemical Distributors) • ICTA (International Chemical Trade Association) • United Nations Global Compact and further develop our service. This close customer contact Indirect stakeholders Another link in the informa­ • VCI Association of the Chemical Industry makes us well placed to provide targeted information about new Our presence at trade fairs and conferences helps us to maintain tion chain is our member­ • VCH Chemical Distribution Association products or the use of sustainable products that are best to meet direct contact and dialogue with all stakeholders. ­ship in chemical associations • PlasticsEurope e.V. customer needs. In addition, we gain valuable knowledge that and initiatives. This promotes we can share with our producers. In 2018 we attended various national and international trade fairs mutual exchange of views, • Operation Clean Sweep® and conferences and were available for questions, suggestions furthering sustainable develop­ We also contribute to intensive communication with our and requests. The Expobor in São Paulo, the SEPAWA Congress ment in chemical distribution. stakeholders by publishing regular press releases and other in Berlin and the international trade fair for plastics processing For example, we regularly report our performance indicators news on our website, in the media and on social networks. To (Fakuma) are just a few examples. to the German Chemical Distribution Association (VCH) and Direct stakeholders ­this end, our communications department prepares articles on the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) and actively Our Biesterfeld employees are among our most important up-to-date topics and publishes them. The newsletters that we participate in their Responsible Care programs. This encourages stakeholders. In order to develop employees in the best possible send out to our customers also serve as a means of intensifying an active exchange of experiences and knowledge in relation to way, to act in accordance with their needs and to understand communication with our stakeholders. responsible action in the chemical industry. WE LISTEN, what they expect from us as an employer, all managers conduct regular staff appraisals. In this way, both sides receive suggestions We are also in close and regular contact with our financiers (owners, Biesterfeld Plastic supports the international Operation Clean COMMUNICATE for possible improvement and can draw up formal targets. banks and investors). They are kept continuously informed about Sweep® initiative, launched by the American Chemistry Council OPENLY AND ARE This means that we, as an employer, gain an overview of the our financial status and the economic development of the in the United States. PlasticsEurope extended the licence for TRANSPARENT satisfaction and motivation of our employees and support them Biesterfeld Group. Mutual trust is of utmost importance to us and the programme in Europe. The initiative’s objective is to ensure in finding solutions, both professionally and personally. The long is consistently cultivated. that plastic granules/pellets, flakes and powders do not end up service records of our employees is testament to the fact that in the marine environment.This can be achieved if all companies we are on the right track. in the plastics supply chain – producers, distributors, logistics specialists and processors – comply with strict (storage) site We also use customer surveys and evaluations as a regular management and retention measures. We are a responsible dialogue tool. Consistent evaluation and subsequent remedial company and wholeheartedly support this initiative and inform measures is essential for us, because we take every concern and raise awareness among our partners along the supply chain. seriously. These evaluations gives us the opportunity to improve 102-13, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 102-11, 102-12, 102-13, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 24 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 25 • We are Biesterfeld OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES We strive to maintain a strong market position, always with a watchful eye on sustainability. We are successful because we set ourselves high standards and Ethical and responsible conduct is the principle of our corporate Given the increasing complexity and diverse challenges, we pursue our defined goals with dedication. Because we remain cultural values as a family business. We always strive to combine have established a Group-wide risk and crisis management aware that there is always room for improvement. tradition and innovation. Our success lies in the hands of our system which gives us the structure to assist our employees employees, who embody Biesterfeld and our corporate culture quickly and at any time if necessary, and also to offer immediate In accordance with our guiding principle of Competence in on a daily basis. Each individual plays a crucial role here and help and support. As well as a continuous contact point in the Solutions, our employees proactively offer individual solutions contributes to our collective success through their individual event of possible crises and emergencies, our employees have and the best possible support for our products and services, qualities. access to all necessary checklists and schedules so that they can because our goal is to be an expert and innovative partner for react appropriately and take quick and precise countermeasures. our suppliers and customers. It is particularly important to us We pursue a common goal: In addition, we offer regular training courses, because information to ensure that our actions are consistent with our corporate to grow sustainably and healthily in harmony with people and on this topic is absolutely essential. The “Biesterfeld Emergency principles, and we take up the challenge of achieving all this from nature and to always act in accordance with corporate values and Crisis Handbook” is available at each of our locations – as a sustainable point of view. and standards. well as on our Intranet. 102-11, 102-16 102-11, 102-16 26 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 27 • We are Biesterfeld REPORTING METHOD LISTING OF THE 10 PRINCIPLES United Nations Global Compact Principles We are convinced that sustainability can only be achieved if all those involved work together. PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. That’s why we give our suppliers and partners a strong impetus to communicate essential aspects of our convictions, such as, to launch their own initiatives with the aim of committing for example, respect for and observance of human rights, the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to PRINCIPLE 3 themselves to the environment and protection of resources as responsible and respectful treatment of employees and the collective bargaining; well as the upholding of human rights and compliance with efficient use of technology for an effective reduction of our CO2 labour laws just as we do. Regular communication and a footprint. PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; proactive information policy on sustainable development are essential for the Biesterfeld Group because we want to act in a The Biesterfeld Sustainability Report is based on the guidelines PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and discerning and responsible manner. of the world’s foremost sustainability reporting instrument, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI enables transparent As an international operating company, we see it as our information handling with clearly defined indicators and constant PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. obligation to act sustainably at both global and local level. We comparability against a worldwide standard. The core option have therefore decided to commit ourselves to the voluntary and we selected contains all the important elements and indicators globally largest sustainability initiative, the United Nations that a company has to to include and report in order to ensure PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, Global Compact standards, annually reporting on our economic, sustainable corporate governance. This information outlines the environmental and social efforts – with complete success! economic, environmental, social and management performance PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, of a company. We take account of the ten principles of the United Starting with the publication of our first Sustainability Report Nations here in the areas of human rights, labour standards, in 2014, we have continued to make our corporate identity environmental protection and the fight against corruption. Our PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. statement and now communicate continuously and transparently last report covers the 2017 financial year. with our stakeholders in this way too. We use this instrument PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 102 -12, 102-16, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54 102-16, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52 28 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 29 • We are Biesterfeld MATERIALITY ANALYSIS LIST OF SPECIFIC FIGURES ECONOMIC SOCIAL The materiality analysis clearly illustrates the indicators that Subcategory: Labour practices and decent work GRI 201: Economic performance under­went individual assessment. These indicators are summa­ GRI 401: ris­ ed in categories. Here the circles reflect the number of 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Total number and rates of new employee hires and indicators in each category. The x-axis shows the significance of Financial implications and other risks and 401-1 employee turnover by age group, gender and region the category in terms of its economic, environmental and social 201-2 opportunities for the organisation’s activities 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Influence on stakeholder impact. The y-axis indicates the extent to which the category due to climate change influences the assessment made by our stakeholders. The x and Return to work and retention rates after parental ENVIRONMENTAL 401-3 y values of the categories are determined from the average value leave, by gender of the indicators individually assessed by ourselves. Hence, for GRI 302: Energy GRI 404: Training and further development example, we assess that the “Labour practices and decent work” 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Programmes for skills management and lifelong assessments and decisions category has significant influence on our stakeholders’ evaluation 404-2 302-3 Energy intensity learning because it was relatively highly valued in spite of the modest 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption GRI 414: S  upplier assessment for labour practices amount of indicators. Furthermore, product stewardship has a high impact on our stakeholders, but is also of great importance GRI 305: Emissions Percentage of new suppliers that were screened 414-1 in terms of economic, ecological and social impacts. 305-3 Further indirect emissions using labour practices criteria Importance of economic, environmental GRI 307: Environmental Compliance Significant actual and potential negative impacts and social impacts 414-2 for labour practices in the supply chain and Monetary value, fines and total number of actions taken 307-1 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance ECONOMIC with environmental laws/regulations ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 308: S  upplier environmental assessment LABOUR PRACTICES AND Percentage of new suppliers that were screened DECENT WORK 308-1 using environmental criteria HUMAN RIGHTS SOCIETY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52 30 • We are Biesterfeld BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 31 • We are Biesterfeld COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR SUSTAINABILITY CONCEPT 32 • Our sustainability concept BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 33 • Our sustainability concept SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS Operation Clean Sweep® Plastic has no place in nature – especially not in the sea. We can We contribute to making the world that little bit more sustainable. only protect our environment by using all available resources conscientiously and sparingly. This includes first and foremost the proper disposal of plastics and effective recycling. We have been communicating our commitment to sustainability have set ourselves is not only to welcome opportunities, but also Our commitment to the international Operation Clean Sweep® to our stakeholders for more than five years and are actively to see potential risks as opportunities, with the aim of learning initiative demonstrates how important this topic is to us. Our committed to anchoring the sustainability concept throughout from them and becoming better. Biesterfeld Plastic division has joined the commitment to actively the Biesterfeld Group. For instance, we are working on making support the worldwide initiative. The objective is to ensure existing processes and structures more environmentally The pace of climate change, the associated effects and the that plastic granules/pellets, flakes and powders do not end up conscious, more efficient and more sustainable. On top of this, question of how to deal with non-renewable raw materials all in the marine environment. Among other things, this can be we regularly inform and train all employees on the important present us with challenges that we can face together with achieved if all companies in the plastics supply chain (producers, topic of sustainability. innovative solutions and responsible action. For this reason, we distributors, logistics specialists and processors) comply with strive to make our supply chain more secure for the future and strict (storage) site management and retention measures. For In recent years, we have observed increased demands and to regularly and intensively draw our partners’ and customers’ example, floors and storage areas must be diligently cleaned requirements from our customers and suppliers on sustainability attention to the positive effects of sustainable, conscious action. so that no surplus plastic granulate can be washed into the water issues. Particular attention has been paid, for example, to or the surrounding environment. The raw material, which can products made from sustainable raw materials or manufactured Sustainability begins at home be collected through consistent cleaning, is then disposed of in a way that conserves resources. The company’s commitment We set great store by the conservation of resources and support properly or – if possible – even recycled. to social standards and sustainable development is playing an the Brundtland Commission in its understanding of fair conduct increasingly important role. towards other generations: “Sustainable development is develop­ We have made it our mission to inform our international logistics ment that meets the needs of the present without compromising partners about this and to convince them to participate in the It’s abundantly clear to us: forward-looking action only happens the needs of future generations.” Operation Clean Sweep® initiative. if sustainable action is the standard default within the company. (Taken from the Brundtland Commission’s “Our Common Future” report from 1987: Establishing this is a process that takes many years and which is “Sustainable development meets the needs of the present without compromising the For more information please visit www.opcleansweep.eu ability of future generations to meet their own needs.”) associated with opportunities and risks. However, the goal we 102-11, 201-2, 414-2, 308-1 102-11, 102-12, 102-13, 201-2, 308-1, 414-2, 414-2 34 • Our sustainability concept BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 35 • Our sustainability concept WHAT ARE WE Climate protection project in Malawi We are introducing targeted measures to meet our responsibility The modern water pipes and the provision of fresh drinking DOING IN...? towards the environment by protecting the climate and reducing our CO2 footprint. Our sustainability monitoring revealed that we water will reduce emissions by 10,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. In addition, the project is countering deforestation and desertification could only reduce our CO2 emissions on our business travel to a in large parts of Malawi by reducing the use of firewood. limited extent, as travel is directly linked to the expansion of our At our company headquarters in Hamburg, we regularly business. In 2016, we therefore decided to offset our air travel We hope that this offsetting will enable us to make our contribution introduce additional processes and programmes in order to and make targeted investments in forest and species conservation to sustainably improving the living conditions of local people. minimise resources. For example, we are currently working on in Brazil. introducing a new travel expense tool which will present a completely paperless real-time process from capture to booking We would like to offset our air travel this year too. We have and effectively reduce our consumption of paper. selected a certified climate protection project in Malawi that A waste separation system was introduced at our Russian site, offers a wide range of extra benefits for people and the environ­ In addition, we have introduced a new ventilation system with which is also available to neighbouring companies. They can all ment. The project will identify and repair defective boreholes and refrigeration technology that can be used more efficiently and dispose of used batteries and bottle caps in the building at our wells in Malawi. In addition to repairing the damaged municipal therefore has lower energy consumption. site, which we then dispose of properly. The funds received from water points, local people will be trained to carry out this disposing of bottle caps are donated to selected organisations. construction, maintenance and operation of the boreholes on From Hamburg into the world their own in the future. The water will then be drinkable without Our location in Austria volunteered and prepared meals for 200 For more than five years now, our Swiss branch has been needing further treatment. These measures mean that the homeless people. The employees took part in this campaign supporting two clubs that offer sports activities for people Malawian villagers will no longer have to constantly boil their voluntarily and set up the meal plan together, bought the with disabilities. Adapted training programmes and sporting water, so that the risk of illnesses is reduced by not consuming ingredients, prepared the food and were directly involved in competitions promote sporting strength and boost self-confidence fuel to boil it or by the spread of germs and pathogens in the distributing the meals.The project created an awareness of social for everyday life. water. emergencies and our volunteers got a deeper insight into the life situation of the homeless through this exchange. 102-11, 302-4, 302-5, 414-2 414-2 36 • Our sustainability concept BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 37 • Our sustainability concept COMPLIANCE E-learning We have established an in-house e-learning tool to provide regular training for all employees worldwide. This means the Conduct with integrity has top priority in the Biesterfeld Group. Compliance department can offer web-based training which can be completed flexibly over a specified period of time to a large target group. These training courses are offered in German and With this in mind, we have added another element to our overall English. Where there may be language barriers, the training corporate responsibility: compliance. The Compliance depart­ courses will also be translated into other required languages. ment at Biesterfeld ensures that all Biesterfeld employees consistently comply with and implement applicable laws and With the help of web-based training, we ensure that all employees internal company guidelines. Our compliance management have read and understood the legally binding stipulations and system monitors all business activities and processes and is an voluntary undertakings. This gives us the opportunity to essential component of conscientious corporate management. communicate information to all employees within a short period In doing this, we ensure that we operate transparently and of time and to check and track participation by all employees sustainably. using electronically generated feedback. Using our compliance management system, new legislative We attach great importance to offering regular refresher courses changes or internal requirements can be introduced and on specific training topics, such as antitrust law or the Biesterfeld implemented promptly in the appropriate Biesterfeld branches. Code of Conduct. The Compliance department’s web-based Compliance training courses are mandatory for all Biesterfeld This requires an active communication with all branches and a training courses are sorted by topic and sent to the employees employees – regardless of position or level of responsibility. regular review of new legislation relevant to our industry and concerned. This ensures that all employees receive only the For this reason, we regularly achieve a participation rate of activities. All legislative changes are discussed at management training they need. approximately 98% in our training courses. level with regard to their relevance to our company and disseminated to all employees. 102-16, 414-2 102-16, 414-2 38 • Our sustainability concept BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 39 • Our sustainability concept Whistleblower system Code of Conduct As an additional tool to combat compliance risks, Biesterfeld has We intend our whistleblower system to help protect ourselves Our Code of Conduct serves as the basis for our daily interaction consciously decided to introduce a whistleblower system. In from behaviour that could harm the company, helping to and as a focus for our activities. It regulates dealings with doing so, we are pursuing the goal of strengthening and minimise possible risks. Anyone – whether employees or external business partners and customers and contains Group-wide expanding our compliance system and complaints management. partners – can draw attention to any grievances, punishable standards and guidelines. The Code of Conduct is mandatory for For this reason, a whistleblower system that guarantees absolute conduct or any special risks. The system is anonymous and the entire Biesterfeld Group and is a prerequisite for any activity anonymity can be accessed via our website. Biesterfeld has encrypts the data. It is monitored by our Compliance department, within the company. It is based on the core labour standards of sourced its whistleblower system to Business Keeper AG, the which immediately checks and processes every report. If a report the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and international world’s only certified data protection provider, which guarantees proves to be correct, immediate measures are initiated and any guidelines such as the OECD and the United Nations. In addition, the use of state-of-the-art security and encryption technologies. processes improved accordingly. our Code of Conduct underpins our compliance with the law and prohibits any form of corruption, granting or gaining advantage. As our Code of Conduct sets out framework guidelines for our employees and they are required to adhere to these standards in Information can be given on the following topics: their business dealings, violations of any of the principles are immediately appropriately sanctioned compliant with labour law. • Corruption/competition offences • Incorrect accounting Every employee receives regular training on the Code of Conduct • Money laundering and has direct access to the current version in German and • Fraud/Fidelity/Subversion English via the Group-wide Intranet. Our Code of Conduct is also • Violation of data protection law freely accessible on our Group homepage so that partners and • Risk/violation of environmental regulations customers can also read our business code. • Discrimination or harassment www.biesterfeld.com • Violations of occupational health and safety regulations 102-16, 414-2 102-16, 414-2 40 • Our sustainability concept BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 41 • Our sustainability concept Integrated management system Our work and our performance are characterised by the high As quality has top priority within our organisation, we therefore standards we set ourselves and which we achieve as a group. attach the highest value to our integrated management system. Our continuous ISO-9001 certification and the associated Our central quality officers work continuously on documenting internal and external audits bear witness to the multifarious the processes in the company. We monitor our processes and the and above-board way we conduct ourselves. The entire activities implementation of our management system in accordance with of the Biesterfeld Group are therefore in a constant process its standards through internal and external audits. of improvement and are consistently revised. Comprehensive documentation and review of the work steps ensure compliance The results of all audits, quality procedures and customer reviews with all regulations, promote a more efficient process design and are summarised in the annual Management Report. Finally, the act in accordance with requirements of customer and supplier. system is assessed to ensure its efficacy for the strategic direction taken by the organisation. All management systems relevant to us, such as quality, environmental, occupational, health, data protection, risk and crisis management, are integrated and consolidated within our company. When doing so, we refer to the international DIN EN ISO 9000 ff standard. Overall responsibility for our integrated management system remains with our management board. Supervisors in each business area are responsible for ensuring compliance. In this way, they ensure that all employees understand and implement the system. 102-16, 308-1, 414-1 102-16 42 • Our sustainability concept BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 43 • Our sustainability concept GROWING SUSTAINABLY! OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 44 • Our economic responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 45 • Our economic responsibility OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Our company has been writing its success story for more than 112 years now and is growing steadily. In 2018, we were again able to increase our sales figures compared We successfully achieved our goals in 2018 thanks to our our workforce is the most important key to our company’s to the previous year. This was made possible thanks to our Groupsustainable business model and our specific strategies on the success. Their ideas and suggestions for improvement are what wide, powerful network within the organisation as well as the development of our business activities. To this end, we draw up makes us successful together. expertise and commitment of our employees. Their knowledge an adjusted five-year plan each year, which defines the goals and in-depth expertise ensure that they are in a position to and activities of our business units. This planning is mandatory It goes without saying that we inform all investors com­­pre­ identify risks in the market at an early stage and, based on this, for all executive-level staff in the Biesterfeld Group and is hen­sive­ly and regularly about our development and publish to target their efforts to adapt and optimise our product and service communicated throughout the Group. The opportunities and risks the business results of the Biesterfeld Group in in the portfolio. The very close teamwork of all employees within the identified in the plan are based on the business development Bundesanzeiger (Federal Gazette) in accordance with German entire group of companies creates important synergies, which of our company in previous years. This annual forecast helps us commercial legislation. we use effectively. to make any adjustments required and expand our business activities if necessary. We intensified, expanded and extended various partnerships We measure our performance and success by the levels of in the 2018 financial year and, thanks to new cooperation satisfaction among our employees, customers and suppliers. Every quarter, we inform our employees about the development agreements with suppliers, significantly developed and expanded Meeting and exceeding these expectations is our daily goal. of our business. They also receive all relevant information about our product portfolio. This all means that in 2018, we were not Acting in a trustworthy and responsible manner are important the entire Biesterfeld Group via our Intranet. It is very important only able to increase sales, but also show significant profits. characteristics that we as a traditional family business have always to us to actively involve our employees in the planning process upheld and firmly anchored in our corporate culture. and provide them with all the necessary information; after all, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-2 103-1, 103-2, 103-2, 201-2, 46 • Our economic responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 47 • Our economic responsibility SALES BY REGION, 2018 SALES SEGMENTATION OF ECONOMIC INDICATORS FOR THE BIESTERFELD GROUP, 2016-2018* THE FOUR BUSINESS UNITS, 2018 2018 2017 2016 Turnover 1,220,652 1,174,604 1,077,448 5% 17% Operating costs 1,104,198 1,063,289 974,913 23% Wages and other 62,574 60,070 56,409 39% company benefits 3% 4% 21% 57% Payments to 25,793 23,067 17,118 financial backers 7% Payments to 13,469 12,588 11,168 government (taxes) 24% *F  igures in thousands of euros; there is no detailed profit and loss account; further economic data are presented in the Bundesanzeiger (Federal Gazette). WESTERN EUROPE (EXCL. GERMANY) BIESTERFELD PLASTIC EASTERN EUROPE BIESTERFELD SPEZIALCHEMIE AMERICA BIESTERFELD INTERNATIONAL ASIA BIESTERFELD PERFORMANCE RUBBER OTHER GERMANY 102-45, 201-2 102-45, 201-1, 201-2 48 • Our economic responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 49 • Our economic responsibility HAND IN HAND FOR A FUTURE WORTH LIVING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 50 • Our environmental responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 51 • Our environmental responsibility OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENERGY CONSUMPTION In order to derive suitable energy-saving measures, it is important We all have a common responsibility to protect our planet and to use to know where most energy is consumed. As a service company, we have predominantly office activities in our company, so the resources available to us conscientiously. Even the smallest things the largest energy consumption is lighting, air conditioning and ventilation systems as well as small devices and office electrical can make a difference and have positive results. appliances. DO WHAT’S RIGHT AND DO IT IN TIME Energy consumption at the sites listed in the TO REALLY MAKE Energy consumption at company locations in Sustainability Report, 2018* A DIFFERENCE To do this, we are concentrating strongly on the areas in which of our products. This also includes information on proper waste Hamburg, 2018* Employee energy consumption at the specified sites is approx. we can bring about change through our direct influence and disposal. In this context, safety data sheets play an important We purchase green electricity for our energy supply at our two 3,707 kWh. which support our sustainable direction. For this reason, we role. They provide information and a precise recommendation locations in Hamburg. By using climate-friendly energy from Energy sources FY kWh CO2 remain aware of our corporate consumption and consistently on the handling of any products purchased from us. Our trained 100% environmentally friendly sources, we avoid 158.7 tonnes emissions monitor it. Both energy consumption within our organisation employees are always available to answer questions. Close of attributable CO2 emissions annually compared with traditional in t and direct and indirect emissions play a fundamental role. cooperation with our suppliers enables us to help to develop electricity suppliers. environmentally friendly products that we can then offer directly Electricity 5,306 1,473,890 757 The transparent presentation of these figures confirms our to our customers. Our proximity to our customers means we Energy consumption amounts to about 2,122 kWh per employee. District heating 2,219 616,385 162 intention and our aspiration to reduce our need for energy, water, can get a different take on the global market. In this way, we In comparison with the previous year, we have achieved a (for heating paper and other raw materials to the absolute minimum in order can weigh up where the demand for sustainable products is reduction of -15%. purposes) to reduce our ecological footprint. It is now possible for us to increasing and work specifically on customer requirements. Natural gas 789 219,294 44 reduce our consumption of energy and paper with the help of Energy sources FY kWh CO2 (for heating advanced technologies and by digitalizing processes. If there is the slightest suspicion of possible hazards that may emissions purposes) arise indirectly or directly from our products, we immediately in t Total 8,314 2,309,559 963 Learn from each other, develop together! inform our customers and suppliers in order to offer appropriate Electricity 1,221 339,152 174 alternatives and eliminate possible risks. District heating * Figures have been rounded off. Heating costs for Great Britain are included in the costs of electricity as heating is via the air-conditioning system. In terms of our customer and product responsibility, we consider (for heating 1,537 427,022 112 it our duty to provide information on the proper and safe handling purposes) Total 2,758 766,174 286 * Figures have been rounded off. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-4, 302-5 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 52 • Our environmental responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 53 • Our environmental responsibility GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Biesterfeld Group fleet, 2018* When voluntarily undertaking in 2014 to publish an annual The Biesterfeld Group fleet comprises 83 company vehicles that sustainability report, we decided to calculate our corporate CO2 meet the latest standards. emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol*) and the DIN EN ISO 14064 standard and compare Fuel type Total consumption Total consumption CO2 emissions these with the previous years. in litres in megajoules in t Diesel 150,773 5,575,570 496 Greenhouse gas emissions are divided into the following Petrol 17,530 580,873 50 categories: Total consumption 168,303 6,156,442 546 • Scope 1: a  ll emissions arising directly in the company * Figures have been rounded off; all vehicles registered to the Hamburg headquarters. • Scope 2:  all indirect emissions that companies incur by purchasing energy Means of transport by which employees travelled to work in Hamburg, 2018 The emission consumption of employees on their journey to the • Scope 3: all indirect emissions resulting from business activities workplace amounts to approx. 0.8 tons of CO2 per working year. but not associated with the procurement of energy. Compared to the previous year... This includes the following areas: freight transport, business trips, employee travel to the workplace Means of transport Journey to/from work in km CO2 emissions in t per workday and employee* per working year** Scopes 2 and 3 are relevant for our company and our activities, Bicycle 14 0 which we determine with the help of information from the GEMIS Long-distance train 102 10 database. Car 60 154 Local public transport 21 136 Total – 300 * Figures have been rounded off and specify the average distance per workday per employee. ** The emission values are calculated by multiplying the number of kilometres travelled. * Global standard for quantification, management and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 305-3 305-3 54 • Our environmental responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 55 • Our environmental responsibility Business trips across the Biesterfeld Group, 2018* Environmental indicators, 2018 Aeroplane Distance in km CO2 emissions in t per year Compared to the previous year 2017 and the base year 2014 International flights 3,718,689 229 Domestic flights 974,174 567 Type of emissions CO2 in t, 2018 CO2 in t, 2017 CO2 in t, 2014 Total 4,692,864 796 Scope 2 Energy consumption at 286 283 307 *Figures have been rounded off. the company headquarters Scope 3 546 586 436 Vehicle fleet Employees’ journeys to work Transport of goods across the Biesterfeld Group, 2018* 300 261 287 in Hamburg Business trips 796 636 614 Mode of transport Amount Average distance CO2 emissions in t in t in km per year Transport of goods 38,164 49,755 19,169 Road 182,532 530 4,857 Inland navigation We strive to keep our energy and emission consumption low. We a good balance between ecological and economic behaviour. In 35,009 11,111 13,300 vessels achieve this by using the latest technologies and continuously order to always offer our customers and suppliers the best Seagoing vessels 82,044 18,724 18,602 optimising our logistics departments, among other things. As an solutions and handle emissions consciously at the same time, Air freight 166 9,000 1,164 internationally active company that has integrated sustainability we have decided to offset our emissions caused by business Rail 8,414 760 241 into its corporate structure, we are constantly striving to maintain travel. More on this: Climate protection project in Malawi. * Figures have been rounded off; quantity and distances determined from the ERP system; the values​are based on Germany-related deliveries (incoming and outgoing). 305-3 305-3 56 • Our environmental responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 57 • Our environmental responsibility WE ARE HONEST AND FAIR! OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 58 • Our social responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 59 • Our social responsibility WE AT BIESTERFELD New hires by age group, 2018* Our employees form the core of our company. Up to 29 21 18 30-49 17 18 Their teamwork and commitment are prerequisites for the relationship can we convince our partners of our capabilities and 50 and over 5 5 sustainable economic growth of the Biesterfeld Group. They our professionalism as a well-rehearsed team. For this reason, Female Male embody our company and act according to the corporate values our employees are at the forefront of all future plans of the and the Biesterfeld culture. It goes without saying that everyone Biesterfeld Group because one of our core tasks as an employer acts in a morally and ethically responsible way and lives up to is to retain their experience and skills in the company and to the Biesterfeld Group’s social responsibility. maintain this knowledge. FOR US, EVERY New hires by region, 2018* Workforce by gender, 2018* EMPLOYEE IS Diversity as an integral component at Biesterfeld As a family business, we build on respectful cooperation. We can only maintain the satisfaction and trust of our employees We offer our employees attractive and performance-related UNIQUE IN by continuing to create a pleasant and safe working environment. remuneration as well as a large number of voluntary social 6 THEIR OWN WAY We do not tolerate discrimination in any form and see it as our benefits. Extensive further training offers and comprehensive 6 duty to respect and promote the diversity of our employees. company health management round off our responsible personnel Their individuality makes us unique together. management. We make no distinction between full-time and 15 81 866 part-time employees or fixed-term and open-ended contracts, Mutual respect and integrity are the cornerstones of Biesterfeld’s because each company employee should feel comfortable and 54 corporate management. Because only through a healthy employee highly valued. 428 438 Germany Europe excl. Germany Asia America Female Male * Headcount: Number of employees. 102-41, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 401-1, 404-2 102-8, 401-1, 404-2 60 • Our social responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 61 • Our social responsibility TRAINING AND FURTHER DEVELOPMENT Working together and learning from each other. We promote the specialist and personal skills of our employees The Biesterfeld Group attaches great importance to training and and support them in pursuing their interests and abilities. All further education. We always strive to ensure that experience managers regularly exchange information with their employees and expertise acquired is retained within the organisation and in the form of staff appraisals, and can thus determine their passed on to new employees. individual training needs. We offer a wide range of training opportunities to meet all needs. This includes in-house training In addition to classroom training, we offer our employees online courses, departmental training courses or workshops with training. With the help of our e-learning tool, we can train external providers. Independent to the development interviews, employees specifically and ensure that all target groups are our internal training catalogue is available to all employees to adequately informed. A major advantage of this training offer is offer them the opportunity to participate in training courses and that employees can complete their training flexibly, whatever workshops. There is a wide range of internal training topics. For their location. example, specialist training courses such as Compliance or Sales Management are offered, or IT training courses on the correct We are there every step of the way use of MS Excel and SAP. In addition, there are many methodology We attach particular importance to the support and promotion of training courses, for example on successful teamwork or on young talent to ensure sustainable development of our company. functions of an international company and teaches them step-byThe enthusiasm that young people show in starting their careers correct feedback techniques. Depending on the field of activity, For this reason, we offer junior staff joining us with opportunities step how to assume responsibility. During their training, they with us is testament to how good we are as a training company the training courses are delivered either by our experienced such as in-house training, dual courses of study or scholarships. will work in various fields and will be able to consolidate and and to our solid reputation for nurturing junior staff. Taken as an employees or external instructors. Our trainees are fully integrated into all our work processes right apply their theoretical knowledge. We always strive to ensure annual average, we had 15 apprentices in the company in 2018. from the start. This is what sets us apart as a training company. that our trainees see themselves as an important part of the Six graduates began their careers in our company. This gives them the best possible overview of the activities and Biesterfeld Group. 102-8, 401-2, 404-2 102-8, 401-2, 404-2 62 • Our social responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 63 • Our social responsibility BIESTERFELD SOCIAL BENEFITS We offer ergonomic office furniture, such as height-adjustable Our social benefits at a glance tables and back-supporting chairs. We also pay the cost of As satisfaction increases, so does productivity. screen-working glasses if these are required after an eye test. We offer annual eye tests and flu vaccinations at our Hamburg headquarters. Ergonomic Accident insurance The value we give to our employees is demonstrated by the Working flexibly and progressively Every employee has the option to take advantage of these offers office furniture many services we offer and continually expand. We consistently We trust our employees and offer them the freedom they need free of charge. strive to create an environment in which our employees feel to go about their work. Flexible working hours and working A GOOD comfortable and enjoy their work. Fairness, openness and mutual from home options are part of our working models. Our Our employees can benefit from a massage service for relaxation respect play an important role in this. working parents in particular benefit from this. We promote the and to reduce stress. Every week, external masseurs come in to Subsidised Training Annual BALANCE IS Profit sharing compatibility of work and family and believe that there are many offer their services at our Hamburg sites. canteen opportunities company party AN ABSOLUTE With this in mind, we have a wide range on offer: opportunities, especially in today’s world, to achieve a work-life MUST balance without neglecting the family. We are not only sporting in work hours Taking care of people’s physical well-being There are many activities outside the daily office routine to Flexible Biesterfeld employees at our company headquarters have a Health first encourage social contact between Biesterfeld employees. Our Health working canteen with fresh, healthy and varied dishes for different tastes. The health of our employees is very important to us. We therefore employees can prove their team spirit and face challenges schemes hours A 50% subsidy allows employees to eat cheaply and return to always take care to prevent possible risks that could arise from together at various sporting events. Whether at running events work well nourished. working activities. such as the Hamburg MOPO Team Relay Race, the Hamburg Possibility Mobile Triathlon or the annual Hamburg EuroEyes CYCLASSICS. In Pension Travel subsidies of working massage In addition, our employees receive snacks at Easter and Christmas Our office spaces are equipped with state-of-the-art technology addition to this, we have an arrangement with a fitness studio schemes from home service as well as cool drinks, fruit or ice cream by way of refreshment which meet the latest safety standards. We regularly inspect the meaning our employees in Germany have the opportunity to on hot summer days. workplace to maintain these standards. balance out their daily work routine in a fitness studio at a reduced monthly fee. Kitchenettes Sports with drinks competitions on all floors 401-2, 404-2 401-2, 404-2 64 • Our social responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 65 • Our social responsibility OUR SOCIAL COMMITMENT KEY EMPLOYEE FIGURES, 2018 We are committed to stretching the boundaries By employment contract* Female Male Total Headcount in % of our own business activities. Temporary contract 6 8 14 2.3 Permanent contract 300 291 591 97.7 Along these lines, we support a number of carefully selected Parental leave* Female Male Total Headcount in % organisations and sponsor charitable projects. We donate the profits from our annual golf tournament to children’s aid Entitled to parental leave 18 10 28 4.6 organisations. Actually took it 19 7 26 4.3 Here, the donations go towards helping children from dis­ Returned to work with advantaged families and preventing them from being margina­ a period of employment 15 7 22 3.6 lised by society, for example by providing clothing or paying for of at least 12 months trips and excursions. Return rate in reporting period 79 % 100 % 85 % We also took part in this year’s Dragon Boat Race. The proceeds from this event will be donated to two Hamburg clubs that Trainees** Female Male Total support needy children in the Hamburg metropolitan region. Apprentices offered positions 4 2 6 In addition, instead of sending customers Christmas presents, * Figures apply to the locations considered in the report. we divert the money we would have spent to our chosen causes. ** Values only apply to Germany. 102-8, 401-3 66 • Our social responsibility BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 67 • Our social responsibility TODAY WE ARE ALREADY THINKING OF TOMORROW OUR FUTURE PERSPECTIVE 68 • Our future perspective BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 69 • Our future perspective OUR FUTURE PERSPECTIVE To recognise what’s important today, you need to look to tomorrow. For this reason, sustainable business practice is very important to us and is the focus of our interest. We aim to gradually introduce further measures in the future our IT structure within the organisation. For example, all company with the aim of reducing our ecological footprint. This includes, locations will receive a uniform SAP system. We plan to expand for example, digitizing processes in order to reduce our paper our E-learning tool further in order to train our employees on consumption and waste. In addition, we want to save energy and company-relevant topics such as compliance, sustainability and emissions with innovative and efficient technologies. product-specific information. We want to make the training process simpler and clearer using single sign-on and hierarchy We must preserve what is good and venture something new in assignment. In future, we will also be able to use this E-learning order to be able to take Biesterfeld successfully into the future. tool to inform and train external partners such as suppliers or We will involve our employees even more actively in the future customers. planning of the Biesterfeld Group through a large number of projects and surveys, because their ideas and suggestions help Furthermore, we will become more involved in sustainable us to improve process flows and the design of the working initiatives while contributing to a healthier environment with our environment. commitment. It is our intention to find a healthy balance between long-standing proven methods and innovative approaches. We will continue to pursue our One Biesterfeld strategy with the aim of creating valuable synergies and promoting the The future in our sights, family tradition in our hearts. convergence of our business divisions. This will enable us to achieve better cooperation and initiate numerous innovative Our next sustainability report will be published in 2020. projects across business divisions. This also includes simplifying 70 • Our future perspective BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 71 • Our future perspective GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments Continued 102-10 P. 12-13 GRI content index in accordance with the “Core” option. The For the GRI Content Index Service, GRI Services reviewed that GRI 102: Significant changes in the organisation P. 20-21 Sustainability Report was checked internally and not submitted the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for General Disclosures 2016 and its supply chain for external review. all disclosures included align with the appropriate sections in the 102-11 P. 25-27 body of the report. The service was performed on the German Precautionary approach and P. 34-35 version of the report. precautionary principle P. 25 102-12 P. 28 External initiatives P. 35 GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments 102-13 P. 35 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Membership in associations and interest groups GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-14 P. 6-7 GRI 102: 102-1 P. 5 Statement from the senior General Disclosures 2016 Name of the organisation decision-maker 102-2 P. 14-15 102-16 P. 6-7 Activities, brands, products and services P. 18-19 Values, principles, standards and P. 10-11 102-3 P. 17 codes of conduct P. 20 Location of HQ P. 22 102-4 P. 16-17 P. 26-27 Location of operations P. 38-43 102-5 P. 10 102-18 P. 10-11 Nature of ownership and legal form P. 12-13 Governance structure P. 80 102-40 P. 23 102-6 P. 14-19 List of stakeholder groups Markets served 102-41 P. 60 102-7 P. 4 Collective labour agreements Scale of the organisation P. 14-17 102-42 P. 23-25 102-8 P. 4 Identification and selection of Information on permanent employees P. 14-15 stakeholders and other employees P. 61-63 102-43 P. 23-25 P. 67 Approach to stakeholder commitment 102-9 P. 21 Supply chain 102-55, 102-56 102-55 72 • GRI content index BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 73 • GRI content index GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments Continued 102-44 P. 22-25 KEY TOPICS GRI 102: Important issues and concerns raised General Disclosures 2016 102-45 P. 16-17 Economic Standard Entities included in the consolidated P. 48-49 GRI 103: 103-1 P. 46-47 financial statements Management approach 2016 Explanation of the main topic and 102-46 P. 5 its delimitation Procedure for determining the content of P. 28-31 103-2 P. 46-47 the report and the delimitation of topics The management approach and 102-47 P. 30-31 its components List of material themes 103-3 P. 46-47 102-48 P. 5 Assessment of the management Restatement of information P. 28-31 approach 102-49 P. 5 GRI 201: 201-1 P. 49 Changes in reporting P. 28-31 Economic performance 2016 Direct economic value generated and 102-50 P. 5 distributed Reporting period P. 28-31 201-2 P. 34-35 102-51 P. 5 Financial implications of climate change P. 46-49 Date of most recent report P. 28-31 for the organisation and other risks and 102-52 P. 5 opportunities associated with climate Reporting cycle P. 28-31 change 102-53 P. 80 Environmental Standard Contact person for any questions GRI 103: 103-1 P. 52 on the report Management approach 2016 Explanation of the main topic and P. 54 102-54 P. 28 its delimitation Declaration on reporting in accordance 103-2 P. 52 with GRI standards The management approach and P. 54 102-55 P. 72-77 its components GRI content index 103-3 P. 52 102-56 P. 72 Assessment of the management P. 54 External audit approach 102-55 102-55 74 • GRI content index BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 75 • GRI content index GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments GRI 302: 302-1 P. 53 Continued 401-2 P. 60 Energy 2016 Energy consumption within the GRI 401: Company benefits offered only to fullP. 62-65 organisation Employment 2016 time employees but not to temporary or 302-3 P. 53 part-time employees Energy intensity 401-3 P. 67 P. 19 Parental leave 302-4 P. 36 GRI 404: 404-2 P. 60-65 Reduction of energy consumption P. 52-53 Education and Programmes to improve the skills of 302-5 P. 19 training 2016 employees and to provide transitional Reduction of energy requirements P. 36 assistance for products and services P. 52-53 GRI 414: 414-1 P. 34 GRI 305: 305-3 P. 54-57 Social evaluation of New suppliers assessed on the basis of P. 42 Emissions 2016 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) suppliers 2016 social criteria emissions (Scope 3) 414-2 P. 34-41 GRI 308: 308-1 P. 34 Negative social impacts in the supply Environmental assessment New suppliers that were screened P. 42 chain and measures taken of suppliers 2016 using environmental criteria Social Standards 103-1 P. 60 GRI 103: Explanation of the main topic and Management approach 2016 its delimitation 103-2 P. 60 The management approach and its components 103-3 P. 60 Assessment of the management approach GRI 401: 401-1 P. 61 Employment 2016 New hires and employee turnover 102-55 102-55 76 • GRI content index BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 77 • GRI content index 78 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2018 79 PUBLICATION DETAILS Published by Biesterfeld AG Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg GERMANY Management board: Thomas Arnold (Chairman), Carsten Harms, Christian Wolfsohn Chairman of the supervisory board: Dirk J. Biesterfeld Headquarters: Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht), HRB 90396 VAT ID no. DE 813 983 617 Responsible Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg GERMANY CEOs: Jens-Uwe Pietrock, Christian Wolfsohn Headquarters: Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht), HRB 102258 VAT ID no. DE 2565 2165 9 General queries Further information is available on our Corporate Communications Department website at: www.biesterfeld.com E-mail: communications@biesterfeld.com Tel.: +49 40 32008-374 © 2018 Biesterfeld AG Reprints, including excerpts, are only possible with the Sustainability relations publisher’s written permission and must be furnished Khojesta Rahbari with the image and text reference “Biesterfeld AG”. E-mail: k.rahbari@biesterfeld.com Tel.: +49 40 32008-780 102-5, 102-53
