03 Introduction 33 Corporate Governance 108 GRI Appendix 05 Letter from the Management 47 Risk Management 137 GRI Content Index 06 About Us 62 Financial Value Creation 11 Business Model 75 Social Value Creation 25 Transformative Role 101 Environmental Value Creation The purpose of the 2018 Annual Report is to disclose to The economic and financial data complies with Brazilian shareholders, investors, employees, customers, government Corporation Law and with the rules issued by the Brazilian representatives and society how the Bank operates, how Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) and the Central we manage our business and how this affects economic, Bank of Brazil (Bacen). The balances presented refer to the BB environmental and social outcomes. Conglomerate performance, in accordance with the financial statements available on the Investor Relations website The aim is to demonstrate value creation, in line with the Integrated (https://ri.bb.com.br). The information on social and Report principles and through the results achieved over the period environmental disclosures refers to the Multiple Bank, which in response to the sustainability challenges – Agenda 30 BB. contributed 79.5% of operating income in 2018. Learn more in the Business Model Chapter The Report is divided into chapters that reflect on the business model, on Banco do Brasil’s transformative role in society and also on aspects of corporate governance and risk management. Subsequently, the report presents information on financial, social and relevance are trademarks and environmental value creation. of the information published Published in electronic form since 2010, this report was prepared in our Report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option, and audited by KPMG Independent Auditors. The GRI disclosures markers can be seen throughout the text and in more detail in the GRI Appendix. Employees at the BB Headquarters building in Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 3 Relevant Topics Alignment with Trends In 2018 the materiality was reviewed, highlighting the Productive development, topics considered to be most relevant for management. entrepreneurship and social The Report is in alignment with the major global trends See more in the GRI Appendix, pages 111 to 117. in the disclosure of social, environmental and financial and financial inclusion results. In management, the journey towards integrated thinking has continued. This is reflected in the updating Promotion of diversity of the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB in 2018, in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The and gender and race Progress in representation importance of our transformative role is demonstrated by the products and services that promote the transition to a governance practices Green and Inclusive Economy. Development of The GRI Content Index correlates with the 10 principles of Management of non-financial human capital the Global Compact and the 17 SDGs of the UN’s Global Agenda 2030. and/or emerging risks For questions or suggestions regarding this publication, Ethics and antiplease contact us via the following e-mails ri@bb.com.br Innovations in the financial corruption practices and sustentabilidade@bb.com.br. sector and anticipation of trends Transition to a Green and Customer satisfaction Inclusive Economy Improvement of Management of sociovariable remuneration environmental risks 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 4 As a reflection of our socially and environmentally responsible performance, we were considered the most sustainable bank in the world by the 2019 Global 100 ranking conducted by Corporate Knights, in an announcement made at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. We have maintained our listing in the New York Stock Exchange’s Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 102-14 Emerging Markets portfolio, and for the fourteenth consecutive year on the B3’s Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE). We have chosen 2018 as the Relationship Year. We believe that Revenue from services provided and bank fees increased by 5.8% These achievements demonstrate that we are on the right track the transformation and complexity of the business environment in the year, demonstrating the success of the relationship strategy with regards to social and environmental impacts in the activities will intensify over the coming years. Our focus on improving and specialized advisory services for customers, especially and business management and that, through Agenda 30 BB, we our customer’s experience and investing in innovation will through the adoption of new technologies. This result is expressed are transforming challenges into opportunities in order to create continue to guide our operations. Service quality is fundamental in the Adjusted Efficiency Ratio, which reached 38.5%, and the value for shareholders, customers, employees and society. to customer satisfaction, as it contributes to building trust, Capital Ratio improvement , which reached 18.86% in December, generating business opportunities and increasing profitability. representing 10.0% of core capital. In 2019, our drivers will be to increase business volume with new customers (mainly the young public), enchantment with the BB We ended 2018 with adjusted net income of R$13.5 billion, Throughout the period, employees and senior management brand, innovation, and profitability. We will focus on modernizing an increase of R$ 2.4 billion or 22.2% over 2017. The Return representatives have participated in a broad process of reviewing the structure and on customer satisfaction. We intend to on Equity (ROE) increased to 13.9%, compared to 12.3% in sustainability challenges and defining actions, indicators and sustainably generate more and more business, generating value the previous year. Part of this result was achieved through the targets for the Sustainability Plan Agenda 30 BB 2019-2021. for our shareholders. strict control of administrative expenses – with an increase In line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), these of 0.6% in the period, well below the 3.75% inflation rate commitments favor the dissemination of the topic within the We appreciate our employees’ dedication and commitment, as well measured by the IPCA Consumer Price Index and the company and the adoption of socio-environmental criteria in as the trust of our customers and society. drop in Provision for Bad Debts (Provisão para Créditos de practices and business, contributing to the transition to a Green Liquidação Duvidosa PCLD) expenditure of R$5.9 billion (a and Inclusive Economy. We also emphasize our commitment to the Rubem de Freitas Novaes 29.2% decrease on 2017). 10 Principles of the Global Compact. CEO of Banco do Brasil 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 5 We are Banco do Brasil S.A. (BB), a privately-owned, publicly-traded corporation with a mixed economy, controlled by the Federal Government. We were the first bank to operate in the country and also the first company to hold a public share offering in the Brazilian capital market. In our 210 years of existence we have made an active contribution to Brazil’s development. Our values are the guiding principles of the organization: Customer Centricity, Innovation, Ethics, Sense of Ownership, Efficiency, Reliability and Public Spirit. 102-1 102-5 102-16 We are part of B3’s (Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão) Novo Mercado and StateOwned Enterprises Governance Program (Programa Destaque em Present in Governança de Estatais – PDGE) and also presence on B3’s Corporate Sustainability Index (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial – ISE) and in the emerging markets portfolio of the New York Stock of municipalities Exchange’s Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). These outcomes are the result of the Management’s commitment to transparency, acin Brazil countability, equity and socio-environmental responsibility. We are present in 99.6% of Brazilian municipalities, with 65,700 service points and our 4,722 branches represent a 21.9% share of the National Financial System. The overseas network consists of 26 units located in 17 countries. We also have agreements with financial institutions abroad to operate as correspondents though 875 banks in 107 countries. 102-4 102-6 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 6 Domestic Presence 102-7 International presence since 1941 Number of branches: North: 300 Northeast:1,014 Midwest: 459 N Southeast: 2,015 South: 934 NE MW Number of employees: SE Loan Portfolio: +3.0% North: 4,259 S Fee Income: +5.8% Assets: Northeast: 16,116 Midwest: 16,808 R$1.42 trillion Market share of agribusiness: 57.4% Market share of loans: 18.5% Southeast: 42,586 Adjusted Net Income: CET1 Ratio: 10.0% South: 17,096 R$13.5 billion Shareholders’ Equity: R$102.25 billion Overseas: 24 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 7 Main Indicators 102-7 In 2018 we implemented a socio-environmental rating system in order to understand, evaluate and monitor our customer’s pracR$189.6 billion tices. It is used as a socio-environmental risk management tool. green business balance Level 1 Seal, with maximum score on the Governance Index (IGWe support initiatives to mitigate climate SEST) of the Secretariat of Coordination and Governance change, such as the Low Carbon Agriculture Agro Energia Program: aims to stimulate the use of of State Enterprises (Secretaria de Coordenação e Program (Programa de Agricultura de Baixo renewable energy in rural areas. The volume of funds Governança das Empresas Estatais – SEST). Carbono – Programa ABC), through which allocated via the program in the 2017/2018 agricultural season was of the order of R$512 million. positive financial implications are identified The Integrated Governance and with the contracting of R$1.7 billion in Management Index (Índice Integrado Services provided to approximately 1 million family farmers operations in 2018, with contracting costs of de Governança e Gestão – IGG) of the through National Program to Strengthen Family Farming R$6 million. Brazilian Federal Court of Accounts’ (Programa Nacional de Fortalecimento da Agricultura Familiar (Tribunal de Contas da União – TCU) – Intensification of efforts to incentive the – Pronaf) in 96.9% of Brazilian municipalities, indicating the highest score of the 488 participants. use of BB Code resulted in a 73% increase in coverage of the program across Brazil. the number of Internet accesses with BB Code We created the Management The Banco do Brasil Cultural Center (CCBB) hosted 315 PF (Personal) and 306% with BB Code PJ Remuneration Policy, cultural initiatives, with 4.36 million visitors and (Business). In 2018, we surpassed the approved by the R$1.2 billion return in spontaneous media. mark of 32 million customers Board of Directors. with registered biometric. R$53.4 million in funding provided through Banco do Brasil Report on the Brazilian Code of Corporate Governance Development of criteria that allowed the construction of the bases of social Fundação Banco do Brasil (FBB). (Report) prepared in accordance with the and environmental losses of instructions of the Brazilian Securities operational and credit risks. and Exchange Commission (CVM). 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 8 Main Indicators 102-7 R$125.7 billion in assets were Leader in the digital accounts segment. The expansion of Conta Fácil meant that we reached the milestone of 2.7 The digital transformation subjected to positive screening, which strategy contributed to reducing paper million new accounts opened. The Conta Fácil MEI 100% considers socio-environmental and consumption by 259 metric tons. digital account benefited 25,756 microentrepreneurs. corporate governance aspects. The Innovation Incentive Program (Programa de Incentivo à Inovação – Pensa BB) gathered 18,450 ideas in its fifth year. 79.0% of all Total electricity consumption transactions took Structuring of the Retail relationship model, reduced by 1.8% in 2018 R$1.6 billion of resources was invested in funds with place using cell phones currently present in 22% of socio-environmental characteristics. and the internet. business units. 102,000 printer cartridges refilled (corresponding to 99% of the Six million users of the total used in 2018), savings of R$54.4 million. 57.4% market share in the Minhas Finanças (My Finance) financing of agribusiness. application, with 937,323 family 1,848 units have deployed a Selective Waste Collection budgets created and average (Recycling) Program. incentivized savings R$6 billion of R$1,000 per customer. in payments to suppliers, Total water consumption reduced by 1.5% in 2018. Social Business (balance in portfolio) – Accessibility Credit – R$17.3 million of which R$162.4 million; Student Funding (Fies) – R$41.6 billion; Minha was paid to six suppliers Casa Minha Vida (MCMV) – R$22 billion; Guided Productive 83.6% of based abroad. In the first half of 2018, 50.1% (2,718) of the BB units assessed met the target set for the Ecological Footprint Index (Índice Microcredit (MPO) R$234.8 million; National Program to satisfied employees. Pegada Ecológica – IPE). In the second half of the year, 46.1% Strengthen Family Farming (Pronaf) – R$44.1 billion. (2,488 units) reached the target. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 9 Awards T  he B3’s Carbon Efficient G  artner Eye on B  est Ombudsman in E xcellence in customer In 2018, we received a number of Index (Índice Carbono Innovation Awards 2018: Brazil Awards: received relations: the Customer awarded second place in this competition awards in several categories of this Service Department (SAC) ranked awards, recognition and certifications that Eficiente – ICO2): the Bank involving 200 financial institutions distinction promoted by the Brazilian second in the Innovation in Processes remains on the ICO2, a portfolio of attest to our commitment to sustainable from a range of countries for the use Association of Customer-Company category of the XVIII ABT Award. IBrX-50 companies that adopt good of Big Data Analytics technology, Relations (Associação Brasileira development and proficient relationships practices with regards to GHG emissions. BB was the only finalist outside of Relações Empresa Cliente – Abrarec). the United States-Canada axis. P  ublic procurement: with stakeholders. Highlights include: recognized in two categories during T  op of Mind in the G  uia Exame de the 13th Brazilian Brokers Congress G lobal 100 – 100 of Banks category: recognized  uia Época Negócios G Sustentabilidade (Congresso Brasileiro de Pregoeiros) in Foz de Iguaçu for the management of the world’s leading as the most-remembered brand in the Banking category, this position 360°: best bank in the country, as 2018 Award: best company the Licitações-e (e-Procurement) portal. well as being considered the best companies in has been maintained uninterruptedly company in the People Dimension, for water management. for the 28 years that the Datafolha For the 10th consecutive year sustainability: recognized as well as first place in the Banking as the most sustainable bank in the award has been running. sector in the Corporate Governance P  rêmio Relatório Ourocard was considered and Future Vision Dimensions. the Card of Choice of Brazilian world in the Corporate Knights (CK) T  op of Mind HR: in the Bancário (Banking Consumers according to a survey ranking released at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Corporate Education and E-learning G  uia Você S/A’s Best Report Award) 2018: conducted by Cardmonitor and category, sponsored by Grupo won awards for three cases of digital Instituto Medida Certa. Editorial Fênix, with the support of the Companies: listed among the 150 technologies (foreign exchange, 100%  ow Jones Sustainability D Folha de São Paulo newspaper. Best Companies in the guide, conducted digital credit card and Agrobot). L  earning & Performance: Index (DJSI): in 2018 BB was by Você S/A in partnership with Fundação Game DesEnvolver was one of the Instituto de Administração – FIA/USP. listed in the Emerging Markets portfolio 4  th most valuable E-finance 2018 Award: award-winning cases in this award of this New York Stock Exchange Index. promoted by MicroPower, with support brand in Brazil: in the M  elhores Empresas 22 winning cases in 10 awards categories. from the Brazilian Association of Human ranking of the most valuable brands F TSE4 Good Index in Brazil in 2018, published by Brand para Trabalhar (Best Resources (Associação Brasileira de Recursos Humanos – ABRH). Series: BB was listed for the 3 rd DX and Meio & Mensagem. Companies to Work for): E  xternal Quality consecutive year on this London Stock 2nd place in the ranking provided Certification: the Internal E  conomic projections: Exchange Index, which assesses B  razil’s most reliable by the jobs platform Indeed. Audit was granted certification by the During 2018, BB was listed for and classifies the companies with the best environmental, social brand in the Banking Institute of Internal Auditors (The IIA). nine consecutive months in the Top and governance practices. category: leader in this B  est case of a Corporate 5 of the Central Bank of Brazil’s B  oas Práticas na Gestão ranking for economic projections. ranking for the 15 consecutive th University: in Educorp, promoted Corporate Sustainability time, conducted by Seleções by the Human Resources Academy. da Ética (Good Practices Magazine and Instituto Datafolha. I nformation Technology: Index (Índice de in Ethics Management): IT cases were recognized by the awards won awards in the contest promoted Agilidade Brasil 2018 – Agile Trends and Sustentabilidade by the Public Ethics Commission Tela Viva Móvel 2018 – Mobile Time. Empresarial ISE): BB was (Comissão de Ética Pública – CEP). 2nd place in the Banks category of the listed for the 14th consecutive year on 100+Inovadoras no Uso de TI (Innovators this B3 – Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão index. in IT Use) Award, promoted by IT Mídia. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 10 12 Domestic and International Macroeconomic Context 15 Corporate Strategy ECBB 2019–2023 18 Sustainability Strategy 24 Value Creation Business Model Transformative Role Corporate Governance Risk Management Financial Value Creation Social Value Creation Environmental Value Creation  Domestic and International Macroeconomic Context The international environment became more challenging in 2018, with In the domestic scenario, the optimism shown at the beginning of the continuation of the US’s contractionary monetary policy and the the year in relation to the expected economic performance did not trade war between the US and China, among other reasons, resulting materialize, partly because of the attrition caused by the truck drivers’ in adverse effects on global economic performance. In Europe, fiscal strike in May and uncertainties regarding the presidential elections. uncertainties in Italy and negotiations for the United Kingdom’s exit from These events caused a strong depreciation of the Brazilian Real the European Union (Brexit) have also contributed to increasing risk against the major currencies (including emerging currencies). Exchange aversion in global financial markets. volatility in the second half of the year was mainly associated with the domestic electoral process, worsening international financial conditions In this context, concerns about the degree of vulnerability of and greater risk aversion. After the election results the exchange rate emerging economies has increased, triggering episodes of stress showed an important trend towards appreciation. in countries with more fragile fiscal and external accounts (Turkey and Argentina). In the monetary field, despite the adverse supply shock that resulted from the truck drivers’ strike, consumer inflation showed The year also witnessed a fall in the prices of the main metal largely benign behavior, partially reflecting the fall in oil prices in the commodities and crude oil associated, mainly, with fears about the international market in the second half of the year, as well as the prospect of cooling international demand. The trade war between reduction in electricity tariffs. In this environment, the Central Bank China and the United States exerted additional negative influence on continued with its policy of monetary easing, with the SELIC rate these markets. (Sistema Especial de Liquidação e Custodia) reaching its lowest level ever (6.50% in the year). However, there were some notable positives, such as the strengthening of North American natural gas and steel prices as a Even without the Brazilian economic growth reaching expectations, result of the increase in import tariffs for the products. Although the the public accounts were a positive surprise, with primary deficit below main agricultural product prices showed a slight upward trend in the target defined by the Federal Government in the budget bill. Thus, The Central Bank continued with its international markets in the first half of the year, the main agricultural preliminary estimates of the government’s gross debt to GDP ratio policy of monetary easing, with the component commodity price index ended 2018 at a level slightly fell by more than three percentage points to end the year at 77.5%. In below that seen at the end of 2017. relation to the indicator, the new government has already given clear Selic rate reaaching its lowest ever level signals that it will seek to reverse the trend of raising public spending through a series of reforms, mainly to social security. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 12 Patterns of demographic behavior have and cities) and presents challenges related Challenges and Opportunities changed in Brazil as the result of new to the organization and infrastructure of these In our most likely scenario (Base Scenario), we logistics infrastructure, which could generate a dynamics: changes in life expectancy and birth environments, influencing the emergence of expect the gradual normalization of monetary positive multiplier effect on several sectors and rate, changes in the structure of homes and new forms of interaction. policy in the United States to continue. In increase the productivity of the economy. the birth of the digital age mean that there is addition, we expect the Chinese economy’s a demand for solutions at an ever-increasing Regarding environmental issues, although growth to slow, but in a gradual and orderly From the fiscal perspective, we expect that speed, in particular for solutions that simply, the typical financial sector activities are not manner (soft landing). Possible challenges the reforms under discussion in the National immediately and securely meet the needs of directly related to the use or transformation arise with the potential shifting of this scenario Congress, both of a macroeconomic and a the consumer market. of resources and raw materials linked to towards a more adverse environment, where the microeconomic nature, will move forwards ecosystem services, financial institutions do slowdown in the major economies becomes more in order to bring government accounts back The intensive use of new technologies is represent an important link in the productive chaotic, at a time when the traditional measures into balance. A broader agenda of economic facilitating personalization in the interaction chain, since they are responsible for financing used to stimulate demand have already been progress should contribute to unlocking the between companies and their consumers on a a wide variety of sectors and activities that are exhausted. In this environment, risk aversion business environment, attracting foreign capital level never before seen. With rapid and diffuse directly responsible for the use of these natural and volatility in international financial markets and enabling strong and sustained growth of changes in the customer profile, it is increasingly resources. In this scenario, actions must would have very negative effects on emerging the Brazilian economy. The risk to this positive crucial to segment and deepen understanding be based on the joint responsibility that the economies, especially those with less solid domestic outlook is associated, on the one hand, of the characteristics of the different publics that bank has in guaranteeing that the enterprises economic foundations. with the external environment deteriorating and, interact with companies. It is worth noting that supported do not cause environmental damage on the other hand, with the failure to implement the process of concentration of the population that negatively affects the whole of society. In the domestic environment, we expect the the reform agenda. in urban environments advances every year economy to resume a trajectory of sustained (including small and medium-sized towns Large financial corporations have sought to growth, with controlled inflation, historically low Over the coming years we will witness substantial balance social, environmental and economic interest rates and greater dynamism in the credit changes to the social environment. In addition aspects in the choice of projects that they market, however, this remains conditional on the to issues relating to demographics (new family support, and in the socio-environmental, progress of the reform agenda, especially in the arrangements, an aging population, urbanization) Large financial legal and voluntary criteria adopted for credit fiscal sphere. As a result, household consumption and people’s behavior (intensive use of corporations have analysis, mitigating risks related to these would be sustained by the improved confidence technology, conscious consumption, consumer sought to balance social, aspects in their operations. of economic agents and the expectation of a empowerment), we should draw attention to gradual recovery in the jobs market. On the the reinvention of the concept of work, not only environmental and investment side, we have positive expectations through technology, but also as the result of economic aspects regarding investments in transportation and demographic and cultural factors. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 13 The Scenario in the Financial Industry The year saw many legal and regulatory changes implemented by the Companies, carrying out transactions with their own funds, or as Moreover, with the prospect of structurally low basic interest rates in the Central Bank, based on a set of measures (Agenda BC+) that were Personal Lending Companies, targeting financial intermediation through coming years, the tendency is for bank spreads to continue to reduce planned and designed to reduce bank spreads, decrease banking the peer-to-peer model. In addition, at the end of the year fintechs in gradually over time. To maintain their sustainability in this increasingly concentration and stimulate competitiveness between financial institutions. Brazil were approved to use a 100% foreign capital contribution, only challenging environment, banks must continue to improve by seeking to requiring authorization from the Central Bank. encourage debt repayment, improve guarantees, reduce administrative The first change occurred on the first day of the year, when the Long costs and increase productivity. In addition to these elements, the Term Interest Rate (Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo – TJLP) – a financing Structural changes to the banking system and historically low interest expectation of changes to the positive credit history law should indexer originating from Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES) – was rate contributed to the reduction of bank spreads during 2018. A decline contribute to improve debt repayment rates and influence the pricing of replaced by the Long Term Rate (Taxa de Longo Prazo – TLP), with in total defaults on payments in the Brazilian National Financial System lending operations within the scope of the SFN. the aim of reducing government subsidies to the private sector. In the (Sistema Financeiro Nacional – SFN) during the past year was also part of wake of these changes, there followed other changes to rules governing this process. These events induced a strong movement among traditional important products, such as bank overdrafts and credit cards. In general, banks, especially the largest financial institutions, towards improving in the case of both products the banks were obliged to offer their processes and efficiency and increasing investments in technology. customers better conditions to reduce the cost of debt, either through payment in installments or by offering more affordable lines of credit. The competitive backdrop over the coming years should mean that the trend encouraged by recent regulatory changes to increase competition Throughout the year the authorities also introduced a number of measures and reduce banking spreads will continue. In addition, traditional banks Structural changes to to simplify and improve compulsory reserve deposit rules. Although initially will be pressured to accelerate the technological and operational they have not significantly reduced the effective reserve ratio, they have transformation of their processes in order to compete with nonthe banking system and contributed by simplification, transparency and lower compliance costs, and traditional competitors (fintech companies) and retain their customers. historically low interest will certainly contribute to reducing bank spreads in the future. rate contributed to the In this scenario, the major banks will face the challenge of balancing size In the field of new competitors, the increase in the use of technology by (maintaining market share and scale) with flexibility in processes and the reduction of bank spreads customers has continued and Fintechs have gained even more space modernity of their brand. To do so, they will need to overcome a range in this environment. These were previously only a threat to the means of challenges including disruptive technologies, new competitors and of payment business, but have now become competitors in the same increasingly high consumer expectations. Some existing technologies, arena as the major banks through the regulation of fintech lending such as Big Data, Business Intelligence, Everything as a Service, and companies. In 2018, they were permitted to act as Direct Lending artificial intelligence, will guide the working environment and the way companies will do business in the future. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 14 Megatrends 102-15  Corporate Strategy ECBB 2019–2023 Super Consumer Urban World Future of Work Behavioral 102-21 102-29 One size does not fit all The population Work is being reinvented, not Design – customer profiles are concentration in urban only by technology, but also The relationship between In 2018, the Corporate Strategy (Estratégia changing and evolving into environments advances by demographic and cultural design and behavior is a niche and personalized culture driven by every year and, besides bringing to the fore factors. The work model will be transformed increasingly important in the era of technological Corporativa BB – ECBB) for the period enhancement of human capabilities. Artificial data analysis. In the future, consumers will be challenges related to the organization and in phases, firstly to a more independent 2019–2023 was reviewed through a able to choose to monetize their personal data infrastructure of these environments which economy (based on freelancers who provide intelligence, robots and other technologies are must be improved with intelligent technology services through temporary placements) and becoming more and more present in everyday systematic process that included the instead of exchanging it for free services (e.g. Facebook, Gmail). While this provides greater and public-private partnerships – this then to a machine-based economy, driven life and entering spaces that were once the active participation of shareholders, provokes behavioral changes in society. This by artificial intelligence, robotics, and human exclusive domain of humans. Artificial intelligence freedom of choice, this digital maturity reduces including employees, internal leadership, privacy and raises doubts about the security highlights the importance of reconsidering augmentation. This element, added to the enables customization on a level never before of data management and the applicability the physical presence of service providers effect of the approval of Brazilian labor reform, seen. Companies can profit from this trend by representatives of entities linked to us, of General Data Protection Regulation and influences the emergence of new forms will force companies to rethink concepts of increasing the level of consumer engagement customers, shareholders and market analysts. (GDPR) in Brazil. Agents are constantly of interaction with customers. occupation and employment, with impacts for and loyalty. On the other hand, consumers’ fears exposed, increasing reputational risks. This businesses, governments and society. and prejudices about technology can become environment demands constant attention due a barrier to innovation. Companies should The strategy review sought to preserve the emphasize what consumers stand to lose by to the multitude of information sources. principles of simplification and efficiency, as not adopting new technologies and design new products and services by looking at the different well as the emphasis on customer experience, ECBB cultural and social contexts of each market. innovation and maximization of results. 2019–2023 The first phase of the drafting process for the ECBB 2019–2023 consisted of identifying critical megatrends and uncertainties Smart and preparing projected scenarios for Technology Convergence the financial industry and their impacts Use of these technologies Demographic of Industries will raise the level of insight Innovation is breaking down the on business. External factors (political, and decision making beyond the simple Changes Resources and Behavioral patterns have boundaries between industries. economic, social, technological, ecological interaction between connected items. This Sustainability changed as a result of new Disruptive technology companies are redesigning level of technology takes an asset, item industries and their production chains and revoDemographic, social and and legal) and industry-specific factors were of infrastructure or even transaction that demographic dynamics. Changes in life urban changes mean lutionizing traditional businesses. Large unmet expectancy and birth rate, changes in the analyzed in different dimensions (customers, is connected to the network, analyzes that discussions about the development customer needs make industries more vulnerable to structure of homes and the birth of the digital its information and makes the whole such convergence. Future competition will exist not technology, traditional competitors, new of smart cities and consumer behavior age mean that there is a demand for solutions system more intelligent and autonomous. so much between companies but between ecosysbecome more and more present. Given competitors, regulation and sustainability). This will even allow information systems at an ever-increasing speed, in particular tems. In this scenario, companies must develop the the importance of this issue there will be for solutions that simply, immediately and to detect malfunctions or suspicious ability to identify and select the right ecosystems in increasing pressure to develop investment securely meet consumer market needs. patterns and resolve them automatically. which to participate. projects related to sustainability. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 15 Uncertainties Of the studies that supported the ECBB Rate of Digital Participation of Human Resources Dynamics of Transformation New Competitors Management Model Competition With drafting process, it is worth highlighting the in Brazilian How will the new non-traditional in State-Owned New Competitors study of corporate sustainability, which covers Society competitors (fintechs/insurtechs, Organizations Will companies in the financial overarching aspects related to sustainable Will society continue to value traditional technology companies, etc.) participate in the The new dynamics of society requires a different industry structure their operations vertically (in customer service that prioritizes interpersonal National Financial System and what will be set of capabilities than those possessed today. In the form of holdings, for example) to fully meet finance, regulation, Environmental, Social and relationships or will it prefer a fully digital service their comparative importance? Will they have a addition, new professionals entering the job market the financial needs of society? Or will they work Governance (ESG) factors, climate change with a focus on convenience? Will the migration lasting role in the market or, together, overtake bring different career demands. State-owned in collaborative networks, so that the financial of the proportion of traditional individuals (Private traditional banks? organizations are subject to specific regulations and the systemic risks involved. needs of society will be met by various dispersed Individual or Legal Entity) to digital individuals that can be changed and that can limit or facilitate companies in the market (e.g. fintechs, insurtechs in the Brazilian market be more intense or will it their adaptability. and cooperatives)? Strategic discussions took place at our occur gradually? facilities in response to the possible scenarios presented, to identify the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT matrix) that would contribute to the drafting of the ECBB 2019–2023. ECBB Next, the strategic goals to be pursued in 2019–2023 the next five years were revised, distributed across the performance projections of the Strategic Map (Financial, Customers, Insurance Processes, People and Sustainability). Preferred Industry Options for Transformation Financing Through The dynamics and discussions for the Structures Market Rate of Direct Sales elaboration of the scenarios and reviewing of How will Brazilian society – both Recovery Transition Transition of the insurance industry large and medium-sized companies Rate Blockchain to Digital to direct sales models, enabled by the strategic goals took the form of surveys, and micro and small businesses – Issues such as How quickly Payment Methods digital channels that do not require analysis and planning workshops, at which finance its productive activity, and, the progress of the reform agenda, will Blockchain How will the payment structure the traditional intermediaries. If direct the participants were encouraged to reflect, consequently, demand surplus the balancing of public accounts technology spread of Brazilian society evolve: interaction between consumers and funding alternatives for investment: and the regaining of confidence are among large financial institutions? will it remain dependent on the insurers predominates then there will propose strategic alternatives and find areas via the traditional model of financial factors considered important for Will its use go so far as to increase physical environment (banknotes) be a breakdown in the current sales for differentiation. The ECBB 2019–2023 was intermediation or through the capital the market’s recovery. Given these operational efficiency and substantially for execution of transactions or will models (cooperation between an market, structured finance and factors, will the economic recovery reduce transaction costs? it be based exclusively on innovative insurer and a bank – bancassurance, or approved by the Board of Officers and by the project finance? be slow or accelerated? digital models? through specialized brokerage firms). Board of Directors. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 16 ECBB 2019–2023 Strategic Drivers The strategic drivers represent the goals pursued in the short, medium and long term and guide institutional decisions and actions. Customer Sustainability To be the company that provides the The focus will be on the provision of highThe focus is to improve our best experience for people and to value customer experience, prioritizing sustainability performance in the promote society’s development in an actions that will increase their satisfaction. economic, social and environmental innovative, efficient and sustainable way. The planning model was optimized dimensions, since the generation of for the markets in which we operate Financial sustainable returns in the long term The vision becomes a reality through the effective and, as of 2019, a business plan was We will prioritize growth of profitability, presupposes going beyond financial dissemination, alignment and execution of the adopted for each customer segment. expansion and diversification of revenue from issues and traditional risks. corporate strategy, at all organization levels, and The plans consist of strategic guidance service provision, improvement of operational the consequent fulfillment of the long-term strategic to help maximize the value delivered to efficiency, capital adjustments and the The corporate strategy guidelines are put into objectives contained in the Strategic Map. customers and contain market analysis, reduction of operating losses. practice in the day-to-day work of departments scenarios, value proposition by customer and employees through the other plans segment, business outlooks and results, People that make up the strategic architecture, the intended goals, and actions to enable We seek to develop the strategic skills budget and the induction mechanisms, which ECBB 2019–2023 the chosen strategy to become a reality. needed to meet the challenges identified guide the way forward. This set of drivers for the coming years, as well as allowing contributes to the attainment of our vision. Innovation provides greater alignment meritocracy to continue to guide our Likewise, there are short-, mediumand longin the Strategic Planning process succession processes so as to recognize term performance indicators to measure the between the potential and expectations and retain talent. achievement of strategic goals. for the operating markets, since it Customer Centricity allows better positioning and facilitates Processes The results are systematically monitored Innovation the implementation and monitoring We will continue to invest in digital by the responsible departments via the Ethics of the business strategies. transformation. Through this we have units’ strategy management and strategic Efficiency continuously improved our methods, products planning tools, as well as periodic Sense of Ownership and communication channels to make reports to the governing bodies. Reliability them simpler, more responsive, innovative, Public Spirit integrated and customer-oriented. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 17 Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 102-43 102-44  Sustainability Strategy 102-15 Highlights of Agenda 30 BB (Ciclo 2017–2019) The perceptions of stakeholders are an important input for the materiality process. The results of Corporate Socio-environmental Responsibility a broad consultation process in 2016 served as the starting point for the review of sustainability (Responsabilidade Socioambiental Empresarial – RSAE) challenges in 2018. Highlights of the results of the actions completed in is a cross-cutting aspect of business management. We 2018 include: believe that it is possible to reconcile the interests of Our Stakeholders 102-40 102-42 shareholders with socially and environmentally sustainable The relative importance of the main categories of stakeholder was evaluated in 2014 and then Operational efficiency gains and reduced use of business practices by establishing ethical and responsible updated in 2016. This mapping process allowed us to expand our focus in search of value natural resources as a result of the digitization relationships with our diverse stakeholders. creation, as represented below: of products and services: MPO Digital, Minha Casa Minha Vida Mobile and Renovação With increasingly sustainable business and management Simplificada do Pronaf Custeio (Simplified Priority Important practices, the importance of embedding sustainability principles Renewal of Pronaf Costing) which accounted for  hareholders/Investors S  ompetitors C into the planning and execution of actions is disseminated 22% of total lending for the 2017/2018 agricultural  ustomers C Suppliers throughout the value chain. The concept is a cross-sectoral year and reduced the volume of paper used from  mployees E  he Press/Media T building block for strategy, with the leadership committed to 12 sheets to one sheet per operation;  overnment (legal institutional environment) G Regulatory bodies the challenge of reconciling business competitiveness with the construction of a more just and inclusive society. Launch of the BB Equidade funds (BB Ações Very important Secondary importance Equidade and Ações Equidade Private), which  epresentatives of civil society R  ustainability specialists S In this context, the Socio-environmental Responsibility Policy allocate funding to companies that are signatories (Política de Responsabilidade Socioambiental – PRSA) guides to the Principles of Women’s Empowerment; As well as being based on the responses convergence of these actions in relation to behavior in relation to socio-environmental responsibility. received during this process, Agenda 30 BB the Corporate Strategy. The principles are also laid out in the Sustainability Plan –  eduction of 4.8 million in printed invoices and R 2019–2021 was updated in order to further Agenda 30 BB and in the internal normative guidelines and R$9.2 million in savings as a result of using improve results into the future. This process The new version includes 50 actions instructions, which results in the weighting of economic, social e-mail for customers with digital profiles; and was based on the assessment of national and 86 indicators that aim to improve and environmental variables in the design and development of and international sustainability trends, governance in sustainability and socioprocesses, products and services. C  ontracting of 1,336 loans as part of the Agro market indexes such as the DJSI and ISE, environmental risk management, promote Energia Program to finance and purchase the demands of society, the alignment initiatives for social and financial inclusion As a means of achieving these results, sustainability drivers are renewable energy generation equipment. of initiatives with the UN’s Sustainable in the context of the Green Economy and assessed using indicators that are defined based on Corporate Development Goals (SDGs) and the adopt sustainable projects and solutions. Strategy and range from the strategic level through to the operational level, covering all units. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 18 Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB The process of updating the seventh version of our Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 involved the following steps. Contributes to the improvement of business and processes it is put into practice through commitments established by consolidating actions with a socio-environmental for a period of three years. For their organization and Review of the Materiality Matrix resulted in the bias. Revised every two years and laid out based on the effectiveness, the challenges are distributed among the five identification of 21 sustainability challenges, of which 11 were sustainability challenges prioritized by senior management, pillars of the SDGs. considered material and guide our sustainability management and reporting; Holding of thematic panels to provide training for the technical staff from various departments on these topics: Sustainable Finance, Impact Measurement and Assessment, Socio-environmental Risk and Diligence in Human Rights; Processes l Materia s Holding of the 35 Sustainability Forum which was llenge th attended by Executive Managers from various areas of BB C h a Desafios Products in order to validate the new Materiality Matrix and prioritize 102-44 actions to advance sustainability management; Services Holding of the VII Sustainability Workshop with the s/ participation of Directors, General Managers and Executives p po r tunitie O of BB and the ELBBs to discuss the theme “Megatrends with Results Risks emphasis on Sustainable Finance”; and 2017–2019 Evaluation and validation of the actions proposed by the Strategic Units Management Committee. Targets 2019–2021 SEE MORE (following page) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 19 Actions/Commitments of Material Challenge Capital Major Actions Performed for Agenda 30 BB 2017–2019 Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 Challenge 1: Align Banco do Brasil’s Social and Approval of the expansion of the scope of activity of the Remuneration Committee, Indicator: Proposition of periodic independent appraisal of governance with best practices Relationships which is now referred to as Remuneration and Eligibility Committee (Corem). the Board of Directors. Deadline: 12/31/19. in order to strengthen the role of senior management role in the  reation of the Risk and Capital Committee (Coris), with the purpose of advising the C Indicator: Study to review the composition of the Board of sustainability strategy. Board of Directors on the exercise of its functions associated with risk management, Directors to verify the possibility of increasing the percentage including socio-environmental and the capital risks, in a unified manner. of independent members. Deadline: 12/31/20. Challenge 2: Identify and manage Financial D  evelopment of sectoral studies comparing the risk and return of green economy and Indicator: Presentation of a study of the emerging long-term non-financial and emerging medium high-impact activities using the “Spread Consumed by Unpaid Debt”. risks with impacts on BB’s business to the Sustainability and long-term risks that could have Forum. Deadline: 06/30/19. significant impacts on Banco do Brasil’s business. Prosperity Challenge 3: Identify innovations in Intellectual T  he Customer Council was instituted for the following segments: Personal – High-Income, Indicator: Presentation of a relationship model proposal for the financial sector (business models Personal – Other, Wholesale Business – Middle, Wholesale Business – Upper Middle startups. Deadline: 12/31/19. and technologies) and anticipate and Corporate. trends to guarantee Banco do Brasil’s Indicator: Presentation of a feasibility study to the Sustaincontinuity and longevity. ability Forum for a platform that allows interaction between investors and sustainable projects using a crowdfunding or startups model. Deadline: 06/30/20. Challenge 4: Improve customer Social and  valuation of the possibility of implementing external verification of information related to the E Indicator: Presentation of a report of initiatives implemented relationship management and increase Relationships number of customers using online financial services. for the Personal Retail and Private, Wholesale Business, satisfaction and retention rates. Micro and Small Enterprises and Public Sector customers. Deadline: 12/31/21. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 20 Actions/Commitments of Material Challenge Capital Major Actions Performed for Agenda 30 BB 2017–2019 Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 Challenge 6: Strengthen the Social and  eview of processes and operational efficiency gains through the features: MPO Digital, R Indicator: Presentation of a feasibility study for the financing Banco do Brasil initiatives Relationships PMCMV Mobile and Simplified Renewal of Pronaf Production Costing. of natural resource use efficiency projects through Guided that promote productive Productive Microcredit (MPO). Deadline: 12/31/19. development, entrepreneurship Partnership with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to provide funding for the and social and financial inclusion, Brazilian municipalities under the Municipal Efficiency Program. including social business. Launch of BB Equidade funds (BB Ações Equidade and Ações Equidade Private) for the Private and Retail segments, with the purpose of investing in companies that are signatories of Women’s Empowerment Principals (Wep).  reation of the intelligent virtual consultant Agrobot, which combines BB’s expertise C with external sources, with the purpose of assisting farmers, including Pronaf beneficiaries, to make the best decisions for their busines. Partnerships 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 21 Actions/Commitments of Material Challenge Capital Major Actions Performed for Agenda 30 BB 2017–2019 Agenda 30 BB 2019-2021 Challenge 9: Ensure greater Human L  aunch of the Women’s Leadership Program with the aim of reaffirming commitments and Indicator: Increase the percentage of women in management proportionality of gender and externally-assumed pacts, promoting the development of leaders and broadening the participation positions. Deadline: 12/31/21. racial representation in all of women in the Professional Growth Programs (recruitment and selection). hierarchical levels of Banco do Brasil (formerly Challenge 11). Challenge 11: Improve the Human This challenge has become material in the review process for Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021. Indicator: Increase the percentage of employees covered by the variable remuneration model systematic use of measurable targets agreed upon with the direct for employees, including senior superior, with impacts on remuneration. Deadline: 12/31/21. management, broadening the socio-environmental criteria and Indicator: Increase the percentage of employees covered contemplating individual performance. by the multidimensional performance review with impacts on remuneration. Deadline: 12/31/21. Challenge 12: Strengthen Banco Human  aunch of educational solutions for the different employee groups, such as the Strategy in L Indicator: Increase in the percentage of engaged employees. do Brasil’s actions in relation to Digital Business and Banking Innovation MBA, the Digital Transformation Knowledge Trail and Deadline: 12/31/21. human capital, including health, the Desenvolver Game, in addition to a series of MIT lectures related to innovation and digital safety and wellbeing management, transformation for BB Executives. Indicator: Increase in the coverage of the engagement development and retention of survey. Deadline: 12/31/21. People  evelopment of a study and plan of action to identify the causes of absenteeism based on the D talent. (formerly Challenge 14). results of Periodic Health Examinations (EPS). Indicator: Hiring of external independent verification of health, safety and well-being. Deadline: 06/30/20. Indicator: Report on the verification process issued by an independent third party. Deadline: 12/31/20. Challenge 13: Strengthen the work Human Improvement of several courses available through the BB Corporate University Indicator: Provide specific content about the Code of of Banco do Brasil in relation to ethics that deal with ethics, human rights and anti-corruption. Ethics and Standards of Conduct to share with suppliers. and practices to combat corruption, Deadline: 12/31/19. unlawful acts and money laundering. (formerly Challenge 15). 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 22 Actions/Commitments of Material Challenge Capital Major Actions Performed for Agenda 30 BB 2017–2019 Agenda 30 BB 2019-2021 Challenge 14: Develop financial Social and Intensification of the use of alternative channels, such as ATMs and Mobile, notably the following Indicator: Presentation of a feasibility study for the solutions and business models Relationships/ actions: optional prevention of printing of contracts by the customer for the CDC lines (Automatic Credit, implementation of (a) new financial solution(s) that that promote the transition to a Financial Consignment and Prepayment of IR); request for non-account holder credit card via mobile. promote(s) the transition to a Green and Inclusive Economy. Green and Inclusive Economy Deadline: 12/31/19. L  aunch of the Agro Energia Program to support the production of clean and renewable energy in (formerly Challenge 16) agribusiness activities – 100% of this financing alters the energy matrix, contributing to the reduction of Indicator: Implementation of (a) new proposed financial consumption in the grid (National System) and the avoidance of GHG emissions in BB financing. solution(s). Deadline: 06/30/20. Indicator: Assessment of attributes or offer of differentiated business conditions for products/services aimed at the transition to a Green Economy. Deadline: 12/31/19. Indicator: Implementation of attributes or differentiated business conditions for products/services aimed at the transition to a Green Economy. Deadline: 06/30/21. Challenge 17: Improve socioFinancial C  reation of the consolidated losses base for socio-environmental risk, which represents an improvement in Indicator: Incorporation of socio-environmental rating losses environmental risk management the risk management process and meets the requirements of the regulator and banking self-regulation. data in the lending pricing process. Deadline: 12/31/19. in the supply chain, in lending, in Planet  pdate of the document “BB Sustainability Guidelines for Credit” for the Petroleum & Gas and Mining U financing, in own investments, and in Indicator: Review of the socio-environmental questionnaire, sectors, based on the contributions gathered by the Stakeholder Panel of customers, employees, third-party asset management, while including analysis by sector and by customer, to assess sustainability specialists, civil society and government. also considering controversial issues exposure of credit/financing operations to socio(formerly Challenge 19). environmental risk and impacts on customer credit limits. Deadline: 12/31/19. Indicator: Publication of the revised BB Sustainability Guidelines for Credit (Diretrizes BB de Sustentabilidade). Deadline: 12/31/21. Indicator: Publication of the revised Social-environmental Guidelines for Controversial Issues (Diretrizes Socioambientais para Assuntos Polêmicos). Deadline: 06/30/20 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 23  Value Creation Financial value added R$48.0 billion VALUE CREATION The Corporate Strategy and the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB assess the outlook of megatrends and INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENT uncertainties, in addition to the local context of the Macroeconomic and Financial Industry Context FINANCIAL HUMAN financial industry. In response to these challenges and opportunities, we incorporated a range of aspects into Megatrends and Uncertainties these processes, including Environmental, Social and R  $11.4 billion – Other Interest on Equity + R  $20.0 billion in salaries + share of employees Governance (ESG) factors. The results and shared value Retained Earnings + Non-controlling interest and directors in profit + Benefits and training + in retained earnings; FGTS + Other charges; creation are presented in our Business Model.  $125.7 billion of third-party resources met the R Increase in the participation of women in senior VISION assessment requirements for socio-environmental management positions from 4.84% in 2017 to To be the company that provides the and governance aspects; 8.62% in 2018; FINANCIAL CAPITALS best experience for people and promotes In relation to the socio-environmental question ur Organizational Climate and Engagement O R$1.42 trillion in assets society’s development in an innovative, naires, we applied 4,754 for credit analysis and Survey demonstrated that 83.6% of our efficient and sustainable way. 27 for analysis of investment projects; and employees are satisfied, exceeding the R  $941.1 billion third-party established target of 80%; and assets managed  egarding the Equator Principles, R considering the operations contracted in In 2018, we reached the rate of 99.14% GOVERNANCE 2018, as well as those already ongoing, adherence to the Code of Ethics and Standards HUMAN we interacted with a total of 48 clients. of Conduct. MANAGEMENT Transparency  6,889 9 employees Accountability Equality MANUFACTURED NATURAL METHODS Socio-environmental NATURAL Responsibility Electricity: 598 GWh R$1.4 billion – Leasing. R$613.0 million – Material, water, energy and gas. Water: 1,383 thousand m3 STRATEGIC Paper: 5,195 ton DRIVERS  inancial F SOCIAL AND INTELLECTUAL MANUFACTURED People ECBB RELATIONSHIPS 4,722 branches Agenda 30 BB Customer 79% of transactions Sustainability R  $15.2 billion – Interest on Equity of R$72.7 million – Training; via smartphone/internet the Federal Government, Interest on the Processes instrument eligible for Federal Government R$383.7 million – Data processing; capital, taxes;  $420.9 million – Advertising R SOCIAL and Publicity; AND RELATIONSHIPS SERVICES T  he overall satisfaction index reached 71.69 in 2018;  $101.9 million – Corporate R More than 440,000 shareholders Banking Education; and  he digital channels obtained satisfaction of T 67.4 million customers Investiment 84.53%, surpassing the target of 83.18%; In 2018 we entered into a partnership 36.3 million account holders Fund management  e are present in 99.6% W with the accelerator Startup Farm. Insurance, pensions of Brazilian municipalities; INTELLECTUAL and capitalization  $108.0 billion – Balance of the portfolio R R  $3.1 billion – investiment Means of payment in Social Business; and in technology  e hold a 57.4% market share in financing W for agribusiness. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 24 26 Our Role in Society 26 Green and Inclusive Economy 31 Private Social Investment 32 Investment in Sport and Culture Business Model Transformative Role Corporate Governance Risk Management Financial Value Creation Social Value Creation Environmental Value Creation Our Role in Society Green and Inclusive Economy 203-2 Through the supply of credit, we play a transformative role The position as a finance provider for sustainable in society, activating the economy in all regions of Brazil. productive chains reinforces the alignment with the Activities range from microcredit operations through to provisions of the United Nations’ Environment Program’s financial solutions for large corporations, capital markets Develop financial solutions and business models Green Economy Initiative and with the best business and the government, with an especially prominent position in that promote the transition to a Green and practices. This has a positive impact on the relationship agribusiness lending. Inclusive Economy Management approach: 103-1 103-2 with customers, employees and investors, increasing the reliability of the capture of internal and external resources. As part of the financial system, we have a crucial Commitments of Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 responsibility: to direct the investment of funds and to assist For customers, Green Economy business models provide Presentation of a feasibility study for the implementation of in the transition from a high-impact economy to a low-carbon sustainable solutions that generate financial returns (a) new financial solution(s) that promote(s) the transition to and inclusive Green Economy with proper risk management and bring social benefits, while helping to preserve the a Green and Inclusive Economy; and the development of innovative fundraising models. environment and reduce carbon emissions. The solutions Implementation of (a) new proposed financial solution(s); encourage energy efficiency, renewable energy generation, Assessment of attributes or offer of differentiated business In this context, the main challenges include fostering protection of natural resources, and improvements in conditions for products/services aimed at the transition to a sustainable national economic growth, so that it mobility and urban infrastructure, as well as cleaner and Green Economy; and encompasses productive chains with lower socioless harmful production practices. Implementation of attributes or differentiated business environmental risk and higher returns. Over the next few conditions for products/services aimed at the transition to a years we will continue to focus on models for raising funds The biggest demands for solutions and green business Green Economy. for investment in projects that focus on sustainability models comes from the customers themselves, who and opportunities to raise funds for reforestation, urban See more in the GRI Appendix increasingly seek to consume sustainable products infrastructure, mobility, decentralized energy generation, and services and establish relationships with socially energy efficiency and sustainable production chains for and environmentally responsible companies. Market agriculture and livestock rearing. requirements are considered in the planning and definition Through the supply of credit of the sectors for credit offerings, in the fundraising strategies and in the priority areas for action. The choice we play a transformative role in of which productive chains to concentrate our efforts in will society, activating the economy depend on where it is most needed. in all regions of Brazil 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 26 Management approach: 103-1 Green Portfolio Low Carbon The commitment to develop business solutions with a socio-environmental Agriculture Program 17.8% orientation is set out in the Socio-environmental Responsibility Policy Investment 32.1% (Política de Responsabilidade Socioambiental – PRSA). It is also Family Farming 0.9% supported by the Sustainability Guidelines for Credit (Diretrizes de Sustentabilidade para o Crédito), which are in synergy with the international Low Carbon Good Agricultural commitments assumed by the federal government, including those related Agriculture Practices to mitigation and adaptation to the effects of climate change. R$43.5 bi R$50.9 bi Family With our national prominence in the development of financial solutions Farming Production Costing 67.9% and business models that promote the transition to a Green and for No-till Planting Inclusive Economy, we consider climate change in planning and prioritize 81.3% businesses that take advantage of the opportunities of a low-carbon economy, especially in order to meet the emission reduction requirements pledged by Brazil at the Paris Conference. Based on a methodology developed by the Brazilian Federation of Total: Banks (Federação Brasileira de Bancos – FEBRABAN) that deals with Risk Adjusted Return the measurement and identification of funding allocated to sectors of the Green Economy, the balance of the green business portfolio was The RAR measures the efficiency of credit products in R$189.6 bi Contribution Margin terms of Return vs. Capital Consumption estimated at R$189.6 billion in 2018. The portfolio is comprised of credit operations related to investments and loans for renewable energy, energy efficiency, sustainable construction, sustainable transport, Guided Productive sustainable tourism, water, fisheries, forestry, sustainable agriculture Microcredit 0.4 % and waste management. In addition, in order to foster an inclusive Acessibility 0.2 % economy, social factors such as education, health and local and Other operations/ Social regional development are also considered in this portfolio. The sectors products for Products Minha Casa sectors of the Minha Vida are classified in accordance with the UN Environment Program and (Low-Income Green Economy Student Housing) specific products from activities related to the Green Economy. Financing R$63.9 bi 34.3% R$31.3 bi Fund 65.1% This total amount of funding from the Green Portfolio was destined to companies of different sizes (Small and Micro, Corporate, Wholesale), to Retail and Private personal customers, and also to BB’s Public Sector customers. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 27 Inclusive Business Initiatives related to the Green Economy in 2018: The BB Conta Fácil Microempreendedor (digital account for Microentrepreneurs) solution was also launched to stimulate Agro Energia Program: aims to stimulate the use financial inclusion. of renewable energy in rural areas. The volume of Strengthen the Banco do Brasil initiatives funds allocated to the program in the 2017–2018 that promote productive development, The MPO is an important product for financial inclusion and, agricultural year was of the order of R$512 million, for entrepreneurship and social and financial consequently, for the banking needs of a significant niche of projects presented by individuals, legal entities and inclusion, including social business about 60 million microentrepreneurs, many of whom still operate cooperatives. The program will promote the installation informally. The customers seek financial institutions to meet their Management approach: 103-1 103-2 of photovoltaic panels, wind turbines and/or biodigesters need to expand sales, especially for the acquisition of inputs in rural areas in order to reduce production costs; and/or raw material for trading or service provision. Commitments of Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 Signature of statement of intent with Absolar: Sustainable farming is supported with a view to achieving longPresentation of a feasibility study for the financing a statement of intent was signed with the Brazilian term sustainable returns, and the adoption of more sustainable of natural resource use efficiency projects through Association of Photovoltaic Solar Energy (Associação technologies is encouraged. Support for these kind of initiatives helps the MPO. Brasileira de Energia Solar Fotovoltaica – Absolar) to reduce the customer’s risk and enables the identification of new with the aim of encouraging the financing of solar See more in the GRI Appendix business opportunities. These interactions occur through technical photovoltaic systems through the Agro Energia advisory services, public communication and directed lending. Program. The agreement foresees that members of Absolar can become banking correspondents and can Through social business, the company works to promote productive All initiatives are in line with the commitments of the Sociostreamline bureaucratic procedures, facilitating the development, entrepreneurship and the promotion of social and environmental Responsibility Policy (Política de Responsabilidade approval of financing for photovoltaic energy generation financial inclusion. This includes products aimed at specific and Socioambiental – PRSA) and the Sustainability Guidelines for systems; and strategic target groups that enable the renewal and loyalty of the Credit (Diretrizes de Sustentabilidade para o Crédito). In the case customer portfolio, while encouraging the country’s economic of the MPO, our actions are regulated, guided and limited by Partnership with the Inter-American Development development. This aspect is also in line with the Banco do Brasil the public policies adopted by the federal government – where Bank (IDB): a cooperation agreement was signed with Corporate Strategy (ECBB 2019–2023) and with Agenda 30 BB. the initiative originated. The actions in the area sustainable the purpose of incorporating training actions related to agriculture comply with environmental legislation and the green finance and energy efficiency projects in rural In this context, we developed partnerships to stimulate regulations of the National Monetary Council (Conselho Monetário properties into company planning. entrepreneurship and associative behavior, whether by offering Nacional), and we also participate in the Low Carbon Agriculture Guided Productive Microcredit (Microcrédito Produtivo Orientado – Program (Programa de Agricultura de Baixo Carbono – ABC). MPO) or by assisting entrepreneurs to formalize their activities. Learn more on the Sustainability website 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 28 Sustainable Agriculture 203-2 of municipalities Portfolio Information – Pronaf 102-48 with at least one loan As one of the main drivers of agribusiness contracted Percentage of Brazilian Number of Family development in the country and a supporter Municipalities with at Least One Farmers Benefited (1) of the sector throughout all stages of its Case of Loan/Finance Contracting production chain, we provide solutions with socio-environmental attributes for agribusiness 2016 96.7 2016 1,092,124 customers, such as the National Program to Strengthen Family Farming (Programa Nacional 2017 97.2 2017 1,025,434 de Fortalecimento da Agricultura Familiar – Pronaf), which is supported by teams trained in agribusiness lending, investment specialists 2018 96.9 2018 985,807 and agronomists. The program focuses on providing specialized assistance to small of municipalities with at (1) The number of family farmers in 2017 was recalculated, as the calculation methodology changed in 2018. farmers, promoting income generation and adding value to the use of family labor. least one loan contracted through the ABC Program In 2018, approximately one million family farmers received assistance through Pronaf, with BB Portfolio Information – ABC Program participating in 49.1% of market contracting of loans for costing and investment operations in Percentage of Brazilian Number of Family the 2018/19 agricultural year. These activities Municipalities with at Least One Farmers Benefited reached 96.9% of Brazilian municipalities, which Case of Loan/Finance Contracting indicates the program’s scale and range. 2016 50.5 2016 24,404 The results shown reflect the economic In 2018, BB remained the market leader in the contracting of financing factors affecting the generation of business under the Low Carbon Agriculture Program (Programa de Agricultura de with family farmers benefiting from Pronaf, with Baixo Carbono – ABC). The initiative finances sustainable agricultural 2017 50.5 2017 24,245 these factors leading farmers to reduce their production systems with a recognized capacity to reduce or sequester appetite for loans. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and promote the production of 2018 51.0 2018 24,479 vegetation/biomass and food, as well as preserving the environment. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 29 Low-Income Housing 203-2 Productive Development and Support for Entrepreneurship More than Digital Municipality 203-2 (Município Mais que Digital) We are financial agents for the federal government’s set of measures to facilitate Appropriate solutions are offered for micro and small companies and individual microentrepreneurs The Município Mais que Digital (More than Digital low-income families to become homeowners, to support their development and to stimulate an entrepreneurial culture in Brazil. Municipality) strategy proposes to increase the use of especially through the Minha Casa Minha Vida alternative means of payment, such as debit and credit (MCMV) Program. By providing home loans we We offer loans to meet the financial needs of entrepreneurs – both individuals and legal entities – cards and digital channels, in small and medium-sized help to support the brazilian economy and society, involved in small-scale productive activities through Guided Productive Microcredit (Microcrédito municipalities, reducing the risks of using banknotes and reduce the housing shortage, favor the growth of Produtivo Orientado – MPO) with an emphasis on advice and monitoring of the enterprise. At the strengthening the local economy. Created from a pilot the whole construction industry chain and improve end of 2018 there were a total of 187,346 active customers. project implemented in 2016 in the city of Ibirataia (BA), quality of life. the strategy has been expanded to 22 small and mediIn order to intensify our operations in microfinance we have developed a strategic partnership um-sized municipalities in the Northeast of the country. In 2018, 119 building developments were with Movera, which operates through microcredit agents specialized in offering loans and giving completed, with a total of 21,009 new homes. qualified advice for entrepreneurs. Small entrepreneurs are encouraged to use digital Fifty-seven of these developments were built as sales solutions – also linked to the expansion of the part of MCMV, delivering 8,838 new homes. A customer base served by Guided Productive Microcredit further R$1.12 billion was also approved for the (MPO) – through coordinated actions between local construction of 153 new projects, 54 of which are branches, town/city halls and Movera’s offices – our part of MCMV, to provide 7,396 new homes. A affiliate for MPO operations. The strategy also involves further 29,763 mortgage operations took place MPE Week a partnership with Fundação Banco do Brasil (FBB) through MCMV in the Private Individuals segment. to expand the use of card payment equipment in In October and November we promoted a number of offers and benefits to draw the attention street markets, initially reaching 1,980 markets in the In total, 787 developments were completed of the population to the importance of small entrepreneurs to local communities and thus municipalities that are participating in the project. between 2016 and 2018 with a total of 136,362 help them to increase their turnover. The campaign website reached the milestone of 1.2 new homes. Of this total, 74,000 new homes were million accesses, with 20,243 companies registered and 23,000 offers. In addition, 114 With the positive results obtained in the first period of delivered through 405 projects through MCMV. million people were reached through hired media sources (open TV and internet) and expansion of the project we plan to continue to expand spontaneous actions (like sharing on social networks). to another 200 municipalities, distributed across all regions of Brazil. Drawn to the exclusive offers for customers, thousands signed up for products and services. A total of R$67 billion was made available to the market in the form of loans with maturity of up to 48 months, to support the working needs of MPE customers. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 30 Private Social Investment Monitoring and evaluation of program and project effectiveness Volunteering is considered essential for management and the results are The BB Volunteering Program introduces and consolidates the concept Private Social Investment (PSI) encompasses the voluntary, used to direct the work performed and to improve the actions and principles of volunteering in the organizational culture, supporting and monitored and systematic transfer of private funds to social, implemented. The results also contribute to decision-making and encouraging the involvement of employees (active or retired), family and environmental and cultural initiatives of public interest. PSI can to understanding the success factors for enterprises. friends to provide voluntary services. be leveraged through fiscal incentives and the allocation of nonfinancial and intangible resources. In 2018, FBB selected a sample of 44 projects that were subjected An internet platform was set up (https://voluntariadobb.v2v.net/pt-BR) to additional layers of monitoring. Of the total, 19 projects to facilitate interaction through communication and contact between Fundação Banco do Brasil (FBB) responded remotely to the requests for information and all of them BB Volunteers, institutions, branch committees, human Resources Fundacão BB allocates funding to actions in urban and rural received site visits from a technician from the Monitoring and Management and the general public. The BB Volunteering Portal – environments in two areas: the environment and education. Evaluation area. In addition to identifying the project’s development communication and management platform for the BB Volunteering Through FBB, we seek to improve the lives of the most vulnerable stage and the possible need for adjustments, this additional layer Program – reached a total of 30,724 users registered as volunteers, people and promote sustainability by encouraging socialof monitoring also evaluated issues such as the participation and recorded 23,692 voluntary actions and registered 2,912 social entities. productive inclusion, sustainable development and reapplication engagement of young people and women, acquisition of knowledge of social technologies throughout Brazil. and development of skills, compliance with human rights aspects Within the scope of the program, the BB/FBB 2018 Internal Call for and the formation of partnerships for project development and/or Volunteers – which aims to support social projects run by non-profit assistance for its participants. entities that involve the participation of BB Volunteers – resulted in Contributions to Fundação Banco do Brasil a total of 516 proposals with individual costs of between R$50,000 by Source (R$ million) In relation to human rights, FBB invested R$1.5 million in three and R$100,000. A total of R$5 million in non-returnable funding was projects in the cities of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo and Brasília provided to support 56 of the proposals. Funding Source 2016 2017 2018 (Federal District and surroundings) that aim to support an Banco do Brasil (1) 48.3 54.5 53.4 estimated 660 refugees through the deployment of IT laboratories and educational and training activities. The project also involved Brasilcap 3.8 0.1 0.1 the participation of social workers to provide assistance, with the aim of making them feel welcome and guiding them in the BB DTVM 0.5 1.8 3.1 Ongoing Completed process of adaptation and relocation into Brazilian society. FENABB 24.2 22.8 21.1 actions actions (1) Limited to 5% of operating income by the Bylaws. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 31 Sport and Culture Investment Socio-environmental Actions CCBB 2018 Our sponsorship of sport plays an important social function Horizonte (MG), Brasília (DF), Rio de Janeiro (RJ) and and fosters training academies by maintaining one of the São Paulo (SP). The selection of projects for the cultural longest-lasting partnerships between a company and the program takes place through public selection announcements Direct Indirect Recycling national sport: volleyball (beach and hard court). Of the total and careful prospection in the cultural market, in order jobs jobs amount invested in volleyball, R$5 million came through the to democratize opportunities, maintain transparency and Sports Incentive Law. guarantee quality and adherence to the curatorial principles 10,088 50,495 4.24 of CCBB. tons More than 40 volleyball events (beach and hard court) brought together around 173,000 people in matches held at The Educational Program serves students and the general arenas and sports halls throughout Brazil. Social projects run public and creates didactic material, developed for the by the Brazilian Volleyball Confederation reached about 2,400 exhibitions with the greatest outreach, with appropriate Educational Educational Free children (between 7 and 14 years) at 21 training centers/ language for elementary and high school students. All of the project transport transport schools in different cities around the country. exhibitions have specific programs on cultural themes, such 219,656 31,657 as museology and education, as well as visits supported by visitors children from 41,431 The Banco do Brasil Running Circuit, second edition, also sign language for the inclusion of the hearing-impaired. the Educational people assisted Program took place, passing through 16 cities distributed across all regions of the country and uniting more than 30,000 In 2018, CCBB hosted 315 cultural initiatives, with people. This helps to convey the importance of quality 4.36 million visitors and a return of R$1.193 billion in of life and encourages families to practice sports. spontaneous media coverage, according to the CDN News Company (IQEM-V). Another very important action during the year was the Embaixadores do Esporte (Sports Ambassadors) project, Fiscal incentives (R$ millions) which brings together national idols to act as spokespersons for the dissemination of values and internal attributes and 2016 2017 2018 of sport in general. In 2018, 125 actions were held with Culture Incentive Law 32.8 31.8 23.9 sportspeople in 56 cities across all regions of Brazil. (Rouanet Law) Sports Incentive Law 16.6 2.4 5.0 BB’s Private Social Investment in Culture includes the four Banco do Brasil Cultural Centers (CCBB) in the cities of Belo The Banco do Brasil Cultural Center (CCBB) in Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 32 34 Our Governance 39 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Governance 40 Governance of Risk Management 41 Ethics and Transparency 45 Planning for Prevention and Combat of Corruption and Money Laundering Business Model Transformative Role Corporate Governance Risk Management Financial Value Creation Social Value Creation Environmental Value Creation The adoption of good corporate governance practices shows Internally, the governance architecture is based on the Bylaws, our commitment to the basic principles of transparency, the Minutes of the General Shareholders’ Meeting, the Internal accountability, fairness and corporate responsibility. Trust is vital Regulations of the governing bodies and the advisory committees Align Banco do Brasil’s governance with best practices in in relations with all stakeholders, especially shareholders and to the Board of Directors and on policies and standards. order to strengthen the senior management role investors, and is critical for decisions to invest and, therefore, for in the sustainability strategy 103-1 103-2 103-3 attracting capital. We seek to positively influence this decision, The collegiate decision-making model has been in place since demonstrating commitment to sustainable management that 1995, through which all decisions, regardless of the internal Commitments of Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 weighs up and protects the interests of all stakeholders, so that level, are taken with the involvement of the representatives of nobody benefits to the detriment of others. the branches/units and with the support of strategic committees Proposition of the Board of Directors periodic independent appraisal; and for the definition of strategies and the approval of different Study to review the Board of Directors composition to verify the possibility Banco do Brasil’s operations are in line with best practices businesses proposals. of increasing the percentage of independent members. applicable to the brazilian backdrop and it is successful in adopting them. It’s actions are governed, directed and limited by Our Governance 103-2 See more in the GRI Appendix the State-owned Enterprises Law (Lei das Estatais), which goes beyond the requirements of the Brazilian Corporation Law (Lei As part of corporate governance, BB has adopted segregation of das Sociedades Anônimas) in terms of corporate governance. duties. The units responsible for risk management, for example, Being a publicly-traded company and given our area of operations are not direct supervised by or linked to any other administrative we are subject to Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission or business units, except in credit recovery and internal controls (CVM) and the National Monetary Council (CMN) regulations, cases. The same applies to the areas that deal with credit risk which deal with various corporate governance aspects. We are analysis and the management of third-party resources, which are listed on the Novo Mercado – the most demanding segment of separate from those for managing BB’s own resources. the B3 stock exchange in terms of corporate governance – and we were one of the first companies to be certified by the StateObjective, clear, reliable and timely reporting of information is Owned Enterprises Governance Program (Programa Destaque ensured. All facts are subject to disclosure, except for those of em Governança de Estatais). a restricted nature, i.e., those which put at risk the institutional activity and image, or those protected by law. on the Novo Mercado is a recognition Privet office in São Paulo (SP) of our adoption of good practices 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 34 Senior Management Remuneration BB Leadership Project Management approach: 103-2 (Dirigentes BB) 102-27 and reconcile the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. The amounts of fixed remuneration and benefits paid to senior The amounts actually paid are also disclosed for each period, in The BB Leadership Project has been running managers is determined based on market research, internal accordance with the legislation and regulations in force. since 2016, in partnership with an external balance, and the skills and responsibilities required, according to company. It focuses on succession and the specifics of each position. Management Variable Remuneration (Remuneração Variável development for senior management positions. Its de Administradores – RVA) program is exclusively intended objectives include the assessment and mitigation Annually, the portions that make up the total remuneration (fixed for the members of the Board of Executive Officers and takes of possible successional risks, the guidance and remuneration, variable remuneration and benefits) are submitted place annually. Amounts are defined by the risks and activities development of the participants and the providing for approval by the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting, of the executives and conditional on the activation of the Profit of information from which to make decisions on considering compliance with pertinent legal provisions. and Results Sharing Program for Employees (Programa de movement and succession. The identification Participação nos Lucros ou Resultados dos Empregados – PLR) of the necessary requirements for senior In compliance with the CMN Resolution, the bank has a and the size of positive accounting profits. management positions was based on interviews Compensation and Eligibility Committee, whose purpose is to and workshops with the statutory officers and assist the Board of Directors in establishing the remuneration references from the market for equivalent functions policy for senior management. 102-36 in large companies. The body is composed of five effective members, with one In 2018, the objectives and range of the program chosen from among the members of the Board of Directors, were expanded to include the construction of appointed by minority shareholders; one chosen from among profiles for about 50 positions in entities linked the members of the Board of Directors, appointed by the Federal to us and the mapping of employees assigned to Government; and three chosen at the discretion of the Board these companies in executive functions. This will of Directors, observing that the committee should maintain a serve as a base for building career and leadership majority of independent members. 102-36 102-37 development paths. The succession matrix for senior management was updated and expanded The senior management remuneration policy is available on through the mapping of 116 leaders, of which 93 the Investor Relations website and aims to sustainably attract, were from the conglomerate. incentivize, reward and retain senior management, observe the appropriate risk limits in the short, medium and long-term strategies The BB Headquarters building in Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 35 The RVA is based on corporate, individual, Senior Management Evaluation The evaluation model, based on the objectives Evaluation of the Board of Directors collegiate and management unit-based proposed in the Corporate Strategy, provides a indicators, linked to the business plan execution The Executive Board members performance balance between short and long-term visions. Each year the members of the Board of Directors and the Corporate Strategy. Part of the value of review uses a specific mechanism for the The ATB indicators relate to a number of topics, evaluate the performance of the Board itself and the the program is paid in cash and part in shares, analysis of professional capabilities, covering including business and financial performance, committees established within it, using a specific partially deferred for a period of four years. a range of aspects such as management customer satisfaction and experience, mechanism as set out in the Bylaws and the Internal Receiving the deferred installments is conditional actions and quality of decision-making, strategic operational efficiency, risk management, human Rules of the Board of Directors. In 2018, the internallyon maintaining results and therefore they may communication, commitment, mobilization and resources management and Corporate Sociodeveloped evaluation model was revised, resulting in be reversed in our favor. engagement, relationships with stakeholders, environmental Responsibility. 102-28 102-35 the inclusion of additional evaluation criteria, such as the Management approach: 103-2 sustainable results, innovation, customer focus, actions of the Chairman of the Board and each member and strategic and market insight. Since 2009 the Sustainability directives are assessed through of the committees. The items included in the evaluation In the 2018, the RVA was measured through nine Board of Directors has evaluated the collegiate indicators ranging from the strategic level – the mechanism for the Board have been updated and cover indicators at the corporate, unit, collegiate and performance of the Executive Board and from Master Plan – to the operational level – the different aspects of corporate governance. individual levels. Two indicators are notable for 2018 onwards it will also evaluate the executives Work Agreement for the Unit and the employee assessing financial returns: Adjusted Return on individual performance. performance reviews (Radar do Gestor). The The evaluation mechanism includes economic, Equity and Adjusted Operating Efficiency Ratio. indicators include the evaluation of results environmental and social issues. The evaluations are not On a six-monthly basis, the members of the in the units’ operational plans, which affects independent, use a self-assessment format, and take The percentages of pension contributions made Executive Board undergo a self-assessment the variable pay of the statutory officers place annually. There is no formal process in place to to the highest governance body are the same process and are also appraised by their and employees of the strategic, tactical and respond to the performance evaluation of the Board of as for other employees, i.e. the contributions hierarchical superior, i.e. the members of the operational units. 102-19 Directors. 102-28 102-35 and payments made through both the General Board of Directors evaluate the CEO, who in Social Security System – RGPS (Regime turn evaluates the Vice-presidents and Officers Geral de Previdência Social – INSS) and the directly linked to him and finally the ViceSupplementary Pension Scheme are equal for presidents evaluate the Executives related to all linked or associated employees. their area of activity. directives are assessed The Closed Supplementary Pension Plan The performance of the units is used to measure through indicators ranging Funds (Entidades Fechadas de Previdência the amount of variable pay to be received and from the strategic level to Complementar – EFPC) through which the is measured by a corporate tool called the the operational level benefit plans are paid do not distinguish between Work Agreement (Acordo de Trabalho – ATB). the participants and the benefits are granted under the Regulations of each Plan. 102-35 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 36 Innovation and Adaptability in Governance Governance Structure 102-18 103-2 As a result of several improvements to the internal governance The Banco do Brasil Report on the Brazilian Code of Corporate structure and practices, since 2017 we have been certified by the Governance was prepared and disclosed in accordance with Shareholders’ General B3’s State-Owned Enterprises Governance Program (Programa the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) Meeting Destaque em Governança de Estatais – PDGE) and received the instructions. The structure of the Report follows the Comply or Level I Governance Seal from the Secretariat of Coordination and Explain model, recognized internationally as the most suitable Audit Governance of State Enterprises (Secretaria de Coordenação for governance codes. All of the principles and practices Committee Supervisory e Governança das Empresas Estatais – SEST), attaining a recommended by the Code are adopted, except for those to Board maximum score (of 10) in all of the criteria evaluated. which there is some impediment as a result of the legal identity (mixed-capital company) or regulations. In 2018, the following actions were taken to adapt the governance structure and practices to the demands of the State-Owned Remuneration Internal and Eligibility Board of Audit Enterprises Law (Lei das Estatais), to the new Novo Mercado Directors Committee Rules and to the PDGE: Review of the Related Party Transaction Policy, the is the participation in the Integrated Appointment and Succession Policy for Executives and the Governance and Management Index Independent Shareholders’ Compensation Policy; Risk and (Índice Integrado de Governança e Auditors Capital Review and improvement of the contents of the Annual Charter Gestão – IGG) of the Brazilian Federal Committee of Corporate Governance; Court of Accounts’ (Tribunal de Contas da Creation of the Remuneration Policy for Executives, approved União – TCU). In total, 488 Federal Public by the Board of Directors; Administration companies and entities Executive Board of Review of the Bylaws; and took part in the survey and we obtained Board Officers President/CEO Review of the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors, the best score among the participants, Up to 10 (1) Vice-presidents Supervisory Board, Board of Officers and advisory committees (1) Condicional upon amendment of Decree 3905/01 reaching 94% in 2018. to the Board of Directors. Up to 27 Officers Proprietary BB employees – Bylaws, Art. 24 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 37 General Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Officers Remuneration and Eligibility Committee In addition to the duties provided for in the Brazilian Corporation A collegiate body formed by the CEO (President) and the ViceA permanent body responsible for advising the Board of Directors on the following: Law and other legal requirements, the General Meeting is presidents, is responsible for proposing and executing the Bank’s establishing the remuneration policy for executive officers and the internal appointment and responsible for deciding on the following: policies, corporate strategy, investment plan, master plan and general succession policy; Issuing an opinion to assist shareholders in the appointment of senior budget; approving and enforcing the market plan and the labor executives, members of the advisory committees to the Board of Directors and members The sale of all or any shares of the capital stock of the Bank agreement; deciding on the internal organization and management of the Supervisory Board regarding the fulfillment of requirements and the absence of or its subsidiary companies; initial public offering; increase structure; distributing and applying the profits calculated, as impediments for the respective elections; checking the conformity of the evaluation process of capital stock through subscription of new shares; waiver determined by the General Meeting or by the Board of Directors, in for senior management, members of the advisory committees to the Board of Directors and of rights of subscription of shares or debentures convertible compliance with current legislation, among other statutory duties. members of the Supervisory Board, alongside other functions foreseen in the legislation. into shares of subsidiaries; sale of debentures convertible into shares of the Bank issued by subsidiaries; or, also, issuance of Supervisory Board Risk and Capital Committee any other securities in Brazil or abroad; The Supervisory Board is a permanent body responsible for A permanent collegiate body with the main purpose of advising the Board of Directors on Transformation, spin-off, merger, takeover, dissolution and supervising the actions of the management, with the purpose risk and capital management. liquidation of the company; of protecting the interests of the bank and its shareholders and Exchange of shares or other securities; and ensuring the fulfillment of requirements for the public good and the Internal Audit Differentiated practices of corporate governance and execution social function of the Company. The Internal Audit is bound to the Board of Directors and is responsible for assessing of a contract for this purpose with stock exchange. the adequacy of internal control, the effectiveness of risk management and governance Audit Committee processes and the reliability of the process of collection, measurement, classification, Board of Directors A permanent body in charge of advising the Board of Directors accumulation, recording and disclosure of events and transactions, in preparation for the This governing body incorporates strategic, advisory, elective regarding the performance of its auditing and supervising duties. It is financial statements. and oversight duties, and is not involved in operational or responsible for permanently supervising the activities and appraising executive functions. the works by the independent audit, and performs its duties and Independent Auditors responsibilities before the controlled companies that adopt the It is the responsibility of the Independent Auditors to audit the financial Executive Board unified Audit Committee regime. It is also tasked with monitoring statements; evaluate internal controls and risk management procedures, notably The Executive Board is responsible for the Bank’s Management and evaluating Internal Audit activities, evaluating and monitoring in relation to the electronic data processing system, presenting all verified and is composed by CEO (President), Vice-presidents and Execrisk exposure, monitoring accounting practices and transparency potential flaws; and describe non-compliance with any applicable legislation utive Officers. The Executive Board is responsible for complying of information and advising the Board of Directors on decisions on that is relevant to the financial statements or activities. The Board of Directors with and enforcing the Bylaws and the deliberations of the Genmatters within its competence, notably those related to oversight of the is responsible for choosing and removing the independent auditors, whose eral Shareholders’ Meeting and the Board of Directors, as well bank’s management and the fulfilment of the principles and rules of names may be subject to a duly explained veto by any elected Director. as performing the duties assigned to it by the Board of Directors compliance, corporate accountability and governance. while observing the principles of good banking practice and good corporate governance practices. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 38  orporate Social C Structure and Roles 102-18 102-19 Responsibility (CSR) Governance 103-2 The CSR governance is structured as follows: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) permeates the Board of Directors – Accompanies social and environmental performance and ongoing organizational structure and is expressed through policies initiatives on an annual basis; and the various voluntary commitments assumed. Board of Officers – Responsible for approving the actions of the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB every two years and for the six-monthly monitoring of related initiatives; The main objective of CSR governance is to manage Risk and Capital Committee – Advises the Board of Directors in the performance of its socio-environmental performance, based on the functions related to risk management, including socio-environmental and capital risk; Socio-environmental Responsibility Policy (Política Sustainability Forum – An entity composed of the Executive Managers and Fundação de Responsabilidade Socioambiental – PRSA), Banco do Brasil (FBB), it supports the incorporation, alignment and dissemination of which considers the integrated economic, social and sustainability principles and practices, as well as monitoring socio-environmental initiatives environmental dimensions in business and in the and the implementation of Agenda 30 BB actions. This forum meets quarterly and reports to ethical and transparent relationship with stakeholders. the Executive Business Committee; The monitoring of the actions that make up the PRSA Strategy and Organization Directorship – Unit linked to the Presidency and responsible for action plan takes place within the scope of Agenda 30 conducting the corporate social responsibility theme within the company; and BB, with a view to improving socio-environmental risk Risk Management Area – Unit responsible for managing socio-environmental risk in management (see more on the Sustainability Strategy the company. – Agenda 30 BB in the Business Model chapter). The other policies also cover a number of social and Board of Directors environmental aspects, which are also considered in business and administrative practices, e.g. in lending Risk and Capital Committee and investment operations and relationships with is a tool for us to monitor suppliers and employees. Because of their importance, Board of Officers initiatives instituted according these guidelines are replicated in the Sustainability Guidelines for Credit (Diretrizes de Sustentabilidade Business Committee Strategic to the Socio-environmental Units para o Crédito) and the Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy Guidelines for Controversial Issues (Diretrizes Sustainability Forum Strategy and Organization Directorship Socioambientais para Assuntos Polêmicos). Risk Management Directorship 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 39 Governance of Risk Management Organizational Structure for Risk and Capital Management Risk and Capital Management Bodies and their Duties The governance model defined and adopted internally for risk and capital management involves a structure of senior and executive Capital management is carried out based on the The duties of the advisory committees (Audit Committee, Risk and committees, with members from various different areas of the policies and strategies of senior management that Capital Committee) are presented in the governance structure. company, and with the participation of the Vice-presidents and guide and direct behavior. The Risk Management Executives. It encompasses the following aspects: Area is responsible for general risk management, except for Compliance Risk, which is under the Strategic Committees Main Duties Segregation of duties: business x risk; management of the Internal Controls Directorship. Risk, Assets, Liabilities,  pprove strategies for the A Specific risk management structure; The Internal Audit carries out periodic appraisals Liquidity and Capital management of assets, Defined management process; of risk management processes in order to check Management Superior liabilities and liquidity, of risks Decisions at various hierarchical levels; for compliance with strategic guidelines, policies Committee (CSGRC) and of capital. Clear rules and structure of responsibility; and and internal and regulatory standards.  pprove methodologies A Reference to best management practices. for risk management and mitigation actions; The following figure represents the governance structure Issue opinions on Executive Committee defined for risk and capital management. methodologies for identifying for Risk Management and classifying deficiencies in and Internal Controls the system of internal controls (CEGRC) and corrective measures; and CA CA Board of Directors  ct as the executive A instrument for the CSGRC in Coaud Audit Committee its duties. Coris Coaud Coris Risk and Capital Committee  pprove guidelines for the A CD management of funding and Asset, Liability, Liquidity demands and models, and CD Board of Officers and Capital Management criteria and parameters applied Management of Risks, Assets, Executive Committee to capital management; and CSGRC CSGRC Liabilities, Liquidity and Capital (CEGAPC) A  ct as the executive Superior Committee instrument for the CSGRC Management of Risks and Internal in its duties. CEGRC Controls Executive Committee Management of Assets, Liabilities, CEGRC CEGAPC CEGAPC Liquidity and Capital Executive Committee 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 40 Ethics and Transparency 102-17 Ethical actions and conduct are rewarded with credibility, transparency and solidity – indispensable factors for a financial Strengthen the work of Banco do Brasil in relation to ethics institution. Ethical actions and observance of laws and regulations and practices to combat corruption, unlawful acts and money by the organization and its employees ensures greater reliability laundering. Management approach: 103-1 103-2 103-3 and affects the satisfaction of customers and shareholders. Weaknesses in processes, systems and people can create risks Commitments of Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 for the institution and, consequently, damage to the stakeholders. Provide specific content about the Code of Ethics and Standards of ethics management contributes to the prevention of criminal acts Conduct to share with suppliers. and reduces financial losses and damage to reputation. See more in the GRI Appendix In addition to being a legal obligation, preventing and combating corruption and crime is also a social responsibility if we want to build a better country. Preventive actions also have knock-on Ethical behavior is also guided by federal laws and statutes (the Anti-Corruption Law, Conflict effects in the fight against other crimes – such as theft, drugs and of Interest Law, State-Owned Enterprises Law and Code of Conduct for the High Federal arms trafficking – by making it more difficult to use money from Administration) and guidelines provided by organizations and certifications related to the subject. these acts, closing the feedback loop. These include the Good Governance Guide (Guia de Boa Governança) by the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance’s (Instituto Brasileiro de Governança Corporativa – IBGC) and the We have a robust system in place for corporate ethics Brazilian National Forum for Ethics Management in State Companies (Fórum Nacional de management that includes Ethics Management, Internal Gestão da Ética nas Empresas Estatais). We also participate in the Financial Action Task Force Ombudsman, Disciplinary Control, Integrity and Compliance against Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism (FATF) and the National Strategy to processes that are coordinated and articulated with other product, Combat Corruption and Money Laundering (Estratégia Nacional de Combate à Corrupção e à process and service managers. Lavagem de Dinheiro – Enccla). Find out more on the Sustainability website The Bank acts preventively through the dissemination of Anti-corruption measures are designed to mitigate the risk that employees or third values and standards of conduct in the workplace, with internal parties, acting in our interest or benefit, end up committing an act of corruption against communication and the availability of courses and training on the public entities. In relation to the prevention of money laundering, procedures defined by subject. The Code of Ethics and the Standards of Conduct are regulatory agencies require continuous adjustments to procedures and to IT systems and documents containing principles, guidelines and responsibilities communication and training for employees. to be assumed by all employees, including senior management Employee in Labbs BB, in Brasília (DF) and are distributed and signed periodically. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 41 In addition to having strategic policies in place and investing against those involved. In order to improve the management of the demonstrate the senior management’s commitment and in compliance programs to try to ensure that all planned and issue, in 2018 the Regional Ethics Committees began to resolve involvement with corporate ethics. approved actions are carried out properly, we also seek to follow complaints involving interpersonal conflicts deemed to be well-founded best governance practices, e.g. by observing the memos received by the Internal Ombudsman, assessing the inappropriate behavior of Each time the Code is updated there is a communication from regulatory agencies such as the Ministry of Transparency and each defendant and assigning measures aimed at relocating them. campaign within the company (intranet, e-mail and corporate the Comptroller General of the Union (Ministério da Transparência systems) to spread understanding of the changes and promote e Controladoria-Geral da União), through the Pro-Ethics program. Code of Ethics and Standards adherence to the document. In 2018, 99.14% of employees of Conduct 102-17 205-2 205-3 signed their commitment to the Code. All units are responsible for ensuring the implementation of ethical guidelines. The employees are the protagonists and executors The Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct provide guidance Indicator of the actions that make up the guidelines. In their daily activities regarding the values that should be practiced by senior Target employees apply laws, regulations, standards, policies and management, employees, and other workers (interns, apprentices, 2016 2017 2018 for 2019 procedures, observing principles of integrity, ethical conduct, managers and employees of contracted companies) and those Employees Declaring efficiency and business sustainability. who are acting or providing services on our behalf or for us. Adherence to the Code of 97.14 96.46 99.14 98.00 Ethics and Standards of Conduct (%) In order for this to filter down throughout the organization, the The document is reviewed annually to provide guidelines on how greatest challenge is to develop, implement and consolidate an to address current ethical dilemmas and challenges. The Board of organizational culture based on ethical principles, respecting Directors updated the Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct regional, cultural and individual differences. Furthermore, in 2018, aligning its content with the new Corporate Strategy. constant transformation, technological advances and new models of interaction bring about new challenges. In order to increase the representativeness and legitimacy of the documents, all members of the Board of Directors and of In addition to the actions taken to disseminate an antithe Board of Officers nominally sign the letter of presentation of corruption culture and to provide training on the subject and the Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct. Their signatures the controls in place, when an unlawful situation is identified appropriate disciplinary measures are adopted. These include a comprehensive and fast-moving investigation of the occurrence and the application of penalties against those responsible. of employees signed their Corrective measures are brought about by the Internal Ombudsman, working through the Ethics Committees, or by disciplinary action commitment to the Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 42 All stakeholders are encouraged to report reprehensible social behavior were forwarded Reports of Breaches of the Code of Ethics any suspicious situations to the Internal for an Internal Ombudsman Case Report and Standards of Conduct Ombudsman, and noncompliance with the (ECO); 274 cases involving one-off disputes guidelines of the Code of Ethics and the between two employees were mediated; 635 Standards of Conduct results in solutions cases involving inappropriate communication that vary according to the severity of the and minor misconduct were addressed misconduct, the circumstances and the by feedback; and 62 complaints related Determination Handling participation of the employee involved. In to administrative matters were sent to the 2018, the Internal Ombudsman received managers of the processes or units involved. 1,842 complaints, of which 586 were sent for Signs of Disciplinary disciplinary verification because they showed Complains referred for Mediation – in order 586 Non-compliance Assessment signs of misconduct; 285 complaints involving to reach an agreement between the parties involved – may pass through one of three modalities: Restorative Mediation, Conciliation Unacceptable Internal Ombudsman 285 and Restorative Conversation. Of the total employee behavior Case Report of 182 mediation processes, 151 resulted in agreements between the parties and 31 ended Inappropriate without agreement. In the remaining 92 cases Repositioning communication and 635 minor misbehavior feedback of disputes the complainants had withdrawn their claims, claims were lost or they were still unresolved at the end of 2018. Conflicts between Conflict 274 employees mediation The ECO methodology is used if the complaint against an employee includes misconduct and/or non-compliance with the Code of Referred to managers Administrative of processes 62 Ethics and Standards of Conduct, affecting a Issues or units involved group of people. The process uses interviews in order to ascertain whether the claim is wellfounded or note. Report received by the Internal Ombudsman 1,842 Employees in a training session – Gepes Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 43 The Internal Ombudsman’s Office also follows the ECO methodology The process involves the stages of investigation, analysis and judgment, and once Ethics Trail 205-2 to confirm reprehensible behavior and/or non-compliance with the the employee’s responsibility in the misconduct has been proven they may receive Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct. In this case the claim is anything from a guidance measure, such as an Agreement of Understanding, Through the Ethics Trail we conduct training on the classed as well-founded. Of the ECOs, 176 were considered through to a restrictive sanction of rights, such as suspension, removal from office Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct. Available unfounded, 71 were considered to be well-founded and resulted in or dismissal. In addition, judicial and extrajudicial measures may be taken against through the Corporate University, by the end of 2018 administrative and educational measures, 21 failed due to a lack of the employee as a way of compensating for the damage caused. it had 14 educational solutions available (courses, evidence, 16 were still under consideration at the end of 2018 and video lessons, articles and booklets, etc.) discussing one case was terminated due to the plaintiff withdrawing their claim. In 2018, the following disciplinary measures were applied (more than one employee ethical behavior in the areas of: Prevention and involved in the same misconduct): Combat of Corruption, Prevention and Combat of Bullying and Sexual Harassment and Knowing the Ombudsman Case Report Solution Solution for Employee Code of Ethics and the Standards of Conduct. Ongoing at end Unfounded 176 of 2018 96 The completion of the courses is a prerequisite for selective processes, for the enrollment of Agreement of employees in opportunities for internal professional Justified and with Administrative/ 71 Understanding 22 Educational Measure advancement and for obtaining scholarships in Dismissal 13 continuing education programs. Insufficient Information 21 for Resolution For senior management, ethics training includes sixSuspension 9 Under Consideration 16 monthly lectures, which in 2018 discussed the topics of the Anticorruption Law, Integrity and Institutional Warning 8 Security. The Senior Management Trail was also Withdrawn 1 made available on the UniBB Portal and includes No Proof of Misconduct 5 courses related to ethics and prevention and combat When the Internal Ombudsman’s Office receives reports that show signs of corruption and money laundering. of serious misconduct committed in violation of laws, internal regulations Removal from Office 5 and the Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct, causing damages Awareness Agreement or exposing us to risks, we refer them for investigation by Disciplinary and Financial Penalty 3 Control – a process that governs discipline with regard to employees Warning and and former employees participating in misconduct. 1 Financial Penalty 2018 Annual Relatório Anual 2018 Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 44 Efforts and Results P  lanning for Prevention and The following measures were taken in 2018 to mitigate the Combat of Corruption and Money occurrence of harmful acts considered as corruption: Laundering 205-1 205-2  ide-reaching efforts to broaden awareness of the issue W We pay special attention to this issue and have the Specific of integrity among employees, aimed at strengthening the Policy of Prevention and Combat Against Money Laundering, culture of integrity; Terrorism Financing and Corruption to support this.  pproval of the Annual Training Plan for Senior A Management on issues related to ethics and integrity by The Internal Audit regularly evaluates the effectiveness of the Board of Directors; processes related to the prevention and combat of corruption  eview of the Integrity Program, approved by the Board of R and money laundering, pointing out the need to adopt actions to Directors. This considers the feedback received from the 2 nd improve controls and mitigate the risks involved. The process is and 3 lines of defense and external assessors, as well as rd also periodically evaluated by supervisory and control entities and Estilo Southeast Branch, Brasília (DF) the guides provided by the Ministry of Transparency and the by the Independent Audit and includes standards, procedures, Comptroller General of the Union (Ministério da Transparência monitoring systems, training program and compliance with e Controladoria-Geral da União) and the Federal Court of applicable laws and regulations. Any business involving politically Accounts (Tribunal de Contas da União – TCU); exposed individuals requires prior authorization by employees of Integrity Program 205-1  eview of the methodology for calculating integrity risk, R the first or second managerial level at the superintendencies. We seek to guarantee an ethical working environment and approved by the Board of Directors; relationship with stakeholders through the Integrity Program,  rovision of the Whistleblowing Channel on the Portal BB, P In the Entities Linked to Banco do Brasil (ELBB) specifically, which brings together procedures to prevent situations that can be permitting the reporting of complaints or reports of criminal support and guidance is provided during the review and structuring classified as active or passive corruption. misconduct, including corruption; of processes and the policies and procedures are periodically  articipation on the advisory councils of institutions dedicated P evaluated to see if they are in line with our specifications. In addition, The initiative is aimed at preventing and identifying risks that can be to preventing and combating corruption, such as the Alliance technical experts and/or Executives of the ELBBs are invited to classified as corruption and remediation of situations related to acts for Integrity; and all training events. In 2018, a risk management appraisal of 26 of that are harmful to us. In 2018, the new methodology for assessing Institutional Security Seminar for members of the the main ELBBs was undertaken, with a focus on prevention and integrity risk was approved by the Board of Directors. It will come Executive Board and employees, with lectures by the combat of corruption. into use by the end of 2019 during the evaluation of the Institution’s Minister of the Federal Supreme Court, Luís Roberto processes for Integrity risks. Barroso, and the Minister for the Ministry of Transparency and Comptroller General of the Union. Relatório 2018 Annual Anual 2018 Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 45 Prevention and Combat of Corruption training is Management), addresses topics such as the AntiIdentification available via the UniBB Portal and is accessible Corruption Law, internal controls, capital markets, to all employees. The purpose of the initiative corporate legislation and secrecy and information We are exposed to risks that employees, third We are not involved in any confirmed cases of is to enable employees to identify situations or disclosure. By the end of 2018, it had been parties or intermediaries of any nature, acting corruption, as established in the Anti-Corruption businesses where there are signs of corruption, completed by 49 of the 51 statutory officers, in their own benefit or interest, perform harmful Law or Clean Company Law. However, ten using the definition of harmful acts committed members of the Board of Directors and acts that may be classified as corruption against contracts were terminated and/or not renewed against the Public Administration, in accordance members of the committees. the Brazilian or any other Public Administration, due to violations related to the topic. with legal requirements. In 2018, more than as set out in the Anti-Corruption Law, or in any 56,000 employees (over 50% of the total) In 2018, the Business Security and Crime legislation of this kind with transnational scope In 2018, 12 administrative accountability completed this training. Prevention Trail was launched for all and that has jurisdiction over the areas in which processes were instituted to investigate acts employees, providing 15 educational solutions, we operate. of corruption by legal entities against us. At All members of the Board of Directors and nine of which directly relate to the prevention the end of the year, one of the cases had Board of Officers are aware of the Specific and combat of corruption and money The main risks identified as potentially causing been adjudged, with a fine and extraordinary Policy of Prevention and Combat Against laundering. In the year, 38,170 employees accusations of the bank perpetrating corruption publication imposed, and the remaining cases Money Laundering, Terrorism Financing and completed training related to the theme. relate to business involving public entities, were still pending judgement. 205-3 Corruption. We also have a training course whether through direct agents or third parties on the policy on the Portal UniBB. For the acting on our behalf. Significant risks were During the year, no corruption-related public senior management, the Annual Training Plan also identified related to transactions with lawsuits against the organization or its was approved by the Board of Directors and legal entities in bidding processes, contract employees were identified. Six administrative includes training related to Ethics and Integrity. management and with regards to access to procedures were also completed in the year, lines of credit offering lower interest than the with the attribution of responsibilities in cases The Senior Management Trail is aimed at the market. 205-1 involving the charging or receipt of undue senior management and includes modules commissions for services performed, resulting such as Prevention and Combat of Corruption; in disciplinary penalties for those involved, Understanding the Code of Ethics and the including dismissal with just cause. 205-3 Standards of Conduct; Synapse – Management employees have received of Ethics at BB; Banco do Brasil Cuida de Prevention and Combat Valores (BB Cares for Values); Synapse – Prevention and Combating Money Laundering of Corruption training and Terrorism Financing. The main course of the trail, Alta Gestão em Foco (Focus on Senior 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 46 48 Mapping and Identification of Risk 48 Management Processes and Strategies 58 Emerging Issues 60 Capital 61 Internal Controls 61 Internal Audit Business Model Transformative Role Corporate Governance Risk Management Financial Value Creation Social Value Creation Environmental Value Creation  apping and M Identification of Risk 102-15 Management Board of Risk and Capital Strategies Directors Committee We have a structured process in place to identify and define the set of risks that are most critical to business and to interaction with stakeholders. They are reviewed annually, considering their Risk Policy and Audit importance for our activities and those of the Committee Risk Appetite and subsidiaries, and their impacts are classified Tolerance Policy according to quantitative and qualitative criteria. The methodology provides greater assertiveness Superior in the management of risks and capital, as well as operations. More information is available in the Committee(s) Risk Management Report. Management M  anagement Processes Processes Executive and Strategies Committee(s) Risk management involves the consideration of specific policies, the Risk Appetite Statement Operational Directorships/Units (RAS), strategies, processes, procedures and Procedures Responsible management structures, respecting the specific features of each risk and generally following the pattern displayed in the figure: Strategic Level Management Management Systems Structure Operational Level 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 48 Credit Risk Credit risk management is one of the main tools establishing a A Specific Credit Policy is in place that includes the assumption suitable risk/return ratio. It operates in a way that is integrated and management of credit risk, including collection and recovery, with the goals of the business, and it establishes limits and and applies to all businesses that involve credit risk, including consolidates the vision of customer managers. The process is those incurred at the risk and expense of third parties. It also Improvement of the RAS for credit risk with advances in the based on the following assumptions: determines the use of mitigating instruments at all levels and referencing of its limits; stages of management. Reach of the minimum core capital ratio, supported by a Use of the analytical tool for prospective evaluation in multiple scenarios; set of credit risk exposure that is more favorable in terms of The credit process involves the use of risk/limit calculation Development of a Credit Portfolio Management (CPM) methodology; profitability, and maximum utilization of risk weighted assets methodologies and is developed in line with best management (RWA), given the projected exposure; practices. It includes the phases of registration, risk analysis Structuring for maximum exposure limits per customer and maximum Use value-at-risk (VaR) as a metric for establishing limits, due and establishment of the credit limit, contracting of lending and limits for concentrated exposure; to its greater capacity to represent total losses (expected and conducting of operations and risk management, with the support Stress testing for concentration risk; unexpected) associated with the portfolio exposed to credit of regulations and a specialized organizational structure. When risk; and establishing the credit limit, the maximum exposure to credit risk Improvement of the risk process and exposure limits for foreign Limits associated with the projected risk scenario (from the that can be assumed with the customer is defined, as well as the countries; and perspective of expected losses). conditions for its use, regardless of the maturity and foreseen use. Improvement of counterparty credit risk management. Credit Risk Measurement Indicators (R$ billion) 2016 2017 2018 NPL+90D (1) (%) 3.3 3.7 2.5 Concentration (²) (%) 26.1 25.3 (3) 24.0 Write-offs (R$ billion) 25.8 24.7 22.2 (1) Ratio between debt more than 90 days overdue and the balance of the classified loan portfolio. (2) Concentration of the 100 largest debtors in relation to the total credit portfolio. (3) Series reprocessed due to the change in the “Receivables” line of the legal entities (Business) portfolio. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 49 Market Risk Market risk management enables assessment of exposure to risk arising from changes in Adoption of the internal models approach in the management of Interest asset prices, interest rates and other economic Rate Risk in the Banking Book (IRRBB), with corporate scenarios that permit factors, compared to the capital available. To measurement of variations in economic value and the results of financial measure market risk, the Bank adopts statistical intermediation and its impacts on capital sufficiency; and simulation methods that include Value Creation of the Specific Policy for the Management of Securities and Derivatives at Risk (VaR), stress testing and sensitivity Portfolios, reinforcing the alignment with the best practices of corporate analysis metrics. Policies and strategies are governance and risk management; and established and systems are used to guarantee Improvement of the market risk limits framework in the RAS, with management management of the positions registered in the at the aggregated level, including the vision of the business manager, with a trading and non-trading portfolios, in addition view to increasing profitability. Employees in a training session – GEPES Brasília (DF) to the operations aimed at achieving certain hedging objectives. The aim is to compensate for variations in the market values of assets Net Position by Indexer (R$ billions) – 2018 and to reduce the possibility of losses resulting from fluctuations. This also applies to avoiding 794.3 possible mismatches arising from investments abroad so as to reduce significant foreign 424.6 exchange risk exposures. In order to reduce the level of market risk, there 229.1 276.8 is an asset and liability management process 168.4 in place that involves the formulation, adoption 22.2 14.6 82.3 (10.2) 13.1 and monitoring of strategies for interest rates, Asset (1.4) (187.0) exchange rates, stocks and commodities, (10.4) (104.7) Liability (32.4) (287.2) approved by the Risk, Assets, Liabilities, (369.8) (369.2) (172.2) Net Position (304.7) Liquidity and Capital Management Superior (140.2) Committee (CSGRC). Foreign CDI/TMS/ Currency/ Price IRP/TBF/ Without Prefixed FACP TJLP Gold/RV Index TR Indexer 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 50  Liquidity Risk 102-48 Liquidity risk management is an important element in Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) (1) – % The responsibilities for the management of internal controls maintaining soundness and solvency. An appropriate amount allow for an integrated vision of risk and control management, of liquidity allows us to face up to regulatory changes and seize guided by the Lines of Defense Reference Model. 4Q16 350.5 opportunities for growth. The 1st Line of Defense is responsible for identifying and Liquidity levels are maintained in line with the bank’s 4Q17 234.5 evaluating the risks associated with processes, products commitments, the broad and diversified base of depositors, the or services and for implementing and executing controls to assets quality, the network capillarity and the level of access to 4Q18 242.5 mitigate those risks; the capital market. The 2nd Line of Defense is responsible for managing risk, (1) Correction to the historical series. In the last report, the value internal controls and compliance and for the processes for 2016 was published in the 2017 column and vice-versa. We use and monitor a range of mechanisms that are reported to developed for the functions of organization, security and legal strategic committees and senior management, these include liquidity issues, as well as helping to mitigate the risks incurred in the predictions, with a prospective evaluation of the effect of imbalances 1st line of defense; and between funds raised and investments; stress testing; liquidity risk  Operational Risk The 3rd Line of Defense is the responsibility of the Internal Audit, limits; and a liquidity contingency plan. One of the variables used in which evaluates the effectiveness of the entire cycle of risk and the management process is the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). Operational risk is the possibility of incurring losses from the control management, acting with autonomy and independence failure, deficiency or inadequacy of internal processes, people in the evaluation of the Internal Control System. and systems, or from external events. Management of operational risk involves identification of weaknesses or inadequacies in The monitoring of operational losses and reporting of this activities, in order to mitigate them correctly and promptly. information occurs through the Operational Risk Panel tool. This tool makes it possible to monitor and manage actions to The Operational Risk Policy is approved annually by the Board of prevent and combat operational losses resulting from fraud, as The calculation of the Net Stable Funding Ratio Directors and contains guidelines to ensure the effectiveness of well as to comply with the overall limit and the specific limits (NSFR) was implemented to measure the ability the operational risk management model. The ELBBs are advised established. The results of the panel are reported monthly to the to maintain sufficiently stable sources of funds to to define their directives based on the document, considering Risk Management and Internal Controls Executive Committee finance business in the medium and long term. specific requirements and the legal and regulatory aspects to (CEGRC) and to the Risk, Assets, Liabilities, Liquidity and which they are subject. Capital Management Superior Committee (CSGRC), and are presented quarterly to the Board of Director. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 51 To minimize the impacts of disruptions to strategic processes in different scenarios, the Business Continuity and Crisis Management (BCM) methodology is adopted. We invest in improving strategic and tactical capabilities to plan for and respond to incidents and disruptions. In 2018 there were: As for business continuity, the categorization of the specific limits was improved, with the identification 3,785 employees trained in BCM; and indication of new managers for processes 657 processes assessed for criticality in case of disruption; and related to operational losses for the non-electronic 607 Business Continuity Planning tests conducted to evaluate the external fraud category. effectiveness of the business continuity strategies adopted. Monitoring of Operational Losses by Loss Event Category (%) 2016 2017 2018 Unsuitable Business, Product, and Customer Practices 52.0 52.4 72.4 Labor Practices and Working Environment Conditions 29.2 31.6 18.0 External Fraud and Theft 14.2 12.3 8.2 Process Execution and Management Failures 4.2 2.6 0.9 Internal Fraud and Theft 0.3 0.5 0.3 Damage to Physical Assets and Injuries to Persons 0.1 0.6 0.2 System and Technology Failures 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 Employees at the BB Headquarters building in Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 52 Information Security and Cyber Attacks Customer Protection The following targets were set for 2019: The Specific Policy on Information Security addresses the Bank’s Intensified efforts to encourage the use of BB Code resulted in a methodology for classification of corporate information in order 73% increase in the number of Internet accesses by individuals Expansion of the use of biometrics in the branches’ business to guarantee the correct handling and adequate protection and 306% by legal entities. In 2018, the milestone of 32 million services – for both customers and employees – simplifying and of the data. Suppliers and third parties should also study and customers with biometric registration was exceeded. This favors the increasing security in the process of identifying people, as well as disseminate the document. implementation, in 2019, of differentiated limits to reduce losses. reducing paper consumption by increasing the use of electronic agreements; and The Information Security Management System (ISMS) aims to The Bank’s transaction monitoring systems were improved by Deployment of face recognition for Mobile transactions, increasing protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of corporate integrating big data use with the proprietary monitoring system, convenience and security for customers. information, as well as to raise awareness among stakeholders increasing the precision of the rules and optimizing the detection about their responsibilities. time for transactions that are not compatible with customer behavior. We added Big Data Analytics technology – one of the pillars of To guarantee security of information and to prevent cyber-attacks, predictive analysis – to fraud prevention monitoring. The calculation the following initiatives are vital: of large volumes of data makes it possible to trace customer behavior and predict patterns and suspicious transactions in time Security management and governance structures; real. Approximately 70 rules were introduced and behavioral profile Teams dedicated to the identification of incidents and rapid scoring models for legal entities were created using machine response to them; learning techniques and suspicious credit profile scores (customers Service continuity plans, tested and audited periodically; receiving money from fraudulent accounts). Vulnerability testing; Use of cryptography throughout the life cycle of sensitive information; As a result of these actions there were no complaints of breaches Security infrastructure for protection of communication of privacy or loss of customer data received or processed by the networks, systems and applications; Ombudsman’s Office. The specific Information Security Incident Access control in IT systems and resources; and Management channel was notified of 61 incidents during the Periodic audits (internal and external) related to the issue. year, four of which are classified as possible breaches or loss of customer data. 418-1 Large Corporate Branch on Av. Paulista (SP) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 53 S  ocio-environmental Risk 102-11 412-3 By incorporating social-environmental factors into investment Efficient management of socio-environmental risk involves a series decisions and asset selection practices, we seek to reduce risks, of actions that our customers and suppliers demand, such as the increase financial returns and meet the expectations of recipients requirement for information and documents that attest to practices. and customers. We also believe that social-environmental In 2018, we conducted socio-environmental risk management responsibility brings positive, recurring and sustainable outcomes assessments for the ELBBs, as part of the annual risk assessment. We over time. More efficient use of resources can also result in encourage our representatives to share the assessment report, which cost reductions; better governance can positively influence may contain guidelines on practices and processes, with the Boards of Improve socio-environmental risk management in productivity; environmental, health and safety rules reduce Directors of the investees. the supply chain, in lending, in financing, in own negative externalities; and innovation in sustainable products can investments, and in third-party asset management, also attract new customers. One of the resources used to monitor customers is the Sociowhile also considering controversial issues. environmental Rating, a tool that allows us to classify them according Management approach: 103-1 103-2 There is specific management structure in place for controlling to the degree of socio-environmental risk inherent in their activities and social-environmental risks inherent to our activities and the level of excellence of their practices related to the issue. A solution is operations, based on the precepts of the National Monetary being developed that uses artificial intelligence to verify the customers’ Agenda Commitments 30 BB 2019–2021 Council (Conselho Monetário Nacional). The Socio-environmental environmental licensing requirements. Incorporation of socio-environmental rating losses data in Responsibility Policy (Política de Responsabilidade the lending pricing process; Socioambiental – PRSA) guides our behavior in relation to this Our commitment to socio-environmental risk management is also issue and considers our actions with companies, governments reflected in the initiatives and pacts to which we are signatories, Review of the socio-environmental questionnaire, and society in initiatives dedicated to reducing risk and taking such as the Equator Principles, the Green Protocol Program and the including analysis by sector and by customer, to assess advantage of opportunities related to socio-environmental issues, Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). exposure of credit/financing operations to socioincluding climate change. The policy includes aspects such as See more on the Sustainability website environmental risk and impacts on customer credit limits; the promotion of Human Rights and fundamental labor rights, the Publication of the revised BB Sustainability Guidelines universalization of social rights and respect for diversity. In addition to being signatories to the Equator Principles since February for Credit (Diretrizes BB de Sustentabilidade); and 2005, BB adopts the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Our socio-environmental risk management also features items from Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability and Publication of the revised Social-environmental the credit and supplier relations policies and from the Sustainability the World Bank Group’s General Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Controversial Issues (Diretrizes Guidelines for Credit (Diretrizes de Sustentabilidade para o (EHS) Guidelines for financial products that encompass large industrial Socioambientais para Assuntos Polêmicos). Crédito) and the Social-environmental Guidelines for Controversial and infrastructure projects. These inputs are evaluated and framed in a Issues (Diretrizes Socioambientais para Assuntos Polêmicos). socio-environmental risk matrix to identify potential impacts. See more in the GRI Appendix See more in GRI disclosure – FS10 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 54 Management approach: 103-1 submission of workers to degrading conditions or conditions The internal management of climate change effects is aligned with analogous to slavery, just as we do not assume credit risk with the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB, with the development of In general, the improvement of socio-environmental risk management customers that sexually exploit minors or use child labor. These initiatives and adoption of practices that contribute to mitigating the is limited by a lack of references, such as documentation regarding principles are established in our Credit Policy (Política de Crédito) effects of the operation with regards to social-environmental aspects. the legality of social aspects for environmental licensing processes, and our credit systems are prepared to prevent new business for and the difficulty of monitoring social-environmental legal actions. In customers with prohibitive records. 412-1 The effects of climate change could influence various market the supply chain our activities are also restricted by the different levels segments. That is why it is important to seek to understand of maturity of partner companies with regards to this issue. The document also states that loans should not be granted and measure the impact of physical and transition risks on the for activities that have not received formal authorization from financing and insurance portfolios. Physical hazards related We adopt the precautionary principle in analyzes carried out in the the competent bodies, which includes projects that require to extreme weather events, such as floods and storms, are lending process, observing the applicable legislation, self-regulation environmental resources or that are capable of causing considered in the assessments because they are directly related and voluntary agreements and commitments that we have assumed. environment degradation. to increased operating costs and reduced business revenue. Our operations are guided by the Sustainability Guidelines for Credit (Diretrizes de Sustentabilidade para o Crédito) for eight sectors of the For all of the aforementioned issues we include the right to economy, encompassing cross-cutting themes such as forests and early termination of the contract in the contractual clauses of biodiversity, water and climate change. 102-11 loan operations, with immediate debt repayment and immediate suspension of disbursement. We do not grant loans to producers that are included in the list of areas embargoed by the Brazilian Institute of Environment Climate Change 201-2 and Renewable Natural Resources (Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Up until November 2018, the management of risks arising from Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis – IBAMA) for climate change was carried out under the umbrella of socialdeforestation or irregular forest fires. The granting of agribusiness environmental risk. Due to the possibility of losses resulting loans in the Amazon Biome is conditional upon proof of the from the triggering of extreme weather events and the transition environmental and landholding legality of real estate, with to business in a low carbon economy, which may affect the analyzes centralized in specialized teams and not linked to generation of value by companies, climate risk has become even the branches where the proposals originate, in order to ensure more relevant for BB. In this sense, climate risk management compliance with all legal requirements. must be considered in strategic decisions, as this will influence the future profitability of the bank’s business. In line with our socio-environmental commitment, we do not finance customers who are responsible for environmental damage, employers whose labor relationships demonstrate the 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 55 201-2 In order to mitigate climate-related impacts we use certain tools, such as Agricultural A total amount of in loans was Zoning of Climate Risk (Zoneamento Agrícola provided through the ABC de Risco Climático – ZARC), published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Program, with contracting Supply (Ministério da Agricultura, Pecuária e costs of R$6 million Implementation of a socio-environmental rating, to Abastecimento – Mapa), and the Agricultural ascertain, evaluate and monitor customer practices, Technical Reference System (Sistema used as a social-environmental risk management tool; Referencial Técnico Agropecuário – RTA), Development of criteria that allow the construction developed internally. of the foundations of socio-environmental losses of of all agricultural production operational and credit risks; and The Zarc tool indicates the municipalities with costing was covered by Formalization of the process of socio-environmental suitable climate and soil for specific crops and due diligence in financing operations. the best-adapted crops. It is the main macroAgricultural and Proagro Insurance indicator for the financing of crop planting costs in municipalities across the country. The RTA contains information on production costs, price history and productivity for Climate Risk Monitoring is also carried out at the level of the lending operations, such as of operations, in 2018, to the amount of each crop and municipality. The system’s throughout the country, based on Climate triggering production insurance. Throughout R$1.7 billion at a contracting cost of R$6 million. productivity history is updated with each Event Alerts issued by the agribusiness 2018, 1,985 Climate Event Alerts were recorded Customers have a portfolio of products at their harvest season and is directly affected by advisory network, which are registered in the in 1,135 Brazilian municipalities. disposal that includes Seguro Agrícola, Seguro the incidence of climatic phenomena. The Agricultural Monitoring System (Painel de Agrícola Faturamento (insurance products), Proagro historical productivity series is sensitive to Acompanhamento da Safra). This permits Initiatives aimed at reducing CO2 emissions and Proagro Mais. In the agricultural year 2017– detrimental events, which affect the degree of observation of the recurrence of extreme events from agriculture are supported through the 2018 (from July 1, 2017, to June 30, 2018), 64.7% attractiveness of a crop in a given municipality, and changes in local climate patterns. In the Low Carbon Agriculture Program (Programa of the total agricultural costing of R$31.2 billion and is fundamental for analysis of funding for short term, over the period of a growing season, de Agricultura de Baixo Carbono – ABC). was covered by BB’s Seguro Agrícola (agricultural crop production. the warnings also make it possible to take Through the program, positive financial insurance) and Proagro to mitigate the risk of preventive measures to mitigate financial losses implications are identified with the contracting production losses due to extreme weather events. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 56 BB also adopts specific conditions for granting credit to with international anti-money laundering and terrorist sectors with more significant potential for environmental financing policies and to comply with the rules and impacts, according to the Sustainability Guidelines for definitions of international regulatory bodies. Credit and the Social-Environmental Guidelines for Controversial Issues Controversial Issues. Read the Guidelines in full. These In all direct and indirect investment in companies and In the process of credit risk management, qualitative restrictions guidelines are disclosed to the market in order to provide Equity Investment Funds (Fundos de Investimento em are established on operations that may cause reputational visibility to the business and management practices Participações – FIPs), the Internal Regulations determine damage or involve high Socio-environmental Risks, in addition adopted by the bank, reinforcing the fulfillment of its public that all must comply with the Social-environmental to quantitative limits. This guideline is formalized in the Credit commitments that are assumed and aligned with the Guidelines for Controversial Issues, published on the Policy, which considers corporate social responsibility and the principles of socio-environmental responsibility contained in Investor Relations website. counterparty’s ability to generate employment and income as well our policies. Read the Guidelines in full. as the risks inherent in the business. According to the document, The Regulations of the Equity Investment Funds in which we do not assume credit risks with customers who: The OFAC filter, also known as FCVW (Firco Continuity we invest value the adoption of best governance practices Verify Web), is used to block transactions with individuals, and socio-environmental management. P  articipate in crimes of money laundering or concealment of companies, financial institutions, vessels, entities and property, rights, and values; countries on local and international restrictive lists. The Carry out any illegal activity; tool is essential for helping financial institutions to comply Offer guarantees arising, directly or indirectly, from illegal activities; Are responsible for damage to the environment; BB adopts specific  ubject workers to degrading forms of labor or keep them in S conditions for granting conditions analogous to slave labor; credit to sectors Practice sexual exploitation of minors and/or use child labor; and with more significant Risk factors are broken down so that potential bond Are a political party. and security purchasers are aware of the specific potential for sociorisks involved. Information capable of influencing environmental impacts investment decisions is public and can be consulted in Reference Form, section 4. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 57 Emerging Issues be unknown or not fully understood. These risks can become In this scenario, there may be fewer gains to be made in financial significant if their potential impact is increased by the interest intermediation due to falling profitability and the need to reposition in certain strategic objectives, which requires the adoption of the asset portfolio, as well as a more significant increase in specific management processes. other sources of income, such as in fees charged for banking services. To err on the side of caution, the bank increased There are risk policies, standards, procedures, processes investment in operational efficiency, while reducing expenses Identify and manage non-financial and emerging and management structures in place for the risks deemed and optimizing processes to maintain competitiveness. Focusing medium and long-term risks that could have to be significant. Methodologies are established to identify, on the banking consumer’s behavior, the bank invested in the significant impacts on Banco do Brasil’s measure, evaluate, monitor, report, control and mitigate risks quality and convenience of services, mainly through multichannel business. Management approach: 103-1 103-2 and the precepts of the National Monetary Council governing technologies and the development of products and services. the structure of risk and capital management are followed. In Commitments of Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 corporate strategy elaboration, the various risks are considered We are paying close attention to identify innovations in the P  resentation of a study of the emerging longaccording to business projection scenarios. financial sector (business models and technologies) and term risks with impacts on BB’s business to the anticipate trends to ensure sustainability, including investments in Sustainability Forum. In 2018, the model for identification and definition of the relevance digital transformation and the creation of new relationship models. of risks was reviewed, incorporating improvements in the The Banco do Brasil Advanced Lab (Laboratório Avançado Banco See more in the GRI Appendix classification and understanding of the relationship between the do Brasil – Labbs) was opened in Silicon Valley, California. It risks, the external and internal factors that cause them, and the link was created to incubate and develop innovative technology to the strategic objectives and the nature of the possible impacts. companies. Learn more in Financial Value We were the first big Non-financial risks arise from operating activities and the use brazilian bank to be present in one of the world’s leading creative of the resources necessary to deliver products and services Arrival of non-banking competitors and changes in centers, which allows us to establish strategic partnerships for to customers. These risks may reduce, jeopardize or interrupt consumer banking behavior developing solutions. operations, as well as having the potential of generating There are a number of risks arising from increased contractual, regulatory and environmental liabilities with a competitiveness in the banking industry. This is affected by the negative impact on reputation. Thus, management of these risks intensification of the population’s financial inclusion process, the becomes necessary to prevent the indirect effects of operations start of operations by foreign institutions, the entry of non-bank from resulting in financial losses in the conduct of business. competitors (especially in the payments sector) and consumer behavior – more informed, connected and demanding. Emerging risks arise from changes in the market or from changes in strategy that may trigger new threats, which may 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 58 Business discontinuity risk The risk of business discontinuity is an emerging risk, originating from suppliers and third parties. It refers to the possibility of losses arising from interruption of activities due to the discontinuity of the supply of goods and services. Suppliers are hired for the purchase of stationary, software, equipment, furniture, and surveillance services, among others. The concentration of hiring in a few suppliers and the lack of technical capacity among the partner companies exposes us to possible interruptions in business support processes, causing financial losses, and legal and reputation damage. With the need to reduce expenses, improve operational efficiency and optimize processes to maintain competitiveness, it may be necessary to outsource new activities, increasing exposure to this risk. A bidding process is carried out to mitigate these risks, as determined by law and observing internal policies and standards. The outsourced services considered important for regular functioning of operations are evaluated, monitored and reported on with regards to the risks. Large Corporate Branch on Av. Paulista (SP) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 59 Capital Capital management consists of a Basel (Capital Adequacy) Ratio (PR/RWA) – % Basel Ratio continuous process of planning, assessing, controlling and monitoring the resources R$ million 2016 2017 2018 2016 18.48 needed to deal with significant risks, ensuring solvency in parallel to the Reference Equity (RE) 130,453 135,511 134,178 2017 19.64 application of business strategies and Level I 90,284 95,228 95,290 supporting the capital requirements required by the regulator or defined internally. Core Capital 67,718 72,320 71,169 2018 18.86 We maintain a three-year prospective view Prudential Adjustments (17,085) (23,848) (28,947) of Capital Planning that incorporates the measures defined by the Basel III Agreement Complementary Capital 22,565 22,908 24,121 RWA Composition (R$ million) and considers the corporate Risk Appetite and Level II 40,170 40,283 38,889 Tolerance Statement, strategy and budget. 2016 2017 2018 Risk Weighted Assets (RWA) 705,851 689,857 711,490 Credit Risk (RWS CPAD) 643,214 616,822 624,019 The focus is on the organic generation of Minimum Required capital through the growth of lines of credit 69,703 63,812 61,366 Market Risk (RWA MPAD) 18,844 17,296 26,390 Reference Equity (MRRE) with lower capital consumption and that Margin on Minimum are more attractive according to the return60,750 71,700 72,812 Operational Risk (RWA OPAD) 43,975 55,738 61,081 Required Reference Equity risk criterion. The target is to maintain core Tierl I Capital Ratio 12.79 13.80 13.39 Total 705,851 689,857 711,490 capital above 9.5% in 2019 when the Basel (Level I/RWA) – % III rules will be fully implemented in Brazil. Core Capital Ratio Following the Risk Appetite and Tolerance 9.59 10.48 10.00 (CP/RWA) – % Declaration and Capital Plan, the target is to maintain a Core Capital Ratio of at least 11% by January 2022. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 60 Internal Controls Internal Audit The internal control structure ensures greater reliability in the quality It is up to the Internal Audit to evaluate corporate processes Creation of the Virtual Audit Assistant, of processes, products and services, and compliance with internal and provide independent and objective consulting to improve a tool that enables automated auditing tests, identifying policies and regulatory standards. It enables the identification of corporate governance and risk and control management. In situations/operations that do not conform to accepted flaws and the implementation of measures to resolve them, providing 2018, the area conducted 234 audits. norms and standards. greater security with regards to the strategic objectives. During the assessment, audit findings that point to the need As part of the scope of the Internal Audit Innovation Program (iNovAudit), The system of internal controls references documents and drivers for improvements are indicated as recommendations, also in 2019 the Bank will work on topics such as special auditing, the use of that are widely recognized in the national and international markets, pointing out the manager responsible and the period for machine learning for predictive auditing, interaction with the areas of the such as the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway implementation – consistent with the associated risk level. second line of defense and optimization of the audit process in the ELBB. Commission (COSO 2013) – Framework for the Evaluation of Internal Control Systems and Control Objectives for Information and Related The Internal Audit follows up on the recommendations until Technology (CobiT). Innovative tools are also used to manage the they have been implemented. After that, corrective actions control environment, including: are evaluated and, if considered sufficient to mitigate the risks involved, the recommendation is certified by the auditor. Management of the Control Environment (Gestão do Ambiente de Controle – GAC): In 2018, the use of advanced information analysis, analytics, measures the quality of the management of the control and data science tools was intensified. This added value to environment in the organizational units, based on a set of the work of the audit and contributed to the improvement of indicators related to relevant processes. internal processes. Among the actions, the following stand out: Internal Control System Panel (Painel do Deployment of electronic panels Sistema de Controles Internos – PSCI): to support the audit in Corporate Processes. It fully reflects the risk and control management of the presents relevant information related to credit, evaluated areas through the consolidation of indicators accounting, continuous auditing, and judicial related to the identification, evaluation and mitigation of operational processes, among others. and compliance risks, management of the control environmental and maturity level of the managers in the Three Lines of Defense Model. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 61 63 Digital Business and Innovation 66 Products and Services with Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Attributes 74 Shareholders Business Model Transformative Role Corporate Governance Risk Management Financial Value Creation Social Value Creation Environmental Value Creation Digital Business and Innovation In a universe where people are constantly connected, banking Since 2017, an agreement has been signed with the services are continually changing to meet the demands of customers National Innovation Reference Center (Centro de Referência who are demanding comfort, convenience, and diversity of services de Inovação Nacional) – coordinated by Fundação Dom to start and maintain relationships. The digital reality implies new Cabral – a community that shares and discusses innovation complexities and challenges for the financial system. The entry of management practices and challenging issues. The diversity ambitious companies offering services that were previously provided of the group, composed of managers, academics and Identify innovations in the financial sector (business only by banks and financial institutions has challenged the market. specialists, is one of its greatest assets, conferring major models and technologies) and anticipate trends to potential for the collaborative development of solutions. guarantee Banco do Brasil’s continuity and longevity. Customer behavior, stimulated by new trends and innovations, Management approach: 103-1 103-2 indicates the directions and opportunities for business and the development of solutions. The monitoring of trends directly benefits customers and other stakeholders, since Commitments of Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 it enables us to offer solutions and facilities that not only satisfy their needs, but also anticipate them in advance. Presentation of a relationship model proposal for startups; and This context continually accelerates the need to develop new, Presentation of a feasibility study to the more efficient and more responsive business models. We Sustainability Forum for a platform that allows remain at the forefront of digital solutions with the use of artificial interaction between investors and sustainable intelligence, allowing customers to interact with us and enjoy projects using a crowdfunding or startups model. services via Whatsapp and social networks. The virtual assistant responds using natural language and learns continuously, See more in the GRI Appendix according to user demands and doubts. It does not replace other channels such as Internet Banking, and if there is a need for personal service the customer can be attended by employees. Innovation is one of the values embedded in the process of formulating Banco do Brasil’s Corporate Strategy (Estratégia as one of our values the topic Corporativa do Banco do Brasil – ECBB), in the organizational is incorporated into the ECBB culture, vision, positioning, macro-goals, and objectives. formulation process Training session at the BB Headquarters building in Brasília 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 63 Labbs 103-2 Innovation Incentive Program (Pensa BB) In December, the Advanced Laboratory (Labbs) completed We have an Innovation Incentive Program (Pensa BB) in How Labbs works two years as a space for project design and experimentation place, through which strategic challenges were launched for all and technological solutions with potential for innovation in employees, encouraging them to present innovative solutions. processes, products, and services. It has two units in operation: Employees suggest improvements to products and customer In December 2018, in the fifth edition, the program gathered one in Brasília and another in Silicon Valley, California (USA). services and propose new business ideas that consider the 18,450 ideas. These ideas were then evaluated and selected To strengthen the culture of intrapreneurship and innovation, Ideas reality of operations and customer relations. To stimulate for implementation. The following are some of the solutions the teams were selected and empowered. Approximately and support the teams we hold events and programs to implemented through Pensa BB: 400 employees passed through Labbs in 2018. As a result, capture and select the ideas with the most potential. 36 suggestions passed through the innovation production Probability Index for the line. In addition, companies and public agencies were invited Materialization of Operational Risk Where selected ideas begin to take shape. The suggestions to visit the space and partnerships were established, with Enables preventive and reactive actions in risk mitigation through are worked on by using Design Thinking, Design Sprint, Lean the results disseminated and shared through lectures. Garage Startup and customer surveys and presented to a committee. machine learning. If approved, they continue for incubation. Ourocard Virtual Bank Site and application through which non-account holders can A step dedicated to effectively developing and constructing the request an Ourocard, with an exclusive virtual cash register project, which includes user testing for validation. After three through which the customer can pay bills and make purchases Incubation months the project is submitted to the sponsorship committee, with the Ourocard card for non-account holders. which decides whether or not the initiative will proceed to the next phase. Digital Credit – Contracting Automation of contracting of available credit lines through digital In this phase, which lasts up to 12 months, the initiative channels. It provides a line of credit for working capital when the aims to increase the number of users, besides adopting new account is opened and the formalization of the ouro business features to gain scale and prepare for the market. This pathway check and business Ourocard. Acceleration is accompanied by metrics to see if the initiative is on the right path, and at the end of the acceleration phase another Virtual Financial Education Environment validation process occurs. If it is approved, the project becomes Provides customers with a service of online courses in financial a business activity or product to be offered by the banks. education, financial investments, and family budgeting, with access to videos and other materials. Labbs – BB Headquarters building in Brasília 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 64 Other Innovation Initiatives In 2018, BB-BI approved the creation of the Innovation Investment Program, MOBILE which is the financial pillar of the Banco do Brasil Open Innovation Program, with R$30 million of capital made available through Equity Investment Funds with a limit of 20% of capital per Fund for investing in innovation startups in order to CDC Product improve customer experience. (Personal Credit) 859 X cheaper Card Request Startup Farm (Personal) 512 X cheaper Branch The partnership with the Startup Farm was established to advise us on initiatives related to the innovation ecosystem, based Application in Investment Funds 3,957 X cheaper on three pillars: People, Business and Innovation. Includes training actions in various formats, in order to provide exchanges between employees and people who work with an entrepreneurial mindset. People MOBILE Provides the opportunity to conduct business directly, CRBB (1) 270 X cheaper by offering products and banking services to more than 120 startups in the Farm’s portfolio. Business 29 X cheaper ATM (1) Foresees the realization of four acceleration campaigns called “Aheads”, in which we are partners. The actions 4 X cheaper Internet (1) allow the exchange of knowledge and acceleration techniques with the Banco do Brasil Advanced Laboratory Innovation (Labbs). Launched in July, Ahead BB received about 160 subscriptions and selected nine startups for acceleration. (1) CDC Product (Personal Credit, Opening of Current Account (Personal), Card Request (Personal) and Application in Investment Funds. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 65  roducts and Services P BB DTVM carries out a wide-ranging screening In order to deepen the aspects related to ESG, with Environmental, Social of assets, considering socio-environmental and BB DTVM developed its own methodology for and Governance (ESG) corporate governance aspects, and reached the evaluating the sustainability of companies within Attributes FS7 FS8 end of the period with R$125.7 billion in assets its coverage framework. For variable income subject to positive screening, representing 13.35% assets, a ranking is drawn up with the best placed Ethics in relationships with our different stakeholders is of the total assets managed. The other managed companies, influencing the various stock allocation one of our principles. The generation of social values equity assets are not subject to this kind of strategies. For private credit operations, the ESG and protection of the environment goes hand in hand assessment because they are federal securities aspects make up a qualitative and quantitative rule BB Ações Equidade with economic indicators in the formation of results or have low liquidity. The fund manager manages that influences decision making, which may involve (Equality Shares) and in the pursuit of longevity and solidity. and distributes the funds to the different investor objecting to the credit limit, or reducing or increasing segments, including eight investment funds with the limit. Assessments are made available to the The BB Ações Equidade Fund is aimed at Social and environmental issues are included in the socio-environmental characteristics, which totaled managers so that they can adopt practices that the Private and Retail segments and features process of management of resource, investments, R$1.6 billion in equity in December 2018. favor the integration of environmental, social and the investment of funds in publicly-traded credit, security and means of payment, where the corporate governance issues. The main dimensions companies that are signatories to the applicable legislation, policies, guidelines, standards, In order to meet the Central Bank’s guidelines and analyzed are: Principles of Women’s Empowerment. pacts and commitments are observed. Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and the The definition of weights and weighting of AMEC Code of Principles and Duties of Institutional Governance, ethics and integrity – Evaluates the attributes are based on two pillars: Funds Managed FS7 FS8 FS11 Investors (Stewardship), the Bank considers the composition and independence of the Board of combination of financial returns and corporate Directors and the remuneration of the Management; Economic and financial evaluation: BB Gestão de Recursos DTVM S.A. administrates, governance in the processes for evaluating assets Social Performance Indicators – Evaluates issues through analysis of multiple results, potential manages and distributes managed funds and invested using third-party resources, in accordance related to employee turnover, health and safety at of increasing in value and sustainability portfolios. According to the Brazilian Association of with ESG principles. work, social certifications, fairness and assistance analysis with a specific methodology that Financial and Capital Markets Entities’ (Associação for families; and considers the environmental, social and Brasileira das Entidades dos Mercados Financeiros The methodology encompasses general indicators Environmental Performance Indicators – Evaluates governance spheres; and e de Capitais – Anbima) overall ranking of third-party such as governance structure, socio-environmental aspects of biodiversity, innovation, environmental asset management, BB DTVM ended 2018 with aspects, positioning in relation to sustainability certifications and use of water and energy. Equality criteria: participation of women in R$941.1 billion in third-party funds under its indexes and alignment with the GRI standard, as management positions, executive positions management, growth of 8.86% in the year. well as specific indicators relating to the needs of There is also a specific methodology for the and on the Board of Directors. each area. clearance of the nominees to the Board of Directors and Supervisory Council, actively influencing the improvement of corporate governance. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 66 Investment – Equity Investment Funds FS7 FS8 We have a Private Equity and Venture Capital Investment Compliance is monitored by the manager through a Program that follows the following criteria: mandatory due diligence process conducted prior to investment, and during periodic meetings throughout the FIP Socio-environmental responsibility standards cycle to stay up-to-date with the monitoring of the investees. defended by us, as well as the Socio-Environmental The Regulations of the Brasil Agronegócios (Agribusiness) Guidelines for Controversial Issues; FIP also foresee the need for the investees to observe and Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI); and adopt best governance practices, including: Show potential for generating employment and income in the country (desirable). Establishing a mandate of up to two years for the entire Board of Directors; All Equity Investment Fund (Fundos de Investimentos em Providing shareholders with information Participações – FIP) opportunities must comply with the limits, on matters relating to the business; rules and parameters of the Investment Program, in order to Using the arbitration chamber to mitigate legal and image-related risks for us and add value to resolve corporate disputes; the investees. The regulations of the funds establish norms and Providing an annual audit of its financial statements standards of corporate governance that the manager must provide by independent auditors registered with the CVM; to the companies so that they can be adopted prior to the decision Implementing policy to minimize harmful to invest and practiced throughout the time as FIP shareholder. effects on the environment; Implementing social action plans with local communities; Operating using good human resources The fund regulations establish management practices, developing this capital; Adopting socio-environmental responsibility standards; norms and standards of Implementing policy to comply with regulatory corporate governance that must corporate governance standards; Not using child or slave labor; and be adopted by the investees Providing fair and equal treatment in all relationships. View from the Corporate BB building in São Paulo (SP) Relatório Anual 2018 Annual 2018 Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 67 Products and Services with Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Attributes Resources Equity Investment Funds Managed (FIP) E S E S E S G E S G E S G Equity Investment Brazil Agribusiness Fund BB Brazil Sustainability Fund BB of Fixed Funds (FIP) – Shares Young Fund BB Shares Equity Investment Equity Investment Income Referenced Brazil Corporate Entrepreneurial Private Equity Governance Funds (FIP) – Funds (FIP) – Mulin DI Social 50 tistrategy Sustainability Index Multistrategy Multistrategy R$643.0 mi R$9.2 mi R$128.0 mi R$218.0 mi R$259.9 mi R$508.2 mi E S E S G Brazil InternationalFund BB Shares Carbon Total Fund BB Shares Equity Total ization of Companies Fund Equity Sustainability Investment Funds (FIP) – Multistrategy R$3.9 mi R$8.7 mi R$308.8 mi Learn more Learn more G E E E S G E S G E S G Fund BB Fund BB Fund BB Equity Investment Equity Investment Brazil Ports and Social Security Multimarket Multimmarket Funds (FIP) Brazil Funds (FIP) Brazil Logistic Assets Oil and Gas Equity Shares LP Global Vita LP Global Acqua Internationalization Investment Funds Equity Investment Governance Private Private of Companies II (FIP) – Multistrategy Funds (FIP) R$360.1 mi R$139.5 mi R$258.6 mi R$512.5 mi R$44.9 mi R$173.1 mi E Environmental S Social G Governance Press to learn more 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 68 Agribusiness by Customer Size Loans FS7 FS8 Small Producer R$47,382 mi AGRICULTURAL LOANS PORTFOLIO FS6 MIDWEST Rural Credit 25.8% The agribusiness portfolio (carteira agro) Total Companies R$31,266 mi Agroindustry 1.0% is extremely important for us. Our support Medium and Large R$187,193 mi Total 23.3% Agricultural Cooperatives for sustainable agriculture aims to achieve Producer R$101,038 mi R$7,506 mi PI R$41,804 million long-term sustainable returns, going beyond LE R$1,746 million traditional financial and risk analysis. Sustainable Total R$43,550 million technologies are also associated with cost savings and efficiency gains, contributing to the long-term Agribusiness by Type of Item Financed (R$ million) Dec/18 sustainability of production models. Endorsing Classified Credit Portfolio 187,193 these initiatives not only helps to reduce customer Cattle Raising NORTH SOUTHEAST 42,513 risks but also to identify opportunities that the Meat 28,210 Rural Credit 6.4% Rural Credit 31.1% new business environment and agricultural sector Agroindustry 0.4% Agroindustry 94.0% Milk 14,303 regulations provide. Machines and Implements 25,637 Total 5.8% Total 37.6% Soybean 20,392 By operating together with all sizes of farmers, from PI R$10,627 million PI R$42,262 million Corn 9,095 LE R$174 million LE R$28,155 million Storage 6,752 small producers through to large agro-industrial Total R$10,801 million Total R$70,418 million Soil Improvements 5,553 companies, we finance production costs, marketing Coffee 4,830 of agricultural products and rural investments – Sugar cane 4,619 such as construction and expansion of storage Pasture 4,159 facilities, acquisition and modernization of machinery NORTHEAST SOUTH Poultry Farming 3,392 Rural Credit 7.4% Rural Credit 29.3% and implements, processing and industrialization Trucks/vehicles 3,185 Agroindustry 0.3% Agroindustry 4.2% Rice of agricultural products and adaptation of rural 2,271 Total 6.6% Total 26.7% Eucalyptus/Pine/Forests 1,986 properties to comply with environmental legislation. Pig Farming 1,869 Brazilian agribusiness is therefore supported by PI R$11,438 million PI R$42,289 million Cotton 1,101 our 57.4% share of all financing for the sector, LE R$1,002 million LE R$7,696 million Wheat 1,045 throughout the production chain. Total R$12,439 million Total R$49,985 million Others 29,507 Agroindustrial Credit 19,289 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 69 Products Products and and Services Serviceswith with Environmental, Environmental, Social Social and and Governance Governance (ESG) (ESG) Attributes Attributes Social Businesses S S BB Crédito National Program Acessibilidade to Strengthen Family (Accessibility Farming (Pronaf) Credit) R$44,069 mi R$162.4 mi S Fundo de Total Financiamento Estudantil – Fies (1) The total value of the (Student Finance portfolio refers to the sum Fund) of the contracted value of each operation. R$41,611 mi (2) For BB, social businesses Learn more are economically profitable initiatives that seek solutions to social problems through the S E S use of market mechanisms, sustainably reducing socioeconomic inequalities BB Microcrédito Programa and guaranteeing income, Empreendedor Minha Casa productive inclusion and access to public services. Examples of (Microcredit for Minha Vida this business are the financing Entrepreneurs) (PMCMV) (2) through the MPO line of credit, Pronaf, BB Accessibility R$234.8 mi R$21,967 mi Credit, the Student Financing Fund (Fies) and the PMCMV. E Environmental S Social G Governance Press to learn more Customer Service at the Southeast branch in Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 70 Products and Services with Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Attributes Agribusiness Loans E E E S E S E S Pronaf Pronaf Eco-Dendê/ Programa ABC (Low Pronaf Florestal Pronaf Agroecologia Seringueira (Pronaf Carbon Agriculture (Pronaf Forestry) Eco (Pronaf Agroecology) Oil Palm/Rubber Program) Tree) R$8,613 mi R$142.2 mi R$14.6 mi R$13.7 mi R$236.7 mi S E S Moderagro Pronaf Mulher Total (Agricultural Modernization and (Pronaf Women) Natural Resource Conservation Program) Learn more R$71.9 mi R$900.2 mi S S E S E S PCA Sudene (1) Inovagro (Programa Pronamp (National Custeio Agrícola (Storage de Incentivo à Program of Support (Superintendency for com Plantio Direto Construction and Inovação Tecnológica to the Average Size the Development of (Production Costing na Produção Expansion Program) Producer) the Northeast) for No-till Farming) Agropecuária) R$23,249 mi R$4,183 mi R$21,577 mi R$19,166 mi R$3,096 mi (1) Up until the 2017 Annual Report, only products with reduced financial costs in the Semi-Arid region were reported. This year, the E Environmental S Social G Governance Press to learn more 2018 figures cover all the operations carried out for the Sudene region. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 71 Products and Services with Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Attributes Loans – Loans – Government Loans Private Individuals Legal Entities S S S S Fundo de Amparo PMAT Programa de Geração BB Financiamento ao Trabalhador (Modernization of Tax de Renda – Proger Setor Público (Public (FAT) Taxista (Taxi Administration and (Income Generation Sector Financing – Driver Support Management of Basic Program) operations with states) Fund) Social Sectors) R$249.3 mi R$1,710 mi R$52.2 mi R$38,007 mi S Total Total Total Programa Eficiência Municipal (Municipal Efficiency Program) Learn more Learn More Learn more R$138.8 mi E Environmental S Social G Governance Press to learn more 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 72 Products and Services with Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Attributes Insurance and Means of Payment FS7 FS8 capitalization FS7 FS8 E E S Cartão de Ourocard Origens Pagamento da Ourocap Reciclado Defesa Civil (CPDC) Estilo Flex (1) (Recycled Bank (Civil Defense Card) Payment Card) R$7.8 mi R$22,400 mi R$29,600 mi E Total Total Arredondamento de fatura (Rounding up of credit card bills) Learn more R$67,900 mi Learn more (1) The 2018 turnover of the Ourocap Estilo Flex products was R$7,820,813.22, which represents 0.19% of the total Balcão BB (BB (1) Total number of cards up to 12/31/2018 (stock). Counter – Ourocap product) turnover. The amount of R$19,350.28 was transferred to FBB related to the 2018 sales. E Environmental S Social G Governance Press to learn more 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 73 Shareholders Dividends/Interest on Own Capital and Shareholding Interest BB’s shares (BBAS3) were present in all B3 trading Shareholding R$ million 2016 2017 2018 sessions and represented 3.140% of the Ibovespa Interest (¹) (%) for the four-month period from September to Federal Government 1,323 1,772 2,700 52.2 December 2018, in addition to remaining on the ADR level 1 (BDORY) program traded over-the-counter in Private Individuals 164 192 320 5.6 the United States. Legal Entities 381 554 932 12.0 The reports and information provided to the Brazilian Previ 243 297 383 6.5 Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) are available on the Investor Relations website and Foreign Capital 486 711 1,211 23.6 we have a special team available for analyst and investor services. The team performed 1,012 service Total 2,355 3,229 5,163 100.0 responses during the year, including participation in meetings, events and telephone calls. Of (1) Does not include treasury shares. particular note was the Banco do Brasil Day held in September, which brought together 76 analysts Market Indicators (exc. treasury shares) and institutional investors to discuss expectations for business and positioning of innovation with the senior management. In November, the Apimec São 2016 2017 2018 Paulo event brought together 144 participants. Earnings per Share (R$) 2.85 3.91 4.54 In order to meet the needs of institutional investors, Price/Earnings Ratio 12 Months 9.74 8.05 10.07 516 meetings were held, including participation in nine conferences in the country and ten abroad, Price/Equity Value 0.90 0.90 1.27 in addition to 15 non-deal roadshows in Brazil and Market Capitalization (R$ billion) 78.2 88.6 129.5 abroad. Four teleconferences of results took place and meetings were held with shareholders at six of ON Share Price (R$) 28.1 31.8 46.5 our Private offices. BB employee from the Investor Relations area in Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 74 76 Customer Satisfaction 81 Customer Service Channels 82 Employees 94 Suppliers 97 Information, Complaints and Reporting Channels Business Model Transformative Role Corporate Governance Risk Management Financial Value Creation Social Value Creation Environmental Value Creation Customer Satisfaction Quality of service is fundamental to customer satisfaction, as it We were the first financial institution in the country to approve and contributes to increasing trust, generating business opportunities and publish a Policy for Relationships with Customers and Users of increasing profitability. With this in mind, 2018 was chosen as the Products and Services, a requirement of the National Monetary Year of Relationships, with an intensification of actions relating to this Council (Conselho Monetário Nacional – CMN), which reinforces theme and the linking of new activities to the relationship strategy. the commitment to improve customer relations. This policy guides the behavior and conduct of activities in compliance with principles Improve customer relationship management The motivation and dedication of employees is essential for customer of ethics, responsibility, transparency and diligence, fostering the and increase satisfaction and retention rates. satisfaction because their attitude and attention in all of their daily convergence of interests and the consolidation of an institutional Management approach: 103-1 103-2 103-3 activities directly or indirectly affects the public’s perception of image of credibility, security and competence. services. The main effect of customer satisfaction for shareholders and Commitments of Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 investors is the expansion of brand trust, through the consolidation of Customer relationship management is further guided by other service and relationship models. This results in good management of internal instruments, such as the regulation of Related Party Presentation of report of initiatives implemented the “customer experience” by incorporating proximity, quickness and Transactions and the Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct. It to increase the satisfaction levels of Individual, flexibility into the process, supporting the customer in the management is also in line with the general rules of the Central Bank and Federal Business and Public Sector customers. of their finances and generation of business. legislation, especially the Consumer Defense Code. See more in the GRI Appendix There is a positive correlation between the quality of service provided By measuring customer satisfaction it is possible to check whether and the increase in customer satisfaction. By offering excellent the value proposition is perceived, to adopt management measures, service, the employee becomes the reference point that the customer to improve processes and to adjust operating strategies. The identifies with when carrying out any type of business with us. customer satisfaction survey conducted in 2018 presents an Through analysis of the contact with overview of all points of contact with the customer, including the the customer it becomes possible Through analysis of the contact with the customer it becomes provision of solutions, communication channels and digital and to take advantage of the information possible to take advantage of the information gathered to develop personal relationships. The continuous pursuit of excellence in this gathered to develop and/or improve and/or improve products and services. Each interaction can be used indicator has resulted in a significant improvement during 2018. products and services to generate business opportunities, deepen the relationship and enhance loyalty. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 76 The Customer Council is a free environment where customers can express their Results of the Customer Satisfaction Survey 103-3 opinions frankly and directly through interaction with the senior management of BB. The space is also important to improve customer service, relationships, proThe satisfaction of customers, whether individuals or businesses, The work includes a qualitative phase, with the objective of cesses, products and services, with the aim of improving customer experience in the private and public sectors, is measured by surveys that identifying the components of satisfaction and perceptions of the and satisfaction. At the end of the Council meetings, the main referrals brought by the council members and shared with the management areas are drawn up evaluate aspects such as personal relationships, service channels customers; and a quantitative phase that takes place monthly, into a report. and general satisfaction with services. To preserve impartiality, with results accumulated over the year in order to measure the these surveys are conducted by market research companies perceptions and components of satisfaction highlighted in the With regards to Corporate Banking, in 2018 the Council included two groups affiliated with the Brazilian Association of Research Companies qualitative stage. of customers (Middle and Upper Middle/Corporate) with a cycle of four annual meetings. In this first edition, 29 suggestions were presented by the customers, (Associação Brasileira de Empresas de Pesquisa – Abep) or the of which 15 were delivered and 14 are under development. European Society for Opinion and Marketing Research (Esomar). Overall satisfaction is represented by a combined average of The methodology adopted considers the evolution of satisfaction responses from the various different segments, weighted by In December, the first meeting of the Private Customers Council took place and throughout the year, considering the attributes valued by the number of customers in each market. The results show that addressed the theme of Financial Advisory Services, it was attended by eight customers with different profiles. consumers of banking products and services. among the customers using multiple banks, but who use us as their main provider of financial solutions, the overall satisfaction In order to capture ideas to improve the relationship with Micro and Small index reached 71.69 in 2018 (on a scale of up to 100), close to the Companies there is a plan to create a Micro and Small Entrepreneur Customer target that had been set. This index represents an improvement of Council in 2019. approximately 3 points in relation to the result for 2017, as shown in the following table: Target set 2016 2017 (1) 2018 for 2018 Level of Satisfaction 74.38 68.74 71.69 76.68 (1) In 2017, there was a change in the format (more concise questionnaires) and in the communication channel used to obtain the responses (from telephone interviews to online questionnaires). This increased efficiency and improved the monitoring of improvements, however the comparability of results with previous years was lost. Southeast 105 branch in Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 77 In general, the most highly-valued attributes in the composition of Here are some other achievements: the level of satisfaction relate to the convenience and practicality of customer service channels and the solutions available, as well as The first Exclusive Investors Office was opened in the relationship with the employee responsible for the account. The Brasília, providing differentiated and specialized results are presented to the areas responsible for the relationship services to a further 7,000 customers. with customers and the managers of networks of branches and of products, and are used to assist in the proposition of strategies and A management area specializing in investment advice actions for improvement. was created, with the service model available in 12 cities, reaching 134,000 customers with this profile. Digital Channels Survey Result 2.2 million simulations (95% via self-service, internet In 2018, satisfaction with digital channels was 84.53%, surpassing and mobile) were carried out in 2018 by more than the target of 83.18%. 730,000 customers using the Investment Simulator – a tool launched in 2017 to streamline the selection and  elationship Strategy for Personal R contracting flow for financial assets and provide key information for Accounts the investor – resulting in investment of approximately R$2 billion (50% via mobile). The strategy for Private Individual customers has sought to improve profitability, especially through specialized relationship structures. In The Minhas Finanças (My Finance) app, which allows 2018, more than 1.2 million customers began to receive the benefits customers to track and manage their budgets, had more of digital relationship models. than 6 million users at the end of 2018, with 937,323 BB Headquarters building in Brasília (DF) family budgets created and average incentivized savings One of the goals is to become the leading provider of solutions for of R$1,000 per customer. liberal professionals and business managing partners, a strategy that involves more than 3 million identified customers and non-customers. In the Agribusiness segment, the self-service structures Specific criteria have been used for credit limits and segmentation of were expanded from 84,000 customers in 2017 to this target group, with the offer of a specialized service. In the year, a 156,000 customers in 2018, up 92.1%. Attempts to Result of the Digital Channels revision of the credit limit freed up an additional R$127 billion. centralize farming customers at branches with an appropriate profile benefitted about 27,000 customers from the satisfaction survey The relationship specialization strategy for investor customers agribusiness sector. was also validated. By the end of 2018 there were 67 groupings, bringing together more than 27,000 customers. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 78 To expand businesses with non-account holders we The structuring of the Retail relationship model is Customized Services have moved forwards with the expansion of Conta a milestone for us, as it strengthens the image of Fácil, a fully-digital account opening process using the institution as setting a benchmark in innovation the smartphone app, which reached the mark of 2.7 and customer service. The proposal was built on Digital Costing Agribusiness Digital million accounts opened. Of this number, 1.3 million the pillars of customer and employee satisfaction (Custeio Digital) Investment users opened accounts through the application in and sustainable business. The solution proposes improvement of the contracting process for 2018 (the expectation for 2019 is to open 2.3 million the specialization of customer service through enables rural producers to send financing Custeio Agro (Agribusiness Costing) via the BB accounts). The app offers a fully-digital experience for the integration of branches and offices, to ensure proposals for the acquisition of machinery App, which had successful results via a strategy the acquisition of financial products. excellence and the possibility of the customer doing and equipment for agricultural activities. of providing new options for farmers. business through their chosen communication These numbers consolidated our position as the channel. Thus, it goes beyond geographical Harvest market-leader in the digital accounts segment. barriers, since the customer can simply, quickly Rural GeoMap Monitoring Tool These customers using this channel have an entirely and conveniently receive high-quality service at free application that allows the capture of the provides alerts of crop failures digital relationship that offers products with special any branch. Currently, about 22% of branches have geographical coordinates of the agricultural and reductions in the producer’s conditions and exclusive services, such as Minhas adopted the new Retail relationship model. areas financed and direct transmission of payment capacity. Finanças (My Finances) and the Plataforma de this information to the database. In use since Benefícios (Benefits Platform). The following actions 2016, this solution has demarcated nearly Self-Service Losses contributed to the outreach of the digital account 1 million polygons with a cumulative area of Report (Proagro) opening process: approximately 40 million hectares. reports climate-related crop losses insured through Proagro. The solution is Automatic valuation running as a pilot scheme in six Brazilian Obtaining the Ourocard Possibility of obtaining BB Crédito 13º of assets states and recorded 333 loss reports in credit card through a 100% Salário Não Correntista/Cartonista a tool that automatically evaluates rural the second half of 2018. digital process via mobile or INSS (Christmas Bonus Salary Loan for properties and their facilities and has already the Portal BB. Non-account holders/INSS Cardholders) valued 553,000 properties, representing cost through the self-service terminal. reductions of approximately R$135 million since its implementation in October 2016. Increase in the amount of transactions available via the App. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 79 Relationship Strategy for Business Account Relationship Strategy with the Government Digital receivables With regards to the Business Retail relationship model, we are Using the Financial Manager feature it is possible Among the actions and projects with a significant impact in 2018, we can highlight the the only bank to offer Company branches, specialized in meeting to quickly and easily view all pre-qualified review of the relationship model that promoted the centralization of the specialized the needs of micro and small companies. The employees of these receivables and select those that are prepayable. customer service management and the expansion of the number of portfolios and units are trained to understand the details of these businesses This gives the customer greater autonomy to decide the moment customers served. There was also a reshuffle in the decision-making area, which and provide suitable financial guidance for the sustainable of prepayment of their receivables and to carry out the operation, resulted in greater autonomy for those directly responsible for the relationship with the growth of customers. Customer service is offered in a planned without needing to go to the branch or sign physical documents. customer and greater agility in negotiations. environment that guarantees comfort, privacy and convenience for business people. The number of business-focused units 100% Digital Credit Prepayment One of the services deployed in the year was the “Transport Pass Recharge”, included in the model reached 173 by the end of 2018, for Merchants which allows customers to carry out this task directly through the App, WhatsApp corresponding to 3.7% of the total spread throughout the country. Customers can contract a Credit Prepayment or the website wherever the agreement has been established. An average of The model already benefits more than 350,000 customers. for Merchants (Antecipação de Crédito ao 77,000 recharges take place monthly, corresponding to approximately 27% of all Lojista – ACL) ceiling and lock the Home Banking directly through recharges made via digital channels (web/mobile). Conta Fácil MEI 100% digital (100% the Financial Management function, without the need to go to the digital account for Microbusinesses) branch to sign the credit agreement. The BB Conta Fácil account for Microbusinesses enables individual microentrepreneurs to open CIB-Corporate Investment Bank Project their account with a simplified and fully digital solution using the The purpose is to monitor customers from a BB mobile app. broader viewpoint, considering their future market value and growth prospects, through financial By December 2018, 25,756 accounts had been opened via the support and other partnerships, increasing participation in IPOs App. The transaction enables the user to affiliate with Cielo (card and follow on operations. In addition to establishing a link with operator) and access services such as direct debit, withdrawals, the potential company, these actions intend to position us as a deposits, payments, transfers, and the Ourocard Elo debit card, strategic partner in all stages of growth. increasing autonomy for entrepreneurs. customers received at the Business branches BB emplyee providing customer service in Brasilia (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 80 Our system was also interconnected with the Regional Labor Courts Customer Service Channels Number of App users (in millions) of the 2 region (Capital and Greater São Paulo) and the 20 region nd th (Sergipe) and the Mato Grosso Court of Justice, eliminating the The BB App has established itself as the main customer relationship 2016 10.2 issuance of paper licenses. The Courts of Justice of Bahia, Minas channel, responsible for more than 60% of all transactions: more Gerais, Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo are also interconnected and the than 10 million different users access the application every month. process is expanding. Another high point is the evaluation of the tool in the app stores: with 2017 15.1 ratings of 4.5 on the Android platform and 4.7 for iOS, the best result Through these interconnections the judicial deposit data is filled in among all of the bank and fintech apps. automatically with the judicial process information, facilitating the 2018 18.2 procedure for the user who would otherwise have to fill out the form To provide a complete digital experience, all of the customer manually. The viewing of judicial deposit balances and extracts and relationship advantages and benefits are located in a single the issuance of payment permits is carried out online by the court, exclusive area. adding security to the process and reducing the amount of paper Transactions, Broken Down by Type (%) used. Automation brings benefits for us, for the courts (Labor Justice From a customer service point of view, Artificial Intelligence has and State Justice) and for all citizens involved in legal actions. Benefits been used extensively in the relationship with customers, through 73.4 79.0 for the courts include reductions in expenditure on paper, saving time virtual assistant bots that manage customer service conversations 65.9 Mobile + Internet and speeding up compliance with court orders, improved security with customers. The solution is applied in the offer of services, and standardization in the processing of these orders, automation of contributing to the proximity and availability of interactions in social balance and extract consultation, without the need for issuing letters. networks, chatbot readiness and BB brand security, with end-to-end Others (Cashier, 18.2 14.6 12.2 The citizen, in turn, receives any credit resulting from the legal action encrypted information. POS, Correspondents in the coundirectly into their current or savings account or in cash, without having try and CABB) to go to the branch. For us, the interconnection reduces the use of The idea is to provide a new version of the App to all customers, 15.9 12.0 structures, generating an efficiency gain, as well as consolidating the enabling more active financial consultancy and business expansion 8.8 relationship with the Judiciary. through digital customer service. Self-service ATM The automated reception and judicial deposit retrieval procedures 2016 2017 2018 generated savings of 9.2 tons of paper in 2018 and grew by 81.2% over 2017. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 81 BB Customer Service via Social Networks Employees In 2018, numerous human resources management measures were We are innovators in the use of customer services via social media, adopted, including the Talent Identification Program – Clerks and Tellers with advanced features available in the bots available on WhatsApp, and the Middle Management Ascendancy Program. Facebook, Messenger and Twitter. One of the differentials is the possibility of carrying out financial transactions with a transition To help retain talent we also invest in quality of life and health and safety, between virtual and human service through the same channel. So Strengthen Banco do Brasil’s actions in relation to human through compliance with Brazilian legal requirements, compliance with much so that the chatbot contributed to efficiency gains in customer capital, including health, safety and wellbeing manageinternational policies – such as those of the International Labor Organization service via social networks. ment, development and retention of talent. (ILO) – and international good practices and standards. Management approach: 103-1 103-2 103-3 Quantitative Results Profile of Employees 102-8 Commitments of Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 External selection and hiring takes place through the public service Increase in the percentage of engaged employees; entrance exam system, according to the human resources requirements of customer Increase in the coverage of the engagement survey; identified for each region. The qualification requirements vary depending service events resolved with Hiring of external independent verification of health, safety on the position, but the promotion of social inclusion is considered. the first contact and well-being; and Report on the verification process issued by an independent third party. Number of Full and Statutory Employees by Employment messages Contract and Gender (1) See more in the GRI Appendix received via WhatsApp Male Female Total Talent development and retention are related to business continuity and 2018 – CLT market value. Investing in these aspects is a way to remain competitive in the (Consolidated 56,646 40,243 96,889 users market, within a background of digital transformation and customer focus. Labor Laws) (2) attended to via WhatsApp The planning and development of employees’ careers was stimulated through 2018 – Statutory 28 3 31 management tools and corporate programs for succession and professional (1) There are no temporary staff amongst the company’s employees. growth, with relevant strategic actions reconciling organizational strategies with (2) Individual work contract governed by the Consolidation of Labor Laws. Around human customer expectations for professional growth based on promotion through merit, clarity services requested per month and transparency and the democratization of opportunities. since November 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 82 Employee Diversity 405-1 Actions to promote employee diversity are guaranteed by Diversity 2017 2018 general policies, by the Code of Ethics and Standards of (number of employees) % in Relation to Conduct and also by the rules of the professional growth 405-1 Quantity Quantity Total Employees programs that contemplate pro gender equality measures in Black 2,790 2,795 2.88 internal recruitment and selection processes. Ensure greater proportionality of gender and racial representation in all hierarchical levels of Mixed-race 19,665 19,395 20.02 We are signatories to and certified by a number of programs Banco do Brasil. that value diversity. In 2018, we adhered to the UN’s Indigenous 199 176 0.18 Management approach: 103-1 103-2 Standards of Business Conduct tackling discrimination against lesbian, gay, bi, trans and intersex people and the Zumbi dos Persons with Disabilities 1,571 1,646 1.70 Commitments of Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 Palmares Faculty’s Business and Gender Equality Initiative. Total 24,225 24,012 24.78 See more on the Sustainability site Increase the percentage of women in management positions. During the year we also improved the mechanisms and See more in the GRI Appendix actions that favor gender equality, through awareness2017 2018 raising, accountability and organic construction of internal Management representation. Gender-affirmative actions in the corporate Positions % in Relation to Quantity Quantity The greater proportionality of gender and race representativeness professional growth programs are underway under the the Total Black, Mixed-Race and makes professionals with different backgrounds, abilities, umbrella of the Pro-Gender Equality and Race Program 6,801 7,029 7.25 Indigenous People experiences and points of view work together to achieve a goal. (Programa Pró-Equidade de Gênero e Raça). The Women’s Working with people with distinct life stories expands visions, Leadership Program was launched to identify barriers, Persons with Disabilities (1) 224 276 0.28 boosts productivity, and influences wiser business decisions. map organizational readiness for change and create a This makes teams stronger and more prepared to adapt and gain culture of equality. Corporate targets were established for Total 7,025 7,305 7.54 space in a world in constant transformation. Consequently, this is the appointment of women in positions of head manager in (1) The number of people with disabilities may include other minorities, such as black, mixed-race also reflected in the relationship with the customer, with greater Business Units. or indigenous people. empathy generated among employees to act in range of contexts, thereby improving business. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 83 Employee Satisfaction Percentage of Satisfied Employees: The systematic monitoring of organizational climate, satisfaction Obtained since 2003 through the Work The increase in the percentage of satisfied employees may have and engagement enables us to evaluate the quality of Satisfaction Survey. been influenced by the cultural changes that took place in the last relationships established in the work environment. This included year. We are currently experiencing a period of closer relations beconflicts and critical points, strengths and weaknesses, outlining tween the Board of Officers and the branches/units, greater freedom ways to understand issues related to the causes of employee Percentage of Engaged Employees: Established of expression, respect for diversity and appreciation of employees. turnover, absenteeism, lack of motivation, low productivity, talent in 2017 with the adoption of the Organizational retention, etc. Climate and Engagement option. However, since Also, the increase in the participation of employees in the survey employee engagement was already a dimension of was influenced by the communication campaign inviting all The diagnosis of organizational culture represents the internal the Work Satisfaction Survey since 2015 it was possible to maintain employees to respond to the survey. scenario and is one of the elements considered/analyzed in the the historical series. definition of the drivers. Other initiatives and instruments for improving the climate and Averages of the dimensions that make up the employee satisfaction in 2018 include: In 2017, after the organizational behavior team reviewed the organizational climate (Autonomy and research strategy it was decided to only apply the Organizational Innovation, Management Style, Relationships Organizational Climate Management Workshop, with more than 850 Climate and Engagement Survey, with results obtained for the between Colleagues and Feeling Valued): managers receiving training through in-person training programs; following indicators: averages have been obtained since 2010 with the implementation The O Clima e Você (“You and the Climate”) course, which was of the Organizational Climate Survey. offered to BB employees through the UniBB portal and had 24,559 course completions; The Developing the Organizational Climate Methodology, with the 2018 2019 Organizational Climate and Engagement Survey 2016 2017 2018 participation of 1,586 employees; and Target Target Roadmap for Improving Organizational Climate (meetings to Percentage of Engaged Employees 64.5 60.6 77.6 analyze the Organizational Climate and Engagement Survey and Female 62.5 58.3 77.3 64.5 78.0 to create action plans) with the participation of 332 professionals. Male 65.9 62.2 77.8 Percentage of Satisfied Employees 82.3 79.2 83.6 80 83.6 Coverage of the Organizational Climate and Engagement Survey 56.0 58.8 67.7 (1) 68.0 (% of total staff) (1) The coverage target for the survey was established for 2019 onward. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 84 Careers and Succession Corporate Education Management approach: 103-1 103-2 The last work impact assessment was carried out in A training program began in last September for over 6,000 2018 for the face-to-face workshop on the Micro and relationship managers that work with digital and remote Small Business Customer Portfolio, completed by 4,756 portfolios. Known as the Relaciona-e Program, it takes an Corporate education is a strategic tool for achieving our employees and considered vital in the corporate strategy innovative approach to assist in the challenge of building a purpose and goals, as well as reinforcing company values. and business plan for this customer segment. The results sustainable relationship with customers, amidst the backdrop of In order for our educational solutions to effectively contribute of the evaluation showed that the work training resulted in digital transformation. This was one of the solutions proposed to to the development of employees our corporate education excellent level of improvement in specific performances. improve our customer service, as customer experience surveys system is divided into four interrelated subsystems: Training The performance of the employees was consistently have shown a need for improvement in this area. Needs Assessment, Educational Planning, Deployment, and superior from the perspectives assessed, in relation to Evaluation of the Results of Educational Actions. those who did not perform the training. It is during the Evaluation and Analysis of Training, Development and Corporate Education Needs that the professional skills to be developed as part of the corporate strategy and to fill performance gaps are evaluated, as well as establishing the business results expected as a result of the educational actions. In 2018, seventy requests for the development of initiatives were received, of which 40 resulted in training programs that adhere to the corporate strategy in one or more ways. The results of the training were evaluated through the Integrated Training, Development and Education Programs Evaluation System (Sistema Integrado de Avaliação de Programas de Treinamento, Desenvolvimento e Educação – SIAP), which aims to provide comprehensive and reliable information for decision making and the improvement of actions, educator performance, employees receiving training, organizational results, and resource allocation. Employees at a training session – GEPES Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 85 These are some of the positive partial outcomes in business with The UniBB Family Portal (Portal UniBB Família) is also available Investment in Leadership Training customers who are the target of the program: for active employees, their dependents and retired employees and The Retail Network Mentorship (Mentoria Rede Varejo) offers a wide range of educational content. The channel closed 2018 Program aims to develop managerial skills based on the pillars There was contribution margin growth of with 146,372 active dependents registered. of People, Processes and Business, with an emphasis on the R$123,000 in two months (September and enhancement of interpersonal relations. More than 200 firstOctober) for Micro and Small Enterprises (SME) Specific actions for managers are another focus of UniBB. Since time managers benefited from the exchanging of experiences customers, considering a base of 3,660 the launch of Leadership Trails (Trilhas de Liderança) in June 2017, and knowledge with more experienced managers who have customers. This represents a 11.7% increase in comparison with employees have participated more than 33,800 times – more than displayed levels of excellence in their role; the general growth of Remote SME portfolios, of 2.3% in the 29,800 times in 2018. A specific strategy was also implemented for aTUAção Mentoring Program – Inspiring Leader’s Journey, with same period. the development of skills directed towards digital thinking and acting, regional Superintendents receiving mentoring from Executive encompassing the following initiatives: Managers. The program focused on the development of critical With regards to Individual customers, between skills through mentoring sessions held over eight months; October and mid-December the relationship Between August 2017 and October 2018, 38 The Women’s Leadership Program (Programa Liderança managers contacted 67% of the target group of Officers, Directors and General Managers of Feminina) aims to identify the factors that have made it 55,713 customers, with an average conversion rate of strategic units went on placements in Silicon impossible for women to progress within the organization, those counted in business was 12%, representing a satisfactory level Valley, visiting companies, universities and spread awareness of the culture of gender equality, and of effectiveness compared to past performance. The total volume of incubators and talking to investors. develop the skills of female leadership; and contribution margin growth in the target customer group was Launch  of the Strategy and Planning Trail, composed of ten R$764,000, which reflects the effectiveness of the actions.  Learning Trail on Digital Transformation, comprised courses covering topics such as Strategic Thinking, Planning, of 35 educational solutions with technical and Customer Experience, Leadership and Results. BB Corporate University – UniBB behavioral content. More than 62,000 employees We offer in-person educational activities at several locations in have already accessed this trail. Brazil, as well as through distance learning. The online course catalog consists of more than 670 educational solutions, in a range of formats and in collaborative environments. Since the launch of the Portal in 2013, more than 15 million modules have been completed, of which 5.1 million were in 2018. Through, There were more than Educational solutions available employee 1.7 million logins through the UniBB Mobile App in the last three in a range of formats and with participations in years, with 800,000 only in 2018. collaborative environments Leadership Trails 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 86 DesEnvolVer Game (DesEnvolVer) Undergraduate MBA – hired Since 2017, the DesEnvolVer Game has aimed to provide degrees group leadership training to employees who have not yet occupied management roles, besides strengthening initiative and leadership. In 2018 the second edition was launched, called DesEnvolver Game – Jornada Transformação Digital (Digital Transformation Journey) made up of challenges and missions and structured in three phases: Lato sensu Stricto sensu Post-graduate Post-graduate Digital Transformation and the World courses courses (34,334 participations). (non-degree) (Master’s and PhD) Digital Transformation and BB (26,708 participations). Employee using the UniBB Portal Digital Transformation and Customer Relations (25,525 participations Languages Total up to December. This phase was due to finish in January 2019). The Retail Customer Service and Sales Workshop was held In each phase, the content is approached in different formats and with the aim of applying concepts of excellence in simulated with different resources: self-learning courses, collaborative activities, situations. More than 10,000 employees were trained in 2018. videotapes, discussion forums, blog and infographics. The participant is also encouraged to seek an “Oracle” – a colleague who can act as The capacity-building of the teams also occurs through In total, at the end of 2018 there were 6,650 ongoing a mentor to assist them on their journey. scholarships. In 2018, 3,783 scholarships were awarded across scholarships, benefiting employees at all levels of the company. the following programs: 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 87 404-1 Training 2016 2017 2018 2019 Minimum Number of Annual Training 34 34 30 (1) 30 (1) Hours per Employee Percentage of Employees Who Fulfilled the 92.00 91.05 94.15 Minimum Number of Annual Training Hours Target for Percentage of Employees Who Should Meet the Minimum Number of 90 90 90 90 Annual Training Hours (1) The 30 hours of training include the educational solutions available in the UniBB catalog, both face-to-face and via distance learning. Employees are advised to use part of these hours to carry out courses considered strategic for their area of activity during the year. The culture of sustainability is disseminated through training on Professional Growth several fronts. One of these is the Sustainability Trail, available Actions for professional growth contribute to the identification through UniBB. The Trail brings together all of the Corporate and retention of talent and, consequently, the effectiveness of the Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainable Development training succession program and should always consider gender and race contents in one environment. In 2018, employees took part in equality. The following actions stand out: 297,000 hours of training. One of the other fronts refers to the CSR Certification, with an exam held twice a year for the employees Knowledge Certification Program, which certifies certain BB employees in São Paulo (SP) enrolled in the Internal Knowledge Certification Program. knowledge in the teams by supporting processes of professional growth and consolidating our corporate education system; Training Program for the Executive Board, Board of Directors Investment in Corporate and Supervisory Board, providing a catalog of courses covering Talent Development and 2016 2017 2018 corporate governance, the business environment, customer Retention Programs (R$ million) relations, management for results and innovation management, in addition to the Senior Management Trail; Amounts Invested 97.4 102.2 101.9 Workshop  for First-time Managers, which offers qualifications hours of training received and training for managers appointed as the first managers of the agencies; and by employees via the Sustainability Trail 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 88 Professional Growth Programs – for Overseas Executives and Knowledge Certification Program Based on their career aspirations and identified areas for improvement, Managers, Solutions Managers, and Regional Superintendents, employees are guided through the process of developing a with actions to improve the skills required by the occupants of This program was created in 2006 in order to recognize voluntary Career Development Plan (Plano de Desenvolvimento de these roles. In 2018, within the scope of corporate programs for and certify the knowledge of employees in areas Competências – PDC). In 2018, 75,826 of these plans were developed, professional growth, we also offered : 404-3 considered as strategic, with two events per year 45.2% more than in the last cycle. reaching an average of 45,000 employees enrolled Professional  Growth Program for Regional Retail and Business in each event. The certifications obtained are valid The results of the appraisals, which identify gaps in skills and training Superintendents, with 777 employees enrolled, of which 42 were for five years. In 2018 all of the 16 topics included needs, provide inputs for the other Human Resources Management approved and qualified. Of the female attendees, 40% of the 20 computerized tests and a total number of 192,151 ecosystems: UniBB Scholarships, Performance-related Bonus candidates evaluated obtained the qualification; certifications were obtained. This represents an Program, Recruitment and Internal Selection, Professional Growth and The Professional Growth Program for Middle Management, average of 2.3 certifications obtained per employee Automatic System of Competition for Transfer (Sistema Automático de with 13,429 employees enrolled, of which 611 candidates participating in the event. Concorrência à Remoção – SACR). were qualified for the Talent Bank; Talent Identification Program – Clerks and Tellers, with the 102-48 404-3 emission of 4,144 certificates for 2,680 employees; Performance Review (1) 2016 2017 (2) 2018 Talent Identification Program in Analytics, with enrollment of 3,718 Performance Reviews employees, of which 129 were qualified; and Employee performance is appraised twice-yearly using Number of Employees Eligible for Appraisal 107,114 97,354 95,047 The Professional Growth Program for First-time Managers and Professional Performance Management Review by Skills and Specialized Management started in 2018, with 19,866 enrolled. Results (Gestão de Desempenho Profissional por Competências Number of Employees Who Received 106,772 97,023 95,000 Performance Reviews e Resultados – GDP), which measures the employee’s contribution to the achievement of results in two dimensions: Percentage of Employees Who Undertook 99.68 99.66 99.95 Performance Reviews Skills and Targets. (1) Fluctuations occur as the result of possible absences of longer than 90 days in each review cycle, as well as variations in the overall number of functional employees. As to the Skills dimension, employees are appraised from (2) Data from 2017 published in the last Annual Report did not include information from the second half of 2017. several different perspective (financial, customers, internal NOTE: in the previous report, the number of employees appraised was higher than the number of employees eligible for appraisal because the data followed the definitions below: processes, learning and growth and socio-environmental) based Employees eligible for appraisal: corresponds to the total number of employees qualified to receive performance Career Development on their professional skills. The Targets dimension assesses the reviews through the GDP, i.e., employees who worked at least 90 days over the half-year period. results delivered and compliance with agreed deadlines. The Employees who received performance reviews: total number of employees who were considered eligible for Plans developed performance review is used to provide information for variable appraisal at some time during the cycle, even if at a later time (within the cycle) they became no longer eligible. remuneration programs and training actions, in addition to being adopted as an objective criterion for dismissal from a position due to poor performance. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 89 The Radar do Gestor (Manager’s Radar) is a system for monitoring Remuneration the performance of managers, offering information based on the All remuneration (salaries, profit sharing, and bonuses) strategies are consolidating results obtained from appraisal systems or corporate undergoing continuous improvement, according to the scenario and databases. Performance is monitored through the following strategy for the period. They are guaranteed by the Bylaws and the dimensions: Business and Customers, Processes, People and Specific Remuneration Policy for Directors, in addition to complying Sustainability, which bring together a variable range of indicators with federal legislation. As required by law, the entities representing Improve the variable remuneration model for depending upon the target group. In 2018, 99.98% of the target group the employees ratify the Collective Agreement on Profit Sharing. employees, including senior management, of 4,342 general managers and retail network business managers The agreement sets out the eligibility criteria for the program and the broadening the socio-environmental criteria were certified. definitions for its activation, distribution, and payment. and contemplating individual performance. See more public commitments on the Sustainability website Management approach: 103-1 103-2 The Radar indicators consider various socio-environmental aspects in business and management practices, such as lending and investment The Profit Sharing Plan foresees the distribution of fixed and variable operations, and employee training. The Sustainability indicator is used with Commitments of Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 portions; the latter depends on the performance of the units in which all of the target audience and is composed of the Corporate CSR Culture, the participants worked over the period set. The performance of the Increase the percentage of employees covered by Eco-efficiency and Social Business axes, which encourage business branches is measured through corporate tools, including the Work the systematic use of measurable targets agreed practices that directly support the sustainable development of the country. Agreement – a performance evaluation model based on the goals upon with the direct superior, with impacts on proposed in the Corporate Strategy. The variable remuneration of the remuneration; and employees working in the Strategic, Tactical and Operational Units Increase the percentage of employees covered is also linked to the Agreement and includes indicators related to the by the multidimensional performance review with Performance-related Bonus Program (PDG) efficient use of resources (water, energy, and paper) and the increase impacts on remuneration. The Performance-related Bonus Program (Programa de of their participation in social and voluntary causes. Desempenho Gratificado – PDG) is an bonus linked to the results See more in the GRI Appendix and performance of the participants in management and results The remuneration of the employees corresponds to the sum of their indicators, aligned with the strategic objectives. With 81,000 personal payment and, when applicable, to the pay related to the employees (corresponding to 83.6% of the total number of Variable remuneration and bonus programs are designed to exercise of their functions. Personal payment is calculated individually employees) participating in the program in the first half of 2018, the maximize employee engagement and results. The expansion and becomes irreducible once engaged. It varies from one employee PDG gave bonuses to more than 22,000 employees of between of socio-environmental and individual performance criteria to another based on career, job/commission history, and start date 25% and 100% of their salary calculated for the period. From the shows the employees the importance attributed to the theme, in the job. Payment related to the exercise of functions is defined second half of 2018 onwards, 25,000 employees were awarded with repercussions in the remuneration and recognition according to attributions, hierarchical level, complexity, location, bonuses and were paid with up to 50% in BB shares (BBAS3). programs. As a result, it is expected to bring sustainable grouping and other factors linked to functions/commissions and can, positive impacts for shareholders. therefore, be extinguished or changed at any time. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 90 The last Collective Labor Agreement on Profit Sharing was signed in In line with the process of continuous improvement, the Occupational 2018 and is valid for two years. Therefore, there are no adjustments Health and Safety (OHS) policy was published during the year as forecast for 2019. part of the Human Resources Management Policy and the OHS indicators (in the implementation phase) – which define healthHealth, Safety and Wellbeing 403-1 403-2 related absenteeism targets – were reassessed and refined. Management approach: 103-1 103-2 The state OHS teams make annual visits to the branches, as defined in the Environmental Risk Prevention Program, focusing on The strategy to promote employee wellbeing encompasses actions in the prevention of chemical, physical and biological risks in the work occupational health, safety quality work environment, demonstrating the environment. By performing this inspection it is possible to identify practical application of socio-environmental responsibility. The Human possible exposures to risks. Environmental variables such as noise, Resources Management Policy promotes quality work environment, lighting, humidity, and temperature are also measured. among other topics, prioritizing health and safety and considers the individual in their biological, psychological and social dimensions. The Bank traditionally invests in training to prevent work-related and occupational health risks. In this regard, the Occupational Employees at the BB Headquarters building in Brasília (DF) The strategic actions are carried out by the Specialized Safety Health and Safety Education Trail was created, composed of Engineering and Occupational Medicine Services Network (Rede educational solutions covering occupational risks at work, labor and de Serviços Especializados em Engenharia de Segurança e em social security legislation, ergonomics, health, and quality of life. Medicina do Trabalho – Sesmt), which includes 143 professionals The Ergonomics and Postural Guidance course benefited 69,902 (engineers, occupational safety technicians, doctors, nurses, and people from September 2015 to December 2018. In 2018 alone, nursing assistants) and teams in every state. 2,233 people took part. The Wellbeing Trail program, available via In order to provide remuneration compatible with that of the main the UniBB Portal, is intended to make employees more aware of peers and other financial institutions, BB uses an internal and Units with less than 100 employees have an Accident Prevention healthier lifestyles, based on 18 educational solutions that address external salary balance study. The remuneration scale for the Officer and those with over 100 employees form Internal Accident issues such as nutrition and health, overweightness and obesity, functions and positions that are part of the organizational structure Prevention Commissions (Comissões Internas de Prevenção cardiovascular risk, stress and sleep quality, time management, are considered for the internal wage. In addition, the activities, de Acidentes – CIPA). Both the Officers and the CIPAs involve conflict management, resilience, organization and ergonomics responsibilities, extent of command and other factors linked to professionals that are trained to act in the prevention of occupational (professional guidance). functions/positions/commissions are observed. For the external accidents and diseases within the building where they are based. salary balance evaluation, the annual remuneration survey Therefore, 100% of employees are represented by health and safety conducted by Mercer Human Resource Consulting for the banking committees in the workplace. There are also trained and deployed segment, 2017 edition, is used as a parameter. 102-36 Evacuation Groups to act in emergencies. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 91 Actions were also promoted to minimize health risks/problems principles adopted by the program. In the first phase of the pilot Absenteeism Rate (1) 2016 2017 2018 through the Occupational Health Medical Control Program program, 98% of those who participated approved the project, (% of total work days) (Programa de Controle Médico de Saúde Ocupacional – which provides gains in quality of life and reduces Greenhouse Total Absenteeism Due to Health Reasons 3.30 2.95 2.98 PCMSO), the Environmental Risk Prevention Program (ERPP), Gas (GHG) emissions. Absenteeism Due to Occupational ergonomic analysis of workplaces (EAW), a influenza vaccination 0.32 0.22 0.19 Health and Safety Issue campaign, work-related illness research, and epidemiological The Occupational Health Medical Control Program (PCMSO) Absenteeism for Non-Occupational 2.98 2.74 2.78 study of absenteeism through illness. identifies the epidemiological profile of the employees through Health Issues occupational examinations (on admission, periodic, return to work) (1) The reduction in absenteeism due to occupational health and due to non-occupational health issues was affected by the reduction in the number of hours anticipated due to the redundancy plan that and aims to elaborate actions to prevent health risks/problems. 2019 occurred at the end of 2016. Also, the decrease in the percentage related to occupational health reflects 2016 2017 2018 (1) the prevention and quality of life at work activities developed by the Sesmt network and within the Target framework of the BB QVT program. Employees The purpose of the Periodic Health Examination (PHE) is to Vaccinated Against 67.20 60.40 66.62 66.00 detect a worker’s illness early, following protocols for the most Influenza (%) commonly-occurring diseases by age group and gender. 97,011 (1) The 2018 target of 61% was achieved and used as the basis for calculating the 2019 target. Vaccination is voluntary, and adherence examinations took place in 2018, of which 56,840 were for depends on external factors. men and 40,171 were for women. In addition to consultations with an occupational doctor according to age and gender, the The reformulation of the Quality Work Environment (Qualidade professionals also undergo additional clinical exams. de Vida no Trabalho – QVT) program was approved in 2018, with plans to expand and diversify actions with an impact on In the Medical Checkup Program for First Managers, health care physical and mental health. Four pillars were created: practices programs were expanded by adding cardiac, ophthalmologic and for improved quality of life; institutional actions (e.g., healthy complementary examinations to the PHE protocol, benefiting eating contests, support for sports events and practices, stress approximately 4,500 managers. management program); recognition of the best initiatives; and support for health and safety actions. The results of the exams are used for planning health actions and improvements in the quality work environment, under the After the regulation of home office, introduced in the Brazilian supervision of OHS professionals. Labor Laws (Consolidação das Leis do Trabalho – CLT), plans to expand the pilot program of voluntary home office are being A 3.05% target was set for the Health-related Absenteeism Rate considered. The prioritization of women, people with disabilities or for 2019. those in professional rehabilitation after health leave is one of the BB building on Av. Paulista (SP) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 92 Benefit/Program Ergonomics of the work Stress Quality Environment Work Foodcard Food/Meal environment management Program (Qualidade de Assistance Vida no Trabalho – QVT) Flexible Childcare Assistance for Paid maternity leave Paid paternity leave working hours assistance disabled children above the legally-required above the legally-required minimum value minimum value Press to learn more Assistance Program for Leave to Care for Social Assistance Armed Robbery and Sick Family Member Program – Advance BB employee in São Paulo (SP) Kidnapping Victims (LAPEF) payments 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 93 Suppliers 408-1 409-1 412-1 We adopt impartial and transparent selection, hiring, and assessment Not employ minors of under 18 years of age to perform night-time, criteria that provides diversity and competition among suppliers. unheathy or dangerous work, neither directly nor indirectly through These prerogatives include the right for the suppliers’ employees to suppliers of goods and services; exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. The Code Improve socio-environmental risk management in of Ethics also includes a specific section regarding relations with these N  ot employ minors of under 16 years of age to perform any workthe supply chain, in lending, in financing, in own stakeholders that stipulates compliance with labor, social security and related activity, neither directly nor indirectly through suppliers investments and in third-party asset management, tax legislation – including the rejection of child labor or forced labor. of goods and services, except when employed in an apprentice while also considering controversial issues. The Supplier Relations Policy also covers these aspects. capacity and on the condition that they attend school; Management approach: 103-1 103-2 The observance of labor and social security obligations is a legal and N  ot to adopt negative discriminatory practices, or those that Commitments of Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 contractual responsibility. Therefore, compliance with these provisions restrict or impose limitations on access to or continuation in the by suppliers is verified and evidence or complaints relating to potential employment position; and Incorporation of socio-environmental rating losses violations and non-compliance are analyzed before payment is data in the lending pricing process; authorized. The contracts contain clauses and contractual obligations Not to use corrupt and/or unethical practices in order to obtain or Review of the socio-environmental questionnaire, concerning human rights, through which the suppliers are bound to: offer any undue advantage, either directly or indirectly. including analysis by sector and by customer, to 205-2 408-1 412-1 412-3 414-1 assess exposure of lending/financing operations The company has an internal Ombudsman’s office, a contract to socio-environmental risk and impacts on Undertake their activities in compliance with current labor, social inspector and a service inspector, all of which are available to customer credit limits; security and tax-related legislation; employees of contracted companies in case they need to register Publication of the revised BB Sustainability Guidecomplaints related to their work contracts. lines for Credit (Diretrizes BB de Sustentabilidade Not use illegal, degrading or forced labor or the exploitation of para o Crédito); and child labor, neither directly nor indirectly through suppliers of In light of the preventive and inhibitive measures adopted as part Publication of the revised BB Socio-environmental goods and services; of the procurement and contracting processes and in contracts Guidelines for Controversial Issues (Diretrizes with suppliers – maintained in the corporate systems in 2018 – no Socioambientais para Assuntos Polêmicos). operations or suppliers offering substantial risk of using forced or slave-like labor were identified, and no complaints involving See more in the GRI Appendix the exploitation of degrading or slave-like labor were filed at the 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 94 Internal Ombudsman’s office. Likewise, there were no reports A segmented management program has been adopted to control of operations and/or suppliers whereby the rights to freedom of and monitor the provision of services and the quality of products association and to freedom of collective negotiation were at risk. delivered. This follows a range of criteria, such as cost-benefit analysis, operational capacity, quality, good-standing, socioIf during the execution of the contract there is evidence that the environmental responsibility, safety and risk, and compliance supplier has breached the provisions or legislation relating to its with legal requirements, especially labor requirements and those execution, an administrative procedure is initiated foreseeing associated with business continuity. the application of administrative sanctions or, as a last resort, unilateral termination of the contract. In 2018, 49 incidents of Suppliers are selected through bidding processes in fulfillment non-compliance with labor legislation were confirmed in contracts of the Brazilian Corporation Act and its new Bidding and with 2,689 suppliers. With a total of 18,184 contracts in effect this Contracts Regulations. The legal aspects for choosing the most represents a non-compliance rate of 0.27%. Once administrative advantageous proposal include best technical proposal, lowest procedures were established, 6% of the cases of non-compliance price, or best combination of technical proposal and price. The resulted in the issue of warning notices, 20% of cases resulted supply chain involves a wide range of sectors and activities, in warning notices and a fine, and 12% of cases resulted in a including the supply of goods (moveable property and equipment, fine, as per legal determination and as foreseen in the contract. for example), service provision (monitoring and surveillance A further 31% of cases resulted in the penalty of termination of services, consultancy, engineering, architecture, etc.) and leasing the contract, 16% resulted in suspension and termination, and of real estate. 102-9 finally 6% of cases resulted in suspension. The remaining 9% of administrative procedures did not result in the imposition of penalties. 409-1 414-2 Total payments made to suppliers during the Seeing as Banco do Brasil contracts services and not workers, the year amounted to approximately R$6 billion. contracted companies assume full responsibility for compliance From this total, R$17.3 million were paid to six with all labor, tax-related and social security obligations, including suppliers based abroad, pertaining to seven contracts – obligations ensuing from accidents and injuries, indemnities and representing 0.29% of all payments made. 102-9 compensation, fines, insurance claims, and payments, among other obligations. The most frequent violations relate to the non-payment of wages, transport, meal or food allowances, full payment of severance pay, payment of the Government Severance Indemnity Fund for Employees (FGTS) and social security. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 95 In all purchasing processes, managers must formally This socio-environmental responsibility declaration voice their opinion or concerns as to the establishment establishes the supplier’s contractual commitment to Adhesion to the Supply Chain Program 308-2 of environmental criteria, or justify their inapplicability. environmental preservation and social development The Internal Regulations include specific norms for practices, as well as their compliance with labor One of the gains that ensued from With respect to emissions calculations, sustainable contracting practices, which consider the and social security legislations and anti-corruption adhesion to the CDP’s Supply Chain 39.1% stated they are systematically Standards for Sustainable Purchasing and Disposal efforts. Another condition for the agreement is Program was the possibility of becoming calculating emissions and 28.1% Practices, available on the Portal BB for consultation, in the presentation of a declaration by the selected acquainted with the management of reported having established targets for compliance with legal requirements and the social and company attesting that no minors are employed suppliers vis-à-vis the environmental emissions reduction. environmental commitments assumed. 308-1 among their staff. No suppliers with potential or real dimension of their businesses, negative environmental impacts were identified. specifically in relation to climate change As for the Water Resources topic, of 308-1 308-2 408-1 414-1 and the use of water resources. The the total of 39 respondents, eight have ongoing analysis of the results will enable integrated water security into their AIn order to improve the due diligence process for the development of proactive action business strategies and 20 have not documentation in contracting and payment, in 2019 strategies for working with the suppliers. analyzed water-related issues and have we have set a target of adopting socio-environmental no plans to do so. Only 33.3% of the due diligence for the suppliers identified as Of the total number of respondents, 53.1% respondents indicated having evaluated representing the greatest risk vis-à-vis these aspects, stated that the issue of climate change water safety in their operations. expanding the supplier base for the coming years. has been incorporated into their business The improvement of the socio-environmental due strategies, while 40.6% reported that the We understand that there is still a diligence process began in 2016, when we adhered issue is not part of their strategy, and 6.3% lot of work to be done to improve to the Carbon Disclosure Program (CDP) through the did not respond. As regards risk analysis in environmental risk management in order Supply Chain Program. Thus, in 2018, 366 suppliers relation to their businesses, 37.5% stated to influence the management of water were invited to participate in an environmental they have integrated risk from environmental resources in the value chain. In addition assessment on climate change, and 352 on water change into their multidisciplinary risk to what has already been done, strategy management. Under the timetable that was set, we management strategy, and 14.1% have has also been adjusted so that more have achieved a response rate of 18% with regard to focused on the management of climate risk suppliers feel encouraged to report their climate change, and 11% with respect to water use. as part of a specific process. Of the total, data and think about their businesses 308-2 408-1 409-1 414-2 4.7% did not respond and 43.7% stated in such a way as to contemplate they have not established an analysis or environmental risks. measurement methodology. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 96 Information, Complaints and Reporting Channels 102-17 Relationship between: the Public (Claimants) vs. Customer Service Channels Management approach: 103-2 Employees Customers We make use of several channels to respond to the If the customer’s issue is not resolved via the primary demands of stakeholders and handle specific issues, service channels, customers can contact the External cases of noncompliance with the Code of Ethics and Ombudsman. In 2018, 99.20% of complainants sought the Internal CRBB Standards of Conduct and reporting of unlawful acts internal channels, such as the SAC and the Ombudsman, Ombudsman (Relationship Center) of any nature, including corruption. and only 0.80% sought service from the Central Bank . SAC (Customer Customers count on two service channels: the BB The Unlawful Acts Reporting Channel (Canal de Denúncia Service Department) Relationship Center (Central de Relacionamento de Ilícitos) was created to allow reporting of situations Society BB – CRBB) and the Customer Service Department indicative of any kind of unlawful acts related to the bank’s External (Serviço de Atendimento ao Consumidor – SAC). activities. The reports can be made anonymously or not, Ombudsman The first is a telephone line dedicated to customer with a guarantee of protection for the complainant. Unlawful Acts Reporting relations and fulfilling the demands of banking Unlawful Acts customers. It seeks to provide quality solutions, The Internal Ombudsman is aimed at employees, interns, Reporting convenience, agility and security and contributes apprentices and contractors, and receives reports and to attaining results, while supporting the network of complaints about conflicts in the work environment, branches in customer service and business. inappropriate behavior, noncompliance with internal rules Investors and complaints regarding human resources management The SAC is a multi-channel service (telephone, processes. Furthermore, it mediates conflict resolution and internet and mobile) with the purpose of providing for evaluates the occurrence of reprehensible behavior. Once Fale com a URI (IR Contact) the demands of the consumer, including information, a serious incident is identified, the case is forwarded for doubts, complaints, and suspension or cancellation investigation, analysis and judgment by the Disciplinary of contracts and services. The SAC’s scope Control, which ascertains involvement, attributes covers demands that relate to consumer relations, responsibility and defines the handling of the issue and the regardless of whether the user is a customer or not. consequences for those involved. The SAC receives demands and seeks to resolve the issue during the first call (FCR – First Call Inquiries from investors regarding shares, dividend Resolution), which happens in over 90% of cases. payments and accounting information are handled by the Fale com a URI (IR Contact) channel. BB Relationship Center in São Paulo (SP) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 97 Relationship between: Internal Publics (Employees) vs. Service Channels Handling Channel Users Issues addressed Character Deadlines Solution methodologies Results If there is a possibility Employees, Business days of improving the human Complaints – Possibilities for interns, Improvement resources management Human Resources improvement in the 5 process then the demand Management Processes apprentices and human resources is forwarded to the contractors management process management area as a recommendation Restorative mediation Employees Personal conflicts Restorative Business days 20 Reparation of damages and repair 3,937 of interpersonal relations after a Total number meeting conducted by a mediator, in of complaints Employees Business days order to identify convergent and filed including Settlement Personal Restorative divergent viewpoints and cooperatively reports, conflicts 20 develop proposals complaints, that put an end to the conflict, under praise/ conditions of secrecy and confidentiality suggestions Employees Business days Restorative Personal and queries Restorative conversation conflicts 20 Action plan (when appropriate): behavioral Employees Business days Ombudsman re-education. Suspension Inappropriate Investigative of right to promotion and case studies behavior to participate in recognition 30 and awards programs for a certain period 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 98 Relationship between: External Publics vs. Service Channels Channel Type of Service Users Issues addressed Deadlines Results Telephone Service Customers Information or Depends on the type of doubts, complaints, demand, this may mean • Average monthly calls in 2018: 376,000, of which 92.7% cancellation or immediate resolution or were resolved during the first call (FCR); suspension of within 5 business days contracts • Average resolution time in 2018: 1.25 business days and services (including complaints resolved during FCR); Multichannel operation Information or Average service fulfillment • Other demands that were not immediately resolved had an Customers (0800, APF Internet, APF doubts, complaints, time is less than 3 days. average resolution time of 2.2 business days; Mobile Phone, consumidor. cancellation or With regards to social gov, ReclameAQUI, CNJ, • Regarding social media, approximately 23,500 customer suspension of media, the average Facebook, Twitter, Contact resolution time is less than service events were resolved per month; contracts Us via Portal BB) and services 24 hours • 643 reports were received in 2018, classified as: In the case of any report Society and •2  6.75% – Fraud, fraudulent misrepresentation, larceny, involving the participation Receives reports document falsification, etc. Customers of any employee who is a of unlawful acts Depends on • 23.33% – Other crimes member of the Audit Committee, of any nature, the type of • 18.04% – Cyber crime Board of Directors, Board of including corruption demand Officers or Supervisory Board • 16.17% – Corruption a copy of the report is sent • 5.29% – Sexual harassment, discrimination, injury, to the Audit Committee slander, defamation, crimes against honor, etc. Consumer relations • 10.42% – Other incidents Customers (complaints not Business days resolved by the primary service •4  7,654 events received; and channels), possible 10 • Average resolution time in 2018: 6.6 business days. fraud or noncompliance with rules Form on the RI website to Shareholders/ Telephone Service Investors Doubts about shares, Business days dividend payments and accounting information 2 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 99 Central Bank Complaints Indicators Every quarter the Central Bank creates a ranking of complaints to institutions with more than four million customers. In 2018, BB ranked third in the first two quarters and first in the last two quarters. First Call Resolution – SAC The goal is not to appear in the top four. Complaints Received 2016 31,641 Events SAC 2017 33,550 2018 32,450 Events Ombudsman Complaints Considered Well-founded 2016 3,875 Events Bacen 2017 5,673 2018 5,980 Events Well-founded BB Relationship Center in São Paulo (SP) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 100 102 Environmental Management 103 Eco-efficiency 107 Ecological Footprint Index 107 Certifications Business Model Transformative Role Corporate Governance Risk Management Financial Value Creation Social Value Creation Environmental Value Creation Annual Highlights Environmental Management Main Environmental Programs and Initiatives Management approach: 103-1 103-2 103-3 -1.5% E  nergy Conservation Program (Procen) – Promotes the The Rational Water Use Program (Purágua) enabled the responsible use of electricity at the facilities; company to individually monitor monthly water use at all of In line with the Socio-environmental Responsibility Policy, the R  ational Water Use Program (Purágua) – Aims for intelligent its branches, permitting a total consumption reduction of 1.5% when Environmental Management System (EMS) follows the specifications water consumption by raising awareness, providing compared to 2017 and leading to savings of R$1.1 million. of the Brazilian Standard ABNT NBR ISO 14.001, of 2015, regarding maintenance and installing optimum consumption equipment; the definition of objectives, premises, requirements, responsibilities,  Toner Cartridge Refill Program (Prorec) – Promotes the eco-1.8% programs, and initiatives for adopting guidelines related to the topic. efficient management of toner cartridges for printers through Initiatives to reduce electricity consumption included This system covers all of the brazilian branches and involves the reverse logistics; internal awareness-raising activities, replacement monitoring and organization of actions to control environmental  elective Waste Collection (Recycling) Program – Includes S of fluorescent lamps with LED bulbs and modernization of impacts. One of the units, the administrative headquarters in Brasília initiatives for the management of non-hazardous, recyclable air conditioners, avoiding expenses of R$8 million. Electricity (DF), was certified this year in the ISO 14001 standard. and non-recyclable solid waste generated at all branches consumption was reduced by 1.8% compared to 2017. The 11 Efforts are systematically coordinated to continuously improve across the country. Recyclable waste (paper, plastic, metal, million kWh saved is enough to supply electricity to more than 5,800 performance, with a greater focus on eco-efficiency in order to and glass) is sent primarily to more than 400 recycling inhabitants per year. minimize the consumption of natural resources, waste generation and cooperatives and waste collector’s associations; organic and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. The propositions include: non-recyclable waste is disposed of by public collection; -4.7%  ll supplies of paper purchased have Cerflor or FSC A The digital transformation strategy and the commitment of Continuous improvement of the EMS; certification, i.e. its production respects quality and employees contributed to reducing paper consumption by Recognition and consideration of stakeholders’ expectations and sustainability standards; 259 tons, preventing approximately 5,500 trees from being cut down. priorities in environmental management;  he widely used video conferencing systems enable real-time T Dissemination of concepts and practices for efficient consumption audio and video communication, saving time and resources -75.7% of natural resources and pollution prevention, seeking engagement spent on travel, as well as reducing GHG emissions; The Toner Cartridge Refill Program (Prorec) involved the and to strengthen a culture of corporate Socio-environmental A  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Inventory is published purchase of 102,359 refilled cartridges (99% of the total in Responsibility; and annually, which measures emissions of CO2e (carbon dioxide 2018). This meant avoiding expenses of R$54.4 million, representing Provide training for internal and external stakeholders in order to equivalents), based on the methodology of the brazilian GHG 75.7% of the total cost that would have been spent on these supplies if improve environmental management skills. Protocol Program; and they had been purchased directly from the manufacturer.  n Internal Environmental Verification Model was developed A with the completion of a pilot program in the Federal District and will be extended to all units across the country. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 102 In 2018 a partnership was signed with a private company in the electric sector, which marks the company’s first involvement in the Annual savings (R$ thousand) Eco-efficiency free energy contracting environment (ambiente de contratação livre – ACL). 2019 4,431 Eco-efficiency management is fundamental for its role in reducing consumption of natural resources, such as water and energy. As a result The migration to the free market encompassed the three towers of our management it was possible to minimize the Ecological Footprint, 2020 10,969 of the headquarter buildings in Brasília and resulted in savings i.e. environmental impacts, while also reducing supply costs. Following the of R$333,000 in three months, equivalent to 21% savings in same objectives, Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and consumption of relation to the same period of previous years. Twenty-five other BB 2021 14,814 materials such as paper, toner cartridges and fuel were also reduced, with branches will migrate to the Free Energy Market by 2020. By the corresponding reductions in waste generation. end of the project, approximately 20% of the energy consumed by 2022 16,886 these branches will be purchased on the free market.  Energy and Water 302-1 302-4 303-1 The following table shows the prediction for the amount of energy 2023 16,803 Target for purchased and the annual economic impact until 2023. Energy Consumption (comparative) 2016 2017 2018 2019 -2% in relation Energy purchased (kWh) Energy Consumption (GWh) 704 609 598 to 2018 consumption 2019 52,003,540 Total Expenditure (R$ millions) 480 444 458 2020 88,381,600 Water Consumption (comparative) BB units will migrate -1% in relation 2021 88,381,600 to the Free Energy Water Consumption (1) (thousand m ) 3 1,565 1,405 1,383 to volume consumed Market by 2020 in 2018 2022 88,381,600 Total Expenditure (millions) 32.2 33.0 31.9 2023 88,381,600 (1) E stimated value. Recycled water is not used at any of the branches. The water supply is provided by local utilities. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 103 A number of actions were carried out in 2018 to optimize electricity consumption and expenditure, including: D  istributed Generation, with the first solar plant scheduled to begin operations in June 2019 in Januária (MG), this will offset the power supplied to 88 branches in Minas Gerais. An expansion study is being conducted for 100 more branches in the same state, with an estimated 45% reduction in energy costs; C  ontinuation of the LED lamp replacement program: approximately 600,000 lamps were installed during the year, decreasing energy consumption at the facilities involved; Awareness Campaign for Water and Energy Consumption; A  utomated Electricity Management: the management of invoices and energy consumption at our branches leads us to foresee a reduction of over R$6 million in costs on this input, as well as improving operational efficiency and consumption indicators; and The air conditioning system was modernized at about 300 branches. Estimated Electricity Estimated Energy Initiatives/Projects Consumption Avoided Purchase Costs to Reduce Electricity Avoided Consumption (GWh) (GJ) (R$ million) Replacement of Fluorescent 9.048 32,572.80 6.925 Lamps with LED Modernization of the Air Conditioning System at 1.064 3,830.40 0.814 About 300 Branches Responsible Energy 0.532 1,915.20 0.407 Use Campaign Total 10.644 38,318.40 8.146 Interior gardens at the BB Headquarters in Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 104 Although these actions contributed to reducing expenditure, Regionalized efficient consumption parameters are also applied Paper 301-1 301-2 2018 also saw the largest electricity tariff rise ever, as well as the in relation to water use, with this input supplied by public utilities. expansion of the tariff flag system due to droughts, which resulted Management takes place through the Purágua Program, which Through the BB Papel Zero (Zero Paper) initiative we intend to reduce in an increase in expenditure. establishes action plans for branches that exceed the water paper consumption by 50% by 2020, based on the digital transformation consumption targets set. This includes inspection of plumbing of our processes and awareness-raising, engagement, and guidance Regionalized energy efficiency parameters (kWh/m²) are used. The systems to detect the possible causes of high consumption. of employees. As a result, in addition to optimizing processes through progress over the last few years can be seen in the table below: digitalization we will also reduce the impact on the environment caused by Regionalized efficient water consumption indicators were adopted, the production and disposal of this material. Financially, the reduction in Regional Energy Consumption Parameters with the following values recorded (liters/person/day): spending on paper is accompanied by savings from other related inputs, such as cardboard boxes for storage, transportation envelopes, paper Region 2016 2017 2018 Regional Water Consumption Parameters receipt reels, printer maintenance, toner cartridges, mailbags and space and cabinets for filing. The following awareness-raising and engagement actions North 21 21 18 Region 2016 2017 2018 were carried out in 2018 under the umbrella of BB Papel Zero: Northeast 20 20 16 North 64 64 64 Workshops based on case studies of successful digitalization of Midwest 17 17 15 Northeast 63 63 64 processes and demonstrations of corporate solutions to support areas in Southeast 16 16 13 transformation; Midwest 58 58 58 Creation of consumption monitoring panel, demonstrating consumption South 14 14 11 per unit; Southeast 53 53 53 Review of internal regulations in order to put an end to the obligation to South 48 48 48 print documents for storage. As a result of these initiatives, the following milestones were achieved in the year: 13% reduction in A4 paper consumption compared to 2017; 9% reduction in paper receipt reel consumption by cash terminals and Predicted paper ATMs compared to 2017; and consumption savings Prevention of the automated issuance of a single report from retail operations, generating estimated savings of R$500,000 per year, including a reduction of by 2020 approximately 2.5 million sheets of A4 paper and the costs associated with printing, packaging, handling and transport. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 105  Solid Waste 306-2 Since 2015, the Integrated Solid Waste Management Plan (Plano of in an environmentally-friendly manner and were recycled, de Gerenciamento Integrado de Resíduos Sólidos – PGRS) has representing 2,928 tons of waste. Of this volume, 2,914 been in place to foster and connect internal initiatives in order to tons was sent for recycling, 13.6 tons of batteries were meet the parameters of the National Solid Waste Policy (Política sent for chemical processing and 0.4 tons of lamps were Nacional de Resíduos Sólidos – PNRS). In 2018, the process decontaminated. None of the waste from unserviceable assets of discarding unusable goods was expanded to cover more was sent to landfill. branches. The following initiatives stand out: There is also constant concern with regards to the correct Creation of environmental ambience service teams, which disposal of the waste produced by our facilities. Therefore, the include activities related to the process of disposal of Selective Waste Collection Program contains initiatives for the unserviceable goods and compliance with procedures set management of non-hazardous, recyclable and non-recyclable forth in the normative instructions, as well as initiatives to raise solid waste. Recyclable waste (paper, plastic, metal, and glass) awareness, disseminate knowledge and provide training; is sent primarily to recycling cooperatives and waste collectors’ Improvements to the internal application for reuse of idle associations; organic and non-recyclable waste is disposed of by goods, with a more user-friendly layout and features that public collection. See more information in the GRI disclosure – 306-2 allow managers to assess options for the repair or reuse of assets or acquisition of new items for their branch. In 2018, the application was used 27,988 times; Improvement of the furniture maintenance process with the Region 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target increase of spending limits per branch from R$1,000 per Branches where Expand the semester to R$4,000 per month. This measure streamlines Selective Waste selective the maintenance process and extends the working life of the collection Collection 1,628 1,704 1,848 (2) program to furniture, which reduces procurement expenses; and Has Been 100 more Deployment of a second cycle of disposal of unserviceable Implemented (1) branches assets through two specialized companies, starting from (1) In order for selective waste collection to be implemented there need to be April. This resulted in greater efficiency in the process since recycling cooperatives, waste collectors’ associations or public selective waste collection (recycling) programs in the municipality. the hired companies carry out all stages disposal (collection, (2) The target is to implement selective waste collection at 100 new units each transportation, storage, separation and treatment of the year. In 2018, the target was surpassed by 44%, representing 144 new units with the program implemented and a total of 1,848 branches. waste) and permits the traceability of the collected material. In this process, 159,364 unserviceable assets were disposed Electronic waste disposal location at the BB Headquarters in Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 106 Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Ecological Footprint Index Certifications We are founding members of the Business for the Climate In order to increase the coverage of the Selective Waste Collection At the end of 2018, we maintained the following certifications, which initiative (Empresas pelo Clima – EPC) and the Brazilian GHG Program, intensify the reduction of GHG emissions and rationalize attest to our commitment to environmental preservation: Protocol Program. Both were founded to consider and propose the consumption of water, energy, and paper, we adopted the actions to combat climate change. We participate in the Thematic Ecological Footprint Index (Índice Pegada Ecológica – IPE), a Leadership in Energy and Environment Design (LEED), Climate Change Board (Câmara Temática de Mudanças do Clima mechanism that assessed all branches for the following aspects: certification related to sustainable construction and awarded by the United – CT Clima), coordinated by the Brazilian Business Council for States Green Building Council, for the headquarters in Brasília (DF). Sustainable Development (Conselho Empresarial Brasileiro para Water/Electricity: assessed from the cumulative o Desenvolvimento Sustentável – Cebds), and Brasil, Bolsa, average of the branch’s monthly consumption ISO 14.001 Environmental Management System in operation at the Balcão’s (B3) Brazilian Carbon Efficiency Index (ICO2). records, with a consumption target of equal to or company headquarters in Brasilia. The EMS is verified by internal and below the established regional standard. external audits that certify the requirements of the standard and prove the In 2018, the bank sought to broaden the scope and reliability of effectiveness of environmental actions related to consumption of water the GHG Emissions Inventory by hiring a company specialized Paper: linear reduction target of 2% of and electricity, selective waste collection and services and the involvein environmental audits to provide external verification of the consumption compared to the previous year. ment of the 6,000 people working within that area. document, in accordance with the ISO 14.064 standard and the GHG Protocol methodology. The Brazilian GHG Protocol Program’s Gold Seal was received this year in recognition of the quality and reliability of the inventory. Selective waste collection: assessed from the monthly records of the volume of waste selectively discarded (paper, plastic, metal, and glass) and sent for recycling. In the first half of the year, 50.1% (2,718 branches) of the units units reached the assessed achieved the target set for the IPE. In the second half of the year, 46.1% (2,488 branches) achieved the indicator target. established IPE target This result was achieved as the result of communication, guidance, in the 1st semester and monitoring of the branches’ performance. BB Headquarters building in Brasília (DF) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 107 102-6: Markets Served economic sector can be found in Explanatory Note No. 10 – item c More information on the branch network broken down by region (Loan Operations) of the Consolidated Financial Statements for 2018. can be found in the Management Discussion and Analysis – MD&A Our customer base can be found in the Structural Data table of 4Q/2018 (Table 138). The breakdown of the loans portfolio by the Historical Data for the 4th quarter of 2018. 102-8: Information on Employees and Other Workers Permanent Employees by Region (unit) 2016 2017 2018 North 4,689 4,440 4,259 Northeast 16,719 16,637 16,116 Midwest 16,349 16,748 16,808 Southeast 44,924 43,752 42,586 South 17,899 17,549 17,096 External 42 35 24 Total 100,622 99,161 96,889 Employees by Employment Type and Gender (unit) 2016 2017 2018 Full Time – Male 59,073 58,117 56,646 Full Time – Female 41,549 41,044 40,243 Total 100,622 99,161 96,889 The information refers to the number of employees on the last day of the year, obtained from the corporate employee system databases. The numbers represent the total workforce (i.e. real workforce or actual workforce). This concept excludes the following situations: lay-offs, absence (health leave, personal leave, etc.), contractors under special regimes, statutory officers and those absent from payrolls. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 108 Total Number of Outsourced Brazilian Association of Development Financial Institutions accountability reporting of the actions developed in our 2017 2018 Employees, by Region (1) (2) (Associação Brasileira de Instituições Financeiras de Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB. These actions help us to Desenvolvimento – ABDE) meet the challenges prioritized by the various stakeholders. North 1,875 1,629 Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Market Entities Northeast 6,303 6,524 (Associação Brasileira das Entidades dos Mercados Financeiro 102-29: Identifying and Managing Economic, e de Capitais – Anbima) Environmental, and Social Impacts | Midwest 4,952 4,608 Association of Capital Market Investors (Associação de Management approach: 103-2 | 103-3 Investidores no Mercado de Capitais – AMEC) Southeast 15,601 14,063 Brazilian Committee for the Global Compact – coordinated by We manage our socio-environmental impacts, risks and South 6,708 5,110 the United Nations (UN) opportunities through the contributions received from our Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development stakeholders in the collective construction process for our Total 34,811 31,934 (Conselho Empresarial Brasileiro para o Desenvolvimento Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB. (1) The number of outsourced workers is limited to ongoing service contracts (such as fire brigade Sustentável – CEBDS) contracts, catering services, surveillance, cleaning, etc.) and does not include data on workers Brazilian Association of Consortium Administrators (Associação In 2016, a number of stakeholder engagement events were held to employed in one-off contracts or contracts without outsourced workers. (2) Banco do Brasil hires through its public bidding notices, which are based on commercial and Brasileira de Administradores de Consórcios – Abac) define the materiality and update the Plan, which resulted in priority technical proposals and job position selection does not include gender specification. sustainability challenges for our management. In 2018, the number of outsourced workers decreased due to organizational restructuring 102-21: Consulting Stakeholders on Economic, and investment in services automation. Environmental, and Social Topics Based on these interactions, the main economic, social and Our stakeholders actively participate in the construction of our environmental topics were reassessed in 2018 from the perspective 102-13: Membership of Associations social-environmental responsibility management model. In 2016, we of our new Corporate Strategy, sector studies and analysis of market The following are the main bodies, entities or associations of which we are signatories broadly consulted our stakeholders, with the participation of 7,145 indices, and best peer practices in the financial sector. or representatives: stakeholders, including 7,117 online consultations and 28 interviews. Brazilian Federation of Banks (Federação Brasileira de Bancos – FEBRABAN) This significant participation helped to prioritize sustainability Subsequently, our Executive Managers met at the 35th Brazilian Association of Credit Card Companies and Services (Associação Brasileira das challenges and define actions for our Sustainability Plan – Agenda Sustainability Forum to validate the sustainability challenges and Empresas de Cartões de Crédito e Serviços – Abecs) 30 BB. These crucial contributions also served as a starting point for prioritize the actions to be addressed by the new Agenda 30 BB Brazilian Association of Real Estate Credit and Savings Entities (Associação Brasileira the materiality review, which was performed in 2018. for the next three years. das Entidades de Crédito Imobiliário e Poupança – Abecip) National Confederation of Institutions to Support and Assist Children and Adolescents We report our social-environmental performance to the Board of Reports on the initiatives’ progress are presented to the Board of with Cancer (Confederação Nacional das Instituições de Apoio e Assistência às Directors (CA) annually. The content of this report is based on our Officers every six months and annually to the Board of Directors. Crianças e Adolescentes com Câncer – Coniacc) yearly results in the sustainability market indexes such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). It is also based on our 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 109 Management approach: 103-2 | 103-3 documents in our strategic architecture so that the strategic objectives BB Sustainability Strategy and Annual Report are deployed in market business plans, branch/unit planning and The process of prioritizing sustainability challenges to update the The Board of Directors’ main functions include defining our guidelines, initiatives and actions in all areas of our organization. Sustainability Action Plan and guide the content of the Annual Report approving our Corporate Strategy – which guides decisions for five years The process of formulating the BB Corporate Strategy (ECBB) 2019– involved establishing a stakeholder’s map with four prioritization levels, and establishes actions and targets for economic, social and 2023 involved the following: face-to-face interviews with management considering nature, business, and our activities. In 2016, all categories were environmental performance – and monitoring our economic and financial (Board of Directors members and its advisory committees, the Board of invited to participate in a virtual consultation process, with priority and very performance on a monthly basis. Officers and the Executive Board); workshops with employees from important stakeholders participating in an in-depth interview. Each group’s different positions and units, Directors, Board of Officers and Board of contributions were consolidated according to their influence and impact; with Upon receiving the matters for deliberation, the Board of Directors Directors members to discuss scenarios, construction of the SWOT relevance attributed according to priority in the stakeholders map. discusses them and makes decisions. After approval, the topics are matrix and proposals for goals and strategic mapping; an online survey of Our Sustainability Plan is reviewed every two years to keep up to date referred to as the area responsible for their compliance. In many cases, 26,000 employees to identify strengths and areas for improvement; an and in line with stakeholder demands. Several stakeholder engagement in making the decision the Board determines that periodic reports on the online survey of Board of Officer’s members and Directors, for events were held in 2016 to define materiality and update the Plan for the matters deliberated should be submitted to them to keep them informed uncertainty analysis and prioritization; analysis and discussion with 2017-2019 period. The method used involved virtual consultation and of progress. If the Board detects a need for due diligence, it determines market analysts about our performance and future prospects; and in-depth interviews to prioritize sustainability challenges. This broadened the area responsible, which starts the process. Accounts of our socioworking sessions with strategic unit representatives to formulate the participation of stakeholders and provided an opportunity for environmental performance are also provided annually. indicators and long-term targets. employees, customers, shareholders/investors and suppliers from all over Brazil to participate. 102-42: Identifying and Selecting Stakeholders | The Strategic Planning 2019–2023 process considered our main 102-43: Approach to Stakeholder Engagement | stakeholders’ perceptions and expectations. Internal stakeholders In 2018, we updated our Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 102-44: Key Topics and Concerns Raised | (employees and executives, Directors and Officers, as well as once again, based on the information and results obtained in 2016. The 103-3: Evaluation of the Management Approach representatives from related entities) were interviewed for an institutional challenges were reviewed in light of the Corporate Strategy 2019-2023, Our stakeholders are regularly involved at different points in the advisory survey addressing trends, uncertainties, and scenarios for the financial industry studies and nationally and internationally accredited indicators and decision-making process, notably during preparation of the BB industry. They also participated in planning workshops, where they could (ISE and DJSI, respectively). Corporate Strategy and the BB Sustainability Strategy. actively collaborate in discussions, proposals and strategic decisions. To capture customer perceptions and expectation, satisfaction surveys were To integrate management into reporting, the sustainability challenges BB Corporate Strategy used for several customer segments. Market studies of consumer stipulated in our Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 BB correspond to the During the Strategic Planning 2019–2023 process the principles of active banking behavior trends were also considered. To improve the strategic material topics that provide the content for the Annual Report. stakeholder participation, perspective of the holding and customer discussions, market analysts were invited to discuss issues related to our experience emphasis were preserved. We also sought to ensure the performance and prospects with management. Bank of Brazil’s Corporate Strategy’s (ECBB) alignment with the other 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 110 To this end, the 35th BB Sustainability Forum was attended by Executive 102-46: Defining Report Content and Topic Validation: validation and prioritization of the challenges and actions Managers, to evaluate the 21 mapped sustainability challenges and Boundaries | 102-47: List of Material Topics | proposed for Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 by our Executive Managers at validate the new materiality matrix, which prioritizes actions and 102-49 Changes in Reporting the 35th Sustainability Forum; indicators to improve sustainability management. Subsequently we held The materiality review, which takes place every two years, guides the 7 Sustainability Workshop – attended by Company directors, th management and reporting by updating the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 Planning and action: holding of the VII Sustainability Workshop with general managers and executives – to discuss the theme “Megatrends BB and by defining the most relevant topics to be addressed in our Annual the presence of senior management and ELBB representatives, in with an emphasis on Sustainable Finance” and to evaluate sustainability Report. This is a way to revisit the organization’s sustainability drivers and which the results of the Materiality Matrix were presented with the challenges and the materiality matrix. bring industry inputs to its business strategy, using studies developed by purpose of later defining indicators and targets to promote the renowned national and international institutions and benchmarking studies that achievement of the challenges foreseen for the next three years; and At this planning stage, the Directors, General Managers and Executive consider the best practices developed by global financial sector peers. approval of the actions, targets and indicators established for our Managers of the strategic units evaluated the actions and indicators sustainability challenges by our senior management; and related to each challenge. They also defined targets with respective The materiality review process contemplates the results from the 2016 cycle, responsibilities and deadlines for completion. As a result, in February when more than seven thousand stakeholders were consulted to evaluate and Accountability: six-monthly report to the Board of Officers; annual 2019 the Board of Officers approved the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 30 prioritize the 25 mapped sustainability challenges. In this context, and after report to the Board of Directors; and annual reporting to stakeholders BB for 2019–2021, which includes 50 actions. The actions were included internal analysis, it was decided that the challenges resulting from the 2016 through the Annual Report. in Work Agreements (WA) with the areas responsible for their process remained relevant and up-to-date, with opportunities to advance in the development, as well as being one of the indicators that measure unit management of the issues by performing new actions. Materiality Process for the Year 2016 as a Starting Point management performance in relation to the targets set. This evaluation In 2016, we conducted a broad stakeholder consultation process with model impacts the variable remuneration of employees, through Profit Therefore, we seek to refine and update our materiality considering mainly the the participation of 7,145 stakeholders, of which 7,117 participated in an Sharing (PLR) payment. context of sustainability. For this cycle, the process also met GRI and IIRC online survey and 28 were interviewed. This significant participation guidelines and was developed based on the following steps: allowed the capture of important contributions in the process. An This cycle ends when we report to stakeholders on the actions performed evaluation of the relevance of some of these categories took place in in relation to the material challenges through the Annual Report. Identification and review of the challenges: evaluation of 2014, so that perceptions could be effectively contemplated. In the 2016 sustainability trends and demands; cycle, we reviewed and updated our stakeholders map. This update resulted in a list of priority; very important; important; and secondary Analysis process: materiality process evaluation carried out in 2016 importance stakeholders (see Our Stakeholders table). and the sustainability challenges listed in this process; analysis of internal, sectoral and peer documents; and analysis and alignment with the Banco do Brasil Corporate Strategy 2019–2023; 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 111 In 2016, we also chose to align our materiality with the The stages of this cycle also consider the guidelines Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which for defining material topics proposed by GRI in its improved the correlation of our actions with those general guidelines, fully complying with the principles foreseen by the United Nations (UN). This considers that assist and guide the content of sustainability the long-term vision for our business strategy and the reports. In addition, the process considered the greater relevance in environmental, social, governance following documents and studies: (ESG) and economic issues in the process. Materiality process 2016: Application of impact and influence a) Banco do Brasil Corporate Strategy (ECBB) more than 7,000 participants of the previous cycle The process, carried out in 2016, resulted in 25 2019-2023 and its respective goals and indicators, Weighting Influence Documents challenges that made up the Agenda 30 BB 2017with the aim of considering and aligning the (%) 2019 at the time. Of these, 13 were considered process with the corporate strategic drivers; Influence Source for evaluation ECBB and PD 2019–2023 50 material and therefore prioritized. However, to improve Interviews with external Impact Sustainability Index (DJSI) 30 management, we created an action plan for practically b) Peer best practice market research; stakeholders Online survey of external Benchmarking of peers and all the challenges. stakeholders industry studies 20 c) Research of industry studies; and Media and industry research The Materiality Process – 2018 Cycle In 2018, we made use of the challenges defined and d) Consultation of the industry driving forces and criteria score of the Dow Jones Sustainability Impact prioritized in the process of the last cycle (2016) as 35th Materiality 2018: Sustainability the starting point for the review of this cycle. With Index (DJSI). Source for evaluation prioritization of Forum: this, the current materiality review results are challenges validation of Consultation with executives supported by the wide consultation with stakeholders The following figure summarizes the steps for and employees challenges that we carry out, bringing the drivers and the identifying, prioritizing and validating our challenges Competitors demands of these stakeholders to the current in 2018. The prioritization and validation results lead Megatrends process. We have also maintained the alignment of to the contiguous graph, which considers the Importance for stakeholders our sustainability challenges with the SDGs and impact’s significance and the importance of each distributed the challenges across the five pillars of mapped challenge, which is a fundamental criterion the Global Agenda 2030: Prosperity, Partnership, for the materiality review process. Materiality Refinement of People, Planet and Peace. 2016 topics Significance of impact 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 112 As a surveys result, it was found that the challenges identified in the 2016 When considering the weighting of the DJSI topics we take into account The result of this analysis was segregated into two possible approaches, materiality process remained relevant. It was necessary to refine and better the importance of our listing in this index’s World portfolio, with a view to and the quartile was the approach chosen to define the priority, very define the challenges based on the criteria of topic similarity and wording, enhancing our sustainable performance. important and important challenges, as shown in the following matrix. since in the previous process and while putting the challenges to use it was perceived that the subjects were similar. As a result of this weighting it was noted that the DJSI criteria weightings ranged from 0 to 10 points, which shows the total weighting of the quesMateriality Process During the development phase of the industry studies and benchmarking, tionnaire in the materiality score. it was proposed to adjust the previous Challenge 6 (social business) and 7 (productive development, entrepreneurship, and social and financial incluPrioritization Stage: Basis of Calculations sion). The two were grouped together as they address similar issues, aiming Each challenge was analyzed in terms of its impact and influence. For 13 to promote social businesses and social and financial inclusion initiatives. each of these factors, we considered the 2016 cycle materiality, the ECBB, The union resulted in a new Challenge 6: “ Strengthen the Banco do Brasil the DJSI, and the industry studies and benchmarking. Influence initiatives that promote productive development, entrepreneurship and social and financial inclusion, including social business.” The materiality result was calculated during the review process for this 11 14 6 2 cycle, based on the scores given to the challenges in the previous process. 3 18 9 1 12 At this stage, adjustments were also proposed in the previous Challenge 19 The challenges that saw their status elevated to material topic in the 2016 5 19 20 4 (social-environmental risks in financing and controversial subjects), 20 (socialcycle had their scores matched with the challenge with the lowest score 10 16 17 21 environmental risks in own investments and third-party asset management) from this cycle process, as a way to match all the challenges on the same 7 15 8 and 22 (sustainability guidelines for credit and controversial issues ). These basis and allow them to enter the discussion on the same footing. At the were also grouped together – since they address sustainability and socialend of each analysis, the results for each approach were normalized to environmental risk related to business. The union resulted in the new standardized the scores for all challenges at a baseline of 10. Challenge 17: “ Improve socio-environmental risk management in the supply chain, in lending, in financing, in own investments, and in third-party asset The ECBB, the DJSI, and the industry benchmarking and studies Im pa ct management, while also considering controversial issues.” considered the average frequency with which the ECBB indicators and topics in each of these documents were identified in the challenges in Material Topic Prioritization Stage 2018. We used a multiplier factor to consolidate the 2016 materiality Theme promoted to material Our Corporate Strategy (ECBB 2019-2023) was used as a way of demonprocess results with the new documents analyzed for the 2018 cycle, strating the importance of correlating our sustainability challenges with the considering the weighting (percentage) of each of the documents and Strategic Objectives and the ECBB’s own indicators. Meanwhile, benchtheir correlation with our challenges. After this adjustment, the factor marking studies and industry studies considered the need to give imporvalue defined was applied to the impact value and the influence value for tance to sector trends and the best practices of industry peers. each challenge. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 113 Material challenge Agenda 30 BB’s Challenges in Sustainability 102-47 Challenge promoted to material status Prosperity Partnership People Planet Peace Challenge 1: Challenge 6: Challenge 9: Challenge 14: Challenge 18: align Banco do Brasil’s governance strengthen the Banco do Brasil ensure greater proportionality of develop financial solutions and busidevelop socio-environmental due with best practices in order to initiatives that promote productive gender and racial representation in all ness models that promote the transition diligence process (including strengthen the role of senior development, entrepreneurship hierarchical levels of Banco do Brasil. to a green and inclusive economy. human rights and labor practices) to management in the sustainability and social and financial inclusion, assess impacts of Banco do Brasil’s strategy. including social business. operations and business relations. Challenge 2: Challenge 7: Challenge 10: Challenge 15: Challenge 19: identify and manage non-financial and strengthen sustainability management strengthen sustainability education improve governance and management improve Banco do Brasil’s sustainability emerging medium and long-term risks in Entities Linked to Banco do Brasil. and awareness for the internal public of risks and opportunities relating to performance management and that could have significant impacts on and society. climate issues. reporting processes. Banco do Brasil’s business. Challenge 3: Challenge 8: Challenge 11: Challenge 16: Challenge 20: identify innovations in the financial improve Banco do Brasil’s guiding improve the variable remuneration improve the Environmental improve integration between sector (business models and rolein financial education. model for employees, including Management System (SEM) and ecoPrivate Social Investment and technologies) and anticipate trends senior management, broadening efficiency practices in order to reduce business strategy. to guarantee Banco do Brasil’s the socio-environmental Banco do Brasil’s ecological footprint. continuity and longevity. criteria and contemplating individual performance. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 114 Material challenge Agenda 30 BB’s Challenges in Sustainability 102-47 Challenge promoted to material status Prosperity Partnership People Planet Peace Challenge 4: Challenge 12: Challenge 17: Challenge 21: improve customer relationship strengthen Banco do Brasil’s improve socioenvironmental guarantee transparency in management and increase actions in relation to human risk management in the supply communication and in sales of satisfaction and retention rates. capital, including health, safety chain, in lending, in financing, products and services. and wellbeing management, in own investments, and in development and retention of talent. third-party asset management, while also considering controversial issues. Challenge 5: Challenge 13: improve Banco do Brasil’s tax strengthen the work of Banco do strategy management, with a focus Brasil in relation to ethics and on governance, tax risks practices to combat corruption, and transparency. unlawful acts and money laundering. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 115 In addition to the matrix, at the end of the analysis it was possible to observe the most important challenges for Validation Stage of Material Challenges – BB Sustainability Forum each SDG pillar in the 2018 and 2016 cycle: The 35th Sustainability Forum was one of the validation stages of our materiality review. At the Forum, sustainability challenges were reviewed by our Executive Managers, which permitted promotions to “material” Most Relevant Challenges by Pillar, in 2018 and 2016 102-47 status or downgrades to “non-material” status. Of the 21 challenges listed, 11 were considered material: 1, 2, 3, 4, Pillar # BB’s Challenges in 2018 # BB’s Challenges in 2016 6, 9, 11 (new), 12, 13, 14 and 17 (new). Prosperity 1 Align Banco do Brasil’s governance 4 Improve customer relationship with best practices in order to management and increase satisfaction This entire process contributes to our alignment with the best practices of our market peers. Our internal managestrengthen the role of senior and retention rates. ment allows actions to anticipate and manage risks and opportunities, enabling us to protect our ability to prosper in management in sustainability strategy. the medium and long term in a scenario of competitive business and structural changes. Partnership 6 Strengthen the Banco do Brasil 6 Strengthen Banco do Brasil’s role in initiatives that promote productive social business through comprehensive, Material Challenges in Descending Order Material Requirements (GRI Standards 2016) development, entrepreneurship efficient, innovative solutions, in Challenge 14: Develop financial solutions and business 201-2 | 203-2 | 305-5 | FS7 | FS8 and social and financial inclusion, alignment with public policies. models that promote the transition to a green and including social business. inclusive economy. People 12 Strengthen Banco do Brasil’s 15 Strengthen Banco do Brasil’s Challenge 12: Strengthen Banco do Brasil’s 102-41 | 401-1 | 402-1 | 403-1 | 403-2 | 404-1 | 404-3 | actions in relation to human capital, actions in relation to ethics and actions in relation to human capital, including 410-1 | 412-1 including health, safety and wellbeing combating corruption. health, safety and wellbeing management, management, development and development and retention of talent. retention of talent. Challenge 1: Align Banco do Brasil’s governance with 102-14 | 102-18 | 102-19 | 102-21 |102-27 | 102-28 | Planet 14 Develop financial solutions and 16 Develop financial solutions and best practices in order to strengthen the role of senior 102-29 | 102-38 business models that promote business models that promote management in sustainability strategy. the transition to a green and the transition to a green and Challenge 4: Improve customer relationship management 416-1 | 417-2 | 102-43 | 102-44 | 417-3 | 418-1 | 419-1 inclusive economy. inclusive economy. and increase satisfaction and retention rates. Peace 18 Develop socio-environmental due 21 Develop socio-environmental due Challenge 2: Identify and manage non-financial and 102-15 | 102-11 | 201-2 | 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 | 305-4 | diligence process (including diligence process (including emerging medium and long-term risks that could have 305-5 | FS6 | FS9 human rights and labor practices) to human rights and labor practices) to significant impacts on Banco do Brasil’s business. assess impacts of Banco do Brasil’s assess impacts of Banco do Brasil’s operations and business relations. operations and business relations. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 116 102-47 Material Challenges in Descending Order Material Requirements (GRI Standards 2016) 102: General Disclosures 2016 Requirements Challenge 3: identify innovations in the financial 418-1 102-1 | 102-2 | 102-3 | 102-4 | 102-5 | 102-6 | 102-7 | sector (business models and technologies) Organizational Profile 102-9 | 102-10 | 102-12 | 102-13 and anticipate trends to guarantee Banco do Brasil’s continuity and longevity. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 | 102-42 Challenge 13: strengthen the work of Banco do Brasil 102-16 | 102-17 | 205-1 | 205-2 | 205-3 102-45 | 102-46 | 102-47 | 102-48 | 102-49 | 102-50 | in relation to ethics and practices to combat corruption, Reporting Practice 102-51 | 102-52 | 102-53 | 102-54 | 102-55 | 102-56 unlawful acts and money laundering. Challenge 6: strengthen the Banco do Brasil 416-1 | 417-3 | 419-1 | 203-2 | FS13 | FS14 103: Management Approach 2016 Requirements initiatives that promote productive development, Management Approach 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 entrepreneurship and social and financial inclusion, including social business. Requirements not Material but still Reported (GRI Standards 2016) Challenge 9: ensure greater proportionality of gender 102-8 | 405-1 | 405-2 | 406-1 and racial representation in all hierarchical levels of 201-1 | 301-1 | 301-2 | 302-1 | 302-3 | 302-4 | 303-1 | 306-2 Banco do Brasil. Challenge 11: improve the variable remuneration 102-35 | 102-36 | 102-37 | 202-1 model for employees, including senior management, broadening the socio-environmental criteria and contemplating individual performance. Challenge 17: improve socioenvironmental FS1 | FS2 | FS3 | FS4 | FS5 | FS9 | FS12 | FS10 | risk managementin the supply chain, in lending, in FS11 | 308-1 | 308-2 | 412-1 | 412-2 | 412-3 | 408-1 | financing, in own investments, and in third-party asset 409-1 | 414-1 | 414-2 | management, while also considering controversial issues. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 117 103-2: The Management Approach and its Components Sustainability Plan – AGENDA 30 BB 2017–2019 Ação concluída no prazo. We have established a Actions Performed in 2018 partnership with the Inter-American Development Action Deadline Reporting Bank (IDB) in order to providing financing to 13. Structure a model for fundraising, the municipalities of Brazil under the Municipal Prosperity Pillar management and investment in Efficiency Program (Programa Eficiência Municipal). 12/31/18 Challenge 2: identify and manage non-financial and emerging medium and long-term risks that could have social businesses with major social In 2018, we also launched BB Equidade funds (BB significant impacts on Banco do Brasil’s business. and environmental impacts. Ações Equidade and Ações Equidade Private), for the Private and Retail segments, in order to invest 7. Develop sector studies comparing Action completed on time. We developed a in companies that are signatories of the Women’s risk and return of high impact comparative study of risk and return from high Empowerment Principals (Wep). and green economy activities to 06/30/18 impact and green economy activities, using the Action completed on time. We have updated provide to the customer/product indicator “Spread Consumption by Unpaid Debt”. two courses at our Corporate University focusing management areas. 15. Develop and implement training on social business, with 5,001 training modules Partnership Pillar actions in social business, with completed in the year. Challenge 6: strengthen Banco do Brasil’s role in social business through comprehensive, efficient, innovative emphasis on the use of digital media, 12/31/18 For our customers, we created an intelligent virtual solutions and in alignment with public policies. for potential social business and ISP consultant – Agrobot in 2018, which combines BB’s Action completed on time. We review processes customers and the internal public. expertise with external sources in order to help and implement improvements with an emphasis on farmers, including Pronaf recipients, make the best digitization regarding public policies and financial decisions about their business. 12. Review processes related to education actions. With regard to agribusiness social business, with emphasis People Pillar 06/30/18 credit, we made Pronaf loan proposals available in on digitization, to gain efficiency web format and through banking correspondents, Challenge 11: ensure greater racial and gender representation in all hierarchical levels at Banco do Brasil. and comprehensiveness. in addition to simplifying Pronaf Custeio operations, 26. Develop and implement human Action completed on time. We offer various reducing the number of sheets of paper used from rights training for employees in order educational solutions relating to human rights, as 792,000 to 66,000 in 2018. 06/30/18 to create opportunities in relation to well as updating the Ethical Trail with the inclusion gender, race, and color issues. of new courses. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 118 Action permanently ongoing. We launched the Planet Pillar Women’s Leadership Program with the objective of 27. Strengthen gender equity at Challenge 16: develop financial solutions and business models that promote the transition to a green and reaffirming the commitments and pacts assumed BB through the development of a inclusive economy. Annual – externally, promoting the development of leaders and corporate action plan, with definition Action completed on time. We offer the “SDGs ongoing increasing the participation of female employees in of indicators and targets for each 44. Develop training on “green and green Economy and Ecoefficiency” training module the Professional Growth Programs (recruitment and organizational unit. inclusive economy” for employees, via the Portal UniBB. In 2018, 11,259 employees selection). We have also included the Gender Equity 12/31/18 with emphasis on business completed the training. We also updated the Indicator in the Units’ Work Agreements. opportunities by market segment. contents of the Synapse Climate Change course, Challenge 14: strengthen Banco do Brasil’s actions in relation to human capital, including health, safety and which trained 4,190 employees in the year. wellbeing management, development and retention of talent. Action permanently ongoing. We have intensified Action completed on time. We developed a study the use of alternative channels, such as ATMs 38. Develop action plan and and action plan in order to identify the causes of and Mobile banking, and we can highlight the implement measures to improve absenteeism from the results of Periodic Health following actions: a) offer of credit to non-account employees’ health and wellExaminations (EPS). We held discussions with holding savers through ATM and mobile channels; being levels (develop a work 12/31/18 managers and teams and proposed actions to 46. Together with customer and b) option for the customer to cancel the printing of stress prevention model, improve health and well-being. In addition, we product managers, prospect CDC lines contracts (Automatic Credit, Payroll and promote quality of life at work have a QVT (Quality of Life at Work) Program and evaluate the feasibility of Prepayment of IR); c) credit card requests for nonand employee satisfaction). intended to providing funds for local actions proposing financial solutions and account holders via mobile – BB already approved focused on occupational health and safety at work. business models that promote the Annual – 44,600 proposals and each card contracted by transition to a specific green and Challenge 15: strengthen Banco do Brasil’s actions in relation to ethics and the fight against corruption. ongoing mobile generates savings of 48 sheets of paper/ inclusive economy for Banco do 42. Reassess and improve year, i.e. savings of 2,142,768 sheets of paper; Action completed on time. We have improved Brasil’s various business segments communication plans and training d) sending a digital credit card bill – in 2018 there several courses available via the BB Corporate (Wholesale, Retail Business, Retail related to ethics, with emphasis 06/30/18 was a reduction of 4.8 million in printed bills. University that deal with ethics, human rights and Personal, Agribusiness, Government on Human Rights and combating We launched the Agro Energia Program in 2018 to anti-corruption issues. and Private). corruption, for BB and its Linked Entities. support the production of clean and renewable energy in agribusiness activities – 100% of these financings alter the energy matrix, contributing to a reduction in consumption in the grid (National System) and to “avoided GHG emissions” from BB financing. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 119 Challenge 19: improve socio-environmental risk management by including socio-environmental criteria in the Peace Pillar financing, also considering controversial issues. Challenge 24: improve integration between Social Private Investment business strategy. Action completed on time. In 2018 we created the 12/31/18 – 65. Define technical specifications construction consolidated losses base for socio-environmental Action completed on time. As part of the projects and seek the development of of the losses risk, which represents an improvement in Banco supported by the BB Foundation, 177 internal an IT system to support sociobase for sociodo Brasil’s management process for this risk 79. Apply the methodology evaluations of Marco Zero were carried out in 2017. environmental risk management. environmental and meets the requirements of the regulator and established by BB and FBB The AABB Community Integration Program risk. banking self-regulation. for evaluation of Private Social 12/31/18 projects are being submitted to Marco N Action permanently ongoing. We updated the Investment using the recipient bases assessments for sampling during the 4 years of 66. Update the BB Sustainability document “BB Sustainability Guidelines for Credit” obtained in Marco Zero. implementation foreseen by the Program. In 2018, Guidelines for Credit annually, with Annual – for the Oil & Gas and Mining sectors, based on the 47 of the Program’s projects were measured, as two per sector and one per topic, and ongoing contributions gathered from the Stakeholders Panel, Marco Um, with a total of 7,459 students enrolled. make them public. with customers, employees, sustainability specialists, Action completed on time. We concluded representatives of civil society and government. 82. Apply the methodology that it is possible to define and implement a established by BB and FBB fundraising system for the Banco do Brasil for evaluation of Private Social 12/31/18 Foundation with the ELBB and Wholesale Investment using the recipient bases and Private segment customers. As such, obtained in Marco Zero. we performed several actions to establish a funding model with these investor groups. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 120 Agenda 30 BB 2019–2021 (Commitments) Challenge 4: improve customer relationship management and increase satisfaction and retention rates. Action Indicator and Deadline Indicator: present a report of iniciatives implemented for the Individual Retail segment (PF Varejo). Prosperity Pillar Deadline: annual – ongoing (12/31/19, 12/31/20 and 12/31/21). Indicator: present a report of iniciatives implemented for the Individual Challenge 1: align Banco do Brasil’s governance with best practices in order to strengthen the role of senior Private segment (PF Private). management in the sustainability strategy. Deadline: annual – ongoing (12/31/19, 12/31/20 and 12/31/21). Indicator: proposition of the Board of Directors periodic indepen5 – Implement iniciatives to increase Indicator: present a report of iniciatives implemented for the Public dent appraisal. BB’s customer satisfaction index, in Sector segment. 1 – Implement criteria to improve the Deadline: 12/31/19. order to achieve the target set. Deadline: annual – ongoing (12/31/19, 12/31/20 and 12/31/21). effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Indicator: study to review the Board of Directors composition to verify Indicator: present a report of iniciatives implemented for the Corporate the possibility of increasing the percentage of independent members. Wholesale segment (PJ Atacado). Deadline: 12/31/20. Deadline: annual – ongoing (12/31/19, 12/31/20 and 12/31/21). Challenge 2: identify and manage non-financial and emerging medium and long-term risks that could have Indicator: present a report of iniciatives implemented for the Micro and significant impacts on Banco do Brasil’s business. Small Entrepreneurs segment (MPE). 2 – Identify and manage non-financial Deadline: annual – ongoing (12/31/19, 12/31/20 and 12/31/21). Indicator: presentation a study of emerging long-term risks with imand emerging medium and long-term pacts on BB’s business to the Sustainability Forum. Partnership Pillar risks that could have significant impacts Deadline: 06/30/19. on Banco do Brasil’s business. Challenge 6: strengthen the Banco do Brasil initiatives that promote productive development, Challenge 3: identify innovations in the financial sector (business models and technologies) and anticipate entrepreneurship and social and financial inclusion, including social business. trends to guarantee Banco do Brasil’s continuity and longevity. 8 – Finance natural resource use Indicator: presentation of a feasibility study for the financing of natural 3 – Structure a relationship model Indicator: present a proposal for a relationship model with startups. efficiency projects through Guided resource use efficiency projects through the MPO. with startups. Deadline: 12/31/19. Productive Microcrocredit (MPO). Deadline: 12/31/19. Indicator: present an analytical feasibility study for the 4 – Implement a platform to enable implementation of a platform to enable interaction between investors interaction between investors and sustainable projects using a crowdfunding or startups model to and sustainable projects, using a the Sustainability Forum. crowdfunding or startups model. Deadline: 06/30/20. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 121 People Pillar Challenge 13: strengthen the work of Banco do Brasil in relation to ethics and practices to combat corruption, unlawful acts and money laundering. Challenge 9: ensure greater proportionality of gender and racial representation in all hierarchical levels of 20 – Implement a solution to provide Indicator: provide specific content about the Code of Ethics and Banco do Brasil. to suppliers on the Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct to share with suppliers. 12 – Increase the percentage of womStandards of Conduct for suppliers. Deadline: 12/31/19. Indicator: percentage of women in management positions. en in all hierarchical levels, in order to Deadline: annual – ongoing (12/31/19, 12/31/20 and 12/31/21). Planet Pillar strengthen gender equality at BB. Challenge 11: improve the variable remuneration model for employees, including senior management, Challenge 14: develop financial solutions and business models that promote the transition to a green and broadening the socio-environmental criteria and contemplating individual performance. inclusive economy. Indicator: percentage of employees covered by the systematic use of Indicator: presentation of a feasibility study for the implementation of measurable targets agreed upon with the direct superior, with impacts (a) new financial solution(s) that promote(s) the transition to a green 14 – Increase the percentage of 23 – Implement financial solutions that on remuneration. and inclusive economy. employees whose remuneration is promote the transition to a green and Deadline: annual – ongoing (12/31/19, 12/31/20 and 12/31/21). Deadline: 12/31/19. affected by individual performance inclusive economy. Indicator: implementation of (a) new proposed financial solution(s). reviews. Indicator: percentage of employees covered by the multidimensional Deadline: 06/30/20. performance review with impacts on remuneration. Deadline: annual – ongoing (12/31/19, 12/31/20 and 12/31/21). Indicator: assessment of attributes or offer of differentiated business conditions for products/services aimed at the transition Challenge 12: strengthen Banco do Brasil’s actions in relation to human capital, including health, safety and to a green economy. wellbeing management, development and retention of talent. 24 – Implement differentiated business Deadline: 12/31/19. Indicator: increase in the percentage of engaged employees. conditions for products/services aimed Indicator: implementation of attributes or differentiated Deadline: annual – ongoing (12/31/19, 12/31/20 and 12/31/21). at the transition to a green economy. 17 – Improve employee engagement business conditions for products/services aimed at the transition survey coverage. Indicator: increase in the engagement survey coverage. to a green economy. Deadline: annual – ongoing (12/31/19, 12/31/20 and 12/31/21). Deadline: 06/30/21. Indicator: hiring of external independent verification. 18 – Implement external independent Deadline: 06/30/20. verification process for health, safety Indicator: present a report on the verification process issued by an and well-being. independent third party. Deadline: 12/31/20. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 122 Challenge 17: improve socio-environmental risk management in the supply chain, in lending, in financing, in 201-1: Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed 102-48 own investments. 39 – Develop routines and procedures Indicator: incorporation of socio-environmental rating losses data in Direct Economic Value to identify, classify, assess, the lending pricing process. 2016 (1) 2017 (1) 2018 Generated and Distributed monitor, mitigate and control socioDeadline: 12/31/19. environmental risk in operations, Indicator: review of the socio-environmental questionnaire, including Direct Economic Value Generated – Revenue (R$ billion) 44.3 45.8 48.0 considering the provisions of CMN No. analysis by sector and by customer, to assess exposure of credit/fi4,327, article 8; and SARB No. 14, Direct Economic Value Distributed (R$ billion) 37.0 36.4 39.1 nancing operations to socio-environmental risk and impacts on customarticles 3, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, er credit limits. Personnel (Employee Salaries and Benefits) 21.3 19.5 20.0 16, 17 and 18. Deadline: 12/31/19. Indicator 1: publication of the revised BB Sustainability Guidelines for Remuneration of Third-Party Capital 1.4 1.6 1.4 40 – Update the BB Sustainability Credit (Diretrizes BB de Sustentabilidade). Deadline: annual – ongoing (12/31/19, 12/31/20 and 12/31/21). Interest on Own Capital and Dividends 2.4 3.3 5.4 Guidelines for Credit and the conditions for financing contained in Indicator 2: publication of the revised Social-environmental Taxes and Duties 11.9 12.0 12.3 the Social-environmental Guidelines Guidelines for Controversial Issues (Diretrizes Socioambientais para for Controversial Issues. Assuntos Polêmicos). Economic Value Retained (R$ billion) 7.3 9.3 8.8 Deadline: 06/30/20. Retained Earnings 5.6 7.7 7.4 Minority Interest on Retained Earnings 1.7 1.6 1.4 (1) We corrected the data presented in the 2016 and 2017 columns. 205-1: Operations Assessed for Risks Related to Corruption There was no new assessment of the risks of corruption in processes because it is assessed every two years, as described in our Integrity Program. The latest risk assessment was completed in 2017 and can be found in the 2017 Annual Report, page 109. In 2018, a new methodology for assessing integrity risk was approved by the Board of Directors, which will be put in practice by the end of 2019 to assess our processes for risks related to corruption. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 123 205-2: Communication and Training About Anti-Corruption Policies and Procedures 301-1: Materials Used by Weight or Volume | Total Number and Percentage of Employees Who Participated in at Least 1 Course on Combating Corruption, Broken Down by Functional 301-2: Recycled Input Materials Used Category and Region Non-renewable Materials Percentage Cartridge and Toner Refill Trained in 2016 2017 2018 Functional Percentage Trained in Program (Prorec – in units) Region Trained in 2018 Relation to Total Category Trained in 2018 Relation to Total Employees Total Cartridges Consumed 121,849 107,712 103,582 Employees Midwest Senior Management 14 10.1 120 87.0 Refilled Cartridges 119,218 105,112 102,359 Midwest Consulting 1,215 26.1 4,645 99.8 Percentage of Cartidges Refilled 98 98 99 Midwest Management 1,245 27.5 4,523 99.9 Midwest Operational 2,369 49.3 4,764 99.1 Midwest Technician 381 13.4 2,845 99.8 The toner cartridges that we use do not come from recycling. We purchase refilled original Overseas Senior Management 1 20.0 5 100.0 toner cartridges form equipment manufacturers (OEM) and remanufacturers. Regardless of Overseas Management 4 17.4 22 95.6 the material obtained our aim is sustainable disposal, with solid waste management prioritized Northeast Senior Management 0 0 7 100.0 for our suppliers and users. The increase of electronic transactions and the rationalization of Northeast Consulting 116 32.2 359 99.7 the availability of printers at our facilities helped to reduce toner cartridge consumption. Northeast Management 1,775 32.0 5,541 99.8 Northeast Operational 4,602 45.5 10,023 99.1 Renewable Materials Northeast Technician 19 25.0 74 97.4 Use of Paper 2016 2017 2018 North Senior Management 0 0 2 100.0 Total Paper Consumed (ton) 6,082 5,454 5,195 North Consulting 30 27.0 111 100.0 North Management 504 30.6 1,645 100.0 Recycled Paper (ton) 408 386 348 North Operational 1,080 43.8 2,447 99.3 Percentage of Recycled Paper 7 7 7 North Technician 5 26.3 19 100.0 Southeast Senior Management 10 22.2 39 86.7 The reduction in paper consumption in 2018 is a result of the “Zero Paper” campaign. The Southeast Consulting 710 33.9 2,089 99.9 campaign promoted internal awareness of the use of paper-based products, with several Southeast Management 6,212 41.8 14,875 100.0 sectors have switching from paper documents and products to digital solutions. Another Southeast Operational 11,068 45.3 24,336 99.7 contribution to the results was the increase in electronic transactions, such as mobile and Southeast Technician 311 29.2 1,064 100.0 intranet solutions. South Senior Management 0 0 4 80.0 South Consulting 141 28.1 501 100.0 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 124 The increase in vehicular diesel consumption is due to the increase 302-1: Energy Consumption Within the Organization | 302-3: Energy Weight of Hazardous in our agribusiness financing. This involves visits to inspect farms, Waste, Broken Down Intensity | 302-4: Reduction of Energy Consumption 2016 2017 2018 usually on rural and unpaved roads, which generally require the by Type of Destination use of four-wheel drive, diesel-powered vehicles. (Bulbs and Batteries) (¹) Energy Intensity (1) 2016 2017 2018 Other (Chemical Reaction 0 18.6 14.1 Electricity Intensity (total electricity Regarding the consumption of the diesel generator set, the and Decontamination) – ton consumption/employee/year) – MWh/ 7.00 6.14 6.18 most significant reduction was in our branch network due to the (1) The data on lamps and batteries refer to items collected and destined for employee/year program of sustainable deactivation and disposal of generator recycling through ggods recycling contracts. sets, carried out in the second half of 2018. Total Electricity Consumption (2) The reduction of hazardous waste is due to the reopening of the nobreak batteries collection programs. This takes place through supply Total Electricity Consumption (MWh) (3) 704,551 609,037 598,393 306-2: Waste by Type and Disposal Method contracts, through which the supplier collects the old devices and Total Electricity Consumption (GJ) 2,536,384 2,192,533 2,154,215 delivers new ones. The numbers were provided by the contracted Weight of noncompanies during the year 2018. Employee Base hazardous waste. 2016 2017 2018 broken down by type 100,622 99,161 96,889 Non-Hazardous Number of Employees (4) of disposal 2016 2017 2018 Waste (ton) (1) The energy intensity figure increased over the period due to the reduction in staff numbers. Reuse – Donation (unit) 0 17,837 0 Plastic 252.1 221.8 208.3 (2) In 2018, 80.70% of electricity consumed by BB came from renewable sources: http://ons.org.br/ Paginas/resultados-da-operacao/historico-da-operacao/geracao_energia.aspx. Reuse – Internal (unit) 0 114,000 64,610 (3) Energy management is in a transition process. A contracted company is recording the necessary information. Metal 63.6 34.8 28.3 (4) Considered the actual labor force, according to official data. Recycling (ton) 1.3 1,494 2,914 Glass 46.7 27.5 17.5 On-Site Storage (Ton) 1,542 2,534 202.4 Paper 2,067.3 2,390.4 1,763.6 Public Collection (mixed Fuel (liters) (¹) 2016 2017 2018 or non-recyclable waste Total Consumption of Diesel Fuel generated by the 58,129 63,833 78,189 549.3 529.8 443.2 units participating in the For Vehicles selective waste collection Total Consumption of Diesel program) (ton) 392,722 340,870 251,545 Generator Set Total Petrol Consumption 2,200,062 2,097,684 1,837,013 Total Ethanol Consumption 518,281 419,792 579,270 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 125 401-1: New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover Turnover by Turnover by Region 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Age Group Layoffs in the Period 10,474 1,587 2,156 Turnover by Gender 2016 2017 2018 Layoffs in the Period 10, 474 1, 587 2, 156 South 1,570 243 352 Number of Employees 100,622 99,161 96,889 Up to 30 Years 318 214 188 Southeast 4,649 670 936 Female 41,549 41,044 40,243 From 30 to 50 Years 2, 186 814 1, 130 Midwest 1,833 305 360 Male 59,073 58,117 56,646 Over 50 Years 7, 970 559 838 North 344 76 113 Layoffs in the Period 10,474 1,587 2,156 Turnover Rate (%) 10.4 1.6 2.2 Northeast 2,078 293 395 Female 4,470 474 746 Up to 30 Years 0.3 0.2 0.2 Turnover Rate (%) 10.4 1.6 2.2 Male 6,004 1,113 1,410 From 30 to 50 Years 2.2 0.8 1.2 South 1.6 0.2 0.4 Turnover Rate (%) 10.4 1.6 2.2 Over 50 Years 7.9 0.5 0.9 Southeast 4.6 0.7 1.0 Female 4.4 0.5 0.8 The higher turnover rate for the age groups close to or above 50 Midwest 1.8 0.3 0.4 Male 6.0 1.1 1.4 years of age is due to the availability of the pension supplement North 0.3 0.1 0.1 through the Banco de Brasil Employees’ Pension Fund (Previ) from The turnover rate reflects the average observed in the period age 50 onwards. Northeast 2.1 0.3 0.4 and the adoption of the Staff Adjustment Program (Programa de Adequação de Quadros – PAQ) in the first quarter. The regional percentage of labor concentration reflects directly in the availability index since no specific actions were taken (hiring or firing). Most of the layoffs are connected to retirement conditions through Social Security (INSS) and/or complementary pension schemes. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 126 New Hires by Gender 2016 2017 2018 Hiring by Region 2016 2017 2018 403-2: Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment, and Incident Investigation Types of Injury and Rates Of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, New Hires in the Period 1,424 287 167 Hiring in the Period 1,424 287 167 and Absenteeism, and Number of Work-Related Fatalities Female 509 98 72 South 124 6 5 Employees 2016 2017 2018 Male 915 189 95 Southeast 282 15 9 (own employees) Men Women Men Women Men Women (No. of 0.01 0.00 0.00 Hiring Rate (%) 1.4 0.3 0.2 Midwest 311 101 119 injuries/No. Total of employees) 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.01 Female 0.5 0.1 0.1 North 146 11 19 North 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.01 0.01 Male 0.9 0.2 0.1 Northeast 561 154 15 Northeast 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Hiring Rate (%) 1.4 0.3 0.2 All our hirings occur by means of a public service exam, without any Midwest 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 distinction by gender or age to fill vacancies. South 0.1 0 0 Southeast 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.01 Southeast 0.3 0 0 New Hires 2016 2017 2018 by Age Group Midwest 0.3 0.1 0.1 South 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 New Hires in the Period 1,.424 287 167 Occupational 0.00 0.00 0.00 North 0.2 0 0 Disease Rate Total Up to 30 Years 889 166 46 (frequency of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Northeast 0.6 0.2 0 illness/No. of From 30 to 50 Years 516 117 117 North 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 employees) Over 50 Years 19 4 4 The vacancies made available are in line with the need for Northeast 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 personnel in each region, according to the distribution of the staff. Hiring Rate (%) 1.4 0.3 0.2 Midwest 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Up to 30 Years 0.9 0.2 0.1 402-1: Minimum Notice Periods Regarding Southeast 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Operational Changes From 30 to 50 Years 0.5 0.1 0.1 South 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Our operational changes are not specified in collective agreements. Over 50 Years 0 0 0 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 127 Employees 2016 2017 2018 The health-related absenteeism rate was The number of accidents at work with (own employees) Men Women Men Women Men Women slightly higher in relation to the previous injuries and the number of occupational 0.4 0.4 0.2 Total year and lower than in 2016, remaining illnesses is low when compared to the 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.2 within the average of the last three years number of employees, which is why the North 0.5 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.5 0.5 Lost Days Rate – % but below the target set. injury and occupational illness rates Northeast 0.4 0.6 0.3 0.5 0.5 0.5 rounded up to the second decimal place (days lost/days planned) Midwest 0.4 0.6 0.3 0.6 0.2 0.4 Injury rate: considers injuries from are approximate to zero. Southeast 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.1 common accidents, such as accidents at South 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.1 work and during the commute (home-workThe lost days rate with occupational 828,760 739,258 735,187 home), regardless of severity, sick-leave causes decreased in 2018 as a result Total 414,363 414,397 357,463 381,795 359,521 375,666 or death. of the significant fall in the number North 25,777 22,161 21,759 21,322 22,288 19,609 of lost days from occupational injuries Lost Days (¹) Northeast 91,072 67,729 74,907 57,388 79,112 57,259 Occupational illness rate: computes all and illnesses. Midwest 74,652 75,204 66,811 72,161 66,316 75,530 cases of work-related illnesses that have been investigated and recognized as Lost days counts absences due to health Southeast 166,245 186,805 144,546 173,193 145,039 168,523 originating from work. The statistic includes reasons with occupational and nonSouth 56,617 62,498 49,440 57,731 46,766 54,745 all occupational illness cases, regardless of occupational causes. 3.3 2.9 3.0 Total the severity or need for sick-leave. 2.8 4.0 2.4 3.7 2.5 3.7 North 3.7 4.7 3.3 4.6 3.5 4.4 Absenteeism excludes paid absences Absenteeism Rate – % Northeast 3.3 4.6 2.7 3.9 3.0 4.0 Days lost rate, Days lost and such as holidays, study leaves, maternity (days lost (1)/days planned) Midwest 2.9 5.0 2.5 4.6 2.4 4.7 Absenteeism Rate: refers to total leaves, paternity leaves and days off. Southeast 2.7 3.7 2.4 3.4 2.5 3.4 absenteeism due to health reasons, which South 2.2 3.3 1.9 3.1 1.9 3.0 includes leave due to non-work related 1 1 3 Total illnesses as well as work-related absences. 1 0 1 0 2 1 Deaths related North 0 0 0 0 0 0 to Work (2) (units) Northeast 0 0 0 0 1 0 Midwest 0 0 0 0 0 0 Southeast 1 0 1 0 0 0 South 0 0 0 0 1 1 (1) Days lost to sick-leave with occupational and non-occupational causes. (2) Of the three reported deaths, two resulted from traffic accidents which occurred during the workers’ home-to-work commute, and one death was due to a typical accident that occurred during working hours. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 128 404-1: Average Hours of Training per Year per Employee 2016 2017 2018 Training Consolidated by Gender Men Women Men Women Men Women 2016 2017 2018 Training Indicators and Role NonNonNonNonNonNonEmployees Management ManageManagement Management Management Management Management Management Management Management Management Management 100,622 99,161 96,889 ment (final capacity) Employees 21,469 37,604 11,521 30,028 20,879 37,238 11,324 29,720 21,065 35,581 11,574 28,669 Trained 99,999 98,984 96,730 (final capacity) Trainings 2,275,615 2,937,065 4,942,310 Trained 21,441 37,238 11,517 29,803 20,848 37,175 11,318 29,643 21,056 35,510 11,564 28,600 Hours 7,271,306 7,933,426 11,258,757 Trainings 497,886 833,163 270,073 674,493 624,316 1,082,289 336,953 893,507 820,134 1,871,009 493,326 1,757,841 Percentage Trained 99.4 99.8 99.8 Hours 1,633,626 2,697,812 855,433 2,804,435 1,975,267 2,785,139 954,984 2,218,036 2,659,443 3,847,342 1,251,381 3,500,591 Percentage Trainings per Employee 22.62 29.62 51.01 99.9 99.0 100.0 99.3 99.8 99.8 99.9 99.7 100.0 99.8 99.9 99.8 Trained Hours per Employee 72.26 80.01 116.20 Trainings per 23.2 22.2 23.4 22.5 29.9 29.06 29.76 30.06 38.93 52.58 42.62 61.32 Employee Hours per The increase in the amount of training activities and number of 76.1 71.7 74.3 69.4 94.6 74.79 84.33 74.63 126.2 108.13 108.12 122.10 Employee training hours in 2018 is due to the availability of new training initiatives and educational programs, as well as new technological innovation releases from UniBB. Among them, we can highlight the new virtual learning environments, which were integrated and gamified; the update of the Digital Transformation Trail; the new Strategy and Planning Trail; Relaciona-e Program and Game DesEnvolver – Digital Transformation Journey. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 129 Senior management Management Consulting Advisory Operational Technician Note 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Employees (final capacity) 240 238 202 32,750 31,966 32,437 7,270 7,835 7,717 56,122 54,979 52,278 4,240 4,143 4,255 Trained 228 225 201 32,730 31,942 32,419 7,242 7,818 7,706 55,572 54,861 52,153 4,227 4,138 4,251 Trainings 1,925 2,367 2,623 766,034 958,933 1,310,837 136,398 182,205 238,838 1,297,105 1,698,277 3,280,702 74,153 95,283 109,310 Hours 10,094 12,595 14,202 2,478,965 2,917,710 3,896,622 424,873 527,911 494,358 4,120,437 4,208,391 6,647,357 236,937 266,819 206,218 Percentage Trained 95.0 94.5 99.5 99.9 99.9 99.9 99.6 99.8 99.9 99.0 99.8 99.8 99.7 99.9 99.9 Trainings per Employee 8.02 9.95 12.99 23.39 30.00 40.41 18.76 23.26 30.95 23.11 30.89 62.75 17.49 23.00 25.69 Hours per Employee 42.06 52.92 70.31 75.69 91.28 120.13 58.44 67.38 64.06 73.42 76.55 127.15 55.88 64.40 48.46 404-3: Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance and Career Development Reviews Development Plan 2016 2017 2018 Employees Who Participated 2018 in the GDP Performance Employees Who Have Prepared a 1st semester 43,229 62,882 97,320 Review by Functional Level Female % Male % Career Development Plan and Gender (¹) 2nd semester 40,647 52,237 96,088 Management 11,189 11.8 20,909 22.0 Percentage of Employees 1st semester 40.2 63.4 93.2 Who Developed the Career Technician 1,200 1.3 2,877 3.0 2nd semester 37.7 53.1 93.2 Development Plan (1) Operational 8,432 8.9 7,533 7.9 (1) The percentages were calculated based on the number of employees eligible to prepare the Skills Development Plan. Consulting 3,024 3.2 4,494 4.7 There has been an increase in the number of employees who have undertaken a performance review due to the connection of the review to the Performance-related Bonus Program. Others 14,953 15.7 20,389 21.5 Total 38,798 40.8 56,202 59.2 (1) The percentages calculated are related to the number of employees that are eligible for assessment. The total number of employees eligible for assessment is less than the total number of employees due to health or maternity leave. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 130 405-1: Diversity of Governance Bodies and Employees Diversity in Governance (%) (1) 2016 2017 2018 General Indicators of 2016 2017 2018 Employee Diversity (%) By Gender By Gender Female 3.4 4.8 8.6 Female 41.3 41.4 41.5 Male 96.6 95.2 91.4 Male 58.7 58.6 58.5 By Age Group By Age Group Up to 30 Years 0.00 0.00 0.00 Up to 30 Years 11.2 11.2 6.1 From 30 to 50 Years 61.0 58.0 60.3 From 30 to 50 Years 75.3 73.4 76.3 Over 50 Years 39.0 42.0 39.7 Over 50 Years 13.5 15.4 17.6 By Minority Groups By Minority Groups Indigenous 0.00 0.00 0.00 Indigenous 0.2 0.2 0.2 Black 1.7 1.6 3.5 Black 2.8 2.8 2.9 Mixed-Race 6.8 4.8 5.2 Mixed-Race 19.6 19.8 20.0 (1) Considered as members of the Board of Directors, the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board, and the Audit and Remuneration Committees. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 131 Employee Management Technician Operational Consulting Others 405-2: Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to Men Diversity Function (%) 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Ratio of Women/Men Base Salary 2016 2017 2018 By gender (in relation to the total workforce of each functional category) Executive 1 1 1 Female 35.2 35.5 30.0 29.9 53.0 46.3 40.3 41.0 43.2 Management 1 1 1 Male 64.8 64.5 70.0 70.1 47.0 53.7 59.7 59.0 56.8 Technician 1 1 1 By Age Group (in relation to the total workforce of each functional category) Operational 1 1 1 Up to 30 years 5.6 3.0 7.7 4.4 13.7 8.8 4.5 2.4 11.2 Consulting 1 1 1 From 30 to 50 years 82.3 82.7 76.7 78.6 73.2 70.7 84.7 85.3 73.4 Others 1 1 1 Over 50 years 12.1 14.3 15.6 17.0 13.1 20.5 10.8 12.3 15.4 Remuneration information by gender and functional level only covers our operations in By Minority Groups (in relation to the total workforce of each functional category) Brazil. Regarding the base salary or reference value for each existing function, there is no difference between men and women, which resulted in a ratio of 1 between the genders. Indigenous 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Black 2.6 2.6 3.0 2.9 2.8 3.1 2.4 2.5 3.1 Mixed-race 18.4 18.8 21.0 21.5 16.6 21.0 17.6 17.7 22.6 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 132 406-1: Incidents of Discrimination and Corrective 408-1: Operations and Suppliers at Significant 412-2: Employee Training on Human Rights Policies or Procedures Actions Taken Risk For Incidents of Child Labor | 409-1: Human Rights are the main guiding principles for the development of UniBB educational Operations and Suppliers at Significant Risk For solutions and they are a cross-cutting theme that recurrently appears in the courses that we 2016 2017 2018 Incidents of Forced or Compulsory Labor | offer to employees. Training directly related to the subject of Human Rights addresses diverse 412-1: Operations That Have Been Subject to perspectives, such as accessibility, diversity, gender equity and People with Disabilities, in the Total Number of Incidents of 7 27 23 Human Rights Reviews or Impact Assessments context of relationship with customers, with co-workers, sustainability and corporate education. Discrimination Known to BB Incidents Being Investigated 0 0 0 Own Operation 2016 2017 2018 Incidents Investigated 7 27 23 There is no risk of child labor or forced or compulsory labor in Total Number of Hours in the Period Devoted to our operations. Training on Human Rights Policies/Procedures 166,645 178,997 185,360 Incidents Not Yet Investigated 0 0 0 Relevant to Operations Incidents Judged To Be Customers 0 0 0 Percentage of Employees Trained in the Period Well-Founded BB Operations/ on Human Rights Policies/Procedures Relevant 60 67 51 Incidents Judged To Be 2016 2017 2018 Customers to Operations Unfounded (Not Subject 7 27 23 to Action) Number of Operations/ Percentage of All Employees Already Trained 98.2 Customers With a Registration Record 27 54 66 There was not much variation in the incidents investigated Related to the Occurrence between 2017 and 2018. We reject any discriminatory conduct The percentage of employees trained in 2018 is lower than in the other years because of Slave Labor and have intensified training and communication actions, as well many courses have already been carried out in previous years. This can be demonstrated as disciplinary treatment for proven cases. Our aim is to achieve The record blocks the credit limit study (analysis and renewal) by the total percentage of employees who have already completed training related to the zero discrimination in our institution. and acceptance of operations in our operating systems, putting Human Rights topic, of the order of 98.2%. into practice the constant prohibition in our Specific Credit Policy. During the year 2018, no judicial or administrative proceedings 416-1: Assessment of the health and Safety Impacts of Product and were identified originating from discrimination based on race, Service Categories color, gender, religion, political opinion, country of origin or In all architectural and engineering interventions we are guided by internal regulations and social background. current legislation, including from the Fire Department, environmental agencies and historical heritage. We comply with legal regulations in 100% of cases. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 133 417-2: Incidents of Non-Compliance Concerning policies and the socio-environmental commitments that we assume, such as FS10: Percentage and Number of Companies Held in the Product and Service Information and Labeling the Equator Principles, are evaluated. Organization’s Portfolio with which the Organization has We did not identify any cases of non-compliance with regulations and Interacted on Environmental or Social Issues voluntary codes relating to incidents of non-compliance with information The Specific Socio-environmental Responsibility Policy is part of the We require enterprises classified in categories A or B to evaluation the and labeling of products and services during 2018. set of documents that make up our governance architecture and which relevant social and environmental risks and impacts, as well as the are evaluated by the Internal Audit, within the scope of the Corporate constitution of an Environmental and Social Management System that 417-3: Incidents of Non-Compliance Concerning Governance and Management process. includes, among other issues, respect for human rights and labor issues, Marketing Communications with preventive and mitigation actions. The categories include: We did not identify any cases of nova-aliancense with regulations and voluntary The socio-environmental risk management will be evaluated again by the codes relating to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion Internal Audit in 2019, within the Risk Management process scope. The audit Category A: projects that require an Environmental Impact Assessment and sponsorship during the year 2018. work on the subject is carried out by our internal auditors, with reference to: (EIA) and which have significant potential for adverse and significant socio-environmental risks and impacts that may be multiple, irreversible 419-1: Non-compliance with Laws and Regulations in CMN Resolution No. 4,327/14: Guidelines to be observed by financial or unprecedented, with emphasis on those related to at least one of the the Social and Economic Area institutions in the establishment and implementation of the Socialfollowing: indigenous peoples, critical habitats, cultural heritage or largeIn 2018, we recorded R$5 million in penalties for non-compliance with laws Environmental Responsibility Policy (PRSA); scale resettlement. and regulations regarding the provision and use of products and services and Conama Resolution No. 237/97: Provides for the review and charges related to queueing times. complementation of procedures and criteria used for environmental Category B: projects for which the environmental licensing process licensing; envisages the preparation of the EIA or equivalent document and which Other fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations can be consulted in Resolution 4,557/17 – Integrated Risk Management: Addresses the have the potential for adverse social and environmental risks and/or Reference Form Sections 4.3 and 4.4. socio-environmental risk management structure requirements; and impacts that are limited, generally local, broadly reversible and readily Internal standards. controllable through measures mitigative and not classified in category A. FS9: Coverage and Frequency of Audits to Assess Implementation of Environmental and Social Policies and The need for improvements in the processes evaluated by the Internal In 2018, we hired three Project Finance operations under the Equator Risk Assessment Procedures Audit is addressed through the issuance of recommendations, with Principles (projects whose total capital cost is equal to or greater than Our Internal Audit evaluates the risk management actions and the adequacy indication of the manager responsible and implementation deadlines US$10 million). of the internal controls with the verification of quality, sufficiency, compliance compatible with the associated risk level. and effectiveness. To this end, it prepares Strategic and Annual planning of its activities on an annual basis, in accordance with the requirements of the The recommendations issued are monitored by the Internal Audit until they Ministry of Transparency Comptroller General of the Union (CGU). This are implemented. From then on, the corrective actions adopted by the planning includes conducting audits in conclusive cycles, at least every year managers are evaluated and, if they are sufficient, the recommendation is and at most every three, during which adherence to socio-environmental certified by the Audit. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 134 102-48 Project Finance Contracted Under the Equator Principles In 2018 Equator Principles 2016 2017 (1) 2018 Industry Category A Category B Category C Mining Quantity 3 4 3 Infrastructure (1) Information from 2017, published in the last Annual Report, was fixed. Oil and Gas Energy 3 The values quoted above characterize the large scale projects When applicable we request environmental licensing from all that, by definition, provide a combination of favorable conditions customers, in accordance with current legislation. Others (Industry) related to economic and strategic aspects for study, planning, Subtotal feasibility and implementation. FS13: Access Points in Low-Populated Areas or Region Economically Disadvantaged Areas, by Type Americas 3 When applicable, we request environmental licensing to all We ended 2018 with 55,500 service points, including our own customers, in accordance with current legislation. In relation network and shared and correspondent networks, with a presence Europe, Middle East and Africa to the social and environmental questionnaires, in 2018, 4,754 in 99.6% of Brazilian municipalities. Asia were applied in the credit analysis and 27 in the analysis of Subtotal investment projects. Country Designation Regarding the Equator Principles, considering the operations Designated Country contracted in 2018, as well as those in the driving phase, we interact Undesignated Country 3 in 2018 with 48 clients, requesting 100% environmental licensing, Subtotal if applicable. Considering the clients for whom questionnaires were Independent Consultancy applied, as well as those operating under the Equator Principles, the percentage is 0.2%. Projects were not denied in the year based on Yes 3 the application of the Equator Principles. No Subtotal In addition to the Equator Principles, we have adopted socioTotal 3 environmental criteria in the credit limit study evaluation for companies and investment projects. Currently, these procedures In 2018, there was no contracting of bridge loans or Project Finance Advisory services are applied according to criteria that consider the size and potential under the Equator Principles. impact of the activity performed and investment projects with a value financed by us of equal to or greater than R$2.5 million. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 135 The figures presented reinforce the strategies we adopted for Number of Service (Number of Service Population Density Variation in Number the year 2018, with the Digital Business Model and Specialized State Points (Own Network + Points/Inhabitants) (inhabitants/km2) of Service Points Third-Party Posts) X 10,000 Agencies expansion. Acre 208 0.005 2.39 6 Santa Catarina 2,299 0.073 3.24 (71) FS14: Initiatives to Improve Access to Financial Espírito Santo 1,108 0.087 2.78 41 Services for Disadvantaged People Roraima 227 2,330 3.93 14 The physical adaptation of our facilities (main floor) guarantees Amazonas 841 2,587 2.06 73 accessibility for people with limited mobility, the visually impaired Mato Grosso 932 3,702 2.70 (46) and wheelchair users. We closed 2018 with 99.8% of floors Tocantins 587 5,584 3.77 23 adapted. We also purchased special furniture for Persons with Amapá 233 5,586 2.80 25 Disabilities and obese people, with 3,030 facilities improved by Pará 1,223 6,704 1.43 (15) the end of 2018. Among the items purchased are counters, cash Mato Grosso do Sul 946 7,597 3.44 52 registers and accessible desks, wheelchairs, tactile map holders Rondônia 394 7,601 2.24 (10) and furniture adapted for obese people. Piauí 1,091 12,799 3.34 32 Goiás 2,004 19,933 2.89 62 Maranhão 1,426 21,086 2.02 115 Bahia 3,896 27,048 2.63 215 Minas Gerais 5,709 36,008 2.71 160 Rio Grande do Sul 3,443 40,188 3.03 (10) Paraná 3,223 56,799 2.83 (65) Ceará 2,350 60,611 2.58 213 Rio Grande do Norte 1,208 66,424 3.47 18 Paraíba 1,241 71,142 3.10 (3) Pernambuco 2,005 96,359 2.11 (5) Sergipe 517 104,432 2.26 7 Alagoas 896 121,572 2.69 25 São Paulo 11,490 181,681 2.52 36 Rio de Janeiro 4,130 382,620 2.40 15 Distrito Federal 1,882 523,861 6.32 (22) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 136 GRI Content Index 102-55 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. This service was performed on the Portuguese version of the report. GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General External Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG disclosures 2016 assurance Perfil da organização 102-1: Name of the organization 6 Yes More information available in article 4 102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services of the Bylaws and in Section 7 of the Yes Reference Form. Sector of Autarquias Norte, Quadra 5, Lot B, Banco do Brasil Building, 102-3: Location of headquarters Yes Brasília, Distrito Federal, Brazil. 102-4: Location of operations More information available in Section 7.6 of the Reference Form. Yes 102-5: Ownership and legal form 6 Yes 102-6: Markets served 6 and 108 Yes Large company. More information on pages 7, 8 and 9 and Section 7 of the 102-7: Scale of the organization Yes Reference Form. 102-8: Information on employees and other workers 82 and 108 Yes 6 8 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 137 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General External Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG disclosures 2016 assurance Organizational profile 102-9: Supply chain 95 Yes 102-10: Significant changes to the organization and its There was no change in the structure of significant suppliers or in the agreement No supply chain entered into with them that could have any impact on the Bank’s operations. More information available in Explanatory Note 2 – Corporate Restructuring, in the document Financial Statements. 102-11: Precautionary principle or approach 54 and 55 No 102-12: External initiatives Our public commitments and sustainability initiatives are available on the Yes Sustainability website. 102-13: Membership of associations 109 Yes Strategy 102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker 5 No 102-15: Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 15, 18 and 48 No Ethics and integrity 102-16: Values, principles, standards, and norms of 6 Yes 10 16 behavior More information available on the Portal BB on the Who We Are and Ethics and Integrity pages. 102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 41, 42 and 97 Yes 10 16 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 138 GRI 102: General External Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG disclosures 2016 assurance Governance structure 102-18: Governance structure 37, 38 and 39 Yes 102-19: Delegating authority 36 and 39 and Bylaws: article 21, item X; Article 29, subsection X. No 102-21: Consulting stakeholders on economic, 15 and 109 No 16 environmental, and social topics 102-27: Collective knowledge of highest governance body 35 No 4 More information available in section 12.12 of the Reference Form. 102-28: Evaluating the highest governance body’s 36 No performance 102-29: Identifying and managing economic, 15 and 109 No 16 environmental, and social impacts 102-35: Remuneration policies 36 No More information available in section 13 of the Reference Form. 102-36: Process for determining remuneration 35 and 91 No 102-37: Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 35 No 16 102-38: Annual total compensation ratio The ratio of the President’s total annual compensation to the average annual No total remuneration for all employees (excluding the most well-paid individual) in Brazil was 23.73. Stakeholder engagement 102-40: List of stakeholder groups 18 Yes 102-41: Collective bargaining agreements The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements No 3 8 is 100%. 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 18 and 110 Yes 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 18 and 110 Yes 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 18, 19 and 110 Yes 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 139 GRI 102: General External Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG disclosures 2016 assurance Reporting practice 102-45: Entities included in the consolidated financial Information available in Explanatory Note 3 – Presentation of Financial StateYes statements ments (page 43), in the Statement of Financial Statements. 102-46: Defining report content and topic boundaries 111 Yes 102-47: List of material topics 111, 114, 115, 116 e 117 Yes 102-48: Restatements of information 201-1: p. 123 No 203-2: p. 29 404-3: p. 89 FS10: p. 134 Short-term Liquidity Indicator: p. 51. 102-49: Changes in reporting 111, 112, 113, 114 and 115 No 102-50: Reporting period Our Report is published annually and covers the period from January 1 to No December 31, 2018. 102-51: Date of most recent report The previous report was published in 2018. No 102-52: Reporting cycle Our Report is published annually. No 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report Doubts about financial information: ri@bb.com.br and sustainability: sustentaNo bilidade@bb.com.br. 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI This report was elaborated in accordance with GRI Standards: Core. Yes Standards 102-55: GRI content index 137 Yes 102-56: External assurance 151 Yes 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 140 External Material topics Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG assurance Economic performance 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 26 and 58 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 26, 35, 58, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 123 No 2, 7, 8, 9 GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 201-2: Financial implications and other risks and 55 and 56 Yes 7 13 opportunities due to climate change Market presence 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 90 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 90, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 202-1: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender The ratio of the lowest salary paid by BB to the local minimum wage in 2018 Yes 6 1, 5, 8 GRI 202: Market presence compared to local minimum wage was 2.99. The salary floor is applied, regardless of gender, to all employees 2016 who start their career with us. Indirect economic impacts 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 26 and 28 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 26, 28, 35, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes GRI 203: Indirect economic 203-2: Significant indirect economic impacts 26, 29 and 30 No 1, 2, 3, 8, impacts 2016 10, 17 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 141 External Material topics Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG assurance Anti-corruption 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 41 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 41, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 45, 46 and 123 Yes 10 16 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption 42, 44, 45, 94 and 124 No 10 16 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 policies and procedures 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 42 and 46 Yes 10 16 Materials 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Not material topic No GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components Not material topic No 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Not material topic No 301-1: Materials used by weight or volume 105 and 124 Yes 7, 8 8, 12 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2: Recycled input materials used 105 and 124 No 8 8, 12 Energy 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Not material topic No GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components Not material topic No 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Not material topic No 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 103 and 125 Yes 7, 8 7, 8 , 12 ,13 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3: Energy intensity 125 No 8 7, 8 , 12 ,13 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 103 and 125 No 8, 9 7, 8 , 12 ,13 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 142 External Material topics Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG assurance Water 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Not material topic No GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components Not material topic No 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Not material topic No GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1: Water withdrawal by source 103 Yes 7, 8 6 Emissions 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 102 No GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 102 No 1, 8 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 102 No 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Information not available – the data will be released in the online version of No 7, 8 3, 12, 13, the 2018 Annual Report in May 2019. 14, 15 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions No 7, 8 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions No 7, 8 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-4: GHG emissions intensity No 8 13, 14, 15 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions No 8, 9 13, 14, 15 Effluents and waste 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Not material topic No GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components Not material topic No 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Not material topic No GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 106 and 125 Yes 8 3, 6, 12 waste 2016 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 143 External Material topics Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG assurance Supplier environmental assessment 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 54 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 54, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 308-1: New suppliers that were screened using 96 Yes 8 GRI 308: Supplier environmenenvironmental criteria tal assessment 2016 308-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply 96 No 8 chain and actions taken Employment 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 82 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 82, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 126 No 6 5, 8 Labor/Management relations 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 82 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 82, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes GRI 402: Labor/Management 402-1: Minimum notice periods regarding operational 127 Yes 3 8 relations 2016 changes Occupational health and safety 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 82 and 91 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 82, 91, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103: Management Our public commitments, and health and safety initiatives are available approach 2016 on our website. 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 144 External Material topics Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG assurance Occupational health and safety 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint 91 No 8 management–worker health and safety committees GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2016 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 91 and 127 Yes 3, 8 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and education 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and 82 and 85 Yes GRI 103: Management its boundary approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 82, 85, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 88 and 129 No 6 4, 5, 8 GRI 404: Training and education 2016 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular 88 and 130 No 6 5, 8 performance and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 83 Yes 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 83, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103: Management Our public commitments, and diversity and equal opportunities initiatives are approach 2016 available on our website. 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 83 and 131 Yes 6 5, 8 GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 132 No 6 5, 8, 10 to men Non-Discrimination 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 83 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 83, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 133 Yes 6 5, 8, 16 2016 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 145 External Material topics Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG assurance Child labor 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 54 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 54, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 94, 96 and 133 No 5 8, 16 GRI 408: Child labor 2016 incidents of child labor Forced or compulsory labor 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 54 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 54, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes GRI 409: Forced or compulsory 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 94, 95, 96 and 133 No 4 8 labor 2016 incidents of forced or compulsory labor Security practices 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 82 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 82, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 410-1: Security personnel trained in human rights We require, under contract, that 100% of the employees of companies No 1 16 GRI 410: Security policies or procedures contracted in the security area have a training course in surveillance with practices 2016 material homologated by the Federal Police Department, which includes aspects of human rights and human relations. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 146 External Material topics Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG assurance Human rights assessment 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 82 and 94 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 82, 94, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 412-1: Operations that have been subject to human 55, 94 and 133 Yes 1 rights reviews or impact assessments 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or 133 Yes 1 GRI 412: Human rights procedures assessment 2016 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts 54 and 94 No 2 that include human rights clauses or that underwent More information is available in the online version of the 2018 Annual Report human rights screening – Human Rights article, and section 8 of the Reference Form. Supplier social assessment 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 94 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 94, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 414-1: New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 94 and 96 No 2 5, 8, 16 GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 2016 414-2: Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 95 and 96 No 2 5, 8, 16 actions taken Customer health and safety 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 28 and 76 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 28, 35, 76, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes GRI 416: Customer health and 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 133 Yes safety 2016 product and service categories 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 147 External Material topics Standard Page or link Omission UNGC SDG assurance Marketing and labeling 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 28 and 76 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 28, 35, 76, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes 417-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 134 No 16 GRI 417: Marketing and and service information and labeling labeling 2016 417-3: Incidents of non-compliance concerning 134 Yes marketing communications Customer privacy 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 63 and 76 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 63, 76, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes GRI 418: Customer 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 53 Yes 16 privacy 2016 customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic compliance 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 28 and 76 Yes GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 28, 35, 76, 97 and 109 Yes 1, 8 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109 and 110 Yes GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 134 Yes 16 compliance 2016 social and economic area 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 148 Sector Supplement – Financial Services Product Portfolio External Omission UNGC SDG assurance 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 26, 27 and 58 No GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 26, 35, 58, 97 and 109 No approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109, 110 Yes FS6: Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by 69 Yes 1, 8 and 9 specific region, size (e.g. Micro/SME/Large) and by More information available in Explanatory Note 10 – Credit Transactions in sector the Financial Statements document. FS7: Monetary Value of products and services designed 66, 67, 69 and 73 Yes 1, 8, 9, 10 to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line and 11 broken down by purpose FS8: Monetary value of products and services designed 66, 67, 69 and 73 Yes to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Audit 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 54, 55, 58 and 134 No GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 54, 58, 97, 109 and 134 No approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109, 110 e 134 No FS9: Coverage and frequency of audits to assess 134 Yes 10 implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures (former FS9) 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 149 Sector Supplement – Financial Services Active Ownership External Omission UNGC SDG assurance 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 54, 55 No GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 35, 36, 54, 97 and 109 No approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109, 110 No FS10: Percentage and number of companies held in the 54 and 134 Yes 10 institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11: Percentage of assets subject to positive and 66 Yes 10 negative environmental or social screening Local Communities 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 28 No GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 28, 35, 36, 97 and 109 No approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 109, 110 No FS13: Access points in low-populated or economically 135 No 8 and 10 disadvantaged areas by type FS14: Initiatives to improve access to financial services 136 No 8 and 10 for disadvantaged people 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 150 Independent Auditors’ Limited Assurance Report To The Board of Directors, Shareholders and Management of Banco do Brasil S.A. Banco do Brasil S.A. Brasília DF Report of limited assurance of Introduction independent auditors year 2018 102-56 We have been engaged by Banco do Brasil S.A. (Banco do Brasil) to present our limited assurance report on the compilation of the information related to sustainability included in the Annual Report of Banco do Brasil S.A., for the year ended December 31, 2018. KPMG Auditores Independentes SAI/SO, Área 6580 – Bloco 02, 3º andar, sala 302 – Responsibilities of Banco do Brasil’s Management Torre Norte – ParkShopping Zona Industrial (Guará) Management of Banco do Brasil is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of Caixa Postal 8587 CEP: 71219-900 – the information related to sustainability included in its Annual Report in accordance to the Brasília/DF Brasil guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI Standards and for such internal controls as Telefone +55 (61) 3362 3700 management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of information free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. www.kpmg.com.br Independent auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the information related to sustainability included in the Annual Report, based on the limited assurance engagement carried out in accordance with Technical Communication (CT) 07/2012, issued by the Federal Accounting Council (CFC), based on the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits and Reviews”, issued by the CFC, which is the equivalent to the international standard ISAE 3000, issued by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements, including independence requirements, and the work is performed for the purpose of obtaining limited security that the information related in the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is free from material misstatements. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 151 A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with NBC TO 3000 (ISAE The limited assurance engagement also included tests to assess compliance with the 3000) mainly consists of making inquiries of management of Banco do Brasil and guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Report and criteria to preparation other Banco do Brasil’s professional involved in the preparation of the information of the information related to sustainability included in the Annual Report. in the Annual Report, as well as applying analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us to issue a limited assurance conclusion on the information, taken as a We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a whole. A limited assurance engagement also requires the performance of additional basis for our limited assurance conclusion. procedures when the independent auditor becomes aware of matters that lead the auditor to believe that the information in the Annual Report, taken as a whole might Scope and limitations present significant misstatements. The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less extensive than those applied in a reasonable assurance engagement, the objective The procedures selected are based on our understanding of the issues related to the of which is the issuance of an opinion about the information included in the Annual compilation and presentation of the information included in the Annual Report, other Report. Consequently, we are not able to obtain reasonable assurance that we would circumstances of the engagement and our analysis of the areas in which significant become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an assurance misstatement might exist. The procedures consisted of: engagement, the objective of which is the issue of an opinion. If we had performed an engagement in order to express an opinion, we might have identified other a. P lanning of the work, taking into consideration the relevance, volume of matters and possible misstatements in the information included in the Annual Report. quantitative and qualitative information and the operating and internal control Therefore, we are not expressing an opinion on these matters. systems that were used to prepare the information included in the Annual Report of Banco do Brasil; Non-financial data are subject to more inherent limitations than the financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate or estimate b. U nderstanding of the calculation methodology and the procedures adopted for this data. Qualitative interpretations of the relevance, materiality and accuracy of the the compilation of the indicators through interviews with the personnel in charge data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. of the preparation of the information; Furthermore, we here not considered in our engagement the data reported for prior c. Application of analytical procedures to quantitative information and making periods, nor future projections and goals. inquiries regarding the qualitative information and its correlation with the indicators disclosed in the information included in the Banco do Brasil’s Annual The objective of our work was to apply limited assurance procedures on the Report; and sustainability information disclosed in the Annual Report of Banco do Brasil, not including its greenhouse gas emissions data, neither the assessment of the d. C omparing the financial indicators with the financial statements and/or appropriateness of its policies, practices and sustainability performance. accounting records. 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 152 Conclusion KPMG Auditores Independentes Based on the procedures performed, described in this report, no matter has SAI/SO, Área 6580 – Bloco 02, 3º andar, sala 302 – Torre Norte come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information contained – ParkShopping Zona Industrial (Guará) in the Annual Report 2018 of Banco do Brasil S.A., has not been compiled, Caixa Postal 8587 CEP: 71219-900 – Brasília/DF Brasil in all material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Telefone +55 (61) 3362 3700 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards. www.kpmg.com.br Independence Statement Brasília, April 08, 2019 To The Board of Directors, Shareholders and Management of Banco do Brasil S.A. KPMG Auditores Independentes Brasília DF CRC SP-014428/O-6 F-DF Original report in Portuguese signed by Brasília, Apr 08, 2019 João Paulo Dal Poz Alouche In connection with our work related to the issuance of the Independent Auditors on the sustainability Accountant CRC 1SP245785/O-2 information disclosed in the Annual Report of Banco of Brasil S.A., related to the year ended December 31st 2018 we declare that KPMG Auditores Independentes is independent in relation to Banco do Brasil S.A. and there was no conflict of interest in the verification of environmental and social data on the sustainability information in accordance with the rules of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics and local rule CFC Resolução CFC 1.312/10. Very truly yours, KPMG Auditores Independentes CRC SP-014428/O-6 F-DF Original report in Portuguese signed by João Paulo Dal Poz Alouche Accountant CRC 1SP245785/O-2 2018 Annual Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Chapter 153
