DEEP CHANGE MAKES PERFECT INNOVATION SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 CONTENTS CEO Message 04 Business Overview 06 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Business Value Chain 36 Our Strategy 38 Research & Development 42 Market Outlook 44 Business Performance 46 Double Bottom Line 48 FOCUS AREAS Material Issue 1 54 Active Responses to Climate Change Material Issue 2 56 Sustainable Supply Chain Material Issue 3 58 Safe & Healthy Workplace Material Issue 4 61 Community Engagement UN SDGs 63 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Board of Directors 66 Risk Management 70 Ethical Management 72 Employees 76 Social Contribution 82 Sustainable Supply Chain 91 SHE Management 95 APPENDIX Materiality Test 102 Stakeholder Engagement 104 ESG Data 105 GRI Index 115 Independent Auditor’s Report 117 Financial Statements 120 Independent Assurance Statement 123 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 125 Membership Status 126 Publication History of Sustainability Report 127 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 CEO Message Dear Valued Stakeholders, CEO MESSAGE I would like to thank all of you for your love for SK innovation. In 2018, SK innovation achieved great accomplishment in various business with the encouragement and support of our stakeholders. Above all, not only our global business's competitiveness has been strengthened, but also we have made significant progress for our new businesses. In addition, our efforts to create social values have resulted in ‘DJSI World recognition for 2 consecutive years’, ‘Grand award in the Most Loved company’, ‘Grand award in Labor and management culture’, and ‘Presidential Certificate for Excellence in Gender Equality Employment.’ From this year, we have appointed an independent director as our new chairman of the board of directors to implement transparent management centered on the board of directors. In 2019, SK innovation will communicate more actively with stakeholders and generate greater values in the following ways. Global Growth SK innovation drives its business model to develop into a global top company. We are expanding business investment in the battery and materials sectors to secure a new growth engine. In addition, we are strengthening our global partnerships with prominent global players through collaboration and alliance in traditional business sectors such as oil, chemicals and lubricants. SK innovation will continue to actively invest into new businesses and expand global partnerships in existing businesses to develop into a global leader. 4 5 Promote Green Innovation Environmental issues, such as fine dust and greenhouse gases, are becoming a serious social issue and they are closely related to our business activities. SK innovation will work hard on solving environmental issues and executing solutions. To do so, we will base our strategy on the ‘Environment Initiative’ to promote Green Innovation. This will not only solve environmental issues but also serve as an opportunity to create a new business model. Bring Happiness to Stakeholders by Spreading Social Values SK innovation is certain that pursuing the well-being of stakeholders will foster stability and growth for the company. Therefore, creating social values are as important as economic values for us. We are fiercely deliberating on identifying the needs of our stakeholders and these efforts will achieve the loyalty and well-being of all our stakeholders. SK innovation will practice sustainability management in a systematic way for continued stability and growth, which will create stakeholder value as well as play a critical role in social and economic growth. We will ultimately become a company that contributes to the well-being of humanity. SK innovation President & CEO We ask for your enduring support and affection so that our efforts can generate more happiness for all our stakeholders. Thank You. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview CHALLENGE FOR NEW INNOVATION 6 Business fields SK INNOVATION E&P, battery, materials SK innovation was founded as the first oil and chemical company in Korea, President & CEO and led the economic growth of this nation. We are growing into a global energy and Kim Jun chemicals company representing Korea with our oil development, refining, chemicals, lubricants businesses to future energy business. Oklahoma Oil & Gas Development Site SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 CHALLENGE FOR NEW INNOVATION 8 Oklahoma Oil & Gas Development Site Battery production process LiBS production process SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview DIFFERENTIATED ENERGY MARKET LEADER 10 11 Business field SK ENERGY Petroleum products As an energy company that creates happiness for customers and society, President & CEO SK energy will build a better society through creation of both economic and social values. Cho Kyong Mok Ulsan Complex SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview TOTAL GLOBAL CHEMICAL LEADER 12 13 Business field SK GLOBAL CHEMICAL Petrochemical products SK global chemical is constantly changing to build the best chemicals portfolio. President & CEO We are creating a new future for the chemical industry for the customers and the market. Na Kyung Soo Ulsan Complex SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview DRIVING FORCES OF GROWTH 14 15 Business field SK LUBRICANTS Base oil and lubricants As the No. 1 lubricant brand in Korea, SK lubricants seeks to President & CEO become a world leading company by pursuing change and innovation. Jee Dong Seob Ulsan Complex ZIC production process SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview PROMISE FOR TOMORROW'S GROWTH 16 17 Business field SK INCHEON PETROCHEM Oil and petrochemical SK incheon petrochem aims to become a global top oil and petrochemical company products equipped with the best efficiency and productivity through strict production control and President & CEO environment-oriented management. Choi Nam Kyu SK Incheon Petroche Plant SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview VALUE TRANSFORMATION FOR THE NEXT 18 19 Business field SK TRADING INTERNATIONAL Trading of crude oil and SK trading international will grow from being the only energy trading company in petroleum products Korea into an unrivaled global top trading company. President & CEO Suh Sok Won SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview E&P (Exploration and Production) SK INNOVATION Business E&P business is defined as a series of business activities that Major Business Activities involve onshore and offshore exploration to develop and produce crude oil and natural gas. SK innovation currently Peru participates in 13 production and 4 LNG projects globally. As Following our first barrels from Block 8 in 1996, Block 88 of 2018, our E&P business is producing 53,000 barrels on a and 56 began to contribute to our total production in 2004 daily basis, and holds 520 million barrels of proved reserves – and 2008. With the inauguration of Peru LNG plant in 2010, amount which can sustain the entire Korean population up to SK innovation vertically integrated LNG value chain in Peru. 6 months. Currently, Peru projects constitute the biggest source of revenue and production of our E&P business. Business Overview Vietnam SK innovation has been producing oil and gas from Block 15-1 Production Blocks since 2003. As of 2019, SK innovation is gearing up to further Country Block Year of Participation expand our business through the development of Block 158 1996 1/05. Peru 88 2000 56 2004 U.S. Since a series of asset acquisitions in 2014, SK innovation Vietnam 15-1 1998 has been accumulating operational expertise in the 1 unconventional oil and gas. Building on this momentum, SK SK Plymouth 2014 20 USA SK Permian 2014 innovation made additional acquisition in 2018 to expand our 21 SK innovation is Korea’s leading company in energy SK Nemaha 2018 presence in the industry. and petrochemicals with 5 subsidiaries; SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, SK incheon Libya NC-174 2000 China petrochem and SK trading international as well In 2015, SK innovation became the first Korean company as our own business sectors in E&P, battery and with operatorship to explore in South China Sea. In 2017, SK materials. We have achieved building the entire Exploration Blocks innovation obtained operatorship in Block 17/08 and 17/03. vertical value chain in the petroleum and chemicals Country Block Year of Participation Since then, 17/03 made an oil discovery and the process of industry with our businesses including exploration building a production platform is ongoing. 17/03 2015 and development of petroleum to producing China 17/08 2017 petrochemical products. SK innovation is also investing in battery and materials to create new 15-1/05 2007 Vietnam Major Sustainability Activities and Performance 123 2008 drivers for growth. SK innovation will actively expand into the global market to achieve sustainable growth Australia WA-34R 1998 Creating social value for local communities and will go beyond pursuing financial profit to In Peru, SK innovation currently operates a social enterprise pursuing the happiness of the entire society. known as Prosynergy to aid Peruvian farmers to be more selfLNG sustainable. Rather than providing a direct economic aid, 2 Country Projects Year of Participation we focus on education that endures such as agriculture training – to improve social sustainability. Due to our efforts, Peru Peru LNG 2003 average household income for farmers is growing every year. In addition, we are making investments in our Oklahoma sites Yemen Yemen LNG 1997 to reduce air, soil and water pollution in order to establish a sustainable business culture. Oman Oman LNG 1996 1. Electric car battery Qatar Ras Laffan LNG 1999 2. Jeungpyeong plant 3. FCW (Flexible Cover Window) 3 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview Battery Business Materials Business SK innovation produces rechargeable batteries for automobiles Major Business Activities The materials business of SK innovation is composed of LiBS Major Business Activities and ESS. We continue to conduct R&D for batteries in line with and FCW. LiBS (Lithium-ion Battery Separator) is the core the growth of demand for electric vehicles and technology The SK innovation battery business provides batteries to material for lithium-ion batteries. It blocks direct contact of Expanding LiBS plant in Korea and establishing global trends. We put safety as our number one priority and continue the world based on our unique high-energy density and the anode and cathode and provides a pathway for lithiumproduction base to advance technology to achieve high-speed charging and high-output technology. We are expanding the number of ion. LiBS is continuously developing in step with the growth We currently operate 11 production lines in Jeungpyeong long driving distance. production sites in order to meet the growing global demand. of the battery market. FCW (Flexible Cover Window) is a core and Cheongju. We are building two additional lines in material that substitutes glass on flexible displays such as Jeungpyeong with the goal to begin mass production by SK innovation is oriented towards manufacturing eco-friendly Construction of battery plant in Changzhou, China foldable phones. It is composed of a PI film and hard-coat the end of 2019. We have four production lines for our batteries by developing high-efficient, high-storage lithium-ion Together with our joint venture partners in China, BAIC and we forecast that the FCW will lead the fast growth of the internally developed CCS (Ceramic Coating Separator) which batteries. The manufactured batteries are installed in electric motor and Beijing Electronics Holding, we began building display market, which is pursuing changes in form factors. includes production lines which has the simultaneous double vehicles which plays a vital role in minimizing CO2 emission. a production plant for electric batteries in a 300,000㎡ lot in coating function. In addition, we plan to invest in building a Furthermore, we are focusing our efforts in providing secure Changzhou Jintan Economic Development Zone located in production base in Changzhou, China and Silesia Province, energy, grid stability and developing a renewable energy Jiangsu province, China. We will begin mass production in Business Overview Poland to meet the growing demands of China and Europe, integrated energy storage system. early 2020. the two major markets with the highest growth in the battery LiBS market for electric cars. Construction of battery plant in Georgia, USA In 2004, we developed our unique LiBS production Business Overview SK innovation is building a battery plant for electric vehicles technology, the first company in Korea, and the third in the Commercializing FCW in the US, which is a highly competitive ground for the world. We were the first in the world to complete our serialWe anticipate strong growth in the foldable display market. Battery cell is the basic component of the battery for electric global automobile market. We have decided to invest USD production method in 2007. We currently produce top global In response, we plan to complete construction of our demo vehicles, which is formed into a cluster that becomes a module. 1.67 billion to build a battery plant with an initial annual quality LiBS with our technology which has a competitive plant for transparent PI film in Q1 2019. We are also building a The modules being supplied to the customers are built production capacity of 9.8GWh in Commerce, Jackson County, 2 edge over our competitors. This includes technologies such commercial line with the goal to start operation in the fourth according to the customer's battery pack specifications. Georgia. We began construction starting in 2019, aiming to as 5 μm thin-film production, also first in the world, as well as quarter of 2019. 22 23 achieve mass production in 2022. commercializing a simultaneous two-side coating method. Announcement to invest in the 2nd battery plant Major Sustainability Activities and Performance in Komárom, Hungary Materials Cell Module Pack BMS In early 2019, BOD of SK innovation decided to invest 750 Investment in SHE and energy management million euro to expand the battery plant in Komárom, PE LiBS Lithium Ion Device Materials business has invested approximately KRW 10.5 (Polyethylene) (Separator) Battery Hungary. The second plant in Hungary will be 115,702 billion to decrease wasting resources and harmful products ㎡ in size. 430,000㎡ of the lot that we obtained from the Raw Complete to improve the production process for environment-focused BEV battery Material Component city of Komárom will be utilized for the construction. We material Product equipment such as oil, dust and solvent absorbers. We BEV requires high-energy density batteries which translates into commenced building in March 2019 and we are aiming for are also improving our SHE (Safety·Health·Environment) longer driving distance per charge. SK innovation is developing mass production from early 2022. management standards through continuous investment in a battery that has long life based on safety to meet customer FCW safety and health. needs. Our FCW business provides a total solution for FCW Major Sustainability Activities and Performance production such as synthesizing base material for transparent PHEV battery The Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle battery is a substitute for PI films and hard-coat, creating transparent PI film and Investing in the local community of Georgia functional coating technology. the engine when driving short distances. SK innovation is SK innovation has conducted philanthropic activities to strengthening its competitiveness in technology in order to respond to various types of xEV. contribute to the growth of local community in Georgia, USA along with the construction of our battery plant. We Synthesis of ingredient materials ESS donated USD 120,000 to the local community. The funds Out of the many applications, SK innovation is focusing on have been provided to the education projects under the Film manufacturing utility and commercial application for ESS. SK innovation's ESS local community. We plan to obtain additional matching provides grid stability, standardized production of electricity grants for education related donations for the upcoming Integration of functional hard coating through peak shift and reduces maximum load to achieve 20 years and will work in many other ways to improve the and organic film stable operation. community. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview Business Overview Major Sustainability Activities and Performance SK ENERGY Petroleum business Declaration of Asphalt Green Innovation 2030 As Korea’s No. 1 oil refinery, SK energy supplies petroleum SK energy has declared Green Innovation 2030 to transform the products in Korea and overseas through its world-class Ulsan domestic asphalt market paradigm into a green and functionComplex. Moreover, the company has strengthened the speed based perspective. By 2030, SK energy will transform all asphalt and flexibility of the value chain in order to take preemptive products into environment-friendly and function-focused action against uncertainties in the business environment. Also, products by developing core technology and products, and as the No.1 oil business in Korea, we conduct diverse marketing industry cooperation. Due to the slow global economic growth and uncertainty projects to improve our customer value and social value. In in oil prices and oil product market, SK energy expects particular, Netruck, our comprehensive solution project to Major characteristics of our environment-friendly, functional that competition within the region will become fiercer improve the quality of life for freight drivers, provides a unique asphalt products include mesothermic packaging to minimize than ever. Uncertainty in oil prices and oil product differentiated service to our customers. harmful substances such as fine dust, superior water resistance market conditions, we expect that competition will and regeneration. There are three main product lines; premium become fiercer. SK energy is focusing its entire capacity Fuel asphalt (mesothermic, water resistant), polymer modified asphalt on innovation of our business structure to secure Gasoline (regular·premium), Diesel, (high water supply, low noise pollution) and renewable asphalt profits and future growth regardless of the business Kerosene, Aviation fuel (reuse of asphalt concrete waste). By developing and producing environment. As part of these efforts, SK energy is green and functional asphalt products, SK energy plans to create improving management efficiency in the domestic oil 1 social value covering various scopes such as greatly improving air distribution market, building networks with prominent LPG business and living environment, preventing traffic accidents by enhancing global business partners and expanding business In the LPG business, SK energy boosts customer loyalty by driving conditions and growing in harmony with suppliers. operations into the global market. We are also driving introducing a differentiated retail customer care program with Through asphalt Green Innovation 2030, SK energy will extend towards a business model innovation to create social 1. SK energy gas station in Bakseokgogae the aim of reinforcing long-term competitiveness and securing 2. Premium asphalt our social values by pioneering development and manufacture values. In particular, we contribute to improving air a stable business foundation. Also, by strengthening CRM 24 3. Ulsan Complex of environment-friendly products through technology leadership 25 quality and residential environment of local communities (Customer Relationship Management) marketing at LPG refilling and innovative strategies based on environmental initiatives. by investing in facilities to minimize pollution in the stations, we are boosting our brand value for end-users as well Ulsan Complex. In addition, we produce environmentas enhancing our network competitiveness. The termination Partnership-based global expansion friendly, functional asphalt that we internally developed of the LPG usage limit in March 2019 is anticipated to bring SK energy intends to enter global markets where demand in oil will to cut harmful wastes and improve driving conditions. a boost in demand and we will continue to improve our increase along with high economic growth. We are building various SK energy will continue to innovate to become more marketing capabilities for the stable growth of our LPG business collaborative models for harmonious growth with local partners by competitive, establish shared infrastructure, create social and increase profits. building partnerships with companies in promising regions based value, and achieve global growth, to become the Top on our company’s marketing and refining capabilities. Tier Energy Company in the Asia Pacific region. 2 LPG LPG SK energy sees the Southeast Asian market as a great potential for growth. In 2018, SK energy acquired 5.23% of shares of PetroVietnam Oil to become the second major shareholder after Specialized products business PVN (PetroVietnam). PV Oil is a subsidiary of PVN, the biggest Our portfolio includes outstanding products such as Superphalt state-owned company in Vietnam. It operates service stations and (PMA, polymer modified asphalt), which we internally developed, provides oil products nationwide in Vietnam, ranking number two commercialized and patented for the first time as a Korean oil in domestic market share. Furthermore, SK energy also entered company as well as premium asphalt that is environmentally into the Netruck House joint venture with SNP (Saigon Newport), friendly with specialized functions such as mesothermic asphalt Vietnam’s biggest port and logistics company. Since 2006, SK which prevents potholes. In 2018, we provided 2.17 million tons energy has been improving the work environment for freight of asphalt to the market (0.57 million tons in Korea, 1.6 million drivers in Korea through the Netruck House business model tons to the global market) which continued to strengthen our as well as providing parking and maintenance infrastructure at reputation as the market leader. major distribution points. We will apply our business model to match the market environment in Vietnam to prevent illegal Special products parking and traffic problems in the port regions in Vietnam as Premium Asphalt, Regular Asphalt, well as improve the infrastructure for logistics. Sulfur, Slurry oil 3 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview Business Overview catalyst technology which we internally developed in 2015. We SK GLOBAL CHEMICAL will achieve a stable supply of core materials for petrochemical Packaging products as well as conduct end-customer marketing by In 2017, we acquired the EAA (Ethylene Acrylic Acid) business providing various technical support and information. and PVDC (Poly Vinylidene Chloride) business from the American chemicals company, Dow. This step brought us closer Performance chemical to become a specialist chemical company for global packaging SK global chemical produces performance chemicals which are materials. These materials are the core in creating multi-layer used in various fields such as construction, medical, agriculture packaging films, an industry which has a high barrier to entry and electronics. Our portfolio includes diverse products such as in terms of technology and will grow continuously as will China High Purity Normal Heptane (medical purpose) which has the and new markets. We plan to grow into a major global chemical number one market share in the world and 1,4-Butanediol. We company with outstanding packaging materials by developing are also trying to minimize environmentally harmful substances core technology for high-functional packaging materials, which by developing cyclopentane for use as a foaming agent or can serve as the driver of growth as well as increase strategic creating Clean-7, a substitute for toxic substances. We create investment. personalized products for customers and improve support for applied technology based on our marketing network and the Automotive technology know-how we have built up over the past 30 years. In step with the trend of lighter automobiles and electric cars, we are strengthening our portfolio around automotive materials based on HCPP (High Crystallinity Polypropylene), POE Major Sustainability Activities and Performance (Polyolefin Elastomer) and EPDM (Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer). In particular, we have the top market share of HCPP Creation of green plastic ecology 1 in Korea and China based on our premium quality. We provide SK global chemical held the ‘Win-win Social Value Creation 26 optimal solutions for diverse customers through ever-improving Agreement for Green Plastic Ecology’ ceremony with 27 technology. government organizations, research centers and other plasticrelated entities to tackle the plastic problem harming the SK global chemical is driving its global growth Aromatics environment. Through these efforts, we are leading the path to based on operations in China as well as securing SK global chemical produces and distributes various aromatics a green plastic ecology through three Rs: Reduce, Replace and 1 2 competitiveness in the technology market. products such as paraxylene and benzene which are the raw Recycle. We will also conduct projects in various fields such as SK global chemical is strengthening its business materials for daily necessities, home appliances, construction creating lighter cars, packaging down-gauging and developing 3 portfolio by focusing on packaging and automotive and textiles. In 2014, we established Ulsan Aromatics Co. (UAC) modified asphalts using plastic waste. materials through global M&A. We also provide a with the number one energy company in Japan, JXTG. Through differentiated solution through customer-based these kinds of investments, we have expanded our business Development of plastics for lighter cars 4 ❶ Door Trim marketing and establishing a TS&D (Technical and became a market leader in paraxylene, for which SK SK global chemical developed a high-functional plastic which ❷ Dashboard Service & Development) center in China. Based on innovation affiliates possess an annual production capacity of 3 can drastically decrease the amount of plastic used in the ❸ Sill Side Molding million tons. interior and exterior of automobiles. The new high crystallinity these efforts, we will respond to various demands like ❹ Bumper 2 down-gauging material for our packaging customers polypropylene cuts 10% of plastic use compared to general or making parts lighter for our automotive customers Olefin and polymer plastics and improves fuel efficiency and decreases carbon 1. Ulsan Complex in order to provide the best solution. In addition, SK global chemical was the first in Korea to operate NCC emissions, creating social value. 2. High-crystalline polypropylene for interior and exterior materials (HCPP) we possess world-class operational excellence in (Naphtha Cracking Center) in 1972 and now has an annual 3. High-functional packaging material ethylene production capacity of 860,000 tons. In addition, 6 consecutive years as Top Shared Growth Index our aromatics, olefin and polymer, sectors we are actively expanding globally through partnerships we founded Sinopec-SK Wuhan Petrochemical in Wuhan, In 2018, we obtained the highest credit rate for the 6th with major global players. Furthermore, we are China as a joint venture with Sinopec China in 2013 where consecutive year in the Shared Growth Index. Selected as the ˙PVDC: barrier film material that is a remarkable barrier to water and creating social value by strengthening collaboration we currently produce 800,000 tons of ethylene per year. We top honorary company, SK global chemical has created a fund oxygen, and specialized in meat with partners or creating a green plastic ecology. SK have also established a specialized production system for for shared growth to improve the flow of capital for suppliers packaging global chemical will continue to grow into a global LLDPE (Linear low-density polyethylene), HDPE (High-density and also holds ‘SK Job Fair for Suppliers for Shared Growth’ to chemical company that provides solutions to our polyethylene) and PP (Polypropylene) where we produce more solve problems that small and medium companies have when customers and creates maximum value. than 1.3 million tons of polymer products annually. We also employing top talent. We will continue to deliver real value to ˙EAA: Adheres well to metal, produce NexleneTM, a high-functional polyethylene material in our partners and create ecology with a positive cycle of social used as packaging adhesive partnership with SABIC, Saudi Arabia based on our metallocene values. 3 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview Business Overview Differentiated market strategy by region SK LUBRICANTS We achieved rapid growth in the lubricants market, the global Base oil business core market, through a strategy differentiated by market. In SK lubricants began operation of its first VHVI (Very-High Viscosity particular, SK ZIC was selected for the engine oil category for Index) base oil plant in 1995. Currently the company’s Group the top brand certification in Russia (Narodnaya Marka) and III global base-oil market share is estimated to be 39.4%. The gained recognition from local customers for its high quality. In company will continue to proactively invest and build capacity to addition, we expanded our share in the premium market by solidify its position as the Global No. 1 Group Ⅲ Player. launching a top-tier product from German technology. The lubricants business is our driver for future generations to come. Lubricant oil business We are actively pursuing partnerships with local companies in SK lubricants has gradually expanded its global SK ZIC has firmly positioned itself as the No. 1 lubricant countries with high-growth potential as well as establishing new presence, resulting in exports of high-quality lubricant product in Korea, by ranking No. 1 in the brand power survey distribution channels to build a base for accelerated growth. products to more than 50 countries. In addition, we for twenty one consecutive years. In addition, we are growing have built base-oil production facilities in Europe and into a global brand by expanding our supply base to global Asia through joint ventures with global oil companies automobile manufacturers, strengthening marketing networks Major Sustainability Activities and Performance to underscore our position as a leader in the global and gaining recognition for our technology. We are accelerating premium base-oil market, as well as to strengthen growth in various markets through customized marketing and Expanding engine oil market for environment-friendly cars marketing competitiveness targeting major clients. localization strategies. To meet the growing demand for highThe environmental regulations are growing stricter in the Premium lube oil SK ZIC, the company’s leading brand quality lubricants, we built an independent lubricants plant in 1 U.S. and Europe respectively, so the lubricants market trends in the lubricants business, has solidified itself as the Shenzhen, China. Meanwhile, we are simultaneously pursuing are rapidly changing. Demand is increasing for high-quality, No. 1 lubricant brand in Korea, by ranking top in the economic and social values by improving fuel efficiency and environment-friendly products and a lubricants market for brand power survey for twenty one consecutive years, decreasing fine dust through internally developed technology electric cars has formed. Low viscosity lubricants are becoming 1. Lubricant and ranked No.1 lubricant brand in Korea. In addition, to provide more environment-friendly products. We are also a necessity for automobile manufacturers. In turn, this is leading 2. Spain Cartagena lubricant oil plant securing the basis for sustainable growth by developing and ZIC was recognized internationally by receiving the 3. SK ZIC products to a growing demand for Group III premium base oil which is a 28 top-quality levels from two major quality assessment supplying lubricants for electric cars. 29 core ingredient to produce environment-friendly, low-viscosity institutions: American Petroleum Institute (API) and lubricants. SK lubricants is expanding its production capacity to International Lubricants Standardization and Approval Engine oil become a stable supplier. In addition to expanding production Committee (ILSAC). In particular, a new regulation · Gasoline engine oil capacity with existing joint-venture partners, we are building a · LPG engine oil on the environment is driving a growing demand 20% · Passenger car diesel engine oil collaboration model with new partners to take a step further. Additive · Commercial diesel engine oil for lubricants. To this end, we will expand our global · Motorcycle engine oil In particular, we will continue to collaborate with diesel engine market including China and Russia through diverse producers, lubricants manufacturers and additive producers to partnerships and thus accelerate company growth. Other products drive demand for environment-friendly oil for commercial vehicle · Automotive and industrial 2 80% gear oil which is created with Group III base oil. Base Oil · Hydraulic oil · Grease · Other products: Engine Expanding green product portfolio cleaner, Brake oil, Antifreeze As many automobile manufacturers are speeding up the development of electric cars including high-fuel efficiency engines to meet stronger environment regulations, the Major Business Activities lubricants market trend is changing rapidly. Demand for highquality, environment-friendly products has grown to form a Diversification of product portfolio lubricants market for electric cars. In response, SK lubricants is SK lubricants established a joint venture model with global establishing low-viscosity products to improve fuel efficiency partners to enhance our production capability. We provide a and conducting customer-based marketing to expand the stable supply of base oil and base oil products to customers market for green lubricants. In addition, we are pioneers in based on our efficient logistics system which integrates building and expanding the lubricants market for electric cars. production and sales points. In addition, we have increased our We are closely collaborating with automobile manufacturers sales of High-end Group Ⅲ Plus base oil product to enhance to develop future-generation lubricants for electric cars. SK product functions and improve competitiveness. We will launch lubricants will establish a market for environment-friendly our high-functional base oil products (YUBASE Alpha, YUBASE 6 products, lead this market and actively respond to the market plus) to meet the new trends along with stronger marketing to for electric cars to secure sustainable future growth and also 3 solidify our reputation as a leading producer of base oil products. contribute to creating environment values. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview Business Overview Major Business Activities SK INCHEON PETROCHEM Petroleum business Stable base for growth SK incheon petrochem practices its management philosophy SK incheon petrochem has established stable groundwork of ‘customer satisfaction’ and ‘quality first’ by providing ecofor growth by diversifying crude oil supply and innovating friendly, high-quality products by improving its production production efficiency. In particular, we have diversified our facilities and precision and continuing technological crude oil supply to regions other than the Middle East such innovation. as North Europe, Russia, Africa and the US. As a result, we expanded our feed flexibility by injecting variables such as Process│Atmospheric distillation, gas recovery unit, condensate, light crude oil, high-sulfur crude oil or naphtha hydrogen desulfurization, vacuum distillation, depending on the market situation. and sulfur recovery process Improving credit rating Major Products SK incheon petrochem has received an AA-(stable) credit rating based on our healthy financial structure from Korea Ratings, NICE Investors Service and Korea Investors Service. Gasoline Kerosene Jet fuel 1 Major Sustainability Activities and Performance CSR platform to contribute to the local community SK incheon petrochem has grown into one of the top Korean We believe that it is difficult for a single company, organization energy and petrochemical companies over the past half Diesel LPG Asphalt or institution to solve social problems in the local community. 2 century, as Korea has successfully developed its industries. In 30 SK incheon petrochem pursues a ‘Social Contribution 31 2014, we invested KRW 1.6 trillion to expand production with 1. SK incheon petrochem Innovation Model’ to share infrastructure and capability with enhanced facilities that could produce condensate-based 2. Aviation fuel supply Petrochemicals business the community. As part of this practice, we held the ‘Darak 3. SK incheon petrochem high-value-added products such as paraxylene (PX), which SK incheon petrochem uses naphtha derived from Darak (the more the merrier)’ program where members of is the raw material used in PET plastic bottles and synthetic condensate or the refining process to produce high-valueorganizations and groups that have engaged in many social fibers. In addition, SK incheon petrochem will continue to added petrochemical products, such as PX (Paraxylene) philanthropic acts with us had a chance to share thoughts become the most productive company in Korea through fast via naphtha catalytic reforming processes. This creates a and build rapport. Based on these acts, we will build a social and flexible decision-making processes and decisive action stable profit base for the company, which enhances the philanthropy platform for local communities where more to enhance competitiveness and production optimization. competitiveness of the business. stakeholders can participate and cooperate in social problems. Ultimately, we will establish a positive cycle that continues to create social values. Process│Naphtha reforming process unit, BTX unit, PX unit Major Products aromatics 3 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Business Overview Business Overview Major Sustainability Activities and Performance SK TRADING INTERNATIONAL SK trading international holds the global trading platform for Lower sulfur content in gasoline exports SK innovation. We are in charge of importing and exporting The gasoline sulfur content standard of several developing oil products from SK energy and SK incheon petrochem as countries in Southeast Asia is quite low compared to well as supplying naphtha to SK global chemical. We have developed countries. Thus, developing countries may receive taken a step beyond simple imports and exports. We develop products with higher sulfur content which causes air pollution. SK trading international is facing the need to improve new business as well as engage in trading and marketing in and continue the company’s unique competitiveness international sites through 3 of our offices in the US, Europe SK trading international is collaborating with SK energy to with the advent of new environmental policies and Singapore as well as our Dubai branch. Based on our strengthen our internal standards in sulfur content in our and diversifying product specifications as well as global network, we execute the entire trading process from gasoline exports to Southeast Asia. In this way, we are doing importers improving self-sufficiency and increased selecting the optimal oil type, contracting, transporting and our best to protect the air of developing countries. exports from China and India. In response, SK making payment in a more effective way. trading international is building a differentiated Reducing pollutants during transportation global trading business model based on a high-tech, SK trading international is in charge of buying and purchasing risk-management system. We monitor the market on Major Business Activities raw materials and petroleum products along the entire value a real-time basis to trade crude oil and petroleum chain of SK innovation. We are actively trading with third products under the best terms and conditions. SK trading international is improving its specialization in the parties as well. Since we engage in international trading, we We will build a global trading platform based on 1 trading market by transforming and innovating to become are in charge of product shipping where we are minimizing unique competitiveness such as establishing new a global top trading company based on unique competitive pollutants during the transportation process in various business models based on strategic partnerships by capabilities. We are discovering new opportunities by utilizing methods. Rather than just complying with strengthened optimizing use of SK’s tangible and intangible assets storage and establishing partnerships with global trading global regulations such as IMO 20201), we are creating social to react to changes in the oil market. companies in major trading hubs. Our continued efforts in value through environmental programs such as supporting 32 building a sustainable trading model is bringing us sufficient installations of equipment to decrease harmful substances. 33 trading volume. In addition, we are gradually strengthening 1) A  new regulation from the International Maritime Organization (IMO) where a new 0.5% global sulphur cap on fuel content will be enforced 2020, lowered from the and expanding our trading platform by using our market present 3.5% limit forecasting capabilities, real market intelligence and systematic and scientific analytics. Furthermore, we are diversifying suppliers of resources such as crude oil and naphtha to respond flexibly to changes in the global oil market. Also, we have internally built a comprehensive risk management system to support the trading business to improve our riskmanagement capability and meet changes in the business environment. 2 1. Crude oil import and export ship 2. Overseas business development and trading 3. Marine blending business 3 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Strategy 34 SUSTAINABILITY 35 STRATEGY SK innovation is a leading player in traditional oil developing, oil refinery, chemicals and lubricants, aiming to achieve energy independence and economic growth for Korea. In addition, we are enhancing competitiveness in existing businesses in step with the rapid changes and technological advances as well as investing in sectors that will drive future growth such as electric car batteries, materials and chemicals. Through continued eco-friendly investments for our future generations, we will become a company loved by all people. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Strategy BUSINESS VALUE CHAIN Petroleum business Chemicals and lubricants SK energy, SK incheon petrochem business ˙Oil refining process SK global chemical, SK Lubricants, E&P, battery, materials business ˙LPG production SK incheon petrochem ˙Asphalt production ˙Chemicals and lubricants R&D E&P business production Major products LPG for petroleum products, Major products Petroleum business asphalt naphtha, UCO Chemicals, lubricants, base oil Chemicals and lubricants business 36 37 Product sales R&D E&P business Institute of SK innovation E&P technology innovation ˙Exploration and production Major fields of research Major products Battery Materials ˙Petroleum, lubricants Crude oil, LNG business business ˙Source technology Trading business ˙Chemicals ˙Battery Battery business Materials business Trading business SK innovation battery SK innovation materials SK trading international ˙Import of crude oil Major products Major products ˙Export of petroleum and chemical Batteries for electric vehicles, ESS FCW, LiBS products SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Strategy OUR STRATEGY Deep Change 2.0 Innovation of Portfolio with Investment for With the acquisition of EAA (Ethylene Acrylic Acid) and PVDC New Global Growth (Poly Vinylidene Chloride) divisions of DowDuPont, a global With unpredictable fluctuation in the traditional petrochemical industry and Fourth Industrial Revolution, chemical industry in 2017, SK global chemical has accelerated the uncertainty of the business environment has increased. Under these circumstances, it is necessary to set Expansion of Investment to secure a new global global growth through M&A in the high-value-added chemical a strategic direction based on selection and concentration and to seek a new growth option. growth engine products sector, which is likely to grow further in the future. Thus, SK innovation not only enhances the competitiveness of existing business, but also invests in emerging SK innovation accelerates its company-wide portfolio business such as EV battery, materials and chemical business and boosts social values through the Green innovation to ensure global growth and secure a new growth Reinforcement of business competitiveness and Innovation. SK innovation ultimately aims to become a global prestigious company trusted by all stakeholders. engine. enhancement of value With the aim of preparing for global environmental regulations In terms of the battery business, we determined to make and reinforcing business competitiveness, SK energy is Implementation “Creating a Bigger Social Value by Innovating our Business Model” new investment in large-scale plants in Hungary, China and making investment in Vacuum Residue Desulfurization (VRDS) Strategy the U.S. based on our core technologies capabilities for EV facilities and enhancing business value by developing a new Global Top-tier Company battery. With such determination, the company has grown business model “Home Pick” utilizing gas station network. We into a global leading company in the EV battery business, also continuously improve the competitiveness of SK incheon To-be which is one of the future’s new growth sectors. For the petrochem and Ulsan Complex. SK lubricants is expanding materials business, we solidify our status as an industrial global leadership by reinforcing global partnering and product leader by global facility investment for LiBS, which is a core competitiveness in the advanced premium base oils and battery material, and invest in FCW (Flexible Cover Window), lubricant market. 38 39 which is expected to grow in the future. From April 2019, the division was segregated as a subsidiary of SK innovation Global management Social value to secure business expertise and establish an independent management system. Green Innovation Innovation of the way to work Economic value DEEP CHANGE 2.0 As-is Strategy 1 Strategy 2 Strategy 3 Initiation of Global Growth Establishment/Implementation of Innovation of the Way to Work ˙Global growth investment for chemicals, Green Innovation System ˙Enhancement of flexibility and efficiency by battery and materials ˙Materialization of environmental initiatives, introducing an agile organization Acceleration of global partnering in existing strategies and implementation system business ˙Seeking and implementing a new biz model in connection with the Green Innovation SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Strategy Optimization Globalization As a leading company in the energy and chemical industry, SK innovation maximizes the value of raw materials and SK innovation acquires advanced business know-how and secures competitiveness in the global market through products and creates a synergistic effect between business projects based on business knowledge and capability for strategic partnering for win-win relationships with distinguished companies in each industry. We will proactively data, optimization and analytics in core business and pursues differentiated competitiveness in growing business. implement global partnering with overseas advanced companies and maximize our potential for growth. We also ensure more scientific and efficient decision-making methods in all value chain sectors by systemizing optimization and analytics in convergence with our capabilities and ICT. SK innovation will continue to enhance corporate value through the innovation of profit structure in all business sectors. Innovation of Optimization-Based Profit Structure Securing Differentiated Competitiveness Based on Current Status of Joint Venture Companies Analytics For the past five decades, SK innovation has accumulated SK lubricants X Spain’s Energy Corporation Repsol SK global chemical X SINOPEC an extensive range of knowledge and data in a variety of As business sectors of SK innovation became more diversified Joint Venture Company: Joint Venture Company: Sinopec-SK (Wuhan) Petrochemical Co., Ltd. ILBOC (Iberian Lube Base Oils Company) Highlight: The largest Korea-China joint venture petrochemical sectors such as crude oil, energy and chemical refinement, to EV battery, information and electronic materials and Highlight: Case of partnership extension as production facility in history market and global business environment as an energy and E&P, it is much more important to secure differentiated No. 1 Group III lube base oil company chemical leading company. Since 2012, we have operated competitiveness in growing business sectors. Accordingly, we SK innovation X Beijing BESK Technology X BAIC Group Joint Venture Company: Beijing BESK Technology an organization in charge of optimization and continuously have reinforced the function of analytics in the optimization Highlight: Strategic foothold to target the Chinese electric vehicle market 40 secured the capabilities to conduct advanced optimization organization and focused on securing and supplementing 41 such as mathematical algorithm modeling and analyze big data and AI capabilities. By securing differentiated SK lubricants X Japan’s Energy Corporation JX Nippon Oil & Energy data inside and outside the company in a systemic and competitiveness based on data analytics, SK innovation Joint Venture Company: YMAC (YUBASE Manufacturing Asia Company) Highlight: Strategic partnership with Japan’s largest energy corporation quantitative manner. By combining such capabilities, we have enhances the efficiency of the battery business and maximizes been able to evaluate the intrinsic value of raw materials and the success rate of E&P project exploration and productivity. SK global chemical X JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy products more accurately and adopt raw materials suitable The company will continue to improve corporate value by Joint Venture Company: Ulsan Aromatics Co., Ltd. (UAC) for the business structure. The company also has the ability securing differentiated competitiveness in the new emerging Highlight: Strategic partnership with Japan’s to analyze any opportunities and risks based on the external largest energy corporation business sectors. environment, promptly deal with such changes and maximize the profit structure for business management. SK global chemical X SABIC Joint Venture Company: SK lubricants X Indonesia’s State-Owned SSNC (SABIC SK Nexlene Company) Oil Producer Pertamina Highlight: The first case of global JV created Joint Venture Company: PatraSK using SK’s proprietary technology Highlight: SK lubricants’ first overseas Group III Base Oil Plant Innovation of business value creation structure Global Business Sites Global Production Business Sites Innovation of core business profit structure Securing differentiated competitiveness in growing business SK innovation SK global chemical SK innovation, SK energy, Crude oil production block: Overseas subsidiary: SK global chemical, SK lubricants Peru, Vietnam, U.S., Libya China, Singapore, Japan, U.S., Spain Ulsan Complex: Refinery plant, middle distillates Crude oil exploration block: Overseas branch: Dubai, Germany cracking plant, petrochemical plant, polymer plant, China, Vietnam, Australia lube base oil and lubricant plant LNG project: Yemen, Peru, Oman, Qatar SK lubricants Seosan, Hungary, U.S. Plants: Lithium-ion battery Technology Innovation Center: Overseas subsidiary: U.S., China, India, production lines Business Data Capability for Capability for ICT Daejeon R&D Center Russia, Japan, Netherlands, Indonesia, Spain Jeungpyeong, Cheongju, China, Poland Plants: knowledge optimization analytics Overseas subsidiary: Poland, China Overseas branch: U.K., China LiBS/CCS production line, FCW production line SK energy SK trading international SK incheon petrochem Overseas subsidiary: China, Singapore, Vietnam Overseas subsidiary: Singapore, U.K., U.S. Incheon Plant: Refinery and petrochemical plant Overseas branch: Dubai SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Strategy Major R&D Activities and Performance carbon emissions and air pollutants, and ultimately contribute RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT to protecting the environment. In the future, we will develop Development of environment-friendly asphalt products batteries for electric cars with improved power density and Environmental impact during asphalt production and rapid charging capability. paving process as well as safety and recyclability of wastage were issues to be addressed. SK energy developed and Innovative performance through R&D is our core strategy that secures our unique competitive edge. commercialized a premium asphalt with groundbreaking SK innovation is strengthening its competitiveness based on the technology accumulated through its energy improvement in water-resistance and workability. Our and petrochemical business. In addition, SK innovation is discovering new growth drivers through open innovation premium asphalt not only minimizes potholes but can also and new technology development for sustainable growth in the future. be used to produce and construct asphalt concrete at low temperatures in order to reduce harmful substances like carbon dioxide and fine dust. In addition, we are developing R&D Structure Institute of technology innovation an asphalt suitable to reuse the asphalt pavement waste. We Since the establishment of SK Daedeok R&D Park in 1995, SK will extend the use of our environment-friendly products from R&D strategy innovation has been pursuing technology leadership through the domestic market into the global market such as China technology innovation. The complex includes our Institute of Environment-friendly asphalt The Institute of Technology Innovation provides a Tech to achieve financial performance as well as maximize social Solution for core businesses in oil, chemicals, lubricants and Technology Innovation, which is in charge of our R&D projects, values. materials to secure sustainability and speed up global growth. and the Battery R&D center, which supports the battery It also aims to develop, improve and expand on our strong business. The Institute of Technology Innovation is composed Super solid, high impact-endurance material business capabilities to maintain a differentiated competitive of: petroleum and lubricants center, petrochemicals center, The ultra-solid quality of High Crystalline Polypropylene edge. Furthermore, we obtained competitiveness for both base technology center, materials center and center for Plastic (HCPP) and extreme endurance to impact are essential social value (SV) and economic value (EV) by methods such R&D innovation. We actively promote R&D collaboration by qualities to create lighter cars. SK innovation optimized the as securing future generation technology for core businesses connecting and consolidating with outside infrastructure properties of HCPP components; Homo PP (Polypropylene) 42 and prospective environmental technology. We also support based on our technology and assets. Through this method, and EPR (Ethylene-Propylene Rubber) which allowed us to cut 43 business model innovation and will continue to pursue we will secure competitive technology for existing businesses: 10kg off the weight of automobiles based on medium-sized innovation by creating and completing a global open R&D petroleum, chemicals and lubricants as well as secure nextvehicles and improve fuel efficiency by 2.8%. system. generation technology for future growth. HCPP applied product Core material for flexible display As interest in flexible display applied on smartphones, tablet R&D Direction R&D Growth Plan PCs and televisions is peaking, demand is growing for cover window products made of flexible film. SK innovation began R&D on polyimide (Pl) using the technology we accumulated DBL Maximization Core business New or relevant fields since 2006. In particular, we completed trial production CHEMICALS & ENERGY MATERIALS of flexible cover windows (FCW) which met the product properties demanded from domestic and global display panel Display materials FCW Plastic Recycling manufacturers: flexibility, solidness and anti-scratch quality. Low Biodegradable CO2 Utilization We are building a mass production plant for FCW targeting Polymer commercial operation from 2019. We plan to extend the use Polymers Flexible Cover Window Automotive purpose Battery of transparent PI and create higher-value-added products by Display materials Long-distance battery TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP Battery Packaging purpose Environmentfor electric cars creating diverse products with our technology. We will also Lubricants Next-generation Next-generation friendly products battery construct a second plant to meet forecast market growth. lubricants products Battery materials Materials Premium base oil Super thin LiBS (new) products Battery Super receptive LiBS High power-density battery Petrochemicals Battery materials Super heat-resistant As market demand is growing for electric cars to drive longer Optimize production CCS Lubricants Materials process distances, safe, high power-density batteries are becoming ATA and AXI catalyst Chemicals more and more important. In response, SK innovation Petroleum Petroleum (new) Add high value to low Lubricants developed an ultra-storage, high-power-density cell and its Petroleum Chemicals High cost crude oil Create indices for Petrochemicals model product. We also completed developing the material Polymers Familiar MARKET New crude oil function and production technology to achieve the product. With this development, we will spread the use of electric cars, reduce Battery Cell SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Strategy entrance barrier but the industry fluctuates regularly depending Domestic market share in petroleum market1) MARKET OUTLOOK on the world economy and global supply conditions. Since SK energy market share (Unit: %) 2009, the petrochemical industry has bounced back due to China’s economic stimulus policy but global uncertainty has 2016 32.2 grown with new facilities built in China and the Middle East, 2017 32.4 financial crisis in the Eurozone and the delay in the recovery of 2018 32.1 SK innovation analyzes the business market environment including potential fluctuations in the global economy. Furthermore, we forecast that the spread a comprehensive way, as well as preparing a systematic response method to meet external changes to Dubai Crude price trend2) of non-traditional, low-cost resources such as shale gas and secure fundamental competitiveness. coal will act as the main variables in market fluctuations. Average annual price (USD/Barrel) Chemical materials business trend 2016 41.3 The chemical materials business provides chemical products to 2017 53.2 to a wide range of industries including automobiles, electronics, 2018 69.4 Petroleum Production Business which is transforming the global automobile market into a new era of electric cars. As electric cars become more popular, construction, pharmaceuticals and clothing. The industry 1) B  ased on domestic sweet crude oil sales from Korea National Oil Corporation’s oil information system Major market trend the electric car battery market will continue to grow rapidly. profitability is sensitive to changes in oil price and economic 2) Based on Platts official price Massive supply of unconventional oil and gas from U.S. has The ESS market is also forecasted for continuous growth with fluctuations of industries. The sector is especially closely brought rapid changes in E&P industry. On top of that, growing the increasing demand for renewable energy and energy connected to the economic growth in China since the demand in Lubricants Business global energy demand and U.S tax reform have induced bigger storage. Demand for automobile batteries is closely related to China is extremely high. Recently, we have also been expanding investments in the unconventional assets. Consequently, the the demand for electric cars. Currently, the electric car market into emerging markets like South America, Southeast Asia and Characteristics of base oil business market portfolio is currently under active modification in pursuit is influenced by environmental regulations and policies to India. In the case of general petrochemical products, price is the The Group III base oil is mainly used in manufacturing automobile of improving the profitability. promote electric cars but the industry reliance on regulation will main differentiating factor. In order to secure competitiveness, engines and lubricants for transmissions. In major markets continue to drop with technological advances and improved it is necessary to achieve economies of scale and cut costs such as Europe, North America, Japan and China, strengthened Oil price trend economic efficiency. through business efficiency. Furthermore, as it is becoming more emissions regulation standards and rapid improvement in engine After the price of Dubai crude oil reached USD 115 per barrel in important to differentiate products by adding value based on 44 technology has resulted in a higher demand for premium base 45 June 2014, there was a continuous fall in price until it became technology, technology to design and produce is highlighted as oil. Fuel efficiency regulations are becoming stricter as advanced USD 26 per barrel in January 2016. As of December 2018, the Materials Business a core competition factor. The high-functional ethylene acrylic countries announce regulations that are more than 20% stricter average price per barrel is now hovering around USD 57. acid (EAA) and poly vinylidene chloride (PVDC) which are the in conditions from 2015 to 2020 as well as emerging nations Market situation core materials in multi-layer packaging film are forecasted for also continuing to strengthen relevant policies. In response, LiBS (Lithium-ion Battery Separator) is the core material in continued growth as the markets have high barriers to entry and major global automobile manufacturers are developing various Battery Business lithium-ion batteries. It blocks direct contact of anode and demand from emerging markets like China will develop. technologies such as the turbo and hybrid engines. These cathode and provides a pathway for lithium-ion. It continues engines require high-quality lubricants to maintain stable Business characteristics to develop with the growth of the battery market. The FCW performance which is leading to the gradual increase in usage of The medium-large battery business sector is where we (Flexible Cover Window) is a core material that substitutes glass Petroleum Business premium base oils like Group III. develop, produce and sell high-storage lithium-ion batteries on flexible displays like foldable phones and is composed of for electric cars and ESS (Energy Storage System). Automobile polyimide (Pl) and hard-coat. We anticipate it will be the rapid Business characteristics Characteristics of lubricants business manufacturers are the main buyers of electric car batteries. growth force for the quickly changing display market which is The petroleum business is basically composed of a value chain The lubricants business can be divided into B2B (Business Business transactions occur in contracts, initially to agree on a pursuing changes in form factors. from crude oil import, production, transportation and sales. to Business and B2C (Business to Customer) based on large quantity which is gradually supplied over a long period Crude oil takes up the biggest cost. Since our entire supply distribution channels. Major clients in the B2B sector are of time. Technology, product safety, cost competitiveness and relies on imports, business performance heavily depends on automobile manufacturers that purchase either Factory Fill, fuel stable supply are important factors in the automobile battery Chemicals Business the export policies of oil-producing countries in the Middle for manufacturing facilities or direct car center agencies that business. ESS is in the spotlight as technology for renewable East and the exchange rates. The distribution channel is largely purchase Service Fill. In case of the B2C market, not only brand energy as it stores surplus electricity production for future use, Basic petroleum business trend made of wholesale and retail. Wholesale points to direct buyers awareness but product handling in the distribution channel; to solve the imbalance in supply and demand. Product safety The basic petroleum business is a basic materials operation that and middle buyers like service stations. Retail signifies sales to agent, store and car center are crucial. Industrial lubricants can and efficiency are crucial standards for ESS. uses naphtha and other feedstocks to produce olefin products general consumers in service stations or charging stations. be categorized into B2B and B2C markets. Major B2B consumers such as ethylene and propylene as well as aromatics such as are industries, construction and machinery companies who Market situation benzene, toluene and xylene. These products are used to create Consumer trend in petroleum products use the product to operate and maintain industrial equipment. Electric car batteries and ESS are anticipated to drive future petrochemical products like synthetic plastics, synthetic rubber The aggregate domestic demand for major petroleum Main B2C consumers are drivers of heavy machinery and the growth with the spread of global environment-friendly products and synthetic fiber. In addition, the basic petroleum business is products in December 2018 grew 0.2% year on year. Regarding product is used for oil brake equipment like excavators. Shipping and renewable energy trends. As technology and economic a facility-based industry which requires large-scale investment transportation fuel, demand for diesel dropped year on year and companies are the major buyers of transportation lubricants and efficiency of electric cars improve, major global automobile in equipment. Initial investment cost is high and first mover demand for petroleum and aviation fuel increased year on year. relationships with port companies and refueling companies are OEMs are enhancing their electric car lineup and investment advantage in technology is strong which results in a high also important in securing the market. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Strategy BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SK innovation aims to improve the company's value continuously by enhancing profit structure and maintaining revenue growth. We intend to become a company all stakeholders have faith in by securing unique competitiveness and discovering new growth drivers. Major Performance by Sector market share. Our efforts are going into building a long-term Total revenue (Unit: KRW 100 million) Total operating profit (Unit: KRW 100 million) growth base such as discovering new business models to help Petroleum production business us become an improved energy company. 2016 394,765 2016 32,433 Our revenue and operating profit have increased by 19% 2017 461,627 2017 32,218 and 36% respectively in 2018 thanks to the rise in oil price. In Chemicals business 2018 545,109 2018 21,176 2019, we anticipate a higher production volume as we plan to Despite deteriorating market conditions due to easing expand the scale of development in SK Nemaha. We also plan trade onshore/offshore, we achieved KRW 1.1176 trillion in to make preparations for the development of the projects that operating profit based on the peaking paraxylene market and Revenue (Unit: KRW 100 million) we have successfully discovered in China and Vietnam. our high-value added product portfolio. SK global chemical is accelerating its global growth centered on China by Business type 2016 2017 2018 Battery business securing market competitiveness based on technology and is Petroleum 283,699 327,712 391,935 46 Since commercializing the lithium-ion battery in 2005, we continuing to increase corporate value by discovering various Chemicals 76,865 93,392 106,844 47 established a battery research infrastructure in our Daejeon growth options. Lubricants 25,358 30,475 32,661 R&D Center and began operating our mass production facility Battery 1,442 1,457 3,482 in Seosan, located in the Chungcheongnam-do Province to Lubricants business Oil development and other businesses 7,401 8,590 10,186 complete our system of technology development and mass We are focused on strengthening our status as a market leader Total 394,765 461,627 545,109 production. We provide high·output and high·density batteries in the domestic market. We continue to expand our top-tier based on safety. We are also building battery plants in and premium level products by improving the SK ZIC brand. Operating profit (Unit: KRW 100 million) Hungary and the US to meet the needs of global automobile We use an incentive policy to increase the number of stores manufacturers. that carry our products within our distribution network. In the Business type 2016 2017 2018 global market, we are focused on expanding sales of premium Petroleum 16,256 15,020 7,093 Materials business products to markets with high-growth potential such as China Chemicals 12,322 13,772 11,176 Since developing a unique LiBS production technology in and Russia. Lubricants 4,683 5,049 4,607 2004, we have been producing the best quality LiBS in the Battery (1,001) (2,321) (3,175) world through continued improvement in the production Oil development and other businesses 172 697 1,476 process and the product. We run 11 production lines in Total 32,433 32,218 21,176 Jeungpyeong and Cheongju located in the Chungcheongbukdo Province. We are building 2 additional product lines targeting mass production by late 2019. In addition, we are driving investment in Changzhou, China and Silesia Province, Credit Rating Poland to respond to the demand of China and Europe, the Domestic credit Global credit largest growing market for the electric car battery industry. SK innovation has improved its financial structure through rating rating continuous business diversification. Thanks to healthy financial policies and stable operating cash flow, we earned a AA+ BBB+ Petroleum business (Korea Investors Service) (S&P) In our petroleum sector, we recorded KRW 709.3 billion in credit rating of BBB+ (stable). operating profits due to the stability in both refinery margin Baa1 and profit structure. We are improving our viability through (Moody’s) continued innovation in profit structure and increase in SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Strategy DOUBLE BOTTOM LINE SK Double Bottom Line (SK DBL) SK innovation Double Bottom Line (SKI DBL) SK innovation incorporated the DBL principle into its management philosophy to manage both economic and social value creation, breaking away from the conventional single bottom line principle to focus only on economic value. Through these efforts, we aim to achieve sustainable growth and stability. SK innovation DBL Implementation System Amendment of SKMS DBL Committee SK innovation created a DBL-based organization system in Create profit (1979) Pursue happiness (2004) Create social value order to reflect social value as our top priority. We allocated the social contribution committee under the BOD and “SK innovation aims to grow with society by creating social value as well as economic value” established the DBL Commission, the major panel for CEOs Social contribution SK innovation SV organization of and main executives of SK innovation and its subsidiaries. committee SV drivers each subsidiary SKMS (SK Management System): SK Group’s business philosophy We also created an executive-level organization called the (Board of Directors) (Executive level) (general level) SV acceleration squad to design and support strategies for social value creation. Furthermore, we formed groups in Background of SK DBL Implementation Composition of SK DBL charge of general tasks regarding SV to design the company’s comprehensive support system to explore innovative Business ˙To pursue happiness of all stakeholders by SK DBL is made of economic value and social value. Economic 48 Model (BM) focused on DBL. structure to bring about a fundamental change which would 49 increasing social value value is the final result of a company’s business operations drive the participation and cooperation of all employees. ˙To respond to changes in the social role of companies and is generally recognized as financial performance. Social We will establish our midto long-term Green Innovation ˙To build a sustainable growth strategy by innovating our value is social performance achieved by creating social value DBL Midto Long-Term Implementation Strategy masterplan which encompasses all subsidiaries of SK business model and minimizing cost of social damage through business innovation in order to accelerate our transformation into operations. We have converted our direction from pursuing economic a low-emission Business Model. We will support relevant value and have set 50% of our business goals in 2019 to subsidiaries and departments that are in charge for the pursue social value. Based on the change, we formed a effective implementation of the strategy. Economic Value Social Value “The final outcome of business “Social performance achieved by operations. Financial performance creating social value and minimizing based on generally accepted SK Double cost of social damage through Environment Social Governance business accounting standards” Bottom Line business operations” Work hard to use minimum Solve labor issues, improve individual Improve corporate governance resources and decrease environmental quality of life and enhance social and prevent acts of bribery pollution during business process ecosystem soundness Profit from Cost of social Profit Cost social value damage Use of resources Labor Corporate governance ˙Cut use of energy, industrial water and ˙Resolve inequality in employment, create jobs for ˙Prevent violation of regulation other resources the socially disadvantaged, improve work (Commercial law, Capital Market Act and Environmental pollution environment etc.) regarding corporate governance ˙Minimize CO2 emission and other forms of Individual quality of life Bribery acts SK DBL Major Strategies pollution ˙Improve quality of life factors such as medical care, ˙Prevent illegal acts of executives and education, culture, art and living environment employees during business activities Strategy 1 Strategy 2 Strategy 3 Social ecosystem ˙Improve social ecosystem soundness such as fairness To expand the scope of social value creation Maximize social value along with creating Share our role and our assets with of contract implementation process, harmonious from existing scope of CSR to a concept economic value to actively promote the world to achieve asset efficiency growth and collaboration for coexistence. that encompasses the entire business social value in decision-making and innovation of business model value chain Relativity to UN SDGs Relativity to UN SDGs Relativity to UN SDGs SDG 3, SDG 6, SDG 7, SDG 12, SDG 13 SDG 4, SDG 5, SDG 8, SDG 10 SDG 16 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Strategy SK innovation Double Bottom Line (SKI DBL) Objective of Measuring DBL SK Innovation DBL Performance in 2018 Strategy to Improve DBL Performance Solve Environmental Issues with Society SK innovation will create a standard for improvement by SK innovation achieved indirect economic contribution worth SK innovation is working towards continuous environmental SK innovation creates diverse values by solving issues with measuring DBL along with strengthening its business model KRW 2.3241 trillion, business social performance worth KRW performance by innovating our business model based on stakeholders by developing social enterprises, partnering with innovation. First, we intend to establish a standard for -1.1885 trillion and social contribution performance worth existing operations. Simultaneously, we will execute BM social ventures, philanthropic activities and campaigns. improvement rather than focusing on the quantity of the KRW 49.3 billion. In particular, we learnt that the negative innovation based on social values for long-term improvement. result. We will comprehend the positive (+), negative (-) and impact is largest in the environment (production) field and size of the specific field by each subsidiary. We will set goals that a structural constraint exists in the business we operate to expand on the positive impact and improve the negative where business growth leads to environmental impact. In impact and manage operations. In addition, we will assess addition, we are aware that external stakeholders demand social issues relevant to our business by improving social changes in environmental areas. SK innovation is working 50 values, use the perceived issues as an opportunity to innovate to solve environmental issues from a systematic structural 51 Visualized expansion of participating stakeholders our business model and develop sustainability. Ultimately, perspective. We will achieve a Green Balance by securing we will create social value by spreading social values that future growth drivers and maximizing DBL to cancel out Innovate existing BM (business model) “Solve environmental issues by raising awareness and Shortencompass all parts of the business ecosystem through DBL negative environmental impacts with positive impacts. term Create immediate results by increasing participation” measurement. utilizing capacity of existing BM Government organizations Improve environment-friendly function Media and increase sales PARTNER NGO SK innovation DBL performance in 2018 Major cases SK ˙Environment-friendly base oil·lubricants ˙HCPP (High Crystallinity Polypropylene) innovation Research General ˙Premium asphalt institutions citizens Indirect Social Social contribution performance performance Local Other to economy of business of CSR communities companies Academics Publicize environmental issues and seek common Social value based BM innovation Mid to solution through various collaboration models longCreate long-term results term through innovation Employment Dividends Tax Environment Environment Society CSR Donation Volunteer payment Production Product/ programs work Major agenda for 2019 Develop new business model based on service environmental values SV21) Impact Partnering KRW KRW KRW KRW KRW KRW KRW KRW KRW 902.3 708.3 713.5 -1,427.6 190.8 48.3 11 37.7 0.6 Major cases I Green We Green Campaign billion billion billion billion billion billion billion billion billion ˙Electric car battery ˙Recycling of used battery and plastic Support growth of social enterprises ˙Technology for carbon capture and utilization KRW 2.3241 trillion KRW -1.1885 trillion KRW 49.3 trillion Vietnam SV Alliance 1) Social Value X Social Venture SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Focus Areas 52 FOCUS AREAS 53 SK innovation creates social value in areas that are highly relevant to our business and also create much social interest through active communication with our stakeholders. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Focus Areas Reducing Greenhouse Emissions through Energy Efficiency MATERIAL ISSUE 01 Products Reduce greenhouse emissions through Produce environment-friendly base oil and waste heat business lubricants Waste heat is the unused heat given to the surrounding SK lubricants developed a low-density quality base environment during energy use. It is always produced oil product which is being sold on the global market. when energy is used like the exhaust fumes of boilers Active Responses to Climate Change The product can improve fuel efficiency by up to 2.0% or heat from cooling water in power plants. SK incheon compared to the existing general products. This will petrochem is running an ‘Energy Upcycling’ project also lead to reducing greenhouse emissions. If we which collects this waste heat to supply as energy for consider environment-friendly base oil and lubricant heating in the area. Energy upcycling is the practice of products purchased by the global market, we created utilizing byproduct energy created from production social value of KRW 131.5 billion in 2018 by reducing processes as a second energy source to improve its greenhouse emissions. We plan to extend our product usage value. In particular, the heat source SK incheon line-up and expand areas where green base oil petrochem provides can substitute high-power products can be used. generation which is relatively higher in cost, which can reduce the cost of the heat source for the community. Reduce environmental impact with HCPP Above all, this kind of reduction can replace annual (High Crystallinity Polypropylene) energy use of 27,000 tons of LNG or 66,000 tons of soft SK global chemical has developed HCPP which coals, which will reduce 50,000 tons of greenhouse lightened the weight of vehicles resulting in better fuel emissions per year. efficiency as well as reducing greenhouse emissions. Applying highly solid and light plastic on vehicles can 54 cut its weight by 10kg which improves fuel efficiency New Technology to Process Greenhouse 55 by 2.8% and reduces CO2 by 4.5%. If we factor in our Emissions sales volume, we created social value worth KRW 4.5 billion in 2018. We will increase our sales by 40% by New technology to retrieve carbon dioxide 2021 and develop additional environment-friendly We are expecting cuts in carbon credits and an plastic products. increase in carbon credit price due to stronger Why is it important? How is SK innovation responding to this issue? environmental regulations and policies to cut greenhouse emissions. In response, SK innovation is Importance of the issue SK innovation’s strategic approach developing a low-cost environmental carbon capture SK innovation is facing various risk factors from • Build a response roadmap to analyze risk scenarios technology to develop new carbonic anhydrase (CA). stricter regulations on energy and environment • Forecast excess or deficiency of carbon credits We activated the CO2 Carbonation catalyst for the such as global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas through emissions simulation, create and operate a first time in 2018 after continuous investment and emissions following the Paris Climate Treaty as well trading platform developed two types of new heat-resistant CAs which as a decrease in asset value from reduced use of fossil • Discover and drive businesses to obtain emissions we patented. Furthermore, we secured a platform fuels. We are building a system to respond to the credit abroad to execute emissions trading technology to develop pure catalysts and research issues in advance and manage them on a company • Reduce greenhouse emissions by improving energy force to study mutations. scale as well as engaging in various activities. efficiency and transforming fuel Promote spread of environment-friendly electric cars How is performance tracked? SK innovation will create environmental value by growing Performance evaluation method and Sales Social value (Unit: KRW 100 million) its electric vehicle battery business that contributes to midto long-term goals spreading eco-friendly electric vehicles.. Electric cars release SV performance by SV performance by spreading use of accelerating battery • Set target amount and manage emissions only 47% of the amount of greenhouse emissions that growth environment-friendly power converters vehicles with internal combustion engines release1). One • Find cases of reduction in emissions or cost, electric car can reduce 1.1 tons of greenhouse emissions 1.7Gwh 2020 10 provide incentives a year. SK innovation will create social value step-by-step 100Gwh 2025 1,500+ • Set internal price for emissions, measure and include through its battery business. 100Gwh+ 2030 6,000+ economic efficiency of investment projects 1) Source: Korea Energy Economics Institute publications To-Be 10,000+ SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Focus Areas 친환경 접착제 개발 및 생산 개념도 친환경원료 접착제 개발 및 생산 개념도 생산 활 Create Social Value with Suppliers Production of environment-friendly adhesive and production design 원료 생산 활용 MATERIAL ISSUE 02 Co-developing environment-friendly adhesive Main ingredient Production Use technology through partnerships SK global chemical developed the first environmentfriendly hot melt adhesive in Korea in collaboration with partner ‘Lion Chemtech’ and is contributing Sustainable Supply Chain to social value creation by spreading environmentPolyolefin material supply Environmentfriendly adhesive PET Cup friendly materials in the market. The existing (SK global chemical) (HMA) production adhesives mainly used Ethylene Vinyl Acetate (EVA) as the source ingredient, which could cause issues in the production process like emitting harmful gas. Mutual growth with society through fund for SK global chemical utilized Nexlene™, an internally coexistence developed commercialized product to co-develop SK innovation runs a fund for coexistence with an environment-friendly ingredient for adhesives. suppliers as a part of Happiness Sharing Fund This ingredient has gained recognition at home and through a shared effort between the labor union and abroad for being hygienic and highly resistant to cold the company. The program creates a fund based temperatures. Furthermore, the patent will go to Lion on voluntary donations from employees and 1% Chemtech and both companies will possess patents matching grant policy by the company. The funds are for future developments. distributed to suppliers of SK innovation in all areas including facilities, production, cafeterias, expenses SK global chemical provides the core ingredients and cleaning. We anticipate the program will close and technology to create green adhesives and Lion the income gap between conglomerate and medium56 Chemtech manufactures the products with its unique small size companies to contribute to stronger 57 pyrolysis technology. The collaboration of the two relationships with suppliers. In 2018, SK innovation companies warrants various effects. Since SK global created a fund worth KRW 5.24 billion and donated chemical does not need to build separate facilities, KRW 2.36 billion to 4,431 individuals in 66 suppliers. costs can be reduced. Meanwhile, Lion Chemtech has Why is it important? How is SK innovation responding to this issue? the opportunity to create stable profits. We forecast Support for social economy in the community Importance of the issue SK innovation’s strategic approach KRW 30 billion in revenue and plan to maximize sales SK innovation utilizes its diverse promotional The significance of managing a sustainable • Create social value through growing together with through the marketing network both companies resources to spread products and services of distribution network is growing as stakeholders suppliers possess. As in this case, SK global chemical will create exceptional social enterprises in the community demand compliance with corporate social • Improve capabilities of distribution network and both social value and economic value by collaborating and supports their business capabilities. In addition, responsibility and regulations on cooperative growth promote competitiveness with partners and continue to grow together. we are actively building partnerships with local • Understand and resolve risks which may arise within government and state to stimulate the social of conglomerates, mediumand small-size companies 1) B  rand of high-functional polyethylene that SK global chemical the distribution network grow stronger. SK innovation manages risks coming succeeded in developing in 2010 economy in the community. 2) R  esistance to losing properties when polymer materials such as rubber from suppliers and has established sustainability in or plastic are exposed to low temperature How is performance tracked? the industry ecosystem related to our company value Outcome of supporting growth of social economy chain in order to create social values. Performance evaluation method and midto long-term goals Value creation by supporting social enterprise in Ulsan Stimulate social economy in Seosan by supporting Tour Dure • Gain and maintain top rating in Evaluation of ˙Supporting organization: Usisan ˙Supporting organization: Seosan city, Korea Culture & Tourism Corporate Partnership Index (by 2023) ˙Contents: Usisan is a social enterprise created by elderly baristas or Institute, Hanseo University, Chungnam Social Economy Network, • Enhance and strengthen supply chain ESG management women with career disruptions that runs programs such as village Community Chest Chungnam District by evaluating ESG risk for all of our supply chain (by 2023) happiness space, Whale museum gift shop, Whale Village post office ˙Contents: Collaborate to stimulate social economy and local tourism • Minimize compliance risks regarding purchasing (by 2023) Social economic alliance with Jeollabuk-do Province industry, advertisement to raise citizens’ awareness • Collaborate with suppliers to minimize environmental ˙Partner bodies: Jeollabuk-do Province, KBS, Jeollabuk-do Province Stimulate social economy of Jeungpyeong Ministry of Education, Jeollabuk-do Province Social Economic Form ˙Partner bodies: Jeungpyeong Country, Ministry of Employment and pollution through production of eco-friendly product ˙Contents: Promote purchase of relevant products to stimulate social Labor Cheongju Branch and utilization of recycling products economy, advertising to raise awareness of province residents, ˙Contents: Prioritized purchase of products and services from social • Strengthen supply chain ecosystem health by execute various collaborative programs enterprises, improve awareness of local residents, discover potential expanding social enterprise product purchase demand for social enterprises in the region for collaboration SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Focus Areas Mutual Growth with Suppliers by Improving MATERIAL ISSUE 03 SHE Standards Guarantee stop-work authority for suppliers In July 2018, SK innovation (SK incheon petrochem) held a day to promote safety with its suppliers to improve SHE management standards of suppliers Safe & Healthy Workplace and implemented the ‘No accident, safety first policy 1 for suppliers’ and created a policy which guaranteed stop-work authority for employees. This is the right for workers to immediately stop work when they perceive issues of safety or potential hazards that arise during work on company sites. From July 2018 to March 2019, the right was practiced approximately 20 times by employees. We stipulated the right to stop work in our contracts in order to create a safe work 2 environment for executives and employees of our suppliers. In this way, we are creating a culture that 1. Supplier implements No Accident Safety First policy 2. Drill training for stop-work authority in supplier prioritizes work safety over the financial loss caused by stopping work. Interview at the location to train workers on at-height safety issues. Through these practices, we are promoting the Kim Jin Wook 58 importance of SHE and improving the understanding 59 Head of Kukjae Industries Co. (Partner of SK incheon petrochem) and practice of obligatory SHE standards and procedures for numerous employees tackling various SK incheon petrochem has documented ‘stop-work authority’ tasks at once. and included the right in the company’s policy so that employees of suppliers can be responsible for their own safety. SHE incentive policy for suppliers Why is it important? How is SK innovation responding to this issue? This is meaningful in that workers can exercise the rights of their own discretion without worrying about authorities. I feel the SK innovation operates a SHE performance-based Importance of the issue SK innovation’s strategic approach sincerity of SK incheon petrochem as they care for the safety of incentive policy to induce agent companies that Management of safety, health and environment (SHE) • Collaborate with suppliers to improve on SHE for the supplier’s employees which makes me work for them as if I conduct manufacturing and operating tasks on am working for my own company. As I see the result of caring for is a key for a company to achieve sustainable growth. mutual growth site to improve their level of SHE. We examine the my own safety and health, I am now more attentive towards the If this function is neglected resulting in a serious • Environment or safety activities with local safety of my coworkers as well. possibility to prevent SHE hazards and according accident, business operations are directly damaged communities targets with suppliers by relevant work site. If the as well as the image of the business. In addition, the target is achieved, we provide an incentive to scope of SHE management has expanded to social How is performance tracked? motivate supplier employees to better comply with responsibility for suppliers and local communities. Safety for periodic maintenance SHE standards and procedures, practice them and Performance evaluation method and The importance of SHE for stakeholders, not just for SK innovation Ulsan Complex has created a SHE participate in preventing hazards. In this way, we are midto long-term goals the company, is growing. This change will lead to Committee made of our production, facilities and co-creating a SHE culture together with our suppliers. • Achieve target for Lost Time Incidents Rate (LTIR) stricter government regulations for SHE and demand SHE organization as well as suppliers to secure • Achieve target for Unplanned Capacity Loss (UCL) preemptive and proactive practice of SHE from workers’ safety during facility renewal or repair jobs Discretionary safety health management system companies. that occur simultaneously for periodic maintenance. SK innovation worked to obtain joint certification of The committee acts as a control tower that discusses KOSHA·OHSAS 18001 with suppliers to improve SHE necessary issues to build a safe work environment standards. In 2018, we extended our certification and executes those decisions. In addition, we provide for 40 suppliers and obtained new certification for 8 safety videos on site using vehicles equipped with companies. In addition, SK innovation included the monitors and create video contents on preventing level of safety health management system in our SHE or reacting to dangerous situations to train workers. evaluation items to induce suppliers to secure safety For work at height, we install an experience booth through the system. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Focus Areas SHE Activities with Local Communities First aid training in local health institutions SK innovation Ulsan Complex runs a specialized MATERIAL ISSUE 04 Effort to reduce fine dust organization that provides rescue and response In response to the fine dust problem that has activities when emergencies occur on site. 21 currently become a social issue, SK innovation has set members of this workforce hold emergency care a target with the local community to reduce fine dust certifications. These members visit various welfare and is putting various efforts into practice. The Ulsan organizations and regional government institutions Complex entered into a ‘voluntary agreement to in the Ulsan area to donate their talent to provide experiential training in first aid and CPR. Community Engagement reduce fine dust’ with the City of Ulsan, environmental office and companies in the Ulsan area. The agreement aims to reduce 40% of fine dust, sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides and VOC emissions based on 2014 figures by 2022 and improve monitoring of facilities that release emissions that can cause fine dust. Meanwhile, we conduct various activities to reduce fine dust such as exchanging the existing boiler burners to low NOx burners and changing our fuel to natural gas. In addition, SK incheon petrochem signed a ‘voluntary agreement to reduce fine dust in work sites’ with the 1 Ministry of Environment to improve the air quality in the metropolitan area. It is renovating facilities to 60 reduce fine dust as well as implementing emergency 61 measures at times of high-density fine dust warnings. Our work site in Jeungpyeong also signed a ‘voluntary agreement to reduce fine dust’ with North Chungcheong province and local companies aiming to reduce fine dust by 19% the amount of 2017 by 2 2020. Why is it important? How is SK innovation responding to this issue? Importance of the issue SK innovation’s strategic approach Environment and safety risk governance for A company and the local community affect each • Maximize stakeholder happiness by pursuing local community other in various ways, directly or indirectly. If a economic and social values SK incheon petrochem has supported and actively company conducts self-righteous operations • Continuous innovation to solve fundamental social participated in building a ‘health and safety risk without considering the demands from the local problems governance’ with 13 relevant institutions including community, it will receive criticism from stakeholders • Think deeply about the socially disadvantaged and Hangang riverside environmental office under the and gain a negative reputation which will act as drive meaningful activities Ministry of environment, Korea Occupational Safety 3 an obstacle in business operations. On the other • Promote activities in local community related to and Health Agency and City of Incheon. It runs 10 hand, communicating actively with the community UN SDGs major activities including: hosting a CEO safety and conducting philanthropic acts will help create forum to spread a safe culture for work sites, running social values in the community as well as gain many How is performance tracked? exhibitions to experience safety drills for disasters alliances in operations. This can also provide an to raise general awareness on safety, and providing Performance evaluation method and opportunity to innovate and establish a new business consultations for chemical substance assurance midto long-term goals model. to improve safety management skills in small • Continue to discover and support star social businesses. We collaborate with other institutions enterprises based on these 10 items to maximize efforts. 4 • Manage average time of voluntary work per employee 1. Agreement ceremony to establish environment and safety risk governance • Manage investment funds for social contribution 2. SK incheon petrochem voluntary agreement ceremony 3. SK innovation Jeungpyeong site voluntary agreement ceremony 4. First aid training for regional welfare organizations SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Focus Areas Develop Global Communities Agricultural technology promotion and profit model in Peru Mangrove forest restoration project in Vietnam SK innovation established ProSynergy, an organization UN SDGS SK innovation is expanding its program to create specializing in social contribution, in Lima, Peru where environmental value. To battle global warming, we have we operate our business. We built branches 1 and 2 UN SDGs(Sustainable Development Goals) been planting mangrove trees in Vietnam, one of the of Yachaywasi, a social enterprise aiming to promote SK innovation sincerely agrees with the objective of UN SDGs and will work regions most vulnerable to climate change where we also agricultural technology and increase profits for lowtogether to achieve these goals. We have selected part of the 16 sustainable develop oil and operate rest stations for freight vehicles. income farming households. Through this social development goals and actively promote relevant practices. We will enterprise, we provide education in farming and gradually improve our execution by expanding out to more related targets. In 2018, we planted 35,000 mangrove trees in an area livestock as well as securing a network to support the of 11 hectares in Tra Vinh, Vietnam based on our 1% community with facilities and technology. We are also Happiness Sharing Fund. 1 hectare of mangroves can creating profit together through collaborative sales Type SK innovation activities absorb 34 to 1,000 tons of carbon dioxide and these of agricultural goods and contributing to the wellGoal 1 trees also act as a natural shield from natural disasters being of farmers by working together with SK Smile ˙Promote agricultural technology for farming households in Peru and End poverty in all its forms everywhere help create a profit model such as tsunami. In addition, we are supporting the Microcredit Bank Foundation Finca and the Catholic ˙Provide meal boxes to children skipping meals all over the country by livelihood of community by planting mangroves as University. In addition, we are working with the local participating in Happiness Alliance well as providing education on the environment government to support farming by improving farming Goal 2 ˙Support residents’ livelihoods through the mangrove restoration End hunger, achieve food security and improved program in Vietnam to residents and students. Furthermore, we have and irrigation facilities, greenhouse farming and nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture ˙Provide meal boxes to the socially disadvantaged in Singapore promoted research on Mangroves through Ho Chi Minh alpaca fiber processing facilities. City University of Technology and we are collaborating Goal 3 ˙Alleviate social isolation of elderly living alone and restore self-worth ˙Improve sociability of children with growth disabilities with our global partners: Petro Vietnam E&P and As a result, we received USD 239,302 from the IICA, Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages ˙Promote self-support for children with growth disabilities, support Saigon NewPort through an environment contribution Finland Ministry of Foreign Affairs which we used to mental stability programs for carers of elderly living alone MOU to restore mangroves. We will review establishing provide more renewable energy to agricultural areas ˙Provide education programs in areas of operation within the US Goal 4 62 a social enterprise in Vietnam in connection with and improve energy self-sufficiency. Also, we provided Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education ˙Study support for socially disadvantaged students in the Incheon area 63 ˙Run ‘My School’ program in Peru to provide quality education service the mangrove forest restoration project in early 2019 quality education service through our education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all to low-income students through which we will secure resources for the project, platform, ‘My School Program’ providing webGoal 5 create jobs for the socially disadvantaged and increase based training as well as an information platform. Achieve gender equality and empower all ˙Provide mental stability program targeting carers for elderly living alone profits for the community. We also plan to expand ProSynergy supported philanthropic activities of other women and girls the enterprise to collaborative volunteer work with companies through projects such as building the global partners. Simultaneously, we plan to restore 30 mini Yachaywasi in connection with Pluspetrol funds, Goal 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of hectares of mangrove forests by 2020. providing agricultural support with the alpaca fiber ˙Purify ocean water by planting mangroves in Vietnam water and sanitation for all processing facilities. We plan to register for formal Number of mangroves planted in Tra Vinh province in 2018 social contribution projects with government bodies Goal 7 to become autonomous by providing funds. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable ˙Provide energy through the Cook Stove distribution project in Myanmar My Long Nam region Long Khanh region and modern energy for all 1) Y achaywasi: Quechuan language meaning Yachay (Teaching) + Wasi ˙26,000 trees planted ˙9,000 trees planted (Place), a forum for education ˙Visits to elementary schools for ˙Visits to elementary schools for 2) IICA (International Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture) Fund: A fund Goal 8 environmental education environmental education established to contribute to providing renewable energy to low-income Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable agricultural regions in the world ˙Create jobs by developing social enterprises economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Yachaywasi business model Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change ˙Climate action through restoring mangrove forests in Vietnam and its impacts ˙I Green We Green Campaign to protect the world environment SK innovation Lima Office Consultation fee Catholic University Goal 14 Provide funding Agricultural technology Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and ˙Conserve marine ecosystem by restoring mangrove forests in Vietnam Sales of agricultural marine resources for sustainable development products Apply to participate My Ecotech Farm Market Farmers (Prosynergy) Sales profit Consulting and training on agricultural technology Goal 15 Agreement to Warranty provide low interest and equipment Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of ˙Conserve biodiversity by restoring mangrove forests in Vietnam Class fee Low interest terrestrial ecosystems and halt biodiversity loss Students of universities Education Finca NGO (SK Smile Repayment of advance loan and interest loan or agricultural schools Microcredit Bank Foundation) SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management 64 SUSTAINABILITY 65 MANAGEMENT Uncertainty in business environment is growing not only because of the growing changes in the traditional oil and chemicals industry but also from the 4th Industrial Revolution. This environment calls for a strategic direction based on selection and focus as well as seeking new options of growth and executing the options. SK innovation is improving its company value immensely through bold innovation and strategic investment in the form of global partnering and M&A. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Board of Directors BOD Status Attendance Position Name Since Career Highlights Committee Membership Rate Current) Honorary ambassador/Chairman, International Relations Commission, KSOC Chairman/ ˙Chair of CSR Committee and HR Kim Former) Minister for Trade, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Independent March 2017 93% Committee Jong-hoon Former) Chief Delegate for the Korea-US FTA SK innovation declared ‘BOD-driven Management’ in 2004 to establish an autonomous and efficient form Director Former) Member of the 19th National Assembly ˙Member of Audit Committee of governance. By appointing a new BOD since then, SK innovation has continued to build a leading (Trade, Industry & Energy Committee) ˙Chair of Recommendation and governance structure. SK innovation BOD intends to make professional and balanced decisions based on Current) Advisor of Bae, Kim & Lee LLC Nomination Committee Kim Former) Vice Minister, Ministry of Knowledge Economy a transparent process which pursues the Happiness of all stakeholders, including customers, employees Jung-gwan March 2018 100% Former) Executive Vice Chairperson, KITA ˙Member of Strategic Planning Committee and Transparent and shareholders. The basic responsibilities of BOD are: strategic decision making, advising and monitoring Former) Deputy Chair person, FEZ Committee Management Committee of major business issues. This will allow us to respond preemptively to the quickly changing business March 2016 Current) Chairman & CEO, Kyungbang ˙Chair of Strategic Planning Current) Chairman, Spinners & Weavers Association of Korea Committee environment and strengthen autonomous, responsible management based on the BOD. Kim Joon (Re-elected in 93% Current) Director, East Asia Foundation ˙Member of Audit Committee March 2019) This ‘Proactive BOD’ will maximize our company value. Independent Former) President, The Korean Chapter, Young Entrepreneurs’ Org. and HR Committee Director ˙Chief auditing member of Audit Current) Professor of Accounting, Korea University Business School Committee Choi Former) Advisor, Ministry of the Interior and Safety March 2018 92% ˙Member of Recommendation Woo-seok Former) Executive Director, Inspiring Insight in Business Society and Nomination Committee Composition of the BOD Former) Assistant Professor, California State University and CSR Committee member Current) Professor, Department of Basic Science, Hongik University Ha March 2016 ˙Chair of Transparent Current) Vice-president/Director, Korean Chemical Society The board of SK innovation officially appointed Kim Recommendation and Nomination Committee, Yun-kyoung (Re-elected in 100% Former) Director, Association of Korean Women Scientists and Engineers Management Committee (Female) March 2019) ˙Member of CSR Committee Jong-hoon, the independent director as Chairman so that the board can fully play its role in effective Former) Committee member, Korea Industry Standard Council in March 2019 to establish a leading governance monitoring of management. As of 2019, five out of Current) President & CEO, SK innovation ˙Member of Recommendation Executive and Nomination Committee Kim Jun March 2017 100% Current) President, Communication Committee of SK SUPEX Council structure. 63% of the entire board is made up eight board members are independent directors. Director Former) President & CEO, SK energy ˙Member of Strategic Planning Committee of independent directors recommended by the Current) President & CEO, SK E&S Non-executive Yu March 2017 86% Current) President, Energy & Chemical Committee, SK SUPEX Council ˙Member of HR Committee 66 67 director Jeong-joon Former) President, SK Global & Growth Promotion Division, SK holdings Current) Senior Executive Vice President (CFO), Finance Divisional Group, Executive Lee N/A (Newly ˙Member of Transparent March 2019 SK innovation Director Myung-young appointed) Management Committee Former) Senior Executive Vice President (CFO), Mgmt. Support Office, SK hynix * Attendance Rate: 95.5% (As of December, 2018) Appointment process of directors Evaluation Criteria of Independent Directors SK innovation established a selection process for internal and independent directors which guarantees objectivity and fairness. Expertise Expertise and experience in corporate management, and experience as an executive or independent director The HR committee reviews the qualities and qualifications of Commitment Able to attend over 95 percent of BOD & Committee executive and non-executive director candidates, then selects those meetings, and make real contributions and advice on current they wish to recommend at the annual shareholders’ meeting. issues In the case of independent directors, the Recommendation and Managerial Leadership acquired from experience in serving as the CEO mindset of a large company or head of an organization Nomination Committee decides on a direction and processes Independence No conflicts of interest with management and shareholders; every year to make their recommendations of candidates. Then, can make thoughtful, independent decisions a candidate pool is selected for multiple in-depth deliberations for Social A strong reputation recognized by many company the final candidate to be recommended at the annual shareholder reputation stakeholders meeting. During the discussions, we assess the candidate Morality A high level of morality that sets an example for others, with company-based objectives taking precedence over personal gain comprehensively. Compliance with the Standard of Independence Diversity The diversity of the board, including gender, age, nationality is a must and we also consider expertise and loyalty, business mind, and ethnicity, has been taken into consideration social reputation, board diversity based on company standards Others Current business environment and issues at the time of such as gender, age, nationality, race/ethnicity and the business nomination environment at the time of appointment. Recommendation and Nomination Committee BOD General Shareholders Meeting Establish plan for Select candidate pool Select final candidate Select discussion Appoint recommendation of for independent for independent items for general independent independent director director and in-depth director shareholders’ meeting director Lee Myung-young Choi Woo-seok Kim Jung-gwan Kim Jong-hoon Kim Jun Kim Joon Ha Yun-kyoung Yu Jeong-joon candidate discussion Director Director Director Chairman/Director President & CEO Director Director Director SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Standard of Independence for orientation on company headquarters and regional sites joint venture between SK global chemical and Sinopec Group. independent director targeting newly appointed independent directors. Also the board had an on-site meeting and field tour at Battery SK innovation ensures the independence of its Production & Tech. Center in Seosan, Korea. By inspecting major independent directors to guarantee shareholder In addition, SK innovation BOD review risks through business sites and reports on core performances and plans which interests are reflected in a balanced manner and audit reports and conduct ‘Strategy Sessions’ biannually enhanced the board’s understanding of business which would a fair and transparent decision-making process is or quarterly to improve the expertise of issue and risk lead to more accurate and effective decision-making. In addition, followed. To this end, SK innovation establishes and management capacity. The ‘Strategy Sessions’ are made the board visited the Seosan Battery Factory, which is the center of complies with the independent standards for major up of reports on the strategy of the entire company and SK Innovation's EV battery production, and directly monitored the 1 disqualification reasons for independent directors in main business projects, implementation trends and growth strategy and direction of the business and, examined new compliance with the Commercial Act. major risks. Material to support overall decision-making production lines and construction sites. such as risk-management methods are provided as well. Grounds for Disqualification of SK innovation Independent Directors In addition, we invite experts to hold seminars in legal, BOD performance evaluation communication and other fields relating to major issues The BOD conducts self-evaluation on composition, role, • Directors, executive directors, and employees who are engaged in the of the management environment in Korea and abroad. responsibility, and operation-related matters. The results of regular business of a related company, or directors, auditors, executive directors and employees who have engaged in the regular business of this assessment are published in the annual report. The results a related company within the past two years Activities of the BOD and opinions derived from the assessment are best reflected in • The principal, his/her spouse, lineal ascendants, and lineal 2 descendants, in cases where the largest shareholder is a natural person SK innovation’s BOD reviews management plans and designing BOD management plan to contribute to a developing • Directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of the mediumand long-term strategies (i.e. the To-Be Model) operating method. In addition, the HR Committee reviews corporation, in cases where the largest shareholder is a corporation each year. The board sets the direction of sustainable the compensation limit for directors extensively, delivers the • The spouses, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants of directors, auditors, and executive growth by holding active in-depth discussions about information to the board, then to the GSM where the limit is • The directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of a parent internal and external business environment by business ultimately set in order to practice a fair compensation policy. company or a subsidiary company of the relevant company • Directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of a corporation areas, including oil, chemicals, and EV batteries. The which has a significant interest in a related company, such as business board holds regular monthly meetings. To ensure In addition, we take part in the annual ESG assessment conducted relations with the company that directors can sufficiently review the agenda, by Korea Corporate Governance Service (KCGS) for maximum 68 • Directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of another 69 company for which directors, executive directors, and employees of a meeting materials are provided at least a week to five 3 accuracy in understanding our governance. Our BOD has been related company serve as directors and executive directors days before a board meeting and two days before recognized inside and outside the company for its excellent a Committee meeting. In addition, the board also performance, and receiving Grade A in governance assessment in holds ad-hoc meetings for agenda items that require 2018 is one of these recognitions. Establishment of corporate governance charter a quick decision. The Board aims to lead the way in SK innovation will keep raising the value of the the company’s professional and transparent business BOD subcommittees company to continuously create shareholder value. activities. In 2018, 76 agenda items were put forth to SK innovation operates six subcommittees under the board. All We aim to grow with society through social value the board in 14 meetings, and Committees discussed chairs of the Committees are independent directors, and over half creation. In addition, we are working to create harmony 60 agenda items over 23 meetings. of the members of each committee are independent directors1) 4 and balance for all stakeholders to be happy. As we to ensure independence and transparency in decision-making. In understand the importance of securing a healthy Strengthening on-site activities • The board of SK 1. Special Lecture for Executives & Professional Leaders addition, each committee conducts previews and discussions prior 2. Volunteering CSR activity with employees and transparent governance structure to realize this innovation frequently visits major business sites at 3. On-site board meeting in Battery Production & Tech. Center to any decision-making at the board meeting, thereby ensuring 4. Board visit to Wuhan Ethylene JV in China business philosophy, we established ‘SK innovation home and abroad to improve the knowledge to full understanding of the topics and enhancing the efficiency. Governance Charter’ to pursue the world’s top make decisions based on expertise. We hold board 1) Audit Committee and CSR Committee consist of independent directors only Status of Subcommittees of BOD governance structure. meetings at business sites where major investment projects or operations on our strategic agenda 2018 Major Activities Committee Expertise of the BOD are being conducted to understand the current Meetings held Agenda Major Agenda Independent directors actively participate in governance status of operations accurately for decision-making. ˙Understand and revise Internal Accounting Management policy Auditing Committee 6 28 items ˙Results of finalized performance and external audit ˙Audit performance results and business-related training programs in Korea and Furthermore, we are strengthening on-site operations Recommendation and ˙Establish process for independent director recommendation abroad to enhance their expertise. We intend that our by creating more chances to listen to the voice of the 2 2 items Nomination Committee ˙Recommend independent directors independent directors continuously attend programs workforce in diverse settings such as special company Strategic Planning Committee 4 6 items ˙2018 short-term management plan ˙Drive investment/increase of capital by business held by the most respected corporate governance lectures for executives and employees as well as Human Resources Committee 2 6 items ˙Recommend Executive directors ˙Set limit for directors’ compensation, option to buy stocks, etc. organization NACD (National Association of Corporate volunteer work. Transparent Management ˙Transaction with affiliated financial company 8 15 items Committee ˙Build/publicize on-site branch in China Directors) and ICGN (International Corporate Governance CSR Committee2) 1 3 items ˙Strategy for CSR ˙Publish Sustainability Report 간 Network). We are also improving their level of On-site board meeting in China and Seosan • In 2018, 2) T  he CSR committee is composed solely of independent directors to assess various agenda items from an objective and broad perspective. The committee regularly participates in understanding of our company and operation through The board visited Headquarters of SK global chemical company CSR activities to improve their power of execution. visits to business and manufacturing sites and focused located in Shanghai as well as Wuhan Ethylene JV, a * Major items for review: Sustainability report plan and results, status of CSR activities, methods to support stakeholders with communication, review of company policy/program/ practice that may impact safety, health, environment and other social issues, ways the board can participate in CSR activities, status of other major CSR issues and execution, better methods to operate board·committee. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Risk Management Emerging Risk SK innovation regularly analyzes environmental and social changes to draw long-term risk factors that influence business operations. We then go on to build and execute an effective solution. The global energy industry is facing various risks due to rapid changes in the business environment. Emerging Various global regulations and Fairness of business relations and Climate change Investors are demanding solutions to the risk the traditional oil, gas producers and refineries are facing due Risk fluctuating oil price product sales process to climate change. Increased social interest in renewable energy and other environmental-friendly energy as well as advances in technology can greatly influence the future of the traditional energy industry Business The oil price continued to rise from early Fair trade including ethical operations Since the adoption of the Paris Agreement in Context 2015 and recorded USD 76 per barrel is a basic requirement to conduct December 2015, interest in climate change is and the future profit model. SK innovation will systemize the major risks we face to create the optimal (based on WTI) in October 2018. However, business activities. Importance of fair growing in all sectors of the environment and way to monitor and respond to each risk. market uncertainty still lingers such as trade trade is growing in transactions with oil society. Negative views on the use of fossil fuels protectionism trend and the geopolitical companies as well as relations between which is the cause of greenhouse emissions and situation of the Middle East. The oil price oil companies and service stations concerns about fine dust are resulting in more and depends on the global economy as well as and rationality in oil price setting that more interest on the topic every day. The use of supply and demand which are influenced by can arise from these relations. SK fossil fuels will ultimately decrease as governments force majeure, issues with operating business innovation holds a particular market and automobile companies are implementing Risk Reporting and Governance Risk Monitoring sites and other factors. The traits of regional share which results in high transaction various policies like promoting sales of electric cars government also play a big role. Countries volume and various business risks. and cutting sales of internal-combustion engines. like Korea rely heavily on oil imports and SK innovation manages risk systematically by SK innovation conducts analysis and monitoring are easily influenced by the governments of categorizing risk into finance, industr y and optimized to each risk factor. On financial risk such countries that provide oil. In addition, global regulations are becoming stricter which will operation. Designated departments of SK innovation as oil price and exchange rates that immediately increase the potential impact of policies set and subsidiaries manage industry risk. Issues that impact business performance, SK innovation and by the governments in these regions. require executive decision-making are discussed subsidiaries each analyze short-term direction and in the risk collaboration body where the subsidiary mediumto long-term trends based on various Risk The oil price and production cost of SK innovation can engage in Oil refining, transporting, distributing and all CEO and department executives participate. Each economy indices to set and manage a standard Impacts petroleum products change depending business with its subsidiaries and relevant areas require increased investment on the global economy. This can lead to various affiliates of SK Group. These and higher production cost in order to decrease 70 designated department manages operational risk appropriate to the according risk factor. In addition, fluctuations in profit, cash flow and profit transactions may ultimately violate greenhouse emissions. The World Bank has 71 including subsidiary risk of the company they belong for industry or operational risk, we monitor relevant structure. Change in oil price since order relevant monopoly regulation and fair announced its termination of oil mining from 2019 date to receiving date can cause crucial trade policies. Unfair support between and we expect other long-term financial risks to to. When executive or subsidiary decision-making is legislations, policy trends and opinions of relevant financial influence due to heavy reliance on affiliates can lead to punishment and come along with climate change. Korea has also necessary, the issue is raised during top executive officials on a daily basis and share the information oil imports. Various government regulations fines which are not only a financial implemented the emissions trading policy resulting such as oil imports and sales, or product problem, but can be detrimental in emissions credit purchasing costs as well as cut meetings. Furthermore, as SK innovation and its through our newsletter and intranet so that all our standards for petroleum goods must be to the reputation of the business. in investment and increasing production costs. subsidiaries are strongly connected in business employees understand major trends and invest considered for business operation. Violating Furthermore, the distrust consumers As the government also strengthens regulations relevant policies such as harmful emissions have towards oil price fluctuations to eliminate fine dust, investment in facilities is operations, several major risks are discussed in top voluntary effort to prevent risk. can result in financial damage. Furthermore, can negatively impact brand loyalty continuing to increase. Also, the government’s executive meetings where the CEO of SK innovation Europe, US as well as emerging nations like which calls for active communication policy to spread electric cars is resulting in the and five subsidiaries participate and necessary China are strengthening relevant regulations regarding this issue. production of electric, hydrogen and hybrid cars which is yielding new opportunities which can replace gasoline and diesel cars made issues are reported to the BOD. in business sectors such as lubricants by automobile manufacturers. This can cause a production. negative impact like the continuing fall of fossil fuel sales. However, we also anticipate fast growth in Risk Management System the electric car battery market thanks to the rapidly growing electric car market in Korea and abroad. Top executive meeting Board of Directors Various risk management collaboration bodies Mitigation We plan to secure business competitiveness SK innovation has made it mandatory SK innovation has forecast risk depending on Actions to grow into a global trading company by for any affiliates engaging in business climate scenarios to design a response strategy in implementing our optimization method that to cooperate with our business order to respond efficiently to emissions trading. SK innovation and subsidiary designated departments utilizes market dynamics in diverse methods. compliance team to regularly monitor We have created a procedure for emissions In addition to building new desulfurizing potential for unfair support. We forecast trading operation that stipulates how to comply facilities to meet stronger government that regulations on unfair trade acts with or respond to legal obligations regarding Financial Risk Business Risk Operational Risk regulations in the region, we are continuing between conglomerates and mediumemissions trading which is running today. We Ethics to develop high-quality lubricants. to small-size companies will become are also securing carbon credit through external Oil price stricter. In response, we are gradually operations to improve energy efficiency in work Compliance strengthening our watch on cases of sites, transform fuel source so that we can stably Exchange rate Risk Human rights abusing superior authority and other fulfill our duty to actively cut greenhouse emissions Category Tax Political situation in the country and region Safety unfair trade acts between suppliers. and submit carbon credit. In addition, we are increasing research and investment in developing Change in climate and environment long-distance electric car batteries and next Credit Policies and regulations Information protection generation batteries as well as building production Competitor trends facilities to respond in advance to the era of energy Social (CR) transformation. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Ethical Management Activate Communication for Ethical Management Create Transparent Supply Chain Ecosystem Conduct research on exploitation of authority We operate communication channels such as the As we forecast that stricter measures will be taken Ethics Consultation and Ethical Management Website on unfair trade acts, we plan to gradually strengthen As legal and social regulations on ethical management are broadening, the scope and awareness of ethical for better monitoring and management of ethical monitoring of unfair trade acts such as overusing management is also growing. The ethical management of SK innovation is not simply perceived as management. Through the channels, we publicize our authority for transactions. In line with this plan, a method to prevent unethical actions of employees but one to enhance the company’s ethical standards ethics regulations and register reports or consultation we intend to conduct surveys on incidents where to gain the trust of stakeholders and pursue sustainable growth and development. on unethical practices. In addition, we operate a authority overused their power against domestic page for ethical management on our company suppliers and client companies to detect any intranet for active communication on the subject cases where we overused authority or violated between employees. By sharing major ethical issues regulations of ethical management. In addition, to that employees can face during work or publicizing better understand the current situation, we will visit unethical happenings in 2018, we have improved suppliers to conduct interviews and guide them on Ethical Management Principles Ethical management practice workshops awareness of ethical business practice. our ethical management activities. Every year, SK innovation hosts an annual Ethical SK innovation has enacted the Code of Ethics as the Management Practice Workshop led by leaders to Result of ethical management reporting Establish healthy transaction culture standards of correct actions and value assessment discuss ethical dilemmas and risk case studies. In There were 130 cases of reporting or consultation ‘Say No to Gifts for Holidays and Promotions’ is based on SKMS (SK Management System). The 2018, we conducted workshops by organization of ethical management as of 2018. By excluding SK innovation’s campaign targeting to suppliers company also presents specific standards for making (286 groups) on the selected topics (available topics basic inquiries, errored reports, reports on other and external stakeholders to strictly prevent any judgements through the Code of Ethics Guidelines. All of audit cases of the past 3 years, internal ethical subsidiary companies or duplicate cases, the total possibilities of inappropriate transactions. Any employees of SK innovation and its affiliates (foreign dilemmas and respecting dignity among employees). number of cases comes to 61. Reported contents are gifts accepted due to unavoidable reasons must or domestic) are obligated to comply with the Code investigated and transferred to relevant departments. be returned and gifts which are difficult to return 72 of Ethics. It is recommended for shareholders of Survey and commitment for practicing ethical For consultations, we offer answers to inquiries are to be used for social contribution activities. In 73 investment companies or business partners that trade management and transfer complaints to the customer service addition, we strictly prohibit donation and support with or are in contract with SK innovation to comply SK innovation conducts annual surveys to gauge department to be resolved. Out of the 31 reported using company assets and budget for political with the Code of Ethics. employee awareness of ethical management and cases that we investigated, 4 were proven to be a objectives in accordance to the Korean legislation on detect weaknesses in our ethical management policy breach of Code of Ethics (Receipt of entertainment political funding and SK innovation's Code of Ethics In addition, we have created an FAQ for Code of and culture. In 2018, 80% of all employees including by supplier). Relevant employees were punished Guidelines. Ethics Guidelines with a case-based behavioral foreign branches participated in the survey. Major according to regulations through the vote of the standard to resolve any inquiries employees may items revealed through the survey are transferred punishment by HR Committee. One case was a have. We also plan to create and distribute an FAQ fit to the relevant department for collaboration before breach of our regulations (covering up accidents) by a for circumstances of global employees. guiding employees. After the survey, we obtain Ethical supplier which we sanctioned accordingly. Management Commitment from employees to promote awareness for ethical business practice. Number of Reports·Consultation on Ethical Management (Unit: Case) Performance of Ethical Consultation Center (Unit: Case) or Ethical Management Website Promote Employee Ethical Awareness Number of Cases by stakeholder 2016 52 Ethical training program 2017 60 Type Report Consultation Complaint Total SK innovation conducts ethics training continuously 2018 61 Customer 13 13 targeting all employees, even those abroad to 2018 Ethics Training Performance (Unit: number of employees, hours) Supplier 19 2 1 22 internalize ethical management in employees. To Employees 6 6 Status of Disciplinary Action for Breach of Ethical Management (Unit: Case) improve concentration and understanding for training, Others·Anonymous 15 5 20 we have created new training material composed of Classification Number of Participants Hours of Training Reason for Disciplinary Action Number of Cases Offline training 1,533 991 basic ethical management terms, dilemma situations Number of Cases by Treatments Sexual Harassment1) 2 Online training 6,556 2,185 and quizzes. The material includes English or Chinese Receipt of Entertainment 4 Total 8,089 3,176 voice-overs for local employees in foreign branches. Type Reports Breach of Code of Ethics 3 Investigation (Audit) 31 Breach of Regulation on SHE (safety, health, environment) 3 Transferred to Relevant Department 27 Job Negligence 6 Others (Unconfirmed or dismissed) 3 Total 18 1) Disciplinary action on employee responsible for 2017 incident SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Fair Trade Compliance Management from small and medium companies as well as offshore is increasing by conducting offline We will conduct the declaration every year for new System intensifying sanctions for violations of relevant training for employees in global offices and employees and other relevant personnel to make regulations. In response, SK innovation reviewed comprehensive interviews targeting relevant sure it is observed instead of being a one-off event. To drive fair competition within the supply chain its subcontract process and status of sharing employees. and enhance transparency of transactions, or using technology-related data to expand the Fair trade compliance training SK innovation implemented its Fair Trade CP control scope with suppliers. We plan to build Strengthening internal monitoring for We have conducted an internal fair trade (Compliance Program). In addition, we strictly and operate a technology data management fair trade compliance training, which covered regulations monitor all affiliated companies of SK innovation system during the first half of 2019 based on the Toward the Fair Trade Commission’s movement and issues that employees will have to consider in by defining detailed management codes for 7 results of the review. to strengthen monitoring of internal transactions their work, with the goal of increasing awareness major compliance items. of conglomerate firms by investigating profit of the compliance with fair trade regulations. The Fair Trade Commission also modified its structure or internal transaction of the holding In terms of offline training, the courses are not Fair trade management organization official review method for conglomerate groups company, SK innovation responded by improving only related to fair trade in general, but rather SK innovation and its four subsidiaries (SK switching from a sample research every 4-5 annual contract review process with SK Corp., specific topics for each organization’s business. energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, years to full annual inspection. The commission its holding company, as well as preventing any Similarly, there is a basic online course for all and SK ie technology) have appointed Chief also greatly intensified items for inspection. In possibilities of violating regulations. On top of employees, as well as advanced courses designed Compliance Officers (CCO) to operate and response, SK innovation has completed practical that, since ‘Enforcement Decree of the Fair Agency for employees in marketing departments. Along manage the CP for each company. The CCO disclosure training for employees who are in Transactions Act’ settled down after the conduct in the same lines, we conducted a two-tier online designs the CP implementation plan and directs charge of disclosures in subsidiary and sub2016, we have improved the internal management training course composed of general training for the implementation process. Biannually, the CCO subsidiaries. Also, we have minimized data system of agency transactions and conduct onall participants as well as an advanced course reports the plan and performance of CP to the errors through comparing the entire contents site inspections of main agency departments of agency transaction for those in organizations BOD. and contract status filed between affiliated SK innovation affiliates and providing training on where agency transactions occur. In addition, companies. As a result, we finalized our review factors that are not up to standard. managers of fair trade affairs are encouraged to Response to external regulation on fair trade with no violations during the investigation term participate in Fair Trade research seminar and 74 The Fair Trade Commission intensified its (2015 to 2017). Furthermore, SK innovation is external training to develop. Finally, we conduct 75 monitoring of conglomerates using technology responding to global trends where the number Internalizing Awareness of Fair Trade in training for our global business sites so that our of small and medium enterprises, the process of of overseas cartel cases or other violations in Employees operations comply with fair trade both in Korea conglomerates demanding technological data regulations of business competitions that occur and abroad. Declaration to practice fair trade SK innovation made a commitment for fair trade in 7 Major Items of the Fair trade Compliance Program March 2019 to promote the compliance awareness of its employees and reaffirm its determination Declaration of the CEO’s ˙Declaration of Fair Trade and application of Fair Trade Compliance regulations Interest and Commitment ˙CEO’s Declaration of company policy for Fair Trade Compliance to fair trade compliance. This year’s declaration targets not only the entirety of employees in the 6 Appointment of Chief ˙Chief of sustainability management (SK innovation), Chief of External Affairs Cooperation SKI affiliate companies but also local employees of Office (SK energy), Chief of Management Planning Office (SK global chemical), Compliance Officer the companies’ foreign branches. The declaration Management Strategy (SK lubricants), Head of LiBS Operations (SK ie technology) was written in three languages, Korean, English and Publication and Distribution ˙Publish Compliance manual Spanish, and distributed to every site accordingly. of Compliance Manual ˙Publish Fair Trade guidebook Fair trade voluntary compliance education in our global business site ˙Hold seminars for those relevant to fair trade Status of Fair Trade Compliance Training Compliance training ˙Conduct training to cultivate fair trade specialists and hold specialized training by business area Timing Subject Target ˙Operate a Fair Trade Compliance Committee and Compliance regulations January Orientation for new employees – Fair trade training New employees of 2018 Internal Monitoring System ˙Appoint a department responsible for Compliance March Training on regulating cartel, unfair trade acts and Fair Agency Transactions Act SKE Retail Sector ˙Conduct inspections on Fair Trade March Fair trade training for B2C salespersons (unfair trade acts, Fair Agency Transactions Act) SKE B2C Sector June Fair trade training regarding Fair Agency Transactions Act SKGC Polymer Yeongnam Office Disciplinary Action on those ˙Establish and implement punitive measures on violations of Fair Trade Act July Training on regulating cartel, unfair trade acts and Fair Agency Transactions Act SKE Network Sector who breach regulations September SUPEX Spirit Camp Training on fair trade Group training subjects based on year of employment September Training on Fair Agency Transactions Act Relevant job conducting employees SKI affiliated companies Construction of ˙Systematic management of overall documents on Compliance activities October Partnership Seminar for mutual growth (education on cartel) Partnership companies Documentation Database November Singapore Fair Trade Seminar Singapore offices of SKI affiliates (6 companies) SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Employees Major HRD Programs their knowledge and experience. Employees use the opportunity to acquire vivid on-the-job knowledge Customized training program • SK innovation runs to apply to their own work which can lead to diverse businesses including production and sales of performance. petroleum products, trading and manufacturing of Building a system to strengthen the capabilities of employees who are the core of business operations batteries and materials. Each subsidiary has a system Fair performance evaluation and compensation and creating a healthy organizational culture is crucial for bringing new changes and innovation to the to cultivate talent according to the knowledge and SK innovation conducts regular meetings between organization. SK innovation aims to cultivate employees who will lead a Deep Change for a ‘stronger and skills that the industry requires. In addition, we run team directors and team members as well as checkbetter company’ by ‘not only improving what we do well but succeeding in what we have not done’. To a systematic curriculum for every job type such as up sessions on an organizational level. We practice a accelerate this process, we will continue to improve communication with our employees to create ‘innovation engineers, researchers or technician trainees and systematic and fair evaluation policy which assesses of work approach’ between leader and members and establish a ‘culture to speak one’s mind’ early on. provide a training system that employees can plan employees’ capabilities, traits and accomplishments on themselves and participate in of their own initiative. various dimensions. The results are finalized after an Furthermore, we define the best-fit leadership auditing process so that employees are more accepting optimized to each organization as every business and of the results. We also run a wish system through which Cultivate Talent establishment requires a different type of leadership, employees can raise objections. Evaluation results on which we base our assessment and feedback of are used for promotions, training and compensation, System to cultivate talent leadership effectiveness. Through this method, all and we provide differentiated compensation by SK pursues ‘Talent that executes ‘ambition’ with continue to grow and improve their capabilities so leaders receive a customized leadership guide and performance. Our compensation policy is based on faith in our business philosophy’. We run a talent that we can ultimately build talent that SK innovation participate in training programs by individual need to comprehensive assessment on individual performance training system based on three pillars: leadership, believes in. enhance leadership qualities. as well as long-term and short-term goals related professionalism and core value so employees can to company sustainability. We do not differentiate Expertise upgrade program by field • We provide an compensation based on unfair evaluations based on online and offline course to cultivate experts who are gender, age or level of education. Talent we pursue equipped with an integrated perspective and decision76 77 making skills in their field. The program consists Fields of performance evaluation Compensation principle Faith in business philosophy Pae-gi (Ambition) of 7 courses by business function including legal, SK Value capability purchasing and PR, 4 business fields including M&A, Accomplish happiness of stakeholders by building Self-motivate to tackle high-level challenges and boldly execute contracting and negotiation, and 8 online courses Achievement SUPEX-oriented culture through VWBE to break through existing frames. Do one’s best to build up skills necessary in the process and work as a team. including management, leadership and languages. We Overall Compensation by performance VWBE SUPEX provide a theoretical basis for experts in various fields Voluntary and Willing A Super Excellent level, the peak Brain Engagement level that human capability can to understand business functions and frameworks by reach business sector in order to grow into leaders who can Performance evaluation reflecting SV (Social Values) make strategic and comprehensive decisions. Generally, performance evaluation of a company is based on financial performance and optimized System to cultivate talent Skill development through leaders and internal to motivate goals such as revenue growth. In 2019, professionals • We conduct skill transfer programs on SK innovation broke through existing customs and Develop and exhibit leadership for those in charge Strengthen expert capability (skill) various topics that can contribute to the performance added SV to our KPI (Key Performance Indicators) to ˙Conduct customized assessment-feedback based ˙Develop specialized capabilities based on skill system on best-fit leadership model optimized to each by organization of organizations where leaders and experts within the include social values when evaluating performance organization ˙Provide courses to build management function and company participate. Through ‘leaders’ direct lectures’ of the organization and employees. We anticipate this ˙Support active skill improvement through leadership practical business capability Leadership training, coaching and workshops Work ˙Medium-long term training for certified and nonfrom leaders and ‘knowledge sharing seminars’ from change will create an environment for employees to ˙Conduct synergy improving programs by organization capabilities certified courses company experts, leaders and experts summarize actively participate in creating social value as well as motivating them. Pioneer in cultivating next generation leaders Internalize core values ˙Discover high potential talent for early and systematic ˙Strengthen understanding and practice of SKMS CLX University cultivation ˙Spread our philosophy on social values ˙Spread our method to innovate work approach General SK innovation runs ‘CLX University’, a unique system for technology capability training with the goal to cultivate engineers with global Manager PL Manager competitiveness. CLX University annually provides 70 general courses, technology seminars on 15 topics and core capability courses in 258 Next subjects. We also provide a 5 month curriculum for new technicians and quarterly special lectures on leader initiatives where all leaders participate. JLDP FLDP HLP SK Values generation Our textbooks are based on our 57 years of experience and know-how in running manufacturing facilities and we closely manage our school (Junior Leader (Future Leader (High Potential leaders Development Development Leader affairs. The CLX University contributes to improving employee capabilities, cuts fixed costs and improves our margins, leading to performance Program) Program) Program) enhancement through Input SUPEX. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Innovating the Way of Work Creating Work-friendly Company Culture Stimulate communication among employees and group training. Retirees and their partners can SK innovation runs various communication channels participate in the couple retiree support program to Spread culture to innovate way of work Welfare for the liberal communication among CEO, leaders, celebrate retirement as well as expressing gratitude SK pursues ‘Talent that executes ‘ambition’ with employees and executives. Employees can participate to the retiree and their families to add meaning to the faith in our business philosophy’. We run a talent Leave policy • Based on the principle that taking to create a culture of smooth communication. We run program. training system based on three pillars: leadership, time off is an individual right, we have terminated the various online and offline channels as well as events professionalism and core value so employees can existing system where leave needed to be approved. to promote effective communication. continue to grow and improve their capabilities Now we conduct a ‘Report Leave System’ where so that we can ultimately build up talent that SK employees can use their leave based on their vocation In particular, we appoint approximately 270 members 1. iCON Workshop innovation believes in. and responsibility. We promote big breaks that exceed as ‘iCON* innovation Communication ON), the 2. Retiree support program two weeks off or sandwich holidays so that employees change facilitator and the bridge to communication Work Approach Innovation Practice Process can be well rested. between leader and employees to promote truthful communication focusing on our employees. In Why How Why do I need to do this task? How do I execute this task? Happiness pension policy • We run a happiness addition, we host regular Executive-Agile workshops pension policy, separate from our existing retirement in which every CEO and employee of SK innovation fund policy to support the stable and happy elderly subsidiaries participates. Also, in order to monitor the Execution What life of our employees. Every month, we match the rate of innovation in organization culture, we conduct Execute the idea that breaks What must I do for this job? the existing frame of thought company support fund with the amount the employee regular interviews and surveys, and reflect the provides and make a deposit into the retirement results in our business activities or improving internal pension account so that employees can manage their systems. Work approach innovation workshop • We 1 retirement funds in a more stable way. developed the ‘Work Approach Innovation Workshop Retiree support program 2.0’ through Blue Ocean Shift Tool to explain the work Welfare policy • We provide various welfare programs We run a support program for retirees based on our approach innovation in an easy way and spread the 78 for the happiness and comfort of employees at work philosophy to create happiness for all stakeholders 79 detailed method of practice. We took applicants and and at home. including to-be retirees, government, labor unions conducted the workshop. and employees. We include contents that will be of actual help to retirees such as training on economy, Work approach innovation campaign • We promoted Type Contents social life and health care. Our focus is to promote Monetary support SK Happiness Card, support individual pension the practice of work approach innovation by Support for regular health checks and medical fees activity after retirement and liaison with outside connecting our campaign with the CEO’s message Health care (includes partner and children) expert organizations. We also consider individuals’ and receiving various cases and ideas on the topic, Housing support Support for house purchase, deposit loan, dormitory values and circumstances to provide 1-on-1 consulting 2 which led to actual participation by employees. and living expenses in case of regional work Holidays and care money for celebrations or Family and child care condolences, maternal and child care leave, nursery Work approach case book and letters • To promote support Online and offline communication channels or child schooling fees understanding as well as pride for the Work Approach Support vacation facilities, condominiums, fitness Hobbies and leisure Innovation, we gathered such cases and published centers and company club activities Operating channels Contents them as a book. In addition, to help employees Other Rewards for long-term employees Run an online board where company members can propose ideas on topics such as operations or regulations or post tong tong practice innovation, we selected major cases and sent inquiries. Answers provided real-time to strengthen interactive communication out letters in the form of card news. Leader’s Blog Improve employees’ understanding of major business philosophies, business direction and messages to employees through Online the CEO blog by organizing the contents by topic Broadcast internal programs by schedule targeting the entire workforce of SK innovation affiliates. Provide information on Internal channel executive activities, major business status, activities by organizations and other news from company members to the entire company CASE. Create a work environment to drive innovation in work method Acts as the Change Facilitator as well as the company internal messenger. Share opinions on topics where consensus is iCON needed, drive change and propose ideas. Regular communication with leaders to share thoughts on business operations (270 participant as of 2018) We created an office space to stimulate ‘sharing and collaborating’ between employees in order CEO, executives and employees participate in various cultural or outdoor activities outside of work to communicate freely to innovate work methods. The new space includes a rest space equipped with a cafe, party Happy Walk and share meaningful time off (Hosted monthly by executive board of each company based on voluntary participation of room, fitness center and nap space to improve work efficiency and promote collaboration. The Offline employees and families) space allows employees to fully recharge during work. Instead of seat allocation, employees are Workshop for all ranks Share business objectives and agenda for change by organization to discuss the topics and provide a forum to propose ideas. free to select seating in a diverse work space depending on work type or personal circumstances. Monthly lectures from internal and external experts on major business issues of the month, change and innovation targeting In addition, we utilize IT gadgets to create a paperless office where reports can be made in a Leaders’ forum CEOs, all executives and directors. Forum to also share business operation status. timely and efficient manner. Professional psychological counselors and external experts provide counseling and coaching for life, care, work, and family to Harmonia members and their families in order to help the development of their mind health and competence. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Female talent support Prevent sexual harassment Human Rights Management SK innovation Human Rights Declaration SK innovation operates W-Network, an internal SK innovation conducts training sessions to promote female panel to prevent unfair practices on our awareness of human rights regarding sex and to Human rights policy 1. S K Innovation respects the dignity and value as human beings for female workforce and to promote a femalestrictly prevent sexual harassment in the workplace. SK innovation established various policies to prevent all stakeholders to realize sustainable happiness. 2. Based on the spirit of humanity, SK Innovation makes every effort friendly work environment. W-Network focuses We continue to provide an annual online training direct or indirect violation of human rights or negative to maintain a safe and healthy working environment for all of the on increasing female employment and skill course, Values Curriculum for promoted employees influences on human rights in business relations stakeholders to pursue happiness. training as well as creating a female-friendly work and offline training for new and experienced including talent employment and training strategy, 3. SK Innovation supports and follows the human rights protection and labor standards of labor-related international organizations environment. Our efforts were recognized and we employees. We also run a sexual harassment regulations on safety, health and environment, such as UNGC and ILO, and does not discriminate based on any received the Presidential Certificate for ‘Employment consultation center in the company. When a report of ethics regulation, behavioral standards for suppliers grounds such as gender, race, nationality, religion or age. Gender Equality’ and the Grand Prize for ‘Gender sexual harassment occurs, we form an investigation 4. SK Innovation complies with the labor laws and regulations of and ethical purchasing regulation to strictly comply each country or region in which human rights policy and the Collaboration’. team including a female lawyer. Any employee to be with human rights principles. In addition, we joined business sites of our company exist, and our company confirms proven guilty is immediately made redundant and the UNGC (United Nations Global Compact) global that this policy is the fundamental obligation that all suppliers Action system to solve female issues by rank and business partners who do business with our company must we deal with other issues of sex in a strict and serious sustainability initiative as of October 2007 to fulfill our comply with. Employee Assistant manager General manager manner. obligations as a conglomerate citizen and declare 5. S  K Innovation shall designates a department in charge of ~ Assistant manager ~ General manager ~ Executive manager agreement with 10 principles in four fields: human human rights management and regularly conducts human rights Expand female Minimize career Promote growth education for all stakeholders. Work-life balance rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. workforce interruption into leaders We provide a flexible work environment so that our Increase Exempt employees Select High employees can maintain a stable work-life balance. Human rights risk assessment and due diligence HR new public (more than 6 Policy employment month) on leave Potential (HIPO) We implemented the ‘Smart Work System’ so workers SK innovation conducts due diligence for human Detailed operating instructions female talent (Maintain 30%) from evaluation can control their own hours and also minimized rights targeting employees of SK innovation meetings and reporting procedures to improve work subsidiaries and suppliers in order to prevent any 1. Respect for human rights: Respect all stakeholders as human General/executive Cultivate Female director efficiency. Furthermore, any request for maternity human rights violations during business operations. beings and ensure that no acts that constitute human rights manager female female candidate leave automatically stretches to a 1-year child-care leadership We identify human rights due diligence as a process violations occur. workcourse 2. Prohibition of child labor: Never employ children and young 80 force workshop (group course) leave request so that employees can raise their where the company detects and solves any negative 81 (group course) people under the age of 15. children without the pressure of work. We also plan to effects related to governance, employees, human 3. Working Hours: Regular work hours and overtime hours are open an area for breastfeeding as well as a rest space rights, environment or bribery. SK innovation regularly subject to the standards established by the labor relations laws Workof each country or region. Automatic transfer to child-care leave for pregnant females. executes the due diligence process stipulated by 4. No Discrimination: There shall be no discrimination in family Increase child-care centers in the workplace harmony international guidelines for actual human rights employment on the grounds such as gender, race, nationality, ethnicity or religion, nor there shall be any discrimination in protection of our employees and business partners. employment conditions such as wage or promotion for the Improve We also ethically report our findings to stakeholders. same reasons. awareInclude diversity module in leader training The procedure is in the following: assessing influence 5. Prohibition of forced labor: There shall be no forced labor ness and (Include in training for newly appointed directors) against free will of the employees by mental and physical culture on human rights, identifying the influence, setting restraint including slavery and human trafficking, and the goals for improvement, processing complaints, company shall not request for retention of identifications issued monitoring and external reporting and publication. by government, passport or work permits in exchange for employment. Through this method, we continuously manage any 6.  Minor labor: In case of minor under 18 years of age, the effects on human rights on work sites. The human company shall employ them by complying with the labor relations laws, and make sure they do not engage in risky and rights due diligence conducted in 2019 is stated in harmful work. detail for the public on our SK innovation website. 7. Wages: Wages of employees shall be above the minimum level set forth by the labor relations laws of each country or region. 8. Freedom of Association: The rights to freedom of association Human rights due diligence process and collective bargaining under the labor relations laws and regulations of each country or region shall be guaranteed, and there shall be no disadvantageous treatment for the reason of Evaluate influence on Identify influence joining, having activities for or forming a union. human rights 9. Workplace safety and environment: The company shall form pleasant working environment by complying with international Create improvement goals standards, related laws and regulations and internal regulations regarding working environment and continuously endeavor to Include feedback protect against safety accidents Process complaints 10. Due Diligence of Human Rights Protection: The company shall sincerely implement human rights due diligence process for actual human rights protection and continuously work to External reporting and prevent risks and protect human rights. publication Monitoring SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Social Contribution Value Creation through Social Enterprise Discovering and supporting social enterprises SK innovation selected 12 business models over SK innovation drives innovative solutions for social the 5 years since 2013 through a public project to issues through various methods such as discovering find social enterprises and provided tangible and and supporting social enterprises and cultivating star intangible assets to share our infrastructure so that SK innovation pursues both social value and economic value based on the Double Bottom Line to social enterprises. In addition, we contribute to local the enterprises could secure a competitive edge. bring happiness to stakeholders. We invest our efforts into creating and spreading a differentiated agriculture not only in Korea but in Peru where we We helped those organizations mature into social social value to maximize stakeholder value. We continuously innovate to solve fundamental social issues operate our business. By 2019, we will also establish enterprises or social cooperatives. We also supported and conduct activities to help the socially disadvantaged. an environmental social enterprise in Tra Vinh, developing social economic organizations in the Vietnam. Ulsan area surrounding our Ulsan business site to create jobs for the socially disadvantaged as well as providing social programs. In 2018, we promoted the social job creation project with 1% Happiness Sharing fund from our employees. Operation Structure for Social Contribution The social contribution system of SK innovation is the competitiveness of these companies, 2) Green made of 3 sectors to become a company that creates Innovation for environmental protection to create sustainable happiness in accordance with our slogan, sustainable environmental value around regional ‘Happinnovation’ a portmanteau of our company business sites, and 3) Happy Innovation where name and our core value, Happiness. The following the company and workforce work together for the Status of social enterprise discovery and support project are the three sectors; 1) Social Innovation to create betterment of local communities. jobs for the socially disadvantaged through social 82 enterprises and to build an ecosystem to improve Objective 83 Job creation for socially disadvantaged Clean dry-cleaning people and support independence Morethan Co., Ltd Social cooperative Operation structure for social contribution through conversion to social enterprise Seoul Seongnam Rice Cake MOA social cooperative Social cooperative Project overview Northern Gyeonggi Squeaky Clean Dry Select business through open Cleaning (LLC) Rural Community RFP’s and provide infrastructure Research Institute Seoul investment and consulting to Well-being Social Jecheon the selected business for three years cooperative Journey together Daejeon (corporation) HAPPINNOVATION Support Chunnuri Jeonju Bakery Andong Innovate happiness Support provided Investment in facilities, training for specialists in Northern Jeolla Senior Safe Parcel Service legal, labor, accounting and marketing, consulting to transform into social Daegu DB Life enterprise, training to improve skills f social cooperative Cheongwon Senior Food or the socially disadvantaged, build Yeonggwang-gun Social cooperative sales channels, pro bono support, etc. Northern Chungcheong Results Usisan Co., Malgeun Co., ˙12 business were converted into Kokkirigongjang Co., Usisan Yedang social cooperative social economic institutions Social Innovation Green Innovation Happy Innovation ˙Jobs created: 300 Star Social Enterprises Social Enterprises Ulsan Ulsan Innovative problem-solving for Sustainable environment Shared growth with social issues local community ˙Project to discover social enterprises ˙Activities to protect the environment of ˙Support those with disability disorders Outcome of supporting society and economy in Ulsan ˙Cultivate star social enterprise local work sites to become independent ˙Create ecosystem for social enterprises ˙Mangrove forest restoration project in ˙Project to protect elderly that live alone ˙Helped 6 companies for Nam-gu center social economy support, business development project 2017 Vietnam ˙Mutual growth with local community CNT Inc, Dream Culture, Leather Studio, Alpha Media, Taehwa River Cheolsae Village Guest House, Yellow Bridge ˙I Green We Green Campaign ˙Employee donation ˙Aided 4 companies for Nam-gu center social economy support, business development project (1% Happiness Sharing) Petite Maman, The Korea Speech, Bean Art Lover, Human Drone Development 2018 ˙Aided project to create social jobs with our Employee 1% Happiness Sharing Fund Usisan, Malgeun, Kokkirigongjang, Yedang social cooperative SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Cultivating Star Social Enterprises Chunnuri Jeonju Bread Inc. Morethan Co., Ltd case as the delegate for Korean startups. Morethan has Jeonju Bibim Bread is Chunnuri Food’s major product Morethan is a social enterprise that upcycles leather gained recognition in Korea and worldwide and won the SK innovation judged that the nature of a social which recorded explosive sales after its back story seats, airbags and other byproducts from a vehicle that Korean Social Enterprise Award 2018. enterprise hinders it from securing business ‘bread that makes no money despite sales’ spread is not recycled to create fashion items such as bags competitiveness and sustainability. We understood through word of mouth. Since contributing to its initial and wallets. SK innovation shared its infrastructure that Usisan the need to cultivate social enterprises that can investment in 2013, we established an open platform by is suitable for the fashion industry based on its knowUsisan is the third star social enterprise that contributes first survive and be independent. So as of 2017 sharing the group and subsidiaries’ infrastructure and how of cultivating star social enterprises. In particular, to local economic growth by developing whales of we changed our direction to cultivating star social supported Chunnuri in all facets. We are building the we collaborated with entertainment companies to Ulsan Jangsaengpo that will never return due to enterprises. After considering growth potential, social company as a success model as a star social enterprise. actively promote the brand through popular programs pollution, into culture content products. Usisan was value and other factors of the business models that and celebrities. Furthermore, we launched a Morethan certified as a venture tourism company by Korea we were cultivating, we selected Chunnuri Food The success of Jeonju Bibim Bread resulted in a product as ‘Good Product’ item 1 at SK Store which Tourism Organization. It has not only been creating and Morethan as Star social enterprises (STAR SE) company growth from 4 initial employees to 40 fullwas recognized for its exceptional design and quality jobs for the socially disadvantaged through various and developed them. We actively shared our assets time workers, along with an affiliated lab where youth by the pickiest merchandisers. Morethan has opened a business projects but has also been extending their and infrastructure such as business consulting, in graduate or postgraduate level or equivalent are store in JDC duty-free shop and is expanding its sales cultural impact by displaying artwork from local artists strengthening product competitiveness, advertising working together. In addition, the success is largely channel. Thanks to this kind of growth, the case was in gallery cafes. Furthermore, Usisan operates the gift and marketing. This allowed us to improve their contributing to the local economy by purchasing local introduced at ‘Global Engagement & Empowerment shop in Jangsaengpo Whale Museum and runs various business performance so they could mature into produce, spreading local food items, outsourcing Forum on Sustainable Development 2018’ as a success experiential programs in the post office to donate part social enterprises. We have selected Usisan in Ulsan production to small social enterprises, increasing jobs story. In addition, Morethan was selected as an example of the profits on researching endangered whales and as our third STAR SE and we are developing it into a and improving revenue and stimulating the business corporation in job creation and received an invitation protecting them. Usisan will continue to create social success model. area in the Jeonju old city center. Chunnuri opened from the visiting French state to the ‘Korea-France value as a major social enterprise to protect Korea’s three more branches in the Jeonju and Iksan area. In Business Summit’ in 2018 where it presented its success seas and transform Ulsan from an industrial city to a SK innovation is continuously discovering and 2019, another store is prepared to open around the green city for tourism. developing star social enterprises based on Jeonju KTX Station. Chunnuri is expanding by building Environment saved by Morethan’s efforts 84 experience and knowledge. A birth of one star social a platform to stimulate the North Jeolla economy 85 104,000 68,818 4,770,000 5,060 cattle enterprise not only stimulates the social economic through ‘North Jeolla Social Economy Alliance’ based kg kg L Amount landfill waste Amount of leather Amount of water saved through Lives saved through collected from seat parts upcycled by Morethan Morethan’s leather re-processing leather recycling ecosystem in the area but also spreads and expands on Jeonju Bibim Bread. Thanks to these efforts, and leather scraps technology which makes the social value to relevant social enterprises, like a Chunnuri was awarded the Korean Social Enterprise dying process obsolete butterfly effect, which is why the model has gained Award in 2017 and received an invitation to the 30,605 ㎡ 2,437,000 15,705 trees 100 % recognition in Korea and the world. presidential conference as a North Jeolla province Area of leather utilized Carbon footprints reduced Equivalent effect to planting above Portion of recycled by Morethan by reusing leather number of 30-year-old pine trees leather Morethan uses delegate for outstanding operations. Star social enterprise development plan Result of Chunnuri Food’s social value creation Result of Morethan’s social value creation Result of Usisan’s social value creation Revenue (Unit: KRW 100 million) Revenue (Unit: KRW 100 million) Revenue (Unit: KRW 100 million) ˙Phase 1 Position in growth and independence track of star social enterprise 2016 3 2016 0.9 2016 0.7 ˙Phase 2, phase 3 Develop star social enterprises, create and 2017 15 2017 3.5 2017 1.3 continuously spread social value 2018 20 2018 10 2018 4.5 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Employed workforce (Unit: number of employees) Employed workforce (Unit: number of employees) Employed workforce (Unit: number of employees) Social Social Social enterprise enterprise enterprise 2016 18 2016 4 2016 5 2017 26 2017 16 2017 8 Check point for 2018 40 2018 20 2018 10 autonomy SUSTAINABILITY Start 2nd Start 3rd developmen development TIME SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Support for the Socially Disadvantaged Employee donation program Program for Shared Growth with at home and abroad. We conduct various programs In 2018, SK included the notion that ‘we develop Communities that create social value for various areas such as Happiness sharing and bridge love mutually with society’ in our management philosophy helping the socially disadvantaged, environment and SK innovation operates 71 volunteer teams since (SKMS). After a successful negotiation between the SK innovation prioritizes stakeholder happiness and education in order to fulfill our duty as a body in the our executives and employees formed ‘SK Angels company and workforce, we decided that employees the local community in areas of business operation local community. (1004) Volunteer Group’ in 2004. All employees are contribute 1% of their base salary and the company volunteers. Our volunteer work emphasizes face-toparticipates in a matching grant to meet the amount. Mutual growth in Korea Mutual growth worldwide face support through a 1:1 Caring Program so that our This laid our groundwork to creating a futureefforts are not limited to simple financial help. In 2018, oriented innovative labor-management culture. The Ulsan Education U.S.A ˙Food Bank volunteer work in Houston for disadvantaged 96% of our employees participated in volunteer work idea is an expansion of our ‘A donation account per ˙Scholarship funding for University of Ulsan children skipping meals and the homeless (2017) through which we formed alliances with 35 schools person program’ which was launched in 2007. Funds ˙SK Happiness Scholarship ˙USD 50,000 fund donation to department of Korean ˙Scholarship for elementary schools in the area Studies, Rice University (2017~2018) and institutions that help children with developmental collected from late 2017 went to supporting global ˙Dream finding program for youth in turmoil ˙USD 50,000 donation to Tulsa Regional STEM Alliance disabilities, and 17 institutions for the elderly. We environment and the socially disadvantaged. ˙Support program for youth outside school (TRSA) Education Program in Oklahoma ˙USD 50,000 donation to fire and emergency medical have supported 4,000 children 2,100 elderly through Culture and welfare services located in Freeport, Texas ˙Ulsan Rose Festival the year. Our efforts were recognized and we were awarded the Grand Award for Volunteer Work in Korea 1% Happiness Sharing Fund Support for disadvantaged and vulnerable classes ˙Social welfare programs(public contest for social Peru ˙Training support for agricultural technology and Donation Amount (Jan~Dec 2018) from the Ministry of the Interior and Safety, Certification enterprises, welfare blindspot happiness parcel) equipment consulting (My Ecotech Farm) of Merit as an institution for protecting the elderly from KRW 4.88 billion ˙Job creation for the socially disadvantaged ˙Quality education program for low-income students, parents and school staff (My School Program) ˙Victims or crime support center the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and many other ˙Project to prevent senior dementia patients from Mutual growth with volunteer related medals. We will gradually extend our suppliers ˙Support for suppliers to achieve mutual going missing KRW 2.41 billion growth and alliance ˙Educating family of elderly to prevent dementia Southeast Singapore talent donation and pro bono projects to 10% and 6% ˙Neighborhood love project of kimchi making Asia ˙Travel escort volunteer program for seniors (2015~2017) of our volunteer work respectively, based on skills and ˙Medical expense support for children with and sharing ˙Volunteer program to provide to the disadvantaged leukemia ˙Support for children with developmental disabilities expertise of our employees. Medical care ˙Artificial joint treatment for socially 86 KRW 1.52 billion disadvantaged people Incheon Education Vietnam 87 ˙Medical fee support for the elderly and ˙Mangrove forest restoration to fight climate change ˙Improve used equipment Happy Dream-I 1) children who are victims of violence (Tra Vinh province) (elementary school, middle school) Jobs ˙Summer camp science media for middle schools ˙Support for job creation of social enterprises KRW 130 million ˙After-school classes in elementary schools Target Goal Project contents ˙Uniform sharing program to spread love Children with Training to adapt to On site experiential ˙House Repair with Love for elderly living Housing/living ˙Academic mentoring for middle schools developmental society to become learning, training to alone or low-income households support ˙Personal book mentoring ‘Rain Shower’ disabilities independent adapt to society ˙Support for senior centers, children centers KRW 460 million ˙Growing hope sports class for and welfare establishments developmental disability ˙Eco Forest experience class Happiness Sharing Love Connection ˙Support for students that pursue arts, music Rainbow Forest experience class Education and sports from low-income households KRW 220 million ˙Classroom building project for remote areas in Nepal Culture and welfare Target Goal Project contents ˙Incheon spring blossom festival Elderly living alone Absolve feelings Build relationship ˙Support for persons with developmental ˙Neighborhood music festival of social isolation between elderly disabilities to become independent ˙Shingles vaccination for seniors and provide mental and employee (chat Global environment ˙Vietnam mangrove forest restoration project ˙Happiness culture center for neighborhoods support friend), inspect safety KRW 140 million ˙Seo-gu kimchi making festival promotion hazards ˙Parents’ Day support ˙Support for bonding project with seniors and Happiness Recharge Walks 1) A child that dreams of happiness Neighborhood environment improvement Participation of employees in volunteer work ˙Neighborhood improvement project Average volunteer hours per employee (Unit: hour) Participation rate (Unit: %)) Seosan Support for disadvantaged and vulnerable classes ˙Targeting children with developmental disorders, 2011 9.9 2011 68.3 support social and cultural field education 2012 8.2 2012 65.1 Popular tourist attractions, movie theaters, national music festival for those with developmental disorders, etc. 2013 7.3 2013 61.8 2014 5.9 2014 57.1 On-site field experience education 2015 5.6 2015 56.9 2016 7.8 2016 100 JeungSupport for disadvantaged and vulnerable classes pyeong ˙Targeting elderly living alone, support for stable life 2017 8.5 2017 100 Kimchi sharing event, etc Donation to Fire and Emergency Medical Service Center, Texas 2018 8.3 2018 96 * Objective: 30% of residents in Incheon (3 district neighborhoods) to receive quality education through mutual growth programs by 2020 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Specialized Social Contribution CASE. I Green We Green Challenge Support to improve sociability and autonomy for those with developmental disabilities SK innovation contributes to patients with developmental disorders by promoting cultural and physical activities to improve their Creating a sustainable environment SK innovation is campaigning to use tumblers to join the global physical and mental health as well as sociability. Our efforts also go to enhancing job specialization for the developmentally disabled We conduct various activities with local stakeholders campaign to reduce plastic and create social value in daily that experience career interruptions after school years to continue their employment. company life. As part of the campaign, we launched ‘I Green We to create social value through our campaign to reduce Green Campaign’, a photo relay showing tumbler or mug cup disposable products and environment protection use by organization in the entire company. We also encouraged National music festival for projects in the vicinity of our business sites. employees to carry tumblers into meetings and banned disposable those with developmental disabilities The 1st Great Music Festival cups in our headquarters. We will expand our campaign to reduce ˙Contents: 38 teams nationwide (343 participants), 800 attendees disposables from our company to external stakeholders. We (Great Music Festival) ˙Outcome: Company concert for awarded teams, performance Project name Term Project contents also have plans to provide all floors of headquarters with mug Since 2017, we have been holding the opportunities at flea markets or other major events ˙In collaboration with Ulsan Forest of Life cups as well as a washer just for mugs. In addition, we will take Great Music Festival with Heart Heart a step further from using tumblers to continuous campaigning The 2nd Great Music Festival (2018) ˙Ulsan Daewangam Park dead leaf scrape up Foundation for music teams composed to protect pine trees to reduce plastic with regional government bodies, schools and ˙Contents: 33 teams nationwide (299 participants), 1000 attendees organizations. of the developmentally disabled in ˙Outcome: Opportunity to perform at concerts inside and outside ˙Cool Wall creation in city center Ulsan Forest 2005~ ˙Ivy planting on retaining walls order to improve their sociability and the company, and major event for awarded teams, Protection for Life Raised awareness for disabled persons through MOU ˙Eliminating harmful plants promote their musical talents. with Korea Cable TV Commission and SM Entertainment ˙Fertilizing Green Zone trees that filter fine dust ˙Collection of gingko fruit on streets Incheon 1 ˙Garbage and waste clearing in Simgok River, Support program for Company 1 2006~ Wonjeok Mountain area the developmentally disabled to The 1st Career Jump Up Class (2018) Mountain 1 River ˙EM mudball throwing event to improve river ˙Term: July~December 2018 become autonomous Care water quality (2,000) ˙Contents: Agreement between SK innovation-Korea Foundation for Persons with Disabilities-Seoul Environment ˙Cleaning project for business site (Career Jump Up Class) Training Center for Persons with Disabilities on 5 occupational fields for educational training restoration in 2006~ surroundings and roads above seas We provide a program to promote programs vicinity of Incheon ˙9 activities in 2018 autonomy with Korea Foundation for I. Re-employment Booster Class II. New Occupation Skill Challenge Class business sites (120 participants from employee) Persons with Disabilities where we ˙Barista: 6 participants obtained certifications, ˙Easy writing: 3 found employment as writer, 3 participants found employment reporter or book master train the developmentally disabled 88 ˙Baking: 4 participants found employment ˙Easy broadcasting: 6 found employment as 89 ‘Happy Heart Healing Camp’ for daily carers of after school days (aged 21 and announcer, DJ, voice actor, etc. ˙Easy producing: 5 found employment as PD, seniors living alone over) in jobs that connect to actual camera director, etc. The 1st Happy Heart Healing Camp SK innovation runs a program to improve self˙Camp Term: August, November 2018 (biannual) employment. ˙Outcome: 37 trained, 21 employed ˙Partner organization: Comprehensive Support Center for the Elderly confidence of their impact targeting daily carers of Grand prize winner of exceptional case of job skill development competition Living Alone, Ministry of Health and Welfare seniors living alone. The role of daily carers is growing KBS radio appearance ˙Target: Daily carers for the elderly living alone (80 participants) from partner welfare centers in Seoul. Daejeon, Jeungpyeong business site due to the aging population. However, depression is areas (7 centers) on the rise from intense emotion-labor with issues ˙Program contents Sports class for persons with such as the death of a senior, suicide or violence. Healing Camp to improve self-confidence and influence developmental disabilities Baseball Class to Grow Hope (2017) Differentiated curriculum using SK innovation infrastructure and SK innovation is exclusively improving the caring company skills such as SK Arcadia Training Center, music concert by We began this project to help children ˙Partner organization: SK Wyverns, Incheon Seogu Community Rehabilitation Center, National Center for Disabled Children and Developmental Disabilities in Incheon, JEI University environment for seniors living alone through ‘Happy patients of developmental disabilities with developmental disabilities ˙Contents: Baseball class with SK Wyverns ˙Future plan Heart Healing Camp’ which aims to alleviate job Expand to partnering welfare centers in Ulsan and Incheon business develop physically and improve ˙Outcome: 540 participants from special classes in elementary and middle school located in Incheon difficulty and stress. sites as of 2019 sociability in partnership with local Sports class for hope (2018) baseball teams in 2017. In 2018, we ˙Partner organization: SK Wyverns, Incheon UTD FC, Shinhan S-Birds, Incheon Seobu Office of expanded our support to local sports Education, Incheon Seogu Community Rehabilitation Center, National Center for Disabled Children and Developmental Disabilities in Incheon, JEI University teams. ˙Contents: Baseball class with SK Wyverns ˙Outcome: 774 participants from special classes in 20 elementary and middle school located in Incheon Forest experience class for children with developmental disabilities Environmental Forest Ecology class (2017) ˙Suppliers: E  cology education center Uirang, National Center for Disabled Children and Developmental We have been providing the ecoDisabilities in Incheon, Incheon Chamber of Commerce forest experience class for children ˙Outcome: Participation from 163 elementary students with developmental disorders in Incheon area Happy Heart Healing Camp with developmental disabilities from Rainbow Forest Experience Class (2018) 2017 in the Incheon area to build their ˙Suppliers: E  cology education center Uirang, National Center for Disabled Children and Developmental physical and emotional development. Disabilities in Incheon, Incheon Seobu Office of Education ˙Outcome: Participation from 280 elementary students with developmental disorders in Incheon area SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Social Contribution in Connection with Sports Sustainable Supply Chain Jeju United Jeju United creates social value through various ˙Term: Launched in 2016 ˙Target: Residents of Jeju CSR activities engaging with the local community. ˙Contents: The group donates annual memberships for the Visiting soccer class for elementary, middle and high school, Products and services are manufactured in various areas and countries in the global market. The impact disadvantaged so they can watch matches, runs clubhouse fan tours, donation of annual memberships that issues occurring within the supply chain has on operations and reputation of a company is growing. Soccer camp for prospective youth, soccer camp for children from soccer classes for children and youth, and provides low-income households, Christmas sports day In particular, global demand for supply chain is growing, followed by increased interest of stakeholders. family soccer camps to promote soccer in the area Respect Ur Energy: Cheer-up program for underappreciated hard In response, we must improve our competitiveness to secure a stable supply chain and control of as well as promoting daily physical activities through workers in hospitals, police stations and fire stations in Jeju risks that can occur within the value chain to achieve sustainable growth. SK innovation has established diverse projects. a system for supply chain management, evaluate and monitor potential risk in efforts to manage sustainability for suppliers. SK Sugar Gliders SK Sugar Gliders Handball Team runs ‘Exciting ˙Term: Launched in 2013 ˙Target: Elementary and middle school students in Gyeonggi and Handball Class’ to promote physical development Supply Chain Policy and System Supply Chain Status metropolitan area and emotional health for students in elementary, ˙Contents: H  andball lessons, PE class helpers, promote creating middle and high school in Gyeonggi-do(team home handball clubs Supply chain management policy SK innovation conducts a comprehensive analysis of ˙Performance: 1,100 participants in 2018 ground) as well as Seoul and other metropolitan SK innovation manages its supply chain through risk possibility in transaction size, non-substitutability, areas. We provide a structured teaching method comprehensive risk analysis from different aspects: core technology and non-financial factors (ESG) to to spread handball in a fun and easy way so that total cost ownership, reliability, on-time delivery categorize and manage critical suppliers. critical relevant schools could create sports clubs. These and customer service level, SHE (Safety, Health, suppliers are entities that provide large-scale(high activities serve as a foundation to promote handball, Environment) management, risk management volume) construction or services in our main which is usually an unpopular sport. financial and non-financial factors (ESG). In 2018, production facilities including Ulsan, Incheon, 90 we established our ‘Bid Evaluation Guide’, a process Jeungpyeong, Cheongju and Seosan or suppliers 91 principle for competitive bidding purchase process that handle critical component or non-substitutable to improve fairness and transparency in selecting material (battery core material, additive, catalyst, etc.). suppliers. In particular, we expanded our management scope to non-tier 1 companies in regards to transaction size for suppliers that provide large-scale construction and Main contents of Compliance of fair trade, transparent transaction, ethical regulation regulation and global agreements (Universal services or companies that have high risk potential for purchasing Declaration of Human Rights, UNGC, etc.) regarding fair trade, such as providing equipment. 2018 supplier status (Unit: number of companies, %)) Human rights and labor, safety and health, Main contents of environment-friendly business sites, compliance code of conduct Number of with company ethics, prohibit use of conflict Type Purchase ratio for suppliers suppliers minerals), establish management system, etc. All Suppliers1) 2,986 Tier1 Critical Suppliers 273 85 Main contents of Principles for selecting suppliers, role and Non-Tier1 Critical Suppliers2) 103 bidding guide responsibilities, detailed guidelines, etc. 1) Suppliers with transaction records in the past 3 years 2) C  ontractors that provide largescale construction or services for production plants or exceeding certain quantities for products (Data from Happy Narae, SK E&C Supplier cost of goods purchased (Unit: KRW 100 million, %) 2018 cost of goods purchased by item (Unit: KRW 100 million, %) Type 2016 2017 2018 Type Purchase amount Purchase ratio Cost of goods purchased 9,536 11,866 16,654 Construction equipment 9,568 57.5 Local1) supplier cost of goods Construction workforce 7,086 42.5 4,833 7,371 8,485 purchased Local supplier ratio of cost of 1) 51 62 51 goods purchase 1) South Korea Jeju United SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management for Supplier Pre-screening for sustainability of supply chain Evaluation of risks in the supply chain 2018 Sustainability risk assessment status (unit: number of companies, %) SK innovation conducts a pre-evaluation of all SK innovation comprehends the major risk factors Supplier in assessment SK innovation manages economic, social, safety suppliers regarding economic, social, safety from economic, social, safety and health aspects Major factors for risk Number of Type evaluation and environmental risk targeting new and existing and environmental factors for comprehensive and conducts regular annual assessment targeting Scope suppliers with high risk (ratio) suppliers. We monitor financial risk factors in realmanagement of sustainability in the supply chain. suppliers that need management. In particular, we Financial risk such as change time based on credit rating institutions and review In the pre-evaluation applied to BiOK, we demand strengthen monitoring through site-visit audits or in credit rating/financial non-financial risk factors by inspecting work new suppliers comply with our ‘code of conduct third-party audits on high-risk suppliers.. information, administrative All suppliers 14 (0.5) Economy issue (Total of 2,986 environment or SHE periodical evaluation targeting for suppliers’ and we exclude companies from Unfair trade acts including companies) suppliers with high risk potential. Through our regular partnership if they do not fulfill a certain standard. We Corrective measures cartel, violation of ethicsreviews and visits, we provide benefits to suppliers manage potential sustainability risk from registration SK innovation establishes corrective measures for related regulations, etc. with exceptional results such as bond waiving and through our pre-evaluation. companies in need of improvement based on our Social Human rights, labor Conflict minerals 764 suppliers right to move for maintenance workers among assessment to demand they improve risk factors including suppliers Supply chain pre-screening (Unit: number of companies, %)) Large-scale safety/ others. Companies that do not meet our standards (including ESG risk). These efforts have led to 33% providing environment hazards construction or receive instructions for improvement or termination of high-risk suppliers improving on their risk factors. (oil spillage in sea, Newly registered suppliers services in work emission, etc.) 210 (27.5) of partnership. Despite the efforts, 13 companies were met with sites, those that 2023 target for Maintain 100% rate EnvironViolation of environment pre-evaluation measures according to the supplier assessment and ment handle chemical regulation/legislation material and battery Social value creation within the supply chain evaluation in 2018(unethical issues, breach of fair Design/management core and sub SK innovation engages in various efforts for suppliers Type 2016 2017 2018 transparent trade) and 1 company deemed to have standards of SHE material providers management system to create social value. In particular, we included Number of newly registered seriously breached regulations was permanently 335 384 395 suppliers sustainability as an evaluation standard in our terminated from further trade. Number of suppliers in social, periodical evaluation in which suppliers in charge of economic, environmental and 335 384 395 2018 Risk assessment results (unit: number of companies, %) the Ulsan and Incheon areas participate. In the future, safety evaluation we will use these results in distributing goods to Ratio or pre-evaluation 100 100 100 2023 Target for ratio of sustainability risk evaluated supplier 100% 92 suppliers to encourage them to voluntarily participate 93 * Includes all suppliers (Tier 1) and all critical suppliers (Non-tier 1) in creating social value. In addition, we will create a Social value creation plan through two-way platform two-way platform easily accessible for suppliers within Number of Type Ratio our integrated purchase system (BiOK) and Tech ˙Guide and support suppliers to promote purchase from social suppliers Solution Pool (iStep) for active communication. The enterprises All suppliers 2,986 ˙Develop and promote products that create social value through Result of risk corrective measures 20191) (unit: number of companies, %) Assessed suppliers 2,986 100 platform will not only introduce social value creation co-development technology with suppliers ˙On document 2,842 95.2 of SK innovation but also collect ideas to create social ˙Rent our various equipment and facilities Tier 1 ˙On site1) 92 3.1 value targeting suppliers. ˙Assess SHE level of supplier and help improve capacity to Type Results supplier prevent disasters ˙Third-party assessment2) 52 1.7 ˙Improve financial skills of supplier employees with expert skills Ratio of high-risk suppliers that established improvement plan 33 Suppliers in high 224 7.5 Ratio of suppliers that improved ESG performance within 12 100 sustainability risk months of establishing plans to improve Critical Suppliers 103 Number of suppliers terminated from transaction 13 Above tier 2 Assessed Critical Suppliers 103 100 supplier ˙Number of temporary termination 12 (Non Tier 1) Suppliers in high 69 67 ˙Number of permanent termination 1 sustainability risk Sustainability management system for supplier 1) Includes periodical annual assessment while conducting large-scale construction or 1) Included 1st-tier and 2nd-tier suppliers services in major production plants such as Ulsan and Incheon Global Guideline 2) H igh fair trade risk companies, includes annual government assessment from Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 commission for shared growth UNGC Principle Policy Monitoring Action OECD MINE Guidelines ... ˙Purchase Code of Ethics ˙Pre-evaluation (evaluation for ˙Support for excellent suppliers ˙Supplier Code of Conduct supplier registration) based on evaluation outcome Internal Standard ˙Contract provisions ˙Corrective measures in ˙Regular evaluation accordance with sanction Improve competitiveness (written statement, actual standards (warning, suspension inspection, etc.) of transaction, cancelation of registration, etc.) Risk management Create social value Feedback SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Shared Growth with Suppliers Finance support SK innovation delivers 50% of the construction SHE (Safety·Health·Environment) Management SK innovation aspires to grow together with suppliers. contract in cash within the week construction We conduct various projects for long-term growth for commences for stable business operations. We pay suppliers including support for technology, skills and out the remainder within 1 week of construction finance. completion. In addition, we provide various support SK innovation is taking a step further from SHE management based on legal compliance to programs such as direct support where we lend applying ideas of social value creation where we grow mutually with society through trust. Technology support direct funds, indirect support through networks, and We will continue with our SHE management through active communication with stakeholders to SK innovation provides support for suppliers in efforts credit guarantee through mutual growth guarantee gain a stance as a top global company. for shared growth such as co-developing technology agreement. We also created a mutual growth fund to to create domestic equipment, co-patents, creating provide low interest finances to suppliers that are in high-value added products and entering the global need of emergency funds. market together. In particular, SK innovation and suppliers are creating a win-win process by increasing As of 2018, SK innovation and SK global chem sales of new products through co-development of contributed KRW 1.2 billion and KRW 2.2 billion SHE Management System technology and co-patents while SK secures a price respectively and SK innovation affiliates are operating advantage by self-producing import products. a mutual growth fund amounting to KRW 8.2 billion1). Improving SHE management system 1) Includes investment from financial institutions, error in last year data SK innovation has established its company policy on Skill support managing safety, health and environment. Annually, Contribution to shared growth fund (unit: KRW 100 million) CEOs of SK innovation subsidiaries deliver their Training program • SK innovation promotes various signatures to show determination for successful skill enhancing programs to improve the intrinsic SK innovation safety, health and environment management to competitiveness of suppliers. We conduct a ‘Mutual 120 our stakeholders. In addition, we analyze global 94 Growth CEO Seminar’ targeting CEOs of suppliers companies in their core management factors for 95 to deliver know-how on business strategy, finance, safety to define 13 items which include those HR and other fields as well as providing information factors. These items were included in our company Other Total SK global on newest technology including AI and big data. In regulations and detailed process for execution. chem addition, we provide ‘Mutual Growth MBA’ targeting 480 820 Furthermore, we conduct activities to improve 220 supplier employees with practical information to be execution based on CEO leadership. We have built applied by rank or task. a positive cycle to ‘Plan-Do-Check-Action’ through regular inspections of adequately executed items for Hiring support program • We held the ‘Supplier Job improvement and modification. Fair’ targeting youth in the Ulsan area. The job fair Evaluation of Corporate Partnership Index helped small and medium companies access quality SK innovation is working in multidimensional ways talent and the fair also reduces youth unemployment to create happy partnerships with our suppliers SHE Management System Framework and drives local economic growth. SK innovation by strengthening support in fields of actual needs provided special lectures from hiring officers, and activating mutual communication among Drive Implementation employment lectures and other on-site events in other efforts. In particular, SK global chemical was Occupational Safety and Operations and reliability Environment Stewardship Health Management which 25 suppliers participated. Through our efforts, recognized for its efforts for mutual growth through 115 were newly employed in 2018. its exclusive department which focuses on corporate Emergency response Chemicals Management SHE Incident Investigation partnerships. This led to an excellence rating management for the 6th consecutive year in the Evaluation of SHE Leadership and Suppliers’ SHE Capability SHE audit and Corporate Partnership Index in 2018 by the Corporate Management of Change Accountability SHE Management Development and Training management Partnership Commission. This is unprecedented in the chemicals industry, as well as being selected as SHE Stakeholder SHE Legal Compliance the grand honorary corporation. Communication Improvement SK global chemical Evaluation Maintain of Corporate Partnership Excellence Feedback Index 2023 Target rating SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Industry Safety and Health representative. The commission improves the work employees understand safety hazards in production Ulsan Complex and we provide consultation and environment for employees as managers and workers process easily and prevent accidents. SK innovation programs to improve healthy habits in employees Emergency response system discuss and decide on important issues on safety Battery Production Technology Center conducted and executives. SK innovation operates an emergency response and health to prevent industrial hazards through the SHE Catch Phrase Campaign. After collecting 208 system to prevent SHE hazards from external risk methods such as raising awareness or improving opinions from 155 employees in all departments to including fire and explosions, gas or oil leaks, work uniforms. create a safer work environment and raise awareness, Chemical Materials typhoons, storms, earthquakes and electricity outage. we selected “Perhaps? Entails an accident and For systematic management, we have established Improve SHE leadership in business sites Inspect! Entails safety” and also selected 5 major As social awareness of the danger of chemical materials ‘entire company emergency response management SK innovation is conducting activities to internalize practices for all employees to comply with. is increasing, regulations for chemical materials are regulations’ and ‘management process for emergency a safe culture to meet global SHE levels. As part of also intensifying. SK innovation recognizes the social response by work site’ to train the entire company these efforts, we evaluated the safety culture, tackled Collaboration program for shared growth in and legal responsibilities of managing chemicals and and sites to respond in a flexible, prompt manner. agenda to improve the culture and advised leaders safety and health we are investing efforts to respond adequately. We We conduct various support activities and on-site on SHE. We also established and operated a safety act SK innovation engages in projects to improve overall have built a management system and procedure response training under the guidance of chief on site standard targeting the SK lubricants plant to define work site environment and runs collaboration specialized for chemical materials which allow workers or head of plants based on the emergency response core safety leadership standards by leaders’ rank programs to prevent industry hazards through mutual handling the material to learn about the potential headquarters and on-site strategy headquarters and introduce an efficient management method. We growth relationships with suppliers. Through these hazard and danger of the material. We also implement and create UCCs by emergency case for training to plan to apply these standards and operation of safety efforts, we helped suppliers make danger evaluations, safety measures while handling the material to prevent maximize training effects. We have a pre-appointed acts to Ulsan Complex and SK incheon petrochem supported them in receiving KOSHA 18001 chemical accidents and secure the safety of our organization by work site in times of emergency as well as other plants and business sites. Through Certification, created an environment to comply with employees and local residents. for prompt communication and response at times these steps, we will enhance the SHE capacity and 4 core safety rules and CPR training. In 2018, our of accidents. We are also invested in preemptive cultural standards of our employees and continuously Ulsan Complex and materials business department E-MSDS system response by installing security equipment based strengthen our safety practice through SHE leadership obtained grade A which belongs to the top 10%. In SK innovation established an e-MSDS System to on production process and other methods. Also, and a unified target of leaders and employees. addition, we evaluate the safety and health standards manage material safety data sheets (MSDS) that we 96 we categorize our emergency cases (level 1~5) and of suppliers every year to award excellent performers stored in document into a system. The existing system 97 conduct collective response training to prepare in In addition, we received consultation from advanced and provide motivation and encouragement on only allowed viewing or searching for MSDS but case accidents aggravate to level 1 or 2. SHE managers to reflect on our leaders’ SHE decisionindustry safety. we implemented a chemical materials information making skills on site and improve their insight. We database and MSDS algorithm to the new system Implementation of joint emergency response drill are continuously strengthening our SHE leadership Employee health care to add the MSDS creation function. The function SK innovation has established a company-wide by obtaining capacity to execute SHE on site through SK innovation provides a systematic health care to allows employees to create MSDS in accordance with emergency response drill system and expanded methods such as understanding the worries and employees so that they can concentrate on their global standards. We anticipate providing prompt, the existing emergency response drill, which was demands of leaders to provide them with relevant work. We operate a company affiliated clinic in the accurate and trustworthy information on materials to previously site-based, to the entire company. We knowledge and know-how as well as delivering stakeholders in Korea and abroad. conduct collective emergency response training every applicable global management methods and cases. Chemical materials integrated management system year where the CEO and executives participate for the group and for individual work sites. Not only the Expansion of safety culture employees but executives of all levels understand SK innovation is currently conducting ‘Safety ABC!’ Introduction of Production of Delivery and sales chemical material chemical products the role of organizations and response process at campaign to innovate the safety culture in our times of emergencies thanks to periodical training. Ulsan Complex. This campaign aims to create a Comprehending the potential hazard and We strictly repair and maintain our facilities SK innovation runs an internally devised The method also contributes to immediate response positive cycle based on correct understanding and danger of a material beforehand for proper to prevent any leaks in the production and process in accordance to legal regulations handling is the most important step to make handling process from leading to explosions so that chemical material can be delivered when situations arise. In 2018, our training target was communication to transform attitudes on safety sure the workers that directly handle the of other major damage. We implemented safely for customers to receive. We always SK energy logistics business site. leading to safe behavior. To accomplish this, we have material are safe and healthy. To achieve this, advanced assessment methods such as LDAR provide MSDS on our products through our SK innovation internally established an integral (Leak Detection and Report) and RBI (Risk Based homepage. We also created a system to check selected various agendas to practice such as always management system for chemical materials (HiInspection) for focused inspection on connecting if customers have received the information to Operation of occupational safety and putting on safety glasses when entering production CHEMS). The system is periodically updated areas of pipes or handling parts of equipment perceive according dangers. In addition, when health commission areas, stopping first when entering intersections and was synched to the chemical materials where leaks can easily occur. Through these information on materials is modified, we send purchasing system and e-MSDS system to methods, we rank our pipelines in terms of out automatic alerts so that the relevant official SK operates an Occupational Safety and Health and safety experience with the family. SK innovation review chemicals of even the smallest amount safety and manage the dangerous ones first. We can deliver safety and health information on the Commission in accordance with Industry Safety Battery Production Technology Center has published before use. It was also modified rendering MSDS provide easy access to potential hazards and modified material to our customer. data mandatory to notify workers of potential danger of handled materials to workers through and Health Law. The commission is composed ‘SHE Pocketbook’, customized training material hazards and dangers. e-MSDS System. The system is periodically of the same number of members from company for work sites while considering the industrial trait updated to that we can provide stakeholders with more accurate and trustworthy substance management and the workforce which includes that many new workers are employed. The center safety and health information. the workers’ representative and management is distributing the booklets and working to make SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Management Response to Climate Change Response to greenhouse gas emissions trading Complex (SK energy, SK global chem, SK lubricants), Reduction of water pollutants scheme SK incheon petrochem, SK innovation Seosan plant, SK innovation runs a highly efficient biological Governance for climate change response SK innovation, SK energy, SK global chem, SK Jeungpyeong plant, Cheongju plant and SK Institute wastewater treatment facility which is backed by SK innovation has gone beyond an internal lubricants and SK incheon petrochem are targets of Technology Innovation. Business sites abroad and a remote water quality inspection control system. greenhouse emissions management system to for carbon cap and trade in accordance with the supply chain are not included. We have set targets for Wastewater which includes pollutants caused during build a response system on an SK group level. In legislation on greenhouse emissions trading scheme quantity of greenhouse emissions and also by unit of the production process is filtered through the absorb particular, we created the ‘Shared Infra Taskforce (TF)’ which went into effect in 2015. SK innovation has KRW which we are currently managing. tower to be finally released. We apply an internal affiliated with our top decision-making body, SUPEX built a carbon credit trade strategy to respond standard for pollutant concentration sewage which is CASE. Major acts to improve energy efficiency Commission, Strategy Committee to respond on a efficiently to government regulations and market stronger than legal standards for strict management. group scale. The Infra TF has engaged in activities demands arising from the greenhouse gas emissions In addition, we used part of the treated wastewater trading scheme. We have created and implemented Reduced fuel cost with new heat exchange installation for firefighting or landscape watering. We also such as creating trading process among subsidiaries, SK has retrieved Kerosene Run Down and reduced fuel cost by building a response roadmap by risk and scenario a procedure for greenhouse gas emissions trading installed a regenerative thermal oxidize (RTO) in our installing flat heat exchangers within crude distillation units. We case, project and investment to secure carbon credit scheme. Our strategy includes step-by-step methods anticipate an annual cut of KRW 1.08 billion in fuel cost. Comprehensive Wastewater Plant 1 and took a step and reducing response costs. In 2018, the TF prepared from securing a budget, executing to purchasing and further in safety by installing settling tanks and fiber Increased heating furnace efficiency by changing air preheater SK group responses by risk scenario, conducted the others, response method by scenario in case of price filters in our Comprehensive Wastewater Plant 2. We have improved equipment function in CDUs, improved fouling Cook Stove Project in Myanmar and successfully change and how to obtain carbon credit according to and strengthened material by exchanging fuel preheaters. We have traded 900,000 tons of carbon credit. In 2019, we change of production quantity. We have summarized improved our heating furnace efficiency. Renewing preheaters Water resource management in CDUs of Ulsan Complex 4 and 5 has resulted in a fuel cost will increase its size and responsibility by building a a prioritizing method with heed to carbon credit SK’ main sources of water include the Daecheong reduction worth KRW 1.56 billion annually and additional benefit new environmental committee affiliated with SUPEX prices by setting a guideline for investment projects of KRW 760 million by reducing greenhouse emissions. Dam, Daeam Dam and Asan Bay. We calculate the Commission Committee for Energy and Chemicals. which we are utilizing. amount used based on water bills to our company and major sites of domestic business operation. Governance to respond to climate change SK innovation and subsidiaries sold 900,000 tons of carbon credit of our surplus that we secured through Reducing Environmental Impact of Reduction of waste 98 SUPEX Council internal reduction and pre-reduction, pre-reduction Business Sites SK innovation controls amount of waste through an 99 performance, optimized emissions calculation internally development waste management system. Strategy Committee method and others in 2017 when phase 1 came to an Reduction of air pollutants We commission recognized companies specializing in end. This was to respond to the government measure SK innovation operates an odor preventive facility processing waste for recycling, incineration or landfill. Shared Infra TF which would limit carry-over credit. SK innovation to conserve the cleanliness of air surrounding our In particular, we minimized our waste output to established a target based on Nationality Determined business sites and the vicinity as well as preventing prepare for the basic resource circulation legislation Contributions (NDCs) and plans to record emission damage from odors. In addition, we applied the LDAR in effect as of 2018 and put in utmost efforts to reduction of 7.8% compared to BAU by 2025. In system in plants that emit arsenic acid to prevent recycle of 25,000 tons of waste to promote resource addition, we are building additional targets for damage from hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) on circulation and correct waste treatment. Furthermore, greenhouse emissions reduction to decrease climate business sites. Furthermore, we minimize causes of we prevented waste from spreading by tightly sealing risk and contribute to the national reduction target air pollution by monitoring air pollutants in real-time waste collection vehicles in our Ulsan Complex which Major activities by seeking additional methods such as developing on major waste facilities such as heating furnaces and also improved reduced waste odor. new technology, improving energy efficiency and boilers through telemetering system (TMS). Establish carbon ˙Analyze response status of subsidiaries and cancelling out our emission quantity. trade process if they are in surplus or shortage among subsidiaries ˙Establish trade process among subsidiaries Energy quantity management SK innovation has set a target to reduce energy use Comprehend risk, ˙Monitoring of domestic and global market, Management status of water pollutants following scenarios code and regulatory trends and systematically manages the usage. In particular, and build a ˙Establishing possible scenarios and we are aiming to cut energy use by improving energy Business Site Wastewater Treatment Facility Treatment Method Emission Site response roadmap response road-map efficiency in sites where a high quantity of energy is Ulsan Complex wastewater plant Biological, Advanced treatment Public water (East Sea) SK energy (Ulsan) consumed including Ulsan Complex and SK incheon wastewater plant Biological Yongyeon terminal disposal plant for sewage Conduct projects ˙Promote Cook Stove Project in Myanmar and investment to ˙Reduction projects related to social value petrochem. wastewater plant Physical and chemical Yongam wastewater plant SK global chem (Ulsan) secure carbon credit creation wastewater plant Biological Yongam wastewater plant Greenhouse emissions quantity management SK incheon petrochem (Incheon) wastewater plant Biological, high temperature Gajwa terminal disposal plant for sewage ˙Secure opportunities by sharing technology, We calculate our greenhouse emissions according SK innovation (Jeungpyeong) Aerator facility Terminal disposal plant for sewage in Reduce emissions Jeungpyeong-gun general industrial complex and response costs information and know-how to the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme Terminal disposal plant for sewage in guidelines. The quantity includes emissions from Ulsan SK innovation (Cheongju) Cheongju national industrial complex SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Oil Spill Prevention Marine emergency response training Prevent marine pollution SK innovation is establishing task and process standard as well as improving monitoring of business sites to make share no incidents of marine pollution occur. We conduct marine emergency response 1 training to minimize damage if accidents occur and also appointed a shift-based manager for marine pollution prevention by marine facility (buoy, dolphin, oil tank, petroleum product tank) so that accidents don’t occur at nighttime. Manage soil environment 2 SK innovation has entered into ‘Voluntary agreement to conserve soil environment’ with the Ministry of Environment to prevent and control soil pollution. We are cleaning up the polluted earth of our own accord. Biennially, we hire a specialized organization to conduct research on the degree of soil pollution for our own evaluation. When we find polluted areas, we 3 immediately hire an agent to clean up the polluted APPENDIX soil. Furthermore, we operate vehicles equipped 100 with chemical uniforms, boots and other tools so 101 that any pollution detected on site can be eliminated immediately. Through this method, we can minimize soil pollution by emergency response when accidents 4 occur. 5 1. Surrounding ship accident areas with oil fences 2. Exterminating oil fence outskirts 3. Safety management of integrated ships 4. On-land oil fence project 5. Eliminating inside oil fences SHE certification status Type Work site Date of certification Certification expiry date SK innovation (Seosan) 2018. 07. 27 2019. 12. 23 SK energy 2017. 11. 09 2020. 11. 08 ISO14001 SK global chem 2017. 06. 13 2020. 06. 12 SK lubricants 2018. 06. 18 2021. 06. 17 SK incheon petrochem 2017. 11. 09 2020. 11. 08 ISO45001 SK Institute of Technology Innovation 2018. 11. 28 2021. 11. 27 KOSHA18001 SK incheon petrochem 2017. 12. 20 2020. 12. 19 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix Materiality Test SK innovation conducted internal and external environmental analyses for global sustainability trend, major industrial In the pool of issues identified by multi-faceted analysis, SK innovation identified material issues by considering stakeholders’ reporting issues and current management issues in the company to draw company’s material sustainability issues and interest (impact) and business relevance and a final review was conducted by the BOD. In 2018, we selected 10 material identified stakeholders’ opinions and needs by conducting a survey for key stakeholders. issues out of a total of 35 issues and reported the top four issues as material GRI topics. Materiality Test Process Step 1. Draw a Pool of Issues Step 2. Conduct materiality test Step 3. Select Material Issues and Give Final Approval Reporting issues in Implementation of multi-faceted analysis for SK innovation sustainability ˙Materiality Test for stakeholders’ interest (impact) and the same industry management business relevance Core growth ˙Reporting issues in the same industry: For six DJSI World advanced companies strategies by the Media research analysis in total company and its current status, ˙Media analysis: Analyze total 3,890 items from 1 Jan 2018 to 1 Jan 2019 External Global standards analysis industrial issues ˙Global standards analysis: GRI Standards, DJSI, ISO26000, UNGC, SASB environment Material ˙Stakeholder survey: 177 participants including shareholders and investors, analysis Issues Stakeholder survey suppliers, local communities, customers, media, specialists Review by the Board of Directors Evidence of ‘Impact’ Evidence of ‘Relevance’ Internal and external Survey of executives and ˙Stakeholder interest ˙Business relevance stakeholder issues ˙Survey of executives and employees: 234 participants from SK innovation employees 102 ˙Review internal materials: Review CEO message keywords and management analysis review 103 Review of internal material Internal materials ˙Major sustainability issues: Include SK innovation’s key sustainability issues and environment main direction of business Major current analysis sustainability issues Reports on Material Issues Materiality Test Matrix Stakeholder evaluation on impact High Material Issues No. GRI Standards Topic Issue Financial Image Management Strategy Page 7 Stimulate social value creation and evaluation 1 Emission Response to climate change ◯ 54-55 2 Local community Social contribution for shared growth ◯ 61-63 1 Response to climate change Social impact assessment 3 Social responsibility of supply chain ◯ 58-60 of supply chain Social responsibility of supply chain Prohibit unfair 4 Industry SHE Create a safe work site ◯ 56-57 Stakeholder interest (impact) 6 3 trade Create safe work sites Employment, training and Improve employee employment process and 5 ◯ 76-81 education employee skills 4 Employee recruitment and Prohibit discrimination of employees Actions to deter capability reinforcement 6 Prevent unfair trade ◯ 72-75 and respect human rights 9 competition 5 7 Indirect economic effect Create social value and stimulate evaluation ◯ 48-51 10 8 Reinforcement of shareholder2 8 Financial performance Innovate intrinsic product competitiveness ◯ 38-43 friendly transparent management Intrinsic innovation of based on the BOD product competitiveness Social contribution for Prohibit employee discrimination and 9 Human rights assessment ◯ 81 shared growth respect human rights Enhance stakeholder-friendly transparency based 10 Governance ◯ 66-69 on BOD Low Business correlation (Relevance) High SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix Stakeholder Engagement ESG Data │ Economy SK innovation runs various communication channels depending on stakeholder characteristics. We define main stakeholders Revenue and Operating Profit by Business Sector (Unit: KRW 100 million) as our customers, employees, shareholders and investors, local communities and suppliers. We constantly review issues of interest by group. Through continuous communication with stakeholders, we will build a firm relationship of trust and Type 2016 2017 2018 stimulate social value creation by reflecting their opinions and needs into our business operations. Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of Revenue Revenue Revenue revenue revenue revenue Total 394,765 100% 461,627 100% 545,109 100% Stakeholder Communication Petroleum 283,699 72% 327,712 71% 391,935 72% Revenue Chemicals 76,865 20% 93,392 20% 106,844 19% Stakeholders Communication Channel Areas of Interest Lubricants 25,358 6% 30,475 7% 32,661 6% Battery 1,442 0% 1,457 0% 3,482 1% ˙Customer Happiness Center’ call center 2017 2018 E&P and other 7,401 2% 8,590 2% 10,186 2% operations ˙Creating value through ˙Fair performance evaluation ˙EnClean.com operations mutual growth and compensation Operating Percentage of Operating Percentage of Operating Percentage of ˙Year round meetings and events ˙Maintaining a healthy work˙Banning of unfair trade profit operating profit profit operating profit profit operating profit ˙Homepage (SK innovation, blog (SK life balance ˙Improvement in Total 32,433 100% 32,218 100% 21,176 100% Customer innovation, SK energy), Facebook (SK ˙Securing sustainable communication and innovation, SK energy, SK lubricants), etc. technology capacities of suppliers Operating Petroleum 16,256 50% 15,020 46% 7,093 33% profit Chemicals 12,322 38% 13,772 43% 11,176 53% Lubricants 4,683 14% 5,049 16% 4,607 22% ˙Intranet (tong tong, etc.) 2017 2018 Battery (1,001) (3%) (2,321) (7%) (3,175) (15%) ˙Company broadcasting channel (gbs) and ˙Increased company value ˙Innovation of intrinsic 104 Oil E&P and other 172 1% 697 2% 1,476 7% 105 newsletters by company ˙Innovation of intrinsic product competitiveness ˙iCon (company communication competitiveness ˙Secured new technology for messenger, change facilitator) ˙Mutual growth value creation sustainability Employee ˙CEO and Employee conversations (Well˙Innovation of business model Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 100 million) Comm. Day) and discussions and business portfolio ˙Happy Walk Sector Recipient Contents of distribution 2016 2017 2018 ˙Annual shareholder meetings, 2017 2018 R&D1) 1,425 1,957 2,336 performance announcement ˙Improved shareholder˙Secured new technology for Corporation Economy Acquiring tangible assets2) 6,345 9,135 12,863 ˙Domestic and global NDR (Non-Deal friendly transparency based sustainability Roadshow) and conferences on board ˙Internal and external risk Investors Dividend payout 4,512 7,566 8,222 ˙1:1 meetings, e-mail and phone inquiries ˙Communication with management response Employees Employee Compensation3) 11,116 13,036 13,034 Shareholder, Publications, etc stakeholders ˙Expansion of stakeholder Suppliers Goods purchased for suppliers 9,536 11,866 16,654 investor ˙Value creation through communication Social mutual growth Local communities Investment for social contribution 416 269 349 Government Corporate tax payment4) 5,193 6,513 7,325 ˙Meeting with local organizations 2017 2018 1) Based on Annual Report 2018 ˙Participation in local community ˙Communication with ˙Prohibition of unfair trade 2) Based on each year’s consolidated audit report, note 10-(2) refers to items in book value of tangible assets labeled ‘acquired’. committees near business sites suppliers ˙Maintained work and life 3) Based on each year’s consolidated audit report, note 23 refers to the item under cost by category labeled ‘employee wages’. ˙Participation in the living and safety ˙Increased company value balance 4) Based on Annual Report 2017’s consolidated cash flow statement in consolidated financial statement. commissions of police precinct offices ˙Communication with ˙Minimized emission of Local ˙Engagement in welfare facilities and shareholders environment pollutants community group operating commissions in the CEO Compensation adjacent region ˙Regular meetings with suppliers 2017 2018 Field Unit 2018 ˙Supplier CEO Meeting ˙Mutual growth value creation ˙Improved communication Total CEO compensation5), 6) KRW million 2,664 ˙Regular meetings regarding logistics, ˙Secured new technology for and capabilities of suppliers Mean annual salary of all employees excluding CEO and executives KRW million 128 machines, equipment inspections sustainable growth ˙Secured new technology for ˙Improved communication sustainable growth CEO compensation over mean annual salary of all employees Multiplier 20.81 Supplier and capabilities of suppliers ˙Growth support through 5) Incentive compensation for the CEO is determined by comprehensively considering company’s financial profits (pre-tax profits, EVA), relevant financial indicators shared infrastructure (Increase in stock price, business model innovation), created social value (SV based business model, SHE, social contribution, etc.) and others. 6) SK innovation granted the CEO 70,551 stock options in March 2018 to maximize company value. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix ESG Data │ SHE Energy Consumption Generated Waste Target volume of generated Target recycle ratio for Energy target for year 2025 Reduction by 7.8% compared to BAU by 2025 135,609tons 70.4% waste for year 2025 year 2025 2018 2018 Type Unit 2016 2017 SKI SKI SKI SKI Type Unit 2016 2017 SKI SKI SKE Total (Jeungpyeong, SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC Total (Jeungpyeong, SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC (Seosan) (Daejeon) (Seosan) (Daejeon) (Logistics) Cheongju) Cheongju) Total energy Total volume of waste generated 111,214 112,002 127,541 6,867 10,133 760 38 75,112 17,540 4,002 13,089 51,104,325 52,290,305 53,877,294 609,421 624,197 263,056 17,421,638 19,761,806 1,383,980 13,813,197 consumption Internally processed Fuel 39,021,951 39,718,326 40,445,969 138,143 215,927 49,896 14,459,802 14,144,723 601,465 10,836,015 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (landfill) By Electricity MWh 10,652,767 11,132,376 11,534,989 471,278 408,271 213,160 5,032,893 2,651,160 121,979 2,636,249 Processed by agent Tons category By 39,593 42,150 42,810 542 736 513 37 29,043 5,095 820 6,024 Steam 6,934,002 7,079,153 7,636,226 0 0 0 2,785,641 3,727,320 782,332 340,933 treatment (incineration, landfill) Non-renewable method Processed by agent 5,504,395 5,639,551 5,739,891 0 0 0 4,856,698 761,397 121,796 0 71,621 69,852 84,732 6,325 9,397 247 1 46,069 12,445 3,182 7,065 energy sales (recycling) Total cost of energy KRW Recycle ratio % 64 62 66 92 93 33 4 61 71 80 54 1,831,778 2,248,301 2,683,845 26,502 23,974 12,930 959,918 987,488 84,503 588,529 consumption million Designated By 42,360 50,224 59,322 5,172 7,687 464 38 27,441 5,841 1,554 11,125 (Hazardous) waste1) Tons category Greenhouse Gas Emissions General waste2) 68,854 61,778 68,220 1,695 2,447 296 47,671 11,699 2,448 1,964 1) D  esignated waste: As waste stipulated by Presidential Decree from the Korean government, designated waste refers to any hazardous materials that may contaminate the surrounding environment such as waste oil and waste acid in “industrial wastes”, which are generated in the “factory” stipulated in article 2-1 of the Industrial 106 Greenhouse gas target for year 2025 7.8% reduction on 2025 BAU Placement and Factory Construction Act. 107 2) General waste: Waste generated from a business site excluding designated waste and construction waste 2018 SKI Type Unit 2016 2017 Total SKI (Jeungpyeong, SKI SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC Wastewater Treatment (Seosan) (Daejeon) Cheongju) 2018 Total greenhouse 12,765,304 12,884,478 12,870,112 107,637 110,878 46,429 7,408,923 3,201,257 205,627 1,789,361 SKI emissions (Scope 1&2) Type Unit 2016 2017 SKI SKI SKE Total (Jeungpyeong, SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC Total direct (Seosan) (Daejeon) (Logistics) Cheongju) emissions tCO2eq 10,488,609 10,515,926 10,442,108 25,237 39,494 9,159 6,480,338 2,456,521 105,402 1,325,956 (Scope1) Volume By of treated Tons 18,448,618 17,935,014 17,580,141 0 86,402 0 0 14,528,171 1,292,408 0 1,673,160 category Total indirect wastewater emissions 2,276,695 2,368,552 2,428,004 82,400 71,384 37,270 928,585 744,736 100,225 463,405 (Scope2) Air Pollutant Emissions Water Consumption1) 2018 Type Unit 2016 2017 SKI Water consumption target for year 2025 SKI SKI SKE 3 51,956,113m Total (Jeungpyeong, SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC (Seosan) (Daejeon) (Logistics) Cheongju) 2018 NOx emissions3) 8,188 7,909 8,541 0 0 1 0 6,043 1,458 208 831 Type Unit 2016 2017 SKI SKI SKI SKE SOx emissions 4,085 3,950 3,103 0 0 0 0 2,696 275 1 131 Total (Jeungpyeong, SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC Tons (Seosan) (Daejeon) (Logistics) Cheongju) VOC emissions4) 359 332 323 0 0 0 0 60 194 4 65 Total volume of Dust emissions 200 159 158 1 2 0 0 124 28 2 1 52,475,816 53,071,840 50,848,388 368,906 622,817 241,538 9,525 32,100,973 12,091,481 891,661 4,521,487 water usage 3) Any NOx emissions generated by employees during business trips and commuting are not included. Municipal water 4) All VOC emissions which are generated from non-methane VOC’s and stationary sources are included 52,461,132 53,063,682 50,846,915 368,906 622,817 241,538 8,052 32,100,973 12,091,481 891,661 4,521,487 supplies m3 By Groundwater category 13,768 7,658 1,253 0 0 0 1,253 0 0 0 0 2018 (freshwater) Type Unit 2016 2017 Total SKI SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC Rainwater 916 500 220 0 0 0 220 0 0 0 0 Hydrocarbon emissions5) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1) P ercentage of recycled water: 7.6% in 2016, 7.0% in 2017, 7.4% in 2018 (Calculation method: pressurized water and collected amount after filter treatment/amount of Tons introduced industrial water) Methane emissions 2,031 2,306 2,109 7 1,958 64 4 76 5) Insignificant volume generated * SHE Data Scope of Calculation: Includes SKI (SK innovation), SKE (SK energy), SKGC (SK global chem), SKL (SK lubricants), SKIPC (SK incheon petrochem), SKTI (SK trading international) SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix ESG Data │ SHE Generated Harmful Chemicals Industrial Accidents 2018 Type Unit 2016 2017 Lost-Time Incident Rate (LTIR) target for 2025 Total SKI SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC 0.32 Volume of generated Tons 1) 71.9 82.9 72.4 0 25.9 37.3 0.2 9 2018 harmful chemicals Type Unit 2016 2017 Total SKI SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC 1) Basis of data calculation 2016: Performance based on data reviewed and published by the government Employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of 2017: Performance based on volume of chemical emissions reported to the government early 2018 Number of fatalities Suppliers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2018: Performance based on chemical emissions collected and calculated for government reporting early 2019 fatalities Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employees Incident per 1 0.32 0.16 0.3 0 0.54 0.46 0 0 Lost Time Concentration of Air Pollutants and Wastewater Incident Rate1) Suppliers million work 0.54 0.92 1.09 1.65 0.68 0 0 3.95 Total hours 0.46 0.57 0.78 1.09 0.63 0.18 0 2.14 2018 Employees Incident per 1 0.64 0.4 0.67 0.29 0.89 0.91 0 0.78 Category Type Unit SKI Total Recordable SKI (Seosan) SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC Suppliers million work 0.68 1.5 1.09 1.65 0.68 0 0 3.95 (Jeungpyeong) Incidents Rate2) Total hours 0.66 1.01 0.93 1.19 0.77 0.37 0 2.5 Business site 0 0 85 144.5 49.6 26 NOx Occupational Illness Frequency Rate3) % 0.08 0 0.07 0 0.18 0 0 0 Legal ppm concentration -2) -2) 140 180 130 234 standard Industrial Accident Rate4) % 0.09 0.04 0.06 0 0.15 0 0 0 Concentration Business site 0 0 27 72.1 3 10 1) Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR): Number of lost time incidents x1,000,000/Total number of work hours 108 of air SOx Legal ppm 2) Total Recordable Incidents Rate (TRIR): Total number of recordable incidents x1,000,000/Total number of work hours 109 concentration -2) -2) 180 180 180 234 3) Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR): Number of occupational illness occurred x1,000,000/Total number of work hours pollutants standard 4) Industrial Accident Rate (based on the Enforcement Decree of the Occupational Safety and Health Act): (Number of industry hazards/Total number of employees) x100 Business site 2 1.8 4 3 1.5 0.2 Dust Legal mg/S㎥ concentration 50 50 30 30 30 32.9 standard Business site 0 0.169 12.7 33 0 12 Process Safety COD volume Legal ppm -2) 190 40 570 -2) 90 2018 standard Type Unit 2016 2017 Total SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC Concentration Business site 0 0.064 4.5 21 0 2.4 Unplanned Capacity Loss (UCL) % 0.24 0.16 0.08 0.06 0.13 0.05 0.04 of water BOD volume Legal ppm pollutants in -2) 230 10 600 -2) 80 Safety Accidents in the Process standard % 0.03 0.11 0.06 0 0.18 0.61 0 (Tier 1) Business site 0 0.51 6.7 13 0 5.8 SS volume Legal ppm -2) 180 10 400 -2) 80 standard 2) Business site where legal standards are not applicable (Not applicable) Industrial Safety Training Hours 2018 Type Unit Total SKI SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC Violation of Environmental Regulations Industry safety training hours Hours 56,873 26,499 10,987 3,495 820 15,072 Category Type Unit 2018 Number of incidents Number of incidents 0 Punishment exceeding fines Violation of environmental Value KRW million 0 regulations Number of incidents Number of incidents 0 Fine (More than USD 10,000) Value KRW million 0 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix ESG Data │ Social Employee Status by Category1) Use of Childcare Leave and Rate of Return 2018 2018 Type Unit 2016 2017 Type Unit 2016 2017 Total SKI SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC SKTI Total SKI SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC SKTI Number of Number of employees Male Persons 2 5 5 1 2 2 0 0 0 Total Persons 6,045 6,284 6,584 1,872 2,634 1,025 302 623 128 employees who used childcare leave Female Persons 65 71 62 32 19 5 3 1 2 workforce2) Ratio % 100 100 100 28 40 16 5 9 2 Number of employees Male Persons 2 2 3 0 2 1 0 0 0 Persons 5,915 6,134 6,353 1,808 2,527 1,010 298 585 125 returning from childcare By Regular leave who worked at % 97.8 97.6 96.5 96.6 95.9 98.5 98.7 93.9 97.7 employment least 12 months Female Persons 48 65 43 25 11 2 2 0 3 type Persons 130 150 231 64 107 15 4 38 3 following return Temporary % 2.2 2.4 3.5 3.4 4.1 1.5 1.3 6.1 2.3 Persons 5,388 5,579 5,808 1,460 2,453 943 259 596 97 Male % 89.1 88.8 88.2 78.0 93.1 92.0 85.8 95.7 75.8 By gender Labor Union Registration Rate1) Persons 657 705 776 412 181 82 43 27 31 Female % 10.9 11.2 11.8 22.0 6.9 8.0 14.2 4.3 24.2 2018 Type Unit Persons 522 533 661 194 233 102 40 72 20 Total SKI SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC SKTI Under 30 % 8.6 8.5 10.0 10.4 8.8 10.0 13.2 11.6 15.6 Ratio of labor union membership 45.5 9.4 60.6 63.8 33.4 72.6 0 Persons 3,687 3,702 3,612 1,430 1,097 504 163 325 93 Ratio of collective bargaining % By age 30 to 54 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 applied % 61.0 58.9 54.9 76.4 41.6 49.2 54.0 52.2 72.7 110 1) In accordance with Article 35 of ‘Trade Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act’, when a single union agreement is applied to the majority of a workers in a company 111 55 and Persons 1,836 2,049 2,311 248 1,304 419 99 226 15 or plant, the identical agreement that year is applied to other workers employed for that years’ business or plants. over % 30.4 32.6 35.1 13.2 49.5 40.9 32.8 36.3 11.7 Persons 2,101 2,211 999 676 248 115 97 76 Male Management3) % 96.0 92.4 91.6 87.8 97.1 92.5 92.7 96.0 88.4 Education Performance Persons 172 202 139 20 20 9 4 10 Female % 4.0 7.6 8.4 12.2 2.9 7.5 7.3 4.0 11.6 Target of education hours per employee by 2021 100Hours 1) Advisors excluded 2) Local recruited employees at an overseas business site excluded 2018 3) Manager or higher position Type Unit 2016 2017 Total SKI SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC SKTI Education hours per Hours 27.3 55.3 91.9 87.4 92.6 114.6 117.0 61.7 47.5 employee2) Employee Diversity Education expense per KRW 3.43 5.63 2.72 2.05 3.65 2.21 2.55 2018 employee million Type Unit 2016 2017 Total SKI SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC SKTI 2) Increase in training hours per person due to changes in calculation standard and education time. Disabled 94 111 96 22 41 16 5 11 1 Persons Patriots and Veterans 265 288 300 42 144 64 12 38 0 Employee Engagement Rate Type Unit 2016 2017 2018 Employee Engagement Rate Points 88 91 93 Scope of data % 100 100 100 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix ESG Data │ Social Performance of Volunteer Groups Customer and Quality Management 2018 Type Unit Total SKI SKE SKGC SKL SKIPC SKTI Type Detailed contents Unit 2016 2017 2018 Number of activities Case 13,655 3,949 5,943 1,476 502 1,600 185 1st place Customer satisfaction KSCI 1 place st 1 place st (8 consecutive years) Hours Hours 49,168 16,506 19,385 4,517 2,015 5,814 931 Customer complaint Number of complaints number of complaints 2,100 2,319 3,031 Number of volunteer teams Team 71 19 33 7 4 7 1 processing Complaints process rate % 100 100 100 Participants Person 5862 1,602 2,417 894 259 607 83 Quality inspection Service station quality inspection Number of inspections 12,008 11,982 11,998 Social Contribution Activities Product Quality Control Process SK energy conducts regular quality inspections to manage quality at the point of contact with customers. We clean out all Target investment ratio for local community 75% tanks in the according service station if we detect water or sludge during our periodical quality checks. In addition, when Type Unit 2016 2017 2018 cleaning is necessary excluding inspection periods, we conduct machinery style or complete tank cleaning on an ad hoc Social contribution ratio 1) 2) KRW 100 billion 416 269 349 basis to improve customers’ reliability on quality. 1) K  RW 34.57 billion on cash contributions, KRW 350 million on In-kind giving, KRW 1.63 billion (49,167 hours) on employee volunteering during paid working hours, and KRW 16.1 billion on Management overheads 2) Local community investment ratio of 60.8% in 2016,70.6% in 2017, 70.0% in 2018 Sludge or water Complete tank 112 Select target Conduct quality detected cleaning 113 Regular inspections (every 4 years) inspection No issues exist Current Status of Major Donations Within 2 years Beneficiary organization Programs Machinery style cleaning : Water inflow or Force Majeure Shinseok Foundation Establishment of institution Ad hoc inspections : Change in petroleum type, pole change, tank shut down, PT check, CSES Foundation Establishment of institution Complete style cleaning sludge elimination, change of manager, etc. Jonghyun Academic Foundation Establishment of institution The Happiness Foundation Aid in Sulawesi area after massive earthquake, Happiness Alliance to help children missing meals The Korean Foundation for Advanced Studies Academic support and cultivation of exceptional talent Community Chest of Korea Year-end charity fund for the disadvantaged Registration Process of Customer Complaints Seoul National University Donation of idle research equipment Our rule is to solve customer complaints on the day of occurrence. We developed a system to share our process (CCS) so KOFCA Support Industry Innovation 4.0 that complaints are categorized into service or quality and promptly sent to according authorities and processed. Korean Red Cross Restore Laos from flood damage Pro-synergy Provide operating fees for agricultural social enterprise Yachaywasi etc. SEN Establish promotional social enterprises Complaint taken Measure Customer UNEP National Committee for the Republic of Korea Plant mangrove trees Receive care of service center Service Salesperson 2nd complaints Compensation ChildFund Korea Find missing children initial measure complaint measure Unsolved process Work Together Foundation Public contest to stimulate social economy Rice University / Ho Chi Minh University Scholarship support No issues exist Process customer Quality service Customer guide complaint Quality center System complaint Collect test registration material Customer compensation process Service station Issues exist measure SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix ESG Data │ Social GRI Index Current Status of Corporate Tax Payment1) General Standards Disclosure 2018 Item Type Unit Taxes and public Corporate Revenue Operating profit Classification Disclosure Description Page Note utilities’ charge tax payment 102-1 Name of the organization 20 Korea 757,347 42,347 298 8,966 Netherlands 6,412 42 2 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 20-33 USA 18,486 (65) 7 33 102-3 Location of headquarters 128 Spain 6,104 219 2 35 102-4 Location of operations 20-33, 41 Singapore 284,698 279 1 12 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report 482-490 England 57,821 (115) 2 75 102-6 Markets served 20-33, 41 By country Organizational Indonesia 3,753 219 1 65 102-7 Scale of the organization 20-33 Profile Japan 5,942 12 1 5 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 110 KRW 100 China 23,048 68 17 13 102-9 Supply chain 91 billion Russia 503 33 1 6 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 91 Other (connect and adjust) (619,005) (21,862) 5 (2,113) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 70, 71 Total 545,109 21,176 335 7,104 102-12 External initiatives 126 Korea 757,347 42,347 298 8,966 102-13 Membership of associations 114, 126 Asia 317,441 572 22 102 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4, 5 By region Europe 70,852 176 7 123 Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4, 5, 70, 71 etc. (600,531) (21,919) 8 (2,087) Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 38 Total 545,109 21,176 335 7,104 Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 72, 73 114 1) It is regional information on the consolidated target (based on the location), and internal transactions between consolidated targets are adjusted and reflected in the 102-18 Governance structure 66, 67 115 category of others. 102-19 Delegating authority 66, 67, 69 Average Average 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 69 Type Unit 2017 2018 Type Unit 2017 2018 (notes) (notes) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 66, 67, 69 Earnings Nominal tax amount vs. actual tax amount 424,447 (22,124) 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 66, 67 3,220,824 2,420,374 before Tax Difference in reversion period 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 67 Reported Income ˙Period of corporate tax payment: March to May of 159,153 (163,196) 1,075,722 710,390 102-25 Conflicts of interest 68 Taxes KRW statement the following year Effective million Temporary difference Governance 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 68, 69 33.40 29.40 31.40 Tax Rate ˙Reflected gains on valuation by subsidiary company 150,069 27,667 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 68 Cash Taxes Statement of ˙Increase in domestic tax ratio (24.2% → 27.5%) KRW 651,275 732,514 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 69 Paid cash flow Permanent difference million Cash Tax ˙Damage in the subsidiary company not recognized 35,812 6,239 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 69 % 20.20 30.30 25.25 Rate Tax amount exemption and reduction difference 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 69 ˙Tax amount exemption and reduction, non-exempt 56,482 101,265 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 68, 69 overseas paid tax amount 102-35 Remuneration policies 69, Annual Report 502-508 Other differences 22,931 5,901 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report 502-508 ˙Tentative and fixed difference 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 104 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 111 Current Status of Contributions for Membership Associations and Groups2) Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 104 Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 104 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 104 Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total annual contribution KRW million 3,081 2,834 2,961 2,855 3,112 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 102, 103 102-47 List of material topics 103 2) In accordance with the Political Fund Act of Korea and SK innovation Code of Ethics Guidelines, it is strictly prohibited to provide donations and sponsorship for political purposes by using corporate assets and budgets. 102-48 Restatements of information 128 102-49 Changes in reporting 128 102-50 Reporting period 128 Reporting Major groups for contribution Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report 128 Practice Korea Petroleum Association Contribution 1,650 1,452 1,619 1,486 1,491 102-52 Reporting cycle 128 Korea Petrochemical Industry Association Contribution 140 154 156 154 152 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 128 KRW 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 128 Korea Oil Association Contribution 78 74 72 101 286 million Korea Chemical Industry Council Contribution 26 26 26 26 26 102-55 GRI content index 115, 116 Korea Oil Station Association Contribution 14 14 14 14 83 102-56 External assurance 123, 124 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix Topic-specific Standards Disclosure Independent Auditors’ Report Topic Disclosure Description Page Note Economic Performance (GRI 200) Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 105 Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 55, 71 To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 62, 63, 82-90 SK Innovation Co., Ltd.: Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 48-51 Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 91 Our Opinion Practices 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 72-75 We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of SK Innovation Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”), Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 73 which comprise the statements of financial position as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, and the consolidated Environmental Performance (GRI 300) statements of comprehensive income, consolidated statements of changes in equity and consolidated statements of cash flows for the 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 106 years then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 98, 99 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 99 Water and In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 99, 108 Effluents 2018 303-3 Water withdrawal 106 December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the years then ended in 103-1~3 Management Approach 54, 104 accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRSs”). 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 106 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 106 Basis for Audit Opinion 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 55, 98, 99 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 107 We conducted our audits in accordance with the Korean Standards on Auditing (“KSAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are Effluents and further described in the Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 99, 107 Waste the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements, including those related to independence, that are relevant to our audit of the Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 108 No case consolidated financial statements in the Republic of Korea as required by prevailing audit regulations. We believe that the audit evidence 116 Supplier 103-1~3 Management Approach 56 we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 117 Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 92, 93 Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 92, 93 Our Key Audit Matters Social Performance (GRI 400) Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partThe key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 401-2 78 Employment time employees financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial 401-3 Parental leave 80, 111 statements as a whole, and in forming our audit opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion in these matters. 103-1~3 Management Approach 58 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 95 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 59 (1) Valuation of inventories 403-3 Occupational health services 97 As of December 31, 2018, the book value of inventories held by the Group in the petroleum business, petrochemical business and Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and 403-4 59, 96 lubricant business amounted to ₩6,021,993 million, which accounted for approximately 17% of total assets, and as international oil and Occupational safety Health and 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 96 related product prices showed a significant decline for the quarter ended December 31, 2018, the valuation of inventories could have a Safety 2018 403-6 Promotion of worker health 96, 97 significant impact on the Group's performance. In addition, as described in Note 3, the valuation of inventories requires management’s Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by 403-7 59 judgment on estimation of sales prices and selling expenses. Given the uncertainty of these estimates and the monetary significance business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 96 100% associated with the valuation of inventories, we have determined that the valuation of inventories is a key audit matter. 403-9 Work-related injuries 109 403-10 Work-related ill health 109 The audit procedures we performed for this key audit matter included: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 111 obtaining an understanding of the Group’s accounting policies related to the valuation of inventories; Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 76, 77 Diversity and Equal obtaining an understanding of the Group’s internal controls over valuation of inventories and assessed effectiveness of design of the 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 67, 110 Opportunity controls and implementation of the controls; 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 81 obtaining understanding on the management’s methodology used in estimating selling price and selling expenses and assessed Human Rights Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or Assessment 412-3 81 appropriateness thereof; that underwent human rights screening 103-1~3 Management Approach 61 inspecting supporting documents related to estimated selling price on a sample of inventories; Participate in Local recalculating the valuation of inventories; and Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development community Communities 413-1 62, 63, 82-90, 112 programs activities for all testing the disclosures in the financial statements and checked for compliance with K-IFRS 1002 inventories. business sites Supplier Social 103-1~3 Management Approach 56 (2) Allocation of purchase price in relation to acquisition of Dow Chemical’s EAA and PVDC businesses Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 92, 93 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of As described in Note 35, the Group acquired the EAA business, PVDC business and all tangible and intangible assets in the U.S. and Customer Privacy 418-1 No case customer data SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix Independent Auditors’ Report Spain from Dow Chemical Company in 2017, in accordance with resolution of board of directors in 2017. The consideration was ₩458,900 misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high million and the identifiable net assets including intangible assets were measured at ₩346,172 million and goodwill amounting to ₩112,728 level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with KSAs will always detect a material misstatement million was recognized. when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The Group completed the accounting for the business combinations by retrospectively adjusting the provisional amounts recognized at the acquisition date as the measurement period in accordance with KIFRS 1103 ended during the current period. This includes As part of an audit in accordance with KSAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the allocating consideration transferred to various identifiable assets and liabilities, and adjusting goodwill. Management used independent audit. We also: external experts to measure the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities. Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, design and perform audit procedures responsive We have determined that the allocation of purchase price related to those business combinations is a key audit matter considering the to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting significance of the assets and liabilities recognized in relation to the business combinations and significance of management’s judgment a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, and assumptions used in measuring the assets and liabilities. intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the The audit procedures we performed for this key audit matter included: circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. obtaining an understanding of the business combination by reviewing the asset purchase agreement; Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures obtaining an understanding of the methodology applied in allocating the purchase price across intangible assets and goodwill and in made by management. measuring identified assets, with support from our valuation experts; Conclude on the appropriateness of the management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence considering whether management had identified all potential intangible assets based on our understanding of the acquired business obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to 118 and significant contracts; continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report 119 assessing appropriateness of the key assumptions in the valuation models, including the discount rate used in measuring the to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions identifiable assets by comparing to available external data; are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the recalculating the valuation of identified intangible assets; Group to cease to continue as a going concern. comparing the forecasts used within the intangible asset valuation model to the management-approved budgets; and Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial testing the disclosures in the financial statements and checked for compliance with K-IFRS 1103 Business Combinations. statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Emphasis of Matter We communicate with those charged with governance of the Group regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of As mentioned in Note 35, the Group acquired all of the Dow Chemical Company's EAA businesses and PVDC businesses and the the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. related tangible and intangible assets. Some of the identifiable net assets acquired from the business combination were presented as provisional amounts by the end of the prior reporting period because the fair value assessment had not been completed. For the year We also provide those charged with governance of the Group with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical ended December 31, 2018, new information on the pertinent facts and circumstances existing at the acquisition date was obtained and requirements, including those related to independence, and to communicate with them all matters that may reasonably be thought to the provisional amount of the identifiable net assets recognized at the acquisition date was retrospectively adjusted. bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the Management is responsible for the preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with K-IFRSs, and audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Eui Yeoul Song In preparing the financial statements, management of the Group is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance’s responsibilities include overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. March 5, 2019 Auditors’ Responsibility for the Audit of the Financial Statements This report is effective as of March 5, 2019, the auditors’ report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred between the auditors’ report date and the time the auditors’ report is read. Such events or circumstances could significantly affect the accompanying consolidated financial statements and may result in Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material modifications to the auditors’ report. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements (Unit: KRW thousand) (Unit: KRW thousand) Classification 2017 2018 Classification 2017 2018 Assets Liabilities Ⅰ. Total Current Assets 16,220,201,245 16,752,415,052 Ⅰ. Total Current Liabilities 9,954,805,119 8,940,623,415 1. Cash and cash equivalents 2,003,740,408 1,855,920,813 1. Short-term borrowings 242,879,213 153,742,080 2. Short-term financial instruments 2,245,428,888 2,671,963,400 2. Trade accounts payable 5,265,305,725 4,650,028,501 3. Trade accounts receivable 4,821,306,591 4,459,724,118 3. Other accounts payable 446,758,318 465,592,378 4. Long-term investment securities 2,591,171 4. Accrued expenses 1,163,595,878 1,344,051,227 5. Short-term loans 59,855,377 43,557,329 5. Advance received 80,431,806 117,420,458 6. Other accounts receivable 476,188,351 696,153,342 6. Withholdings 841,490,319 642,790,322 7. Accrued income 5,094,087 5,083,257 7. Leasehold deposits received 13,412,485 12,357,819 8. Advance payments 354,825,152 470,829,270 8. Current tax liabilities 481,010,956 221,764,790 9. Prepaid expenses 47,616,001 47,657,894 9. Derivative financial liabilities 90,768,855 55,846,355 10. Current tax assets 10,396,005 9,266,155 10. Other current liabilities 56,723,383 55,505,516 11. Guarantee deposits 164,739,997 171,808,083 11. Current portion of long-term debt 1,272,428,181 1,221,523,969 12. Derivative financial assets 34,080,164 72,206,845 Ⅱ. Total Non-current Liabilities 4,986,008,472 7,816,777,990 13. Inventories 5,979,634,285 6,179,806,214 1. Bonds payable and long-term borrowings 4,062,637,332 6,648,068,076 120 121 14. Other current assets 17,295,939 347,161 2. Retirement benefit obligation 76,158,303 78,446,689 15. Assets classified as held for sales 65,500,000 3. Long-term provisions 100,553,633 119,944,900 Ⅱ. Total Non-current Assets 18,029,945,245 19,332,969,018 4. Financial guarantee liabilities 1,131,271 721,035 1. Long-term financial instruments 4,501,038 4,720,012 5. Deferred income tax liabilities 731,132,521 946,917,218 2. Long-term trade accounts receivable 152,927 78,836 6. Other accounts payable 6,539,755 12,590,361 3. Long-term investment securities 276,337,835 333,183,684 7. Other non-current liabilities 7,855,657 10,089,711 4. Investments in associates and jointly Total Liabilities 14,940,813,591 16,757,401,405 2,431,188,073 2,881,803,332 controlled entities Equity 5. Long-term other accounts receivable 16,832,318 12,857,090 Ⅰ. Total Equity Attributable to the Owners’ of the 18,085,779,250 18,124,447,803 6. Long-term loans 106,319,861 196,249,453 Company 7. Property, plant and equipment 13,596,238,753 13,798,178,396 1. Capital stock 468,569,950 468,569,950 8. Goodwill and Intangible assets 1,501,386,906 2,006,974,502 2. Other paid-in capital 5,629,672,498 4,628,540,029 9. Long-term guarantee deposits 28,353,284 42,593,848 3. Retained earnings 12,041,707,802 12,930,338,005 10. Derivative financial assets 1,975,292 8,502,747 4. Other capital components (54,171,000) 96,999,819 11. Deferred income tax assets 37,675,259 24,014,790 Ⅱ. Non-controlling interests 1,223,553,649 1,203,534,862 12. Other non-current assets 28,983,699 23,812,328 Total Equity 19,309,332,899 19,327,982,665 Total Assets 34,250,146,490 36,085,384,070 Total Liabilities and Equity 34,250,146,490 36,085,384,070 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix Financial Statements Independent Assurance Statement Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unit: KRW thousand) Introduction SK innovation Co., Ltd. (“SK innovation”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 (the “Report”). The directors of SK innovation have sole responsibility for the Classification 2017 2018 preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of SK innovation in accordance Ⅰ. Sales 46,162,655,997 54,510,898,386 with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client Ⅱ. Cost of Sales 40,824,841,000 50,529,216,158 to us as part of our review have been prepared in good faith. Ⅲ. Gross Profit 5,337,814,997 3,981,682,228 IV. Selling and Administrative Expenses 2,116,028,938 1,864,092,438 Scope and Basis of Assurance V. Operating Income 3,221,786,059 2,117,589,790 Based on non-financial data and sustainability activities and performance data of 2018 generated from SK innovation, we have evaluated the  inancial income interest income calculated using effective interest F adherence to GRI Standards and assessed the quality of sustainability performance information. We have reviewed that the Topic-specific 40,226,278 method disclosures of GRI Standards with are identified in the process for defining report content; Financial income others 3,141,034,659 Financial income 1,882,361,310 Material Topic GRI Disclosure Material Topic GRI Disclosure Finance costs 2,050,667,110 2,949,103,372 1 Response to climate change 305-1 4 Implementing a safe workplace 403-1  ain related to investments in associates and jointly controlled G 2 Sustainable supply chain management 308-1, 414-1 5 Community engagement 413-1 311,316,658 155,164,442 entities, net Other non-operating income 79,579,055 109,416,494 Other non-operating expenses 220,699,009 211,975,494 We’ve performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM, which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the limited level of assurance. Ⅵ. Income from Continuing Operation before Income Tax Expense 3,223,676,963 2,402,352,797 The audit was carried out from April and till June 2019. The site visits were made to the headquarters of SK innovation in Seoul and Ulsan 122 Ⅶ. Income Tax Expense 1,076,412,588 705,434,099 123 Complex. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: Ⅷ. Income from Continuing Operations 2,147,264,375 1,696,918,698 Ⅸ. Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations (2,162,647) 13,065,343 • challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data X. Net Income 2,145,101,728 1,709,984,041 management system, information flow and controls; • interviewed representatives from the various departments; Attributable to Owners of the Company 2,103,771,293 1,651,472,381 • conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they relate to Attributable to Non-controlling interests 41,330,435 58,511,660 selected content and performance data; XI. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (266,979,155) 110,107,348 • reviewed the materiality assessment report; 1. Items not reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 2,842,547 (28,830,557) • visited Ulsan Complex (SK energy, SK global chemical and SK lubricants) and tested the environmental data gathering process. Net change in fair value of financial assets measured at FVTOCI (12,771,446) Remeasurement of defined benefit plan 12,709,665 (19,519,151) Limitations Net gain (loss) on translation of foreign operations (9,867,118) 3,460,040 The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of SK innovation’s subsidiaries, associated 2. Items reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: (269,821,702) 138,937,905 companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties except for SK innovation, and its 5 major subsidiaries (SK energy, SK global chemical, Net change in fair value of financial assets measured at FVTOCI 49,592 SK lubricants, SK incheon petrochem and SK trading international). DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Net change in fair value of available-for-sale(“AFS”) financial assets 25,168,336 Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as SK innovation’s E  quity adjustments of investments in associates and jointly (145,009,674) 58,819,987 website (http://www.skinnovation.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance controlled entitles Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the Net gain (loss) on translation of foreign operations (150,071,422) 71,897,840 organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the Net change on valuation of derivative financial instruments 91,058 8,170,486 corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may XII. Total Comprehensive Income 1,878,122,573 1,820,091,389 make based on this Assurance Statement. Attributable to Owners of the Company 1,846,659,256 1,758,119,689 Attributable to Non-controlling interests 31,463,317 61,971,700 Conclusion XIII. Earnings Per Share On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly address the adherence to the 1. Basic earnings per share 22,574원 18,267원 Principles for defining report content in GRI Standards nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI Standards Core option. Further opinions with 2. Basic earnings per share of preferred stocks 22,624원 18,317원 regards to the adherence to the Principles are made below; 3. B  asic earnings per share from continuing operations 22,597원 18,123원 4. B  asic earnings per share of preferred stocks from continuing Stakeholder Inclusiveness 22,647원 18,173원 SK innovation has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Employees, Shareholders/Investors, Local communities operations SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix and Suppliers. SK innovation engages with the stakeholders at the conglomerate, company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engage with the selected stakeholders and relevant organizations are described in the Report. In addition, SK Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement innovation reports on key issues of interest to stakeholders in 2018 and their changes.and Suppliers. SK innovation engages with the stakeholders at the conglomerate, company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engage with the selected stakeholders and relevant organizations are described in the Report. In addition, SK innovation reports on key issues of interest to stakeholders in 2018 and their changes. Sustainability Context GHG Verification Summary The Report shows the strategic direction of SK innovation to stakeholders. In addition, the Report presents the stakeholder impact assessment on the material topics, reasons for selecting material topics, SK innovation's management approach and performance indicators. These would help SK Innovation Co., Ltd. the stakeholder understand the management approaches toward the material topics. In addition, SK innovation reports its contribution to achieve 26, Jongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul Special City, Korea UN SDGs and the Double Bottom Line (DBL) strategy with which SK innovation pursues to create not only economic values but also social values. The report explains its efforts to increase social value (SV) in all management activities. SK innovation addresses in the Report what was the key performances achieved in 2018. Verification Scope Materiality Korean Standards Association has conducted reasonable GHG emissions verification based on GHG report SK innovation has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The relevant 35 issue pool is formed by analysing the material provided by SK Innovation Co., Ltd. which includes Scope1 and Scope2 emissions. topics from the global sustainability initiatives and standards, the topics which industry peer group considers material and the subjects covered by mass media. The issues in the pool are rated by combining the level of impact on SK innovation’s business and level of stakeholders’ interest in the issue. SK innovation used the internal and external stakeholder survey to prioritize the issues to the most relevant 10 issues out of which Verification Standards and Guidelines 4 material topics are selected at the end. SK innovation has considered the relevance and significance with the core growth strategy, the current To conduct verification activities, verification team applied verification standards and guidelines. The standards management status, industry issues, and internal and external stakeholder issues in the assessment. In additional, SK innovation has presented and guidelines are as follows. the relevance of SK innovation’s financial, reputation, operational, and strategic aspects to the selected material topics. The assurance team · GHG&Energy Target Scheme guideline(2016-255) provided by Ministry of Environment, Republic of Korea reviewed the materiality assessment process and confirmed that the material topics prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. · Verification guideline for management of GHG emissions trading scheme(2018-070) provided by Ministry of 124 Completeness Environment, Republic of Korea 125 The Report has covered the sustainability management approach and sustainability performances of SK innovation for the reporting period. · KS Q ISO 14064-1,2,3: 2006 The reporting boundary has been set to include SK innovation and major subsidiaries (SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, SK incheon · IPCC Guideline petrochem, SK trading international) which have headquarters in Seoul and production plants in Jeungpyeong, Cheongju, Seosan, Ulsan and Incheon, and Daejeon Global Technology and it covers 99% of revenue from SK innovation and its subsidiary sales. The assurance team has not Verification Conclusion noted any intentional omission of the performance results on material topics within the reporting boundary. As a result of verification activities, verification team has found no significant errors. Therefore, Korean Standards Comparability, Accuracy, Timeliness, Clarity and Reliability Association confirms that following emissions data are adequately quantified. The audit team has sampled data and tested accuracy and reliability. Especially DNV GL reviewed the reliability of the subject data water 2018 GHG Emissions (Unit: tonCO2eq) consumption, waste volume, air emissions (NOx, SOx, VOC and Hydrocarbons), Occupational safety indicators (Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR), Total Recordable Incidents Rate (TRIR), number of fatality) and process safety indicator (process safety accident rate). The assurance team interviewed the responsible for the subject data handling and reviewed the data gathering process with the supporting documents and records. The depth of data Subject Scope 1 Scope 2 Total verification is limited to the aggregated data level. Based on the test, the intentional error or misstatement is not noted. Data owners were able to SK innovation Co., Ltd. 73,891 191,053 264,942 demonstrate to trace the origin of the data and to interpret the processed data in a reliable manner. The data was identifiable and traceable. SK energy Co., Ltd. 6,480,338 928,585 7,408,923 SK global chemical Co., Ltd. 2,456,521 744,736 3,201,256 Competence and Independence SK incheon petrochem Co., Ltd. 1,325,956 463,405 1,789,360 DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 Conformity Assessment SK lubricants Co., Ltd. 105,402 100,225 205,626 Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality ※ There is a difference between the total quantity of GHG emission and the sum of each workplace’s emission. (Decimal place is not considered when calculating the emission of each workplace.) control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct during the assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of statements or data included in May 29, 2019 the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. DNV GL have no other contract with SK innovation and did not provide any services to SK Innovation in 2019 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. June 2019 Seoul, Korea KOREAN STANDARDS ASSOCIATION Jang-Sub Lee Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 Appendix Membership Status Publication History of Sustainability Report SK innovation participates in various associations and groups in each economic, social and environmental sector to identify Cover Story major internal and external trends, as well as to reinforce networking with diverse stakeholders. We will strengthen the executive power and professionalism in sustainability management further through proactive external initiative activities. Based on the belief that complete innovation can only be accomplished through clear change, coupled with Economy SHE Society Green Innovation, SK innovation aspires to spread social value worldwide. ˙Korea Economic Research Institute ˙Mae Kyung Safety & Environment Institute ˙UN Global Compact ˙Korea Business Council for ˙Korea Institute of Hazardous Materials Sustainable Development (KBCSD) ˙Korean Society for Marine Environment and ˙Korean Fair Competition Federation Energy ˙Association of Energy Future Forum ˙Korean Environmental Preservation Association 2018 ˙World Petroleum Council (WPC) ˙Korea Environmental Policy and Administration Korean Member Committee Society ˙Korea Chemicals Management Association ˙Korea Fire Safety Association ˙Oil Refining Safety and Environment Committee The 10 Principles of UNGC (United Nations Global Compact) 126 127 SK innovation supports the philosophy of UNGC and proactively engages in UNGC activities. Furthermore, SK innovation faithfully complies with each of the ten principles through company’s sustainability management activities. Type Policies and activities of SK innovation 2010’s Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 1 internationally proclaimed human rights Human Make sure that businesses are not complicit in Based on the philosophy of “human-centered management,” Principle 2 SK innovation commits no violation of human rights in business activities. rights human right abuses. We also recruit employees in a fair and reasonable manner and guarantee Business should uphold the freedom of association and equal opportunities by considering employees’ qualifications and person-job Principle 3 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. fit. Furthermore, the company acknowledges the freedom of association and Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. collective bargaining rights and has regular communications to proactively collect and improve any grievance from employees Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor. Labor 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Principle 6 and occupation. Business should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 SK innovation selects environmental management as its core task and environmental challenges. established and complies with its independent environmental standard, which 2000’s EnvironUndertake initiatives to promote greater environmental has higher standards than government requirements. The company also Principle 8 ment responsibility. minimizes GHG, wastewater and pollutants to conserve the natural environment and makes more great effort to develop eco-friendly technology and achieve the Encourage the development and diffusion of Principle 9 innovation of future energy. environmentally friendly technologies. SK innovation has established a code of ethics for employees based on SKMS, AntiBusiness should work against corruption in all its forms, which is the unique management system of the group, and prepared concrete Principle 10 Corruption including extortion and bribery. practice guidelines. The company also prevents any unethical behavior by operating an ethics consultation center and utilizing an online reporting channel. KCGS ESG Evaluation in 2018 Total A Environmental(E) B+ Social(S) A+ Governance(G) A 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2018 ABOUT THIS REPORT Reporting Information SK innovation has been publishing annual sustainability reports since 2005 in order to transparently publicize our major efforts and performance in pursuing sustainability as well as communicate actively with stakeholders. We will continue to gather opinions of our stakeholders in our sustainability report to include in our business operations. Reporting Standard This report was prepared in accordance with the Standards (Core Option) of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) as well as Oil & Gas Sector disclosure and SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) to cover important industrial issues. It also reflects the Ten Principles of UNGC (UN Global Compact) and UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). Reporting Period This report covers our sustainability performance during the fiscal year (January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018). Some of the highlights over the first half of 2019 are included in this report to ensure their prompt disclosure. Certain indicators for the past three years are included for 128 continuous trend analysis. Reporting Scope As for the scope of this report, financial data has the same consolidation criteria as K-IFRS (Korea International Financial Reporting Standards). Non-financial data are limited to SK innovation and major subsidiaries’ headquarters in Seoul (SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, SK incheon petrochem, SK trading international), production plants in Jeungpyeong, Cheongju, Seosan, Ulsan and Incheon, Daejeon Global Technology Institute and major subsidiaries and sub-subsidiaries of overseas corporations. This scope includes 99% of sales by the main body of SK innovation and subsidiaries having 100% of shares (except for SK mobile energy and SK battery systems). Some environmental quantitative performance indicators were based on major domestic operations except for overseas corporations; the detailed scope of such data is indicated Published in June 2019 separately. Published by SK Innovation Sustainability Management Planning Unit Reporting Reliability Address 26 Jongro, Jongro-gu, Seoul, This report has been published upon review by the Board of Directors’ South Korea CSR Committee to enhance the appropriateness of the content. In Contact Info. Tel: 02-2121-5114 addition, DNV GL, a third-party assurance provider, has evaluated the E-Mail: ski_sr@sk.com contents and data of this Report according to IS AE3000, limited level of Designed by IM Creative assurance, to ensure objectivity and transparency. Reliability assurance This report is printed with soy ink and printed on paper made of engagement was performed on certain performance information. materials from well-managed, FSCⓇ-certified forests and other controlled sources.
