MOVING OUR ENERGY BEYOND BORDERS… I CA R AF 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A people-focused approach At Aksa Energy, we continue to build power plants in African countries which have urgent energy demand. This is because serving community with a people-focused approach matters to us as much as our business success; and we regard it as our social responsibility. We consistently take actions to understand and meet the needs and expectations of all stakeholders including our employees and the local residents in the regions where we operate. CONTENTS 01 About This Report 08 Message from the Chairman 10 Aksa Energy at a Glance 10 About Aksa Energy 14 Vision and Mission 16 Developments in 2018 18 Investment Strategy 20 Sales Strategy 22 Management Approach 22 Sustainability Approach 24 Stakeholder Relations 26 Corporate Governance 28 Code of Ethics 29 Risk Management 30 Sustainability Performance 30 Environmental Sustainability 31 Climate Change and Energy 31 Air Emissions 32 Waste Management 32 Water and Wastewater Management 33 Biodiversity 34 Employees 36 Safe Working Environment 38 Performance and Career Management 40 Community Relations 40 Local Economy and Employment 41 Social Responsibility 42 Performance Indicators 42 Environmental Performance 43 Social Performance 44 GRI Content Index ABOUT THIS REPORT This report was prepared with the aim of sharing the environmental, social and corporate governance performance and progress of Aksa Enerji Üretim A.Ş. (Aksa Energy) with its stakeholders in a transparent manner. The report covers the period between January 1 and December 31, 2018, and contains data related to all aspects of Aksa Energy’s operations. This report was prepared in accordance with GRI Standards (Core) and the Electric Utilities Sector Disclosure was used as a reference. Please send your questions, feedback and recommendations regarding this report to surdurulebilirlik@aksa.com.tr. 1 Contributing to society... At Aksa Energy, we place utmost importance on maintaining the social structure, supporting social and economic development, human rights, and increasing energy savings and efficiency in the regions where we operate. To this end, we have raised the share of local employees to above 50% in our power plants in Africa to support employment growth in the region. Company headcount 3 A record-breaking success in occupational safety… Aksa Energy designs its Occupational Health and Safety Policy in accordance with international standards. As at year-end 2018, we reached our “2 million man x hours without an accident” working target at Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant, steadily inching closer to our target of “5 million man x hours without an accident”. million man x hours without an accident 5 Ongoing success… Energy Production in Continents Countries Since 2015, Aksa Energy has been included in the Sustainability Index which incorporates top-performers in corporate sustainability trading on Borsa Istanbul. Currently, 50 companies are listed in the Index. MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN We have successfully boosted our profitability even under challenging economic conditions. This achievement is an indication of Aksa Energy’s sustainability-oriented business model, capabilities and ability to generate added value. 2018 Revenues Distinguished Stakeholders, In the second half of the year, the government unveiled the New Economy In 2018, the signs pointing to a slowdown Program, which was based on three main TRY in the global economy became far principles: balance, discipline and change. more apparent. Even though advanced This effort helped stabilize the foreign economies maintained their growth exchange rate and curb inflation, while momentum, global markets experienced allowing interest rates to ease. fluctuations fueled by increased political and geopolitical tensions. The negative Turkey’s energy industry, of critical impact of the sharp increase in the USD importance for the country’s continued exchange rate and the subsequent rise development, was also affected by these billion in crude oil prices was deeply felt on the events during the year. Rising oil and production in emerging markets across natural gas prices in particular caused With a total the globe. increased vulnerability in countries that are dependent on raw-materials from abroad installed capacity of After recording growth of 7.4% in 2017, for electricity generation, such as Turkey. Turkey’s economy maintained its Market volatility throughout the year 2,061 MW – 1,946 MW impressive performance by expanding highlighted the importance of fundamental of which is the active 7.4% in the first quarter and 5.3% in the concepts like sustainability and efficiency. second quarter of 2018. Subsequently, installed capacity– the domestic election agenda, rising Recognizing the dynamic structure of the global uncertainties and a downgraded energy market, Aksa Energy achieved all Aksa Energy achieved sovereign credit rating led to increased its financial and operational objectives for 15 billion KWh of market volatility. As a result, the Turkish 2018 despite the challenging economic economy expanded just 1.8% in the third environment. With a total installed capacity energy sales, generating quarter, and the country closed the year of 2,061 MW – including an active capacity revenues of with a 2.6% growth. of 1,946 MW – we sold 15 billion KWh of energy in 2018. As a result, we generated TRY 4.7 billion and Excessive volatility in foreign exchange revenues of TRY 4.7 billion and recorded rates coupled with political tensions with net profit of TRY 150 million as of year-end a net income of the US that erupted in mid-July and high 2018. Aksa Energy’s expansion to Africa, TRY 150 million. inflation caused a significant contraction in line with our strategy of transforming in domestic demand. Meanwhile, strong into a global energy company, significantly foreign demand somewhat limited contributed to our increased profit during the economic downturn. The severe the year. This strategy has also helped depreciation of the Turkish Lira and the reduce our foreign currency denominated rise in global commodity prices served to debt significantly. increase real interest rates and caused inflation to reach the highest level of the In 2018, Aksa Energy continued to launch recent years, standing at 20.3%. investments that will shape the future. During the year, we signed a five-year hard currency-based operation and maintenance 8 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT agreement for the rehabilitation and operation of 24 MW CTA-2 Power Plant, which is owned by Jiro Sy Rano Malagasy (Jirama), a state-owned power utility and water services company in Madagascar. Moreover, we expanded the capacity of Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant to 370 MW, reaching a total installed capacity of 476 MW in Africa. We have successfully boosted our profitability even under challenging economic conditions. This achievement is an indication of Aksa Energy’s sustainability-oriented business model, capabilities and ability to generate added value. Aksa Energy has been included in the BIST Sustainability Index without interruption since 2015. We also conduct our activities with a management approach that emphasizes continuous improvement in our sustainability performance. Aksa Energy makes its strategic decisions with the aim of generating long-term added value for all its stakeholders. In doing so, we consider not only economic risks and opportunities, but also environmental, social and management-related aspects. During the year, we recorded significant achievements with our employer trainings, OHS and biodiversity projects. At Aksa Energy, total training hours per employee have risen 2.8 times over the last two years. Meanwhile, occupational health and safety trainings delivered throughout the year increased by 11% compared to the prior year. As of year-end 2018, we reached our 2 million man x hours without an accident milestone at Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant, steadily inching closer to achieve our target of 5 million man x hours without an accident. We continued our efforts to protect biodiversity, as we have done so since 2015. Acting in cooperation with the Turkish Association for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (TTKD), we sponsored a project to determine the presence of red deer (Cervus Elaphus), a species symbolizing biodiversity, around Yedigöller National Park, and their ecology. We will continue our support with a similar initiative in 2019. Our competitive advantages in the market include our long-established corporate infrastructure, robust electricity generation activities, efficiency-based strategic approach and highly-specialized human capital. With these core assets, Aksa Energy continues to move forward towards its goals of boosting sustainable profitability and becoming a global brand. As I present our 2018 Sustainability Report, I would like to take this opportunity to extend my gratitude to all our stakeholders – especially our employees – for their valuable contribution to our efforts. Respectfully yours, CEMIL KAZANCI Chairman 9 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE ABOUT AKSA ENERGY Changing its investment strategy in 2015 and aiming to grow abroad following its investment in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Aksa Energy expanded to Africa and commissioned power plants in Ghana, Madagascar and Mali. generation. Changing its investment Aksa Energy Aksa Energy was established in 1997 as a subsidiary of Kazancı Holding, a strategy in 2015 and aiming to grow generates energy leading group of companies in Turkish abroad after its investment in the with a total installed energy sector. The Company is Turkey’s Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, largest publicly-listed independent Aksa Energy expanded to Africa and capacity of 2,061 power producer, as well as a global commissioned power plants in Ghana, MW, 629 MW of which energy company. Madagascar and Mali. The Company is located overseas. conducts business operations in Having launched its first energy five countries on two continents with a investment in Turkey in 1998, Aksa total installed capacity of 2,061 MW, Energy has diversified its investments 1,946 MW of which is the active over time with various energy resources. capacity as at year-end 2018. The Company completed its first investment abroad with a power plant installed in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, securing its position among Turkey’s market leaders in power 10 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ali Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 11 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE ABOUT AKSA ENERGY Aksa Energy, Turkey’s largest publicly-listed independent power producer, is also a global energy company. 78.60% Kazancı Holding 0.01% Other SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE 21.39% Publicly Traded GRI 102-45 12 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Çorum, İncesu 15 MW** Bolu Göynük 270 MW Mali 40 MW Ghana Manisa 370 MW 115 MW** Antalya Şanlıurfa 900 MW 147 MW Madagascar Northern Cyprus 66 MW 153 MW 12 MW* Number of Operational Power Plants 7 Active Installed Capacity 1,946 MW Antalya 900 MW Bolu, Göynük 270 MW Şanlıurfa 147 MW Northern Cyprus 153 MW Mali 40 MW Ghana 370 MW Madagascar 66 MW Number of Power Plants Operated on Behalf of Madagascar 1 Installed Capacity Operated on Behalf of Madagascar 12 MW Madagascar CTA-2 12 MW* * Commissioned with an installed capacity of 12 MW in December 2018, the power plant reached 24 MW in January 2019. ** Çorum İncesu Hydroelectric Power Plant was sold on January 17, 2018. Furthermore, an application was filed with EMRA (Energy Market Regulatory Authority) to revoke the electricity generation license of Manisa Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant. As the power plant has ceased energy generation, it is not accounted in the active installed capacity and the number of operational power plants figures. The license cancellation has been completed in April 2019. Lignite Natural Gas Heavy Fuel Oil Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant Combined Cycle Power Plants Power Plant Power Plants Bolu Antalya Northern Cyprus Madagascar 270 MW 900 MW 153 MW 12 MW Şanlıurfa Ghana 147 MW 370 MW Madagascar 66 MW Mali 40 MW 12 MW Installed Capacity 270 MW 1,047 MW 629 MW Operated on Behalf Total Installed Capacity Total Installed Capacity Total Installed Capacity of the Country 13 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE VISION AND MISSION Aksa Energy’s Vision To become the largest and most reliable power in the region. Aksa Energy’s Mission To capitalize on its deep experience and know-how in the energy industry in order to continue implementing high performance projects, with a focus on cutting-edge technologies and a well-educated, highly skilled workforce. 14 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE DEVELOPMENTS IN 2018 Aksa Energy increased the installed capacity of Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant to 370 MW in 2018; and also commissioned CTA-2 Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant after the completion of its rehabilitation on behalf of Madagascar. Net Profit Rising global welfare, in parallel with Accordingly, Turkey’s private energy the fast growth of emerging economies, companies develop various projects TRY has increased global power demand. domestically and abroad. Combatting Transitioning to an economy based climate change and boosting local on the industrial and service sectors socio-economic development play from an agriculture-based model, an important role in the sustainability Turkey faces rising energy consumption of energy investments made by the in tandem with its economic growth. industry. million Having limited energy resources, Turkey’s energy policies are designed to Aksa Energy creates job opportunities address growing demand and reduce its by recruiting local residents in its Continuing to accelerate foreign energy dependence. operating regions. Furthermore, the its sustainable growth, infrastructure works and repair projects Aksa Energy posted Turkey capitalizes on its resource in these regions serve to raise the living diversity and continues to develop standards of its stakeholders and boost TRY 150 million of net projects in cooperation with other regional socio-economic development. profit at end-2018. nations in the region in order to ensure the security of its power supply. 16 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Capacity Increase at Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant As of November 2018, the installed capacity of Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant was expanded to 370 MW, up from 280 MW. With this 90 MW capacity increase, the guaranteed capacity of Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant rose from 223.5 MW to 332 MW. As a result, Aksa Energy’s total installed capacity in Africa has reached 476 MW. New Agreement Signed in Madagascar In 2018, Aksa Energy executed an agreement for the rehabilitation and operation of a 24 MW power plant, Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant owned by Societe Jiro Sy Rano Malagasy (Jirama). The facility is located adjacent to Aksa Energy’s existing power plant in Madagascar operating License Cancellations The Sustainability Committee follows with an installed capacity of 66 MW. The installed capacity of Ali Metin up the development of strategies, Commissioned with 12 MW installed Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined policies and targets that are required capacity in December 2018, Madagascar Cycle Power Plant was reduced for the management of environmental, CTA-2 Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant from 1,150 MW to 900 MW with the social and management-related risks reached an installed capacity of 24 MW application for license revision filed in compliance with the Corporate as of January 2019. As of the date the with EMRA. With the partial license Governance Principles. power plant commenced operations, the cancellation in the production unit, electricity generated by the facility has which did not contribute to the Credit Rating been sold to Jirama in USD for five years actual energy generation in 2018, the Turkrating, one of Turkey’s leading under a guaranteed sales (take-or-pay) production capacity of the power plant credit rating agencies, has confirmed agreement. was decreased to 7 billion KWh, down again Aksa Energy’s high loan quality from 9 billion KWh. and strong debt repayment capacity in Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant 2018. Wins an Award Aksa Energy filed an application with Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant was the Energy Market Regulatory Authority In its latest report published on October presented with an award by the Coal (EMRA) in November 2018 for the 12, 2018, Turkrating affirmed Aksa Producers’ Association (KÖMÜRDER). cancellation of the generation license Energy’s Long-Term National Credit As the first lignite-fired power facility in of Manisa Natural Gas Combined Cycle Rating as ‘TR A+’ and Short-Term Turkey with a flue gas treatment system, Power Plant with an installed capacity National Credit Rating as ‘TR A2’ with a the facility was honored with the Energy of 115 MW.* The equipment of the power ‘stable’ outlook. Investment Award at the Clean Coal plant, which has diminished prospects of Technologies Summit held on April 10-11, electricity generation at a competitive Robust Financial Performance 2018. price under Turkey’s free market Aksa Energy recorded a strong financial conditions, may be used in potential performance in 2018 thanks to its Sale of İncesu Hydroelectric Power projects abroad that promise higher strategy of seizing opportunities in Plant profit margins with FX-based revenue, global markets, which was kicked off in The sale of İncesu Hydroelectric Power or to meet the equipment needs of both Africa, as well as its superior production Plant was completed on January 17, domestic and overseas power plants. capabilities and a business model 2018. With the approval of the Energy centered on operational efficiency. Market Regulatory Authority (EMRA) Aksa Energy Included in the Continuing to accelerate its sustainable and the Competition Authority, the Sustainability Index for Four Years growth, the Company posted TRY 1,033 15 MW power plant was sold to Deniz Since 2015, Aksa Energy has been million of EBITDA and TRY 150 million Elektrik Üretim Ltd. Şti., a subsidiary included in the Sustainability Index of net profit at end-2018. of Fernas Group, for a consideration of which incorporates top-performers USD 15 million. in corporate sustainability trading on Borsa Istanbul. * The application filed with the Energy Market Regulatory Authority (EMRA) for the cancellation of the electricity generation license of Manisa Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant with an installed capacity of 115 MW was approved and the power plant’s license was cancelled on April 30, 2019. 17 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE INVESTMENT STRATEGY Focusing on energy-strapped Africa as its primary target market, Aksa Energy has become one of the continent’s major players in the energy sector with its investments. Total Investments Aksa Energy formulates its strategies Continuing to expand its investments by closely following up risks and in the region, the Company signed TRY opportunities in global and domestic another major deal in the African markets. The Company has launched market in 2018. Aksa Energy signed major investments internationally by a 5-year contract with Societe Jiro moving abroad its natural gas and fuel Sy Rano Malagasy (Jirama) for oil power plants whose competitiveness the rehabilitation, operation and has recently declined in Turkey. maintenance of a 24 MW power plant million located adjacent to Madagascar Heavy Focusing on energy-strapped Africa as Fuel Oil Power Plant. Thanks to swiftly undertaken rehabilitation, the power Aksa Energy made its primary target market, Aksa Energy has become one of the continent’s plant commenced electricity generation TRY 498 million of major players in the energy sector with with the commissioning of 12 MW in investments in 2018, its investments. Significantly increasing December 2018, and continues its its hard currency denominated revenues commercial operations with an installed bringing its total with power plants commissioned in capacity of 24 MW as of January 2019. investments for the Ghana, Madagascar and Mali in a very 2009-2018 period to short time, the Company boosted its By utilizing existing equipment from profitability thanks to its international power plants in its portfolio in the over TRY 4.7 billion. expansion strategy. construction of these African power plants, Aksa Energy minimized its Taking enormous strides towards investment expenditure and significantly becoming a global brand in line with its shortened the construction period. new sustainable business strategy and While supporting Turkish economy globalization-centered business model, with its foreign exchange inflow, the Aksa Energy continued its investments Company also actively pursues new in Africa in 2018. investment opportunities in overseas markets, and continues negotiations In 2018, Aksa Energy undertook a 90 with energy-strapped countries. MW capacity increase at Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant. The Plant currently operates with a capacity of 370 MW. As a result of this capacity increase, Aksa Energy’s installed capacity in Africa has reached 476 MW. 18 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 Ali Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 19 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE SALES STRATEGY Aksa Energy’s financial transformation is centered on hard currency-denominated sales from the heavy fuel oil power plants in Northern Cyprus, Ghana, Madagascar and Mali. Sales Volume Hard currency denominated sales The amount of domestic coal used from the heavy fuel oil power plants in power generation activities is the in Ghana, Madagascar and Mali, determining factor in calculating the which started operations in 2017, in amount purchased. Energy purchases addition to that of Kalecik Heavy Fuel from Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant, Oil Power Plant in Turkish Republic which runs on 100% domestic coal, of Northern Cyprus, constitute the are realized within the scope of the main pillar of Aksa Energy’s financial referenced Decree. The purchase price, transformation. As of year-end 2018, which was determined as TRY 185/MWh billion 75% of the Company’s total Earnings for 2017, has been revised using the before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and CPI and PPI indices on the basis of the KWh Amortization (EBITDA) was realized in formula set forth in the Decree. In 2018, Aksa Energy foreign currency. The purchase price stood at recorded a sales volume TRY 201.35/MWh for the first quarter In accordance with the Council of 2018; TRY 209.46/MWh and of 15.1 billion KWh, Ministers’ resolution issued in the Official TRY 226.16/MWh for the second and a considerable portion Gazette dated December 2, 2017 and third quarters, respectively; and further numbered 30258, the “Decree on the increased to TRY 259.68/MWh in the of which was sold on fourth quarter. In 2018, almost half of Procedures and Principles Regarding the spot market. the Procurement of Electricity from the electricity generated by the power Private Companies Operating Domestic plant was sold to EÜAŞ (Electricity Coal-Fired Power Plants” was amended, Generation Company of Turkey) as per and the procedures and principles this decree. governing procurement were revised. Effective from 2018 for seven years, the With the revision of the Decree on total amount of energy purchase from January 23, 2019, the purchase price power plants running on domestic coal, was partially pegged to US dollar. or on a mix of domestic and imported coal, is to be calculated in line with the Hard currency–based guaranteed sales price and supply formula specified in the in Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Decree. Ghana, Mali and Madagascar, coupled with the partially FX-based revenue from Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant are expected to positively affect Aksa Energy’s foreign currency denominated EBITDA in 2019. 20 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 Madagascar Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 21 MANAGEMENT APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Aksa Energy builds its sustainability strategy on three main pillars environmental sustainability, social responsibility, and employees. As a signatory to Aksa Energy shapes its business and sustainability strategy as a global As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since the United Nations energy company pursuing investments 2017, Aksa Energy is committed to in Turkey, TRNC, Ghana, Madagascar conducting its business operations in Global Compact since and Mali. Embracing a vision of line with the 10 principles set forth in 2017, Aksa Energy becoming a responsible global energy the compact. The main priority areas of company, Aksa Energy builds its Aksa Energy include the identification is committed to sustainability strategy on three main and management of the major pillars -environmental sustainability, environmental impacts of its activities conducting its business social responsibility and employees and the industry, respect for human and operations in line with and focuses on adding value in these employee rights, and contribution to three key areas. social development in the regions where the 10 principles set the Company operates. forth in the compact. Energy – the most important requirement for economic production, Aksa Energy’s sustainability approach development and growth – is also is mainly focused on its priority areas. a critical component for social With the prioritization analysis made development. While decreasing Turkey’s this year, the Company revised its foreign energy dependence with its priority areas in light of its evolving in-country power generation activities, business strategy and stakeholder Aksa Energy also contributes to the opinions. Stakeholder analysis, economic and social development of global and industrial trends, risks and local communities in emerging markets opportunities, managers’ opinions and such as African countries by increasing corporate strategy were taken into access to electricity and creating account while identifying the priority employment opportunities for local areas. In line with the business strategy residents. that has evolved over the last three years, contribution to local economy and employment, and accessible energy figure among the newly-emerging areas of focus. Since power generation is an industry that has a high level of environmental impact, climate change, water and waste management are also among the Company’s priority areas. Occupational health and safety another priority for the industry remains among Aksa Energy’s most important focus areas. GRI 102-46 22 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT High Importance for Stakeholders Wastes and Wastewater Climate Change and Energy Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Water Ethics and Transparency Contribution to Local Economy and Employment Accessible Energy Equality of Opportunity and Diversity Public Health and Safety Air Emissions Emergency Management Economic, Political and Impact on Local Communities Corporate Governance Market Conditions Biodiversity Human Rights Talent Management Uncertainties in Electricity and Fossil Fuels Employee Efficiency and Development Social Responsibility Projects Responsible Supply Chain Medium Importance for Aksa Energy High Environment Society Products and Services Governance Priority Area Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Climate Change and Energy Wastes and Wastewater Water Ethics and Transparency Contribution to the Local Economy and Employment Accessible Energy OHS Equality of Opportunity and Diversity GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 23 MANAGEMENT APPROACH STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS Aksa Energy conducts business operations in consideration of its social impact on the stakeholders. The Company sees contributing to the economic and social development of the local communities where it operates as its primary objective. Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 24 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Aksa Energy believes in the importance As a global company operating in at brokerage houses, banks, investors, of interacting and cooperating with various countries, Aksa Energy’s clients, members of the media, public its stakeholders in all its activities. sustainability approach is primarily based officers and NGOs, and the priority Conducting its business operations in on understanding the expectations of stakeholders were reached by means of consideration of the social impact on local stakeholders and considering their surveys. its stakeholders, the Company sees opinion during its business operations. contributing to the economic and social The sustainability-related opinions Stakeholders communicated their development of the local communities of stakeholders are heard mainly via expectations of Aksa Energy in the field where it operates as its primary stakeholder surveys. The stakeholder of sustainability and stated their opinion objective. analysis, conducted for the first time in about the Company’s priority areas and 2015, was repeated this year with the sustainability efforts. input of employees, analysts working Stakeholder analysis results reveal that stakeholders’ main expectations include expanding access of African people to power as part of the investments in Africa and observing human rights during the course of business operations. Stakeholders expect the Company to lead others in the area of sustainability and serve as a role model for stakeholders in the value chain. Communication Channels with Stakeholders Annual and sustainability reports, corporate website, announcements made via the Public Disclosure Platform (PDP), social media, stakeholder surveys, one-on-one discussions, and meetings are among the most important channels of stakeholder communications. Complaints and requests received from stakeholders via different channels are evaluated in order to respond to stakeholder needs and opinions. Stakeholders have the option to communicate their suggestions, requests and complaints either via the “Contact Us” section on the Company’s website, or at the following e-mail addresses: enerji@aksaenerji.com.tr, etik@aksa.com.tr and investorrelations@aksaenerji.com.tr Requests are responded to and feasible measures are taken on the respective issue as needed. Association Memberships • Energy Trade Association • Electricity Distribution Services Association (ELDER) • Energy Producers Association • Turkish Investor Relations Society (TÜYİD) GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43 25 MANAGEMENT APPROACH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Aksa Energy strengthens its compliance with corporate governance principles and shares relevant developments transparently with the Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report issued every year. Aksa Energy adopts a fair, responsible, Sustainability Committee The Sustainability Committee is chaired transparent and accountable The Company’s senior management plays by the Investor Relations and Corporate management approach that fully a key role in integrating environmental, Communications Director. The Domestic complies with corporate governance social and ethical responsibilities with the Power Plants Operation and Maintenance principles. The Company strengthens its corporate business strategy. Therefore, Director serves as Vice Chairman, while compliance with corporate governance Aksa Energy Sustainability Committee the Environment and Energy Legislation principles and shares relevant reports directly to the CEO, who is also a Executive serves as Secretary General developments transparently with the Board Member. The Committee develops on the Committee. Other Sustainability Corporate Governance Principles the strategies, policies, and objectives Committee members are appointed by Compliance Report issued every year. required to manage environmental, social the Board of Directors from among senior Aksa Energy’s Board of Directors is the and management-related risks. The executives of the production, management, highest executive body at the Company. Sustainability Committee undertakes operation, investment, engineering, human The Board consists of a total of eight efforts to ensure the integration of the resources, procurement and logistics members appointed by the General referenced strategies, policies, and functions. When deemed necessary, senior Assembly, including three independent objectives with the Company’s decisionexecutives from the Energy Trade and members and one female member. making, management, operation and Sales & Marketing Departments also audit processes and to create long-term attend Sustainability Committee meetings. The positions of the Chairman of the value. Board of Directors and CEO are held The Sustainability Coordination and by different persons at Aksa Energy. The Sustainability Committee is Working Group, which provides support The Company has an Audit Committee, responsible for embedding sustainability in implementing the Sustainability Corporate Governance Committee in all aspects of company operations, Committee’s decisions, is comprised and Early Risk Assessment Committee such as decision-making, management of managers from Corporate Finance, reporting directly to the Board of and business processes. Constantly Business Processes, Supply Chain and Directors, and a Sustainability Committee updating the Company’s sustainability Human Resources, as Occupational reporting to the CEO.1 priorities, the Committee determines the Health and Safety Specialist, Quality focus areas in light of these priorities and and Social Responsibility Management evaluates the impact of sustainability Specialist, and Environment and Energy efforts on company operations. Systems Specialist. The Working Group is chaired by the Environmental and Energy Legislation Executive. 1 For detailed information on the committees and their working principles, please visit: http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporategovernance/board-of-directors-committees/ and http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/sustainability/our-approach-to-sustainability/ 26 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE COORDINATION AND WORKING GROUP Investor Relations and Environment and Energy Corporate Communications Legislation Executive (Chairperson) Director (Chairperson) Corporate Finance Manager Domestic Power Plants Operation and Maintenance Director Business Processes Manager ENERGY GROUP (Vice President) Purchasing Manager HEAD AND CEO Environment and Energy Legislation Executive Human Resources Manager (Secretary General) Occupational Health and Human Resources Director Safety Specialist Purchasing and Logistics Director Quality and Social Responsibility Management Specialist Environment and Energy Systems Specialist 27 MANAGEMENT APPROACH CODE OF ETHICS Aksa Energy conducts its activities in accordance with the Code of Ethics and aims to become a corporation setting an example in this respect. The Ethics Committee evaluates all All employees were The Code of Ethics1 is applicable to all managers and employees and reports, which are submitted in strict provided with an covers a broad range of areas. These anonymity. The Ethics Committee ethics training include compliance with laws, rules is responsible for investigating and and regulations; risk prevention; resolving complaints and reports related based on the Human confidentiality; auditing and reporting to violation of the Code of Ethics. The Resources Policy and of breaches of the Code of Ethics; Committee reports to the Chairman of Anti-Bribery and conflicts of interest; use of company the Board of Aksa Energy. The Ethics resources; giving and receiving gifts on Committee consists of an Aksa Energy Anti-Corruption behalf of the company; donations; and Member of the Board, Group President/ Policy. discrimination. Group Vice President, Human Resources Director, Legal Director and Audit The Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Director. Policy2, which was developed to supplement the Code of Ethics, was In 2018, no reports of non-compliance designed to protect stakeholders with the Anti-Bribery and against risks and boost the reputation Anti-Corruption Policy and Program and goodwill of Aksa Energy. The Policy were sent to the Ethics Committee or sets forth principles, practices, audit senior management. In addition, no and reporting standards with regards complaint was received from employees to bribery, corruption, facilitation and those acting on behalf of the payments, compliance, political Company with respect to bribery and donations, travel and entertainment corruption. expenses and gifts. The Company has a dedicated e-mail address – All employees were provided with etik@aksa.com.tr – to which any issues a one-hour online ethics training based or violations related to the Anti-Bribery on the Human Resources Policy and and Anti-Corruption Policy or the Code Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. of Ethics can be reported. 1 The Code of Ethics is accessible at: http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporate-governance/ethical-principles/ 2 The Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy is accessible at http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporate-governance/anti-bribery-andanti-corruption-policy/ 28 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management at Aksa Energy is centered on safeguarding the value of company assets, ensuring operational security and sustainability. The energy industry is one affected the Risks and opportunities faced by the leading to cost increases; and slowing most quickly by both global and local Company are effectively managed by growth of energy demand in Turkey. As economic and political conditions. Thus, policy revisions if deemed necessary. part of its risk management efforts, it is critically important to accurately Hedging instruments are used in line Aksa Energy uses those power plants evaluate existing and future risks with the policies determined by senior in Turkey, whose capacity of power faced by the industry and ensure the management, and efforts are made to generation at a competitive price is energy sector’s financial, social and minimize risk levels. constantly diminishing, in potential environmental sustainability. projects abroad that may derive a high The Early Risk Assessment Committee profit margin with hard currency-based Corporate requirements such as helps determine internal and external revenues. Expanding into Africa with a maintaining sustainable growth in risks that may jeopardize the existence, strategic decision made in 2015, Aksa a globally competitive environment, development and sustainability of the Energy now manages its risks better ensuring stable revenue, reducing costs, Company, and takes preventative and and offers a solution for the urgent fighting against climate change and counteractive measures as needed. The power requirements of African countries. complying with applicable laws result in Committee revises the corporate risk the need for effective risk management management systems at least once a Aksa Energy’s non-financial risks at companies. Risk management is a year, convenes under the chairmanship include climate change, stakeholder top priority as it helps manage potential of the Independent Board Member six relations, geopolitical risks caused risks in the most efficient and effective times a year, and submits assessment by the geographically dispersed manner. results to the Board of Directors.1 production operations of the Company, non-compliance with human rights Aksa Energy adopts an effective risk Aksa Energy proactively manages obligations in business activities in management policy in order to prevent the risks arising from fluctuations in non-OECD (Organization for Economic and mitigate all risks. Risk management electricity and fossil fuel prices. The Cooperation and Development) at Aksa Energy is centered on Company defines its financial risks as countries, energy supply security, and safeguarding the value of company depreciation of the TRY; energy prices occupational health and safety issues. assets, ensuring operational security lagging behind increasing natural gas and sustainability. and oil prices; legislative changes 1 You can find detailed information on risk management in the Aksa Energy 2018 Annual Report: http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/ media/7397/aksa-energy-2018-annual-report.pdf 29 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Environmental sustainability is one of the three main pillars of Aksa Energy’s sustainability strategy and is a priority in all business processes. Policy. In all its business activities, With an Environmental Aksa Energy conducts its business operations in a responsible manner the Company strives to use natural Policy based on that respects the environment while resources efficiently, reduce greenhouse efficiency, stakeholder striving to continuously improve gas and air emissions, minimize waste its environmental performance. generation, and protect biodiversity. engagement, Environmental sustainability is one of With its Environmental Policy based cooperation and the three main pillars of Aksa Energy’s on efficiency, stakeholder engagement, transparency, Aksa sustainability strategy and is a priority cooperation and transparency, Aksa in all business processes. Environmental Energy ensures that its performance Energy ensures that its management is executed with a riskagainst sustainability objectives is performance against based and systematic approach in regularly audited, monitored and shared accordance with applicable legal and with stakeholders. sustainability objectives regulatory requirements in the areas of is regularly audited, operation, environmental and energy Aksa Energy’s headquarters holds monitored and shared policies, and internationally-recognized ISO 14001 Environmental Management management systems. System, ISO 50001 Energy with stakeholders. Management System, ISO 9001 Quality Aksa Energy Environmental Policy1 Management System and OHSAS defines the Company’s responsibilities 18001 Occupational Health and Safety related to its environmental impact in all Management System certifications. its operations, including those related In addition, energy generation activities to climate change, management of conducted at the Company’s power natural resources, waste management, plants are in compliance with ISO and protection of biodiversity. Aksa 14001 and ISO 50001 management Energy manages its operations in full systems. Efforts are made to extend compliance with its Environmental the practices related to integrated management systems that are already in place at the headquarters. 1 Aksa Energy Environmental Policy is accessible at: http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7118/aksa-energy-environmental-policy.pdf 30 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT While the relevant processes are still carries out its energy management Air Emissions underway at Bolu Göynük Thermal activities in compliance with its Energy Air emissions is one area that Power Plant and Ali Metin Kazancı Policy1 and ISO 50001, and continues companies operating in the energy Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions industry should prioritize because of its Power Plant to obtain ISO 14001, ISO and costs by investing in more efficient potential impact on the environment 50001, ISO 14064, ISO 9001 and technologies and practices. and human health. Aksa Energy is OHSAS 18001 certifications, Aksa taking various steps to minimize Energy is also taking steps toward Following up its efforts related to risks that may be caused by air integrated management. Some 80% energy consumption and greenhouse emissions resulting from its activities. of documentation related work was gas emissions in line with specific Air emissions are instantly monitored completed as at year-end 2018, objectives, Aksa Energy plans to via regular measurements, and the and field practices are planned to be establish new objectives related to Company conducts its operations in developed to obtain the certificate in energy consumption and greenhouse compliance with applicable legal and 2019. gas emissions for its Africa investments. regulatory requirements. Furthermore, The Company shares its performance in Aksa Energy invests in technologies Aksa Energy has established a terms of greenhouse gas emissions with that aim to reduce air emissions, and Framework Environmental Management stakeholders via sustainability reports strives to exceed the air emission System (FEMS) to ensure that and greenhouse gas emission reports performance level required by law in the environmental management is validated by a verification body. areas where it operates. conducted in line with applicable policies. FEMS is designed to ensure Efficiency boosting projects conducted The flue gas treatment investment compliance with environmental in the reporting period saved more at Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant regulations, set forth the rules and than 1,500 MWh of power, conserved is a first in Turkey in this regard. The authorities related to implementing over 300,000 m3 of natural gas, and system was designed with fluidized the environmental policy, and support resulted in TRY 600,000 in savings. bed combustion technology, which is the existence of a system that can be The most important projects conducted an alternative to thermal power plants improved and sustained. in this area are as follows: running on pulverized coal. Thanks • Efforts related to steam engine to this technology, combustion is Aksa Energy continues its investments efficiency, loss and theft reduction, realized with solid fuel, which consists in environmental management without and boiler efficiency boosted the of coal and limestone, on the air interruption. In 2018, the Company’s efficiency of intermediate loads at cushion formed with air supplied from environmental investment expenses Şanlıurfa Natural Gas Combined beneath the combustion chamber. With amounted to TRY 2 million. In addition, Cycle Power Plant. this procedure, coal remains in the Aksa Energy was not subject to any • Around 1% energy savings was combustion chamber longer, helping environmental related penalty during achieved with the increased efficiency the combustion reaction to occur at the year. in cooling tower and radiator fans a lower temperature. As a result, the at Şanlıurfa Natural Gas Combined NOx volume, which is harmful to the Climate Change and Energy Cycle Power Plant. environment, can be minimized. Thanks Each passing day, climate change • LED fixtures were introduced for to this system, the power plant reached takes an increasing toll in terms of lighting at Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil the legal emission targets set by the its global environmental, social and Power Plant, reducing energy EU for 2018 as early as 2015. Similarly, economic impacts. Energy generation consumption by around 60%. the gas turbines with ultra-low NOx is an industry that has a high impact emission combustion systems at Ali on climate change because of fuel Committed to raising awareness on Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas consumption. Therefore, Aksa Energy the fight against climate change, Aksa Combined Cycle Power Plant and the believes that its responsibilities include Energy provides its entire workforce flue gas treatment system to reduce reducing power consumption and with pertinent information on the topic SOx emissions at Northern Cyprus greenhouse gas emissions in order to via various communication means Kalecik Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant are fight against climate change, while and trainings. As a signatory to the critical for reducing air emissions. achieving the most-efficient generation Trillion Tonne Communiqué, which was of power. prepared by companies demanding that measures be taken to combat Aksa Energy aims to improve its climate climate change, Aksa Energy also protection and energy performance draws attention to the issue in terms in accordance with its environmental of both the global agenda and its own sustainability approach. The Company corporate responsibilities. 1 Aksa Energy’s Energy Policy is accessible at: http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7117/aksa-energy-energy-policy.pdf 31 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Aksa Energy actively works to reduce wastes generated by its power plants at the source and minimize hazardous waste. The Company disposes of wastes in compliance with environmental legislation. Waste Management is performed by recycling companies The amount of water Waste management is a key component contracted by the municipality in the consumed by Aksa of Aksa Energy’s environmental regions where the facilities are located. As Energy has decreased sustainability approach. The Company part of the waste management project at aims to minimize the amount of wastes Ghana power plant, a fast closure system over the last three generated by its activities in order to is being installed to prevent wastes from years in parallel with lessen its environmental impact. flowing out of drain pipes. the reduction in the Aksa Energy actively works to reduce Water and Wastewater Management power generated. In wastes generated by its power plants at Global climate change, dwindling 2018, the Company’s the source and minimize hazardous waste. resources and demographic changes exert The Company disposes of wastes in growing pressure on water resources. As water consumption compliance with environmental legislation. a result, effective management of water fell by 10% year-onWaste oils, contaminated packaging and related risks increases in importance each year. Wastewater clothing, absorbent filters, sludge in oil/ passing day. To that end, Aksa Energy water separators and scrap materials reduces water consumption in its business volume also declined are sent to licensed waste disposal activities and aims to use its resources in by 11% compared to companies. Similarly, scraps, sludges, the most efficient manner. the previous year. greasy clothing and contaminated and greasy wastes are also disposed of in Wastewater generated by the Company’s accordance with applicable laws, rules and operations is discharged in accordance regulations. with Water Pollution Control Regulations, and the discharge is analyzed by Some 839 tons of waste was sent to accredited laboratories. licensed recycling/disposal companies in 2018. Recycling of packaging waste Waste (tons) 2016 2017 2018 Recycled Non-Hazardous Wastes 895 388 274 Recycled Hazardous Wastes 254 440 565 Sent to Landfill 0 4,892 637,582* * Ashes generated at Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant management project stored at Yeni Güney Regular Ash Landfill and recorded as of 2018. For this reason, a significant increase was recorded in the amount of wastes sent to the landfill in 2018. 32 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The amount of water consumed by Aksa Aksa Energy also develops a variety of Acting in cooperation with TTKD and Bülent Energy has decreased over the last three solutions at its power plants in Africa, Ecevit University, a project was conducted years in parallel with the reduction in the where water resources are limited. For in 2018 to determine the presence and power generated. In 2018, the Company’s example, wastewater generated by the ecology of red deer (Cervus Elaphus), a water consumption fell by 10% year-onwater softening unit at Ghana Heavy Fuel species symbolizing biodiversity, around year. Wastewater volume also declined by Oil Power Plant is used in the facility’s Yedigöller National Park. Protection of red 11% compared to the previous year. grounds irrigation system. deer, which is listed in the Red List of the International Union for Conservation of Aksa Energy uses a wide range of Biodiversity Nature (IUCN) and whose population is methods to conserve water at its power Biodiversity plays a vital role in gradually decreasing, is of vital importance plants and develops projects to this end. sustaining the activities of industries for biodiversity. that are dependent on natural resources. • Manisa and Şanlıurfa Natural Gas Managing the impact of the energy Launched with the support of Aksa Energy, Combined Cycle Power Plants actively industry on biodiversity and assuming the project identified the conditions that employ reverse osmosis, a method for responsibility in this regard are critical have an impact on the distribution of the red producing clean water. This method to ensuring a sustainable power supply. deer population – such as height, inclination, allows recycled treated water to be used Acting with a strong sense of corporate flora, water resources, road network and in cooling towers. In 2012, the Company responsibility, Aksa Energy supports status of agricultural activities. Areas commenced work to reduce the water monitoring and research activities in its where this species is found were mapped volume used in the cooling towers. As a areas of operation, with a view toward and information was obtained about the result, 12% of the total water consumed protecting the natural habitat and boundaries of their natural habitat. As a has been recycled since 2013. Water biodiversity. result of the mapping effort, research mainly savings of 97,000 m3 and 72,000 m3 focused on forest lands, where this species have been recorded to date in Manisa Believing in the power of cooperation to finds food, and surrounding areas. Photoand Şanlıurfa, respectively. protect the natural environment, Aksa traps were used as a monitoring method • With a EUR 5.3 million investment, Energy has worked in cooperation with in order to determine the existence of red Aksa Energy installed decarbonization the Turkish Association for Conservation deer populations. With this approach, visual facilities at Ali Metin Kazancı Antalya of Nature and Natural Resources (TTKD) records were collected about the species Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power since 2015. Under this cooperation, and precise information was obtained about Plant and Bolu Göynük Thermal Power projects are developed to monitor the size of the species population. Plant. In 2018, a water volume of more endangered species and reduce the than 235,000 m3 and over 2 million m3 negative impact on the natural habitat of When the project was completed, the was recycled at the two power plants in these species. With the project designed species’ population size, density, distribution, Antalya and Bolu, respectively. to protect mountain gazelles, underway natural habitat, food and nutritional • As a separate practice applicable at for two years, the population of this sources, as well as their social behavior Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant, species was followed up, the change in the and interaction with humans and the reverse osmosis wastewater is collected number of the species was determined, threats facing them were determined; and in a different pool and used for ash and inputs were collected in order to carry accordingly, measures were also taken for humidification. With this approach, out effective protection activities. their protection. water savings of 14.4 m3 is achieved each hour. In 2018, the Company In 2017, Aksa Energy conducted a project Taking an active role to protect biodiversity recorded water savings of around in Hatay, one of its areas of operation and adopting a responsible production 114,000 m3 While the power plant’s that is rich in biodiversity, for the approach, Aksa Energy plans to conduct water requirement is met with Çatak protection of striped hyenas. As a result efforts in 2019 in Bolu province, one of Pond, which was created at the facility of the research, the Company published its areas of operation, to protect the with a TRY 17.5 million investment, the a report entitled “Preliminary Study on brown bear (Ursus Arctos) – the only bear regional community can also benefit the Determination of Striped Hyenas’ species and the biggest predator found in from this water resource via the General Distribution and Ecology in the Kırıkhan – Turkey. The brown bear is threatened with Directorate for State Hydraulic Works. Reyhanlı Region.” During these efforts, extinction due to human-driven factors, • A seawater desalination system was scientists also encountered rock gerbil including loss and fragmentation of natural installed at Northern Cyprus Kalecik (Gerbillus Dasyurus), which had not been habitat, reduction of habitat quality in Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant. This observed for 22 years in the region and the vegetation cover, and poaching. With system meets 100% of the plant’s was thought to be extinct. Even though support to be provided for the preservation water requirements. In addition, an this was not the target species in the of natural habitats, Aksa Energy aims evaporator treatment system is used to project, entering this species into official to protect this endangered species. The purify wastewater by evaporating and records is critically important to initiating project’s ultimate goal is to carry out condensing it for natural gas closed efforts for its protection. preservation and awareness-raising cycle systems. activities to ensure survival of the species in its natural habitat and to contribute to scientific literature in this topic area. 33 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE EMPLOYEES Aksa Energy gives particular importance to employee satisfaction in all its geographical areas of operation and aims to develop together with its staff. Company Headcount Aksa Energy believes that human Of the Company’s 977 employees, capital plays a vital role in 22% are white-collar staff and 78% are competitiveness and the Company’s blue-collar workers. Some 5% of Aksa sustainable success. Offering its staff a Energy personnel work at headquarters, safe working environment, creating an while 95% of employees are based in equality-oriented and fair workplace the power plants and enterprises. The that embraces diversity without any Company supports the participation discrimination, and supporting employee of women in the workforce to ensure development by means of trainings that gender equality is achieved in are among Aksa Energy’s focus areas the work environment. Understanding As of end-2018, that diversity and equal opportunities in terms of human resources. In line Aksa Energy employs with this approach, Aksa Energy gives boost efficiency and productivity, the 977 people in particular importance to employee Company supports the presence of satisfaction in all its geographical employees from different nations, 5 countries across areas of operation and aims to develop languages, religions, races and cultures 2 continents, 22% of together with its staff. in the work environment. Aksa Energy whom are white collar offers its employees an environment Operating in five countries on two where they experience a high level of and 78% blue collar. continents, Aksa Energy recruits satisfaction and have the opportunity its workforce mainly from local to improve their skills. All employees who communities. The Company supports take maternity leave have returned to social development by means of work following the end of their leave. creating employment in its areas of operation and contributing to the local Committed to respecting differences economy in this manner. As at yearand embracing diversity and inclusion end 2018, Aksa Energy employs 977 in the work environment, Aksa Energy personnel in total across five countries has adopted the Aksa Energy Human and 68% of the Company’s workforce Rights Policy1 in all countries where it in African countries consists of local operates and across all its business residents. processes since 2016. Responsibility for implementing this policy, which is based on international human rights, rests with the Ethics Committee. 1. Aksa Energy’s Human Rights Policy is accessible at: http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporate-governance/human-rights-policy/ 34 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22% White Collar 78% Blue Collar EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY 46% Turkey EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY 14% Madagascar 8% TRNC 10% 22% Mali Ghana 35 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE EMPLOYEES In 2018, Aksa Energy provided its employees with 19,978 man x hours of training directed at minimizing OHS risks and preventing work accidents. Safe Working Environment Aksa Energy examines Assessment and improvement activities Occupational Health and Safety related to OHS are carried out by the OHS-related data in (OHS), a priority area for Aksa Energy, OHS Committee at Aksa Energy. The Turkey and worldwide; aims to provide all employees with a Committee is comprised of Aksa Energy completely safe working environment employees and represents the entire and makes performance and to achieve the zero-accident Company workforce. The OHS assessments in light target in all areas of operation. Aksa Committee Chair reports directly to the of these data with a Energy implements OHSAS 18001 COO. Management System Standards at its view to improving its headquarters in order to identify and In 2018, Aksa Energy provided its OHS performance and manage OHS risks. The Company has employees with 19,978 man x hours of completed 80% of the required work in training directed at minimizing OHS preventing occupational this field for Ali Metin Kazancı Antalya risks and preventing work accidents. diseases. Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power The ratio of OHS trainings to total Plant and Bolu Göynük Thermal Power hours of training provided to personnel Plant, and plans to fully implement this is 77%. Subcontractors’ staff were standard at its power plants during provided with 6,144 man x hours of 2019. training. Aksa Energy aims to ensure that employees gain the knowledge With a view to improving its OHS they need on OHS issues and that the performance and preventing target of zero accident is achieved at all occupational diseases, Aksa Energy its facilities. To this end, the Company examines OHS-related data in Turkey has boosted its total OHS training and worldwide and makes performance hours 4.8 times over the last two years. assessments in light of these data. During the year, Aksa Energy recorded Conducting efforts to improve OHS no occupational diseases while the performance with Corrective and Company’s accident frequency rate Preventive Action Reports, Aksa Energy decreased by 29% from a year earlier. also prepares contingency plans to provide against any potential accident. 36 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23% Others 77% OHS EMPLOYEE TRAININGS ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE In 2018, one fatal work accident As a result of OHS related investments occurred at Bolu Göynük Thermal and efforts focused on the “zero Power Plant caused by a violation accident” target, Aksa Energy achieved 0.54 0.54 of prescribed procedures by a the milestone of 2 million man x technical team member. In line with hours without an accident as of endits responsibility as an enterprise December 2018 at Ghana Heavy Fuel 0.42 operating with the “zero accidents” Oil Power Plant. This objective was part objective, Aksa Energy always prioritizes of the Company’s target of 5 million safety precautions regardless of the man x hours without an accident set cause of accidents. Seeing this type of in May 2017. Boasting a successful accident as unacceptable, Aksa Energy track record in terms of domestic and expanded its toolbox trainings provided international work accidents, Aksa to all staff and its field observations in Energy serves as a role model for the order to avoid the recurrence of similar industry. The Company is committed to accidents. In addition, the Company taking measures against OHS risks at ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 created four new OHS positions at all its facilities and at all subcontractor Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant so companies it works in cooperation with that it conducts all its field activities at and ensuring that all institutions that it the facility under the supervision of an maintains business relations with also Occupational Safety Expert 24 hours take such measures accordingly. a day. 37 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE EMPLOYEES Aksa Energy invests in improving its staff’s occupational competence and skills, and aims to manage its human resources performance in an efficient manner. AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS Performance and Career blue collar employees’ competence PER EMPLOYEE Management in 2019; and increase the hours and Supporting the development of its number of personal development and human capital and employee career occupational trainings by 20% by 26.4 progression with talent management 2020. Aiming to achieve more efficient activities, Aksa Energy invests in management of its human resources, 20.8 improving its staff’s occupational Aksa Energy aims to commission its competence and skills, and aims ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) to manage its human resources systems, formulate career maps and performance in an efficient manner. create a talent pool by 2020. The 9.3 2.8 X Aksa Energy adopts a target-oriented Company also plans to analyze its human resource requirements more INCREASE approach in the career and efficiently. To this end, Aksa Energy IN performance management of its aims to create a risk and opportunity 2 workforce. Embracing development of matrix by 2020 for internal position its employees as a strategic priority replacements or positions that may not ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 YEARS and taking measures to advance the be filled through promotions. Company’s sustainable growth in this area, Aksa Energy plans to implement Aksa Energy has boosted the total a performance management system training hours per employee by 2.8-fold in 2019. The Company has already over the last two years. prepared the performance system infrastructure and implementation is The performance of Aksa Energy underway. employees is assessed in accordance with the Remuneration Policy1, which is In 2018, Aksa Energy defined smart based on fair, transparent, measurable targets for managers and upper and balanced performance targets. level positions. The targets will be The policy is designed to encourage established in the coming year based sustainable success and is in conformity on an individual performance system. with the Company’s risk management The Company plans to conduct a principles. performance assessment to measure 1 Aksa Energy’s Remuneration Policy is accessible at: http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporate-governance/remuneration-policy/ 38 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Madagascar Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant 39 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE COMMUNITY RELATIONS Aksa Energy collaborates with 2,656 suppliers from 14 countries on 3 continents. These suppliers include subcontractors, intermediaries and consultancy firms that provide services in energy production and mining. Local Employment Aksa Energy conducts its business As of year-end 2018, Aksa Energy operations in consideration of its impact employs 216 persons in Ghana, 101 on stakeholders. Observing the socioin Mali and 138 in Madagascar, and economic development of residents in meets 68% of its human capital its areas of operation, the Company requirements in African countries with contributes to the local economy and local residents in addition to a total employment with its business activities. of 72 sub-contracted employees in Aksa Energy places importance on the these countries. Adopting the same opinion of stakeholders across its entire approach domestically as with its power operation network, including the local plants abroad, Aksa Energy creates As of end-2018, direct employment opportunities for communities of the areas where its Aksa employs 216 power plants are located. the regions where its power plants are persons in Ghana, located by recruiting local residents in Local Economy and Employment villages that are a part of its operating 101 in Mali and Energy is one of the basic requirements districts. 138 in Madagascar to meet various economic and social and meets 68% of needs; it also offers vast opportunities When additional services are required for development. Aksa Energy aims to at the Company’s power plants, its human capital focus its activities on energy-strapped subcontractors are selected from requirements in African countries, boost people’s limited the region in order to provide local access to electricity, and contribute to employment opportunities for the African countries with the development of countries with an regional community. Aksa Energy local residents. energy deficit. collaborates with 2,656 suppliers from 14 countries on three continents. Aksa Energy’s investments in the Africa These suppliers include subcontractors, region improve African communities’ intermediaries and consultancy access to power, while also creating firms that provide services in energy opportunities in terms of economic production and mining. As a part of growth and development. The Aksa Energy’s socially responsible Company’s investments boost the working model, supplier companies employment rate of local communities, are expected to have an occupational resulting in a significant development health and safety policy and impact. environmental policy in place in line with international standards. 40 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Energy Workshop Kuyupınar Ovaboyu Secondary School, Bolu Social Responsibility end, the Company provides technical Energy Workshop Aksa Energy conducts a range of support to resolve potable water issues Committed to generating activities focused on children – the in Bölücekova, Himmetoğlu, Çayköy and added value for society as a promise of our future. These efforts Kuyupınar villages of Bolu. Aksa Energy include sponsoring educational and has made donations of TRY 160,320 in responsible corporate citizen, cultural activities. The Company Famagusta and Bolu, where Northern Aksa Energy has conducted arranges tours and training programs Cyprus Kalecik Heavy Fuel Oil Power its Energy Workshop project to foster the development of young Plant and Bolu Göynük Thermal Power since 2016 in order to raise people. Technical trips were organized Plant are located, respectively, in order environmental awareness to Ali Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural to meet various local requirements. In among younger generations. Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant with addition, the Company donated a total Under this project, the the participation of nearly 400 persons of TRY 201,068 to various associations, Company organized a workshop from various schools and institutions. including the Turkish Association for at Kuyupınar Ovaboyu Primary These trips focused on a wide range Conservation of Nature and Natural School in Göynük, Bolu in 2018 of issues, including energy efficiency, Resources, sports clubs and schools. and conducted awarenessenergy generation and distribution. raising activities for students on the topics of energy, energy To meet various requirements of the resources and operation of regions where it operates, Aksa Energy power plants. provides cash-grants and grants in kind. The Company also creates permanent Highlighting the importance added value with its infrastructure work of the use of domestic power and repair projects that contribute to and energy efficiency, Aksa local economic development. To this Energy representatives gave students the opportunity to further their knowledge during field trips to the power plants, in experiments held in-class and at various workshops. Students were presented with Energy Workshop Participation Certificates at the completion of the workshop activities. 41 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The main priority areas of Aksa Energy include the identification and management of the major environmental impacts of its activities and the industry, respect for human and employee rights, and contribution to social development in the regions where the Company operates. Environmental Performance Energy Consumption (MWh) 2016 2017 2018 Electricity 333,334 357,944 359,072 Natural Gas 8,450,047 9,311,968 5,590,093 Lignite 5,618,960 5,475,872 6,152,358 Fuel Oil 1,750,346 3,736,302 3,965,466 Diesel 80 544 89,831 Total 16,152,767 18,882,630 16,156,820 Power Consumption per MWh Power Generation 2.18 2.18 2.50 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tons of CO2)* 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 4,255,280 4,888,820 4,446,485 Scope 2 163,781 183,315 182,049 Total 4,419,061 5,072,135 4,628,534 Greenhouse Emissions per MWh Power Generation (kg CO2/MWh) 596 586 716 *Greenhouse gas emissions are on an upward trajectory due to the removal of renewable energy from the production portfolio and the heavy fuel oil power plants commissioned in Africa. The chosen greenhouse gas calculation method is based on greenhouse gas activity data multiplied by greenhouse gas emission or removal factors. Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology. Global Warming Potential (GWP) factors were taken from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)’s Fifth Assessment Report. Air Emissions (kg) 2016 2017 2018 NOx 2,408,120 19,285,292 13,953,207 SOx 9,644 5,129,198 4,014,876 42 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Social Performance Employees by Gender 2016 2017 2018 Female 37 84 87 Male 745 935 890 2016 2017 2018 Employees by Category Female Male Female Male Female Male White Collar 29 270 65 179 37 190 Blue Collar 9 475 19 756 50 700 Employees by Recruitment Category 2016 2017 2018 Full-Time 782 1,019 856 Part-Time 0 0 121 2016 2017 2018 Employees in Management Female Male Female Male Female Male Over 50 Years Old 0 0 0 1 0 5 31-49 Years Old 0 2 3 1 2 11 Under 30 Years Old 0 0 0 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 Maternal Leave Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of Employees Who Took Parental Leave 3 38 4 0 4 29 Number of Employees Who Returned to Work After Parental Leave 3 38 3 0 4 29 2016 2017 2018 Newly-Recruited Employees by Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of Newly-Recruited Employees 17 146 39 198 19 182 Over 50 Years Old 0 6 2 5 0 11 31-49 Years Old 8 51 13 64 12 93 Under 30 Years Old 9 89 24 129 7 78 2016 2017 2018 Employees Who Resigned by Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male Total Number of Employees who Resigned 7 166 23 332 20 265 Over 50 Years Old 1 19 0 20 1 15 31-49 Years Old 3 104 20 229 6 151 Under 30 Years Old 3 43 3 83 13 99 43 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX EXPLANATION GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / LINK OMISSION FOR OMISSION GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 1 102-2 10, 13 102-3 http://www.aksaenerji.com.tr/en/contact-us/ 102-4 10, 13 102-5 12 102-6 10-13 102-7 10-13, 34-36 102-8 34-36, 43 102-9 40 102-10 16-18 102-11 29 102-12 25 102-13 25 Strategy 102-14 8-9 102-15 29 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 14 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-17 28 Governance 102-18 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7397/aksaenergy-2018-annual-report.pdf 102-19 26-28 102-20 26-28 102-22 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7397/aksaenergy-2018-annual-report.pdf 102-23 http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporate-governance/ list-of-insiders/ 102-24 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7397/aksaenergy-2018-annual-report.pdf 102-29 26-28 102-30 29 102-32 26-28 102-33 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7397/aksaenergy-2018-annual-report.pdf 102-35 http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporate-governance/ remuneration-policy/ 102-36 http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporate-governance/ remuneration-policy/ For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the Report. The service was performed on the Turkish version of the Report. 44 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EXPLANATION GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / LINK OMISSION FOR OMISSION Shareholder Analysis 102-40 25 102-41 No employee is covered by the collective labor agreement. 102-42 25 102-43 25 102-44 23 Report Profile 102-45 12 102-46 22-23 GRI 102: General 102-47 23 Disclosures 2016 102-48 There is no change compared to the previous reporting period. 102-49 There is no change compared to the previous reporting period. 102-50 1 102-51 1 102-52 1 102-53 1 102-54 1 102-55 44-46 102-56 No external assurance sought for this report. GRI 200: Economic Standard Series Economic Performance GRI 103: 103-1 16-18 Management 103-2 16-18 Approach 2016 103-3 16-18 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7397/aksaPerformance 2016 energy-2018-annual-report.pdf GRI 300: Environmental Standard Series Energy GRI 103: 103-1 31 Management 103-2 31 Approach 2016 103-3 31 302-1 42 GRI 302: Energy 302-3 42 2016 302-4 31 Water GRI 103: 103-1 23, 32-33 Management 103-2 23, 32-33 Approach 2016 103-3 23, 32-33 303-1 32-33 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-3 32-33 Biodiversity GRI 103: 103-1 33 Management 103-2 33 Approach 2016 103-3 33 GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-3 33 2016 304-4 33 45 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX EXPLANATION GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER / LINK OMISSION FOR OMISSION Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 31 Management 103-2 31 Approach 2016 103-3 31 305-1 42 GRI 305: Emissions 305-2 42 2016 305-4 42 305-7 42 Effluents and Waste 103-1 23, 32-33 GRI 103: 103-2 23, 32-33 Management Approach 2016 103-3 23, 32-33 GRI 306: Effluents 306-2 32 and Waste 2016 Environmental Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 30 Management 103-2 30 Approach 2016 103-3 30 GRI 307: 307-1 31 Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 400: Social Standard Series Employment GRI 103: 103-1 34 Management 103-2 34 Approach 2016 103-3 34 401-1 43 GRI 401: 401-2 43 Employment 2016 401-3 34, 43 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 34 Management 103-2 34 Approach 2016 103-3 34 GRI 403: 403-1 36 Occupational Health 403-2 37 and Safety 2016 403-3 36 Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 34 Management 103-2 34 Approach 2016 103-3 34 404-1 38 GRI 404: Training 404-2 38 and Education 2016 404-3 38 46 AKSA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Proudly produced by FİNAR. www.finarkurumsal.com Aksa Enerji Üretim A.Ş. Rüzgârlıbahçe Mahallesi, Özalp Çıkmazı No: 10 34805 Kavacık Beykoz ISTANBUL/TURKEY Tel: 0 216 681 00 00 Fax: 0 216 681 57 83 www.aksaenerji.com.tr/en www.aksainvestorrelations.com
