KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 The power of connection 1 2 Every day, new technologies offer new opportunities. KPN makes life more free, fun and easy by connecting people 3 IoT First 5G test at full LoRa bandwidth We will soon be able to send a thousand times more data with 5G. This offers huge opportunities. Take the Waalhaven in Rotterdam, where we tested 5G at full bandwidth (100 megahertz) in the Netherlands for the first time. Live images from a drone with a 360-degree camera were linked to an image processing center. In the near future, it will be possible to use this technology to inspect oil refineries, container storage and lots more. 4 5 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Contents 6 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices KPN at a glance Appendices Introduction by CEO Maximo Ibarra 8 Appendix 1: Alternative performance measures 193 Our main achievements 14 Appendix 2: Overview and connectivity of non-financial Review of the year 20 information196 Appendix 3: Transparency  200 About this report 200 Who we are and what we do Stakeholder engagement and materiality determination 205 Appendix 4: List of top risks 212 Our purpose and the world around us 24 Appendix 5: Glossary 220 Our strategy and activities 28 Our value creation model 30 Our capitals to operate 34 Digital appendices For an overview of our social and environmental figures The long–term value we create (Appendices 6 and 7) and GRI Index (Appendix 8), please see www.kpn.com/annualreport. The value we create for stakeholders Customer value 38 For the Board of Management Report reference is made to Shareholder value 41 pages 1 94, including Appendix 4. The output of our business model: What we do Moving to converged products and services 47 In preparing this Integrated Annual Report, we have taken Converged smart infrastructure 52 the principles of the International Integrated Reporting Focused innovation and digitalization 56 Council (IIRC) into account. For the CSR information included in this report, we followed the Global Reporting Initiative The output of our business model: Our value drivers (GRI) Standards Option: Comprehensive. We have detailed Privacy and security 60 our reporting approach in Appendix 3. Sustainable employability 64 KPN participates in several sustainability benchmarks, like Environmental performance 67 the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), CDP and the Transparency Benchmark (TB). Our ambition is to maintain a Our long-term impact on society leading position in these benchmarks. This way, we keep Our value for society and contribution to the SDGs  74 improving our performance by comparing it with that of peers. How we safeguard long-term value Corporate governance 76 Compliance and risk 81 Composition of the boards 88 Supervisory Board Report 95 Remuneration Report 101 Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 112 Corporate Financial Statements 176 Other Information 184 7 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Introduction by the CEO Introduction by CEO Maximo Ibarra At the heart of the connected world Every day, new technologies are bringing new opportunities. creating a society in which people and devices are increasingly For KPN and the Netherlands. And this is just the beginning. connected. In this society, connecting is our core mission. We want to be our customers’ trusted companion by offering Technologies such as 5G will soon enable companies in the undisputed quality in access, service and customer experience. port of Rotterdam to optimize manufacturing, better predict industrial maintenance and further improve safety. Among the For me, this year was also a new beginning, since I assumed life-changing technologies we are seeing are those that the CEO role in April 2018. After an in-depth introduction to enable patients and healthcare specialists to exchange data, the company and a thorough analysis of its market position, so that people who need care can stay in their home. The we outlined an updated strategy for the future. I’m proud Internet of Things (IoT) is providing precision agriculture to be part of this great company, with its strong reputation, solutions, aligning sensors and drones, which results in less solid financial position, skilled people and global leadership use of soil, water and pesticides. These technologies are in sustainability. We are determined to become the undisputed quality leader in the Netherlands 8 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices 9 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Introduction by the CEO From our store assistant to our webcare specialist, from our Labs, we are exploring, together with our customers and tech field engineer to our senior manager, our employees work partners, the value of the new-generation mobile networks hard – day in, day out – to make KPN the undisputed quality through a variety of use cases. Crucially, we will continue to leader of the Netherlands. Our customer-centric and invest in the development of our security requirements. We service-driven approach is underpinned by high customer want to contribute to a safe digital society and make sure that satisfaction (NPS) in both Business and Consumer segments. our customers trust us to handle their data with care. The Netherlands leads the way in the development and adoption of digital technologies, but there are undoubtedly challenges ahead. The Dutch telecommunications market is highly regulated, we face fierce competition and people expect excellent networks. Both consumers and businesses We want to build the increasingly want converged propositions, over which they can be in full control. They are looking for one-stop-shop best converged smart service delivery, a seamless connectivity experience and infrastructure, focus on the highest quality products and services. This is further driven by the broader trends of IoT and cloud services. the best customer This evolving landscape means we need to be more flexible, experience and profitable improve our time to market and deliver innovation to our customers faster than ever. converged services and accelerate simplification To ensure KPN delivers growth again, we kickstarted several initiatives to shape our strategy for the period 2019-2021. Our and digitalization within ambition for the next three years – as announced in the company November 2018 – is to deliver organic sustainable growth of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow. We are positioning KPN as a future-proof, high-quality, lean telco with strong premium consumer and business customer relations. To further strengthen our execution power, we now manage our operations through an Executive Committee. My main message is that we want to build the best converged smart infrastructure, focus on the best customer experience and profitable converged services and accelerate simplification Building the best converged smart infrastructure is key in and digitalization within the company. what we want to achieve in both the Consumer segment and the Business segment. In the Consumer segment, our aim is to We operate in a capital-intensive industry. As data usage add another 300,000 households to our converged continues to grow exponentially and the world becomes more propositions and to have 70% of our postpaid base converged and more connected, we need to invest in our core asset: by the end of 2021. In the Business segment, our aim is to have infrastructure. In line with our ambition to have the best 100% of our SME customers on KPN ÉÉN, our innovative and infrastructure in the country, we will accelerate the roll-out easily scalable OTT platform for fixed and mobile business of Fiber to the Home. An additional 1 million households will communications by mid-2020. We will reduce our product be powered by KPN by the end of 2021. In doing so, we will portfolio in the Business segment with 50% by end of 2021, to connect more than 40% of Dutch households to fiber, the be more efficient, to improve our time to market and to create most future-proof technology. Also, business parks will be more value. Furthermore, we want to transform our operations powered by KPN because we will improve access speed to to be more lean and digital. Our aim is to grow profitable them and deliver >100 Mbps to 70% of these parks by the revenues by leveraging our leading market positions. end of 2019. We must ensure that KPN is efficient and has lean operations. We will modernize our mobile network through a 5G-ready We must be super-fast because speed is key to success. equipment upgrade. With the launch of four different 5G Field Faster digitalization and automation, which are inherent to the 10 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices telecom industry, will lead to more organizational simplification and result in around EUR 350m net indirect opex savings over the period 2019–2021. It is in this context and in the current competitive environment that we are rationalizing our brand portfolio and focusing on our strong KPN-brand. The KPN brand is ready to serve all customer groups in the various segments, from budget services to premium services. To introduce the new strategy to our employees, I visited all KPN locations in the Netherlands towards the end of 2018. During these sessions, we gained ideas and received feedback from our employees. This is valuable because it’s the people who make the difference in our business. Now that our strategy is clear, everyone will focus on executing it, which is the best recipe for success. Doing business in a sustainable manner remains our top priority. In 2018, KPN was ranked third in the World Index of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. By 2025, we plan to have circular operations of close to 100%. Our KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, which sits at the heart of the company, celebrated its 10-year anniversary in 2018. The fund has, over the years, connected socially isolated people with our technologies and with more than 20,000 voluntary contributions from KPN employees. I hope you enjoy reading this Integrated Annual Report. It offers insight into our achievements over the past year, our new strategic focus, segment performance and especially how we create value – for the company and for society. KPN has been the Netherlands’ connectivity partner for more than a century. In that role, we will continue to innovate and invest in our strong network to create the future digital highway of the Netherlands. We want the country's households and businesses to be powered by KPN because we believe in the power of connection. Now and for decades to come. We will continue to innovate and invest in our strong network to create the digital highway of the future 11 12 IoT 5G Amsterdam Zuidoost becoming a smart city AI Together with the Municipality of Amsterdam, KPN is working on smart 5G applications in the area of the Johan Cruijff ArenA. We are testing technologies that make visitors to this area feel safer and more comfortable. Crowd control, for instance: thanks to artificial intelligence, which recognizes patterns on the basis of image, you can see where potential problems may arise at major events. And there are many more possibilities. 13 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Our main achievements Our main achievements Delivering value through solid results In 2018, we delivered a solid set of results in a dynamic environment. Most key figures show that we continue to deliver value in financial, commercial, operational and sustainable areas. 1 Based on continuing operations. 2 EBITDA adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals. Reconciliations can be found in Appendix 1. 3 Free cash flow excluding Telefónica Deutschland dividend. 4 Second wave of Simplification program, realized end 2017 resp. end 2018 vs. end 2016. 5 Net operating profit less adjustments for taxes divided by capital employed. 14 6 Rebased to KPN's closing price of the last trading day of prior year. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Adjusted EBITDA¹, ² Adjusted EBITDA € million margin¹, ² € million 39.7% 40.8% 2,285 2,303 2017 2018 2017 2018 Free cash flow¹, ³ € million Capital expenditure¹ € million 730 804 1,131 1,106 2017 2018 2017 2018 Realized run-rate Shareholder return Capex and Return on capital employed⁵ opex savings 8.8% 2017 8.9% 2018 Simplification Regular dividend ordinary share program⁴ € 11ct 2017 € 12ct 2018 € million Total shareholder return (TSR) KPN -7.4% 2018 Telco index -8.2% 2018 3.00 2.80 2.60 2.40 2.20 ~110 ~225 2.00 Dec 17 Apr 18 Jul 18 Oct 18 Dec 18 2017 2018 KPN Stoxx Europe 600 Telecommunications Index⁶ 15 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Our main achievements Energy consumption In petajoules Energy consumed by KPN Estimated energy consumption savings by KPN customers² Reputation¹ RepTrak Pulse score 3.382 3.232 3.234 2016 2017 2018 67.4 70.5 72.6 2016 2017 2018 1.817 1.926 2.631 2016 2017 2018 Customer satisfaction Net Promoter Score in The Netherlands 6 8 9 2016 2017 2018 Net Promoter Score in Consumer 10 13 14 2016 2017 2018 Net Promoter Score in Business -3 -1 0 2016 2017 2018 16 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Converged services Households in fixed-mobile bundles3  ostpaid customers in fixed-mobile bundles P 37% 42% 46% 2016 2017 2018 43% 51% 57% 2016 2017 2018 Transformation of operating platform % SME base migrated from legacy services4 Network speed Average 4G download speed mobile network 9% 41% 2017 2018 51Mbps 58Mbps 53Mbps 2016 2017 2018 Average maximum download speed broadband fixed 202Mbps 221Mbps 2017 2018 1 Figures are the fourth quarterly average, which is in line with NPS KPIs. See Appendix 3 for further details. 2 Estimated energy consumption saved by customers from using our IT solutions. See Appendix 3 for further details. 3 As percentage of broadband customers. 4 Percentage of SME customers migrated from traditional fixed-voice or legacy broadband services starting August 2017. 17 18 IoT How a smart potato can save the world To continue meeting the growing demand for food, we have to cultivate more with less land, less water and fewer pesticides. Difficult? Not if you ask a couple of the smart potato growers in the north of the Netherlands. Together we are testing the precision agriculture of the future, with sensors and drones that transmit data on the health of the fields and the crops, so the farmer knows exactly where he needs to fertilize or water the land. 19 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Review of the year Review of the year What we did in 2018 20 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices 21 IoT 5G Smart Mobility: automatically from A to B Using technology, we can eliminate traffic jams and make all forms of mobility safer, more efficient and more sustainable. At KPN, we are therefore, together with partners, testing a variety of autonomous driving applications on the A270 between Helmond and Eindhoven: for example vehicles that communicate with one another and traffic signals that adapt to the traffic. 22 23 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Our purpose and the world around us Our purpose and the world around us Understanding the impact of digitalization Smart homes, chatbots, remote monitoring of embankments, precision farming and autonomous cars: our society is being transformed by digitalization and the implementation of new technologies. The world is becoming more and more connected. With our networks, we strive to provide secure, reliable and future-proof solutions. We enable people and 'things' to be interconnected. At the same time, we are working hard to become a circular telecommunications provider. Digitalization comes with major interlinked trends that influence society 24 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The world around us More than ten years ago, the first smartphones were released, webshops were in their infancy and social media was still exotic. Nowadays there are self-driving cars on the road, robots vacuum our houses and drones inspect crops at farms. Digital innovation is accelerating, driven by new technologies and an increasingly interconnected world. This is boosting economic growth, creating new value by opening up new possibilities and combinations. It is also helping to reduce our shared ecological footprint, making society more sustainable. Digitalization comes with major interlinked trends that influence society: the ability to interconnect, instant access to services and concerns about privacy and security. The connected society The first trend, and potentially the most influential, is the rapidly growing number of connected, data-generating devices, and the massive, continuously growing data streams resulting from them. Networks and technology need to be available to facilitate this growth in data traffic. Instant high-quality demand In a connected society, consumers and businesses expect to have a seamless connectivity experience. They also want instant access to services that provide immediate results at the highest possible standard. We call this the ‘service me now’ mentality. Trust and ethics Trust and ethics become more important as people become aware of the downsides of social media and other products and services that rely on monetizing big data and personal data. This is fueling concerns about privacy and security. People are looking for partners they can trust. 25 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Our purpose and the world around us KPN in Dutch society Our market position KPN operates at the center of a dynamic environment, The Dutch telecommunications market is mature and highly helping to shape new business models and markets where competitive. The Netherlands is one of the leading countries technology interacts with societal trends. in telecom, with three converged players. Moreover, the mobile networks in the Netherlands are among the best As the Dutch incumbent, KPN has a natural bond with Dutch networks in the world. society that stretches back over a century. We are closely linked to the Netherlands in every way and in almost every In today’s market, there are two high-speed fixed access sector. As Dutch society grows ever more dependent on networks with nationwide coverage (KPN, VodafoneZiggo), IT and telecom services, the new services we deliver become three mobile network operators and numerous mobile more relevant, helping the economy and society to advance virtual network operators (MVNO) exerting pressure on the and become more sustainable. This includes providing mobile-only market. There is an accelerating shift towards crucial services for the police, defense force, transport and fixed-mobile convergence, with rising expectations of healthcare sector. in-home WiFi access quality. The business market is highly competitive and the traditional connectivity market is shrinking. Acting on the changes in society is an important factor in the success of our business and in strengthening our market position as a leading supplier of IT services. Digitalization affects KPN at its core: our networks, interface with customers and operational processes. It holds great opportunities, particularly because KPN is a large player in the Dutch IT market. The following summary of our strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) provides a brief overview of the evaluation of our competitive position in the environment in which we operate. Digitalization holds great opportunities for KPN as a large player in the Dutch IT market 26 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Strengths Opportunities Increased customer satisfaction demonstrated by a higher Digitalization of customer interactions offers opportunities Net Promoter Score (NPS). to improve processes, but also to help customers to operate Advanced converged telecommunication networks digitally. throughout the Netherlands to provide high-quality service. Through innovative partnerships, creating solutions to meet Trusted provider of critical communication services. social challenges that come with urbanization, higher life Externally recognized for sustainability contribution, as expectancy and individualization. illustrated by positive benchmark results. Leverage data and analytics capabilities to create value in Very strong brand within the Dutch telecommunications the current business model and develop new business and IT market. models. Strong competences in network security and cyber security Technological developments in infrastructure, software and to protect customer data. virtual networks and IoT may lead to better products and Attractive combination of bundled services and broad services. business and consumer market portfolio for fixed, mobile Ability to deliver the key enabling technology for the and IT services. technology stimulus and demand pull. Skilled and motivated employees. Exponential growth in data traffic makes us highly relevant. Weaknesses Threats Solid, but still too complex IT systems and processes. Fierce competition from international network providers Extensive customized business market portfolio and and over-the-top (OTT) players. processes for large enterprises. Confidentiality, integrity and availability of networks, Lack of sufficient gender diversity, especially in middle systems or customer data increasingly under threat. management functions. New restrictive regulation in the EU and the Netherlands Organizational chains are too long, resulting in high costs for telecommunication companies. and slower time to market than desirable. Disruptive technologies and new business models that we Requirement to keep investment at high levels to maintain need to adapt to. network quality. Challenging labor market for sufficient qualified staff. Dependency on large international suppliers. Dependency for telecommunications equipment on suppliers that arouse concerns regarding security, amongst other things, due to international geopolitical developments. Data growth and network expansions challenge our energy reduction targets. 27 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Our strategy and activities Our strategy and activities Becoming the undisputed quality leader in the Netherlands On the back of the 2016-2018 strategy underpinned by the KPN is accelerating the execution of its strategy, positioning Simplify, Grow and Innovate pillars we have built a stable itself as a future-proof, high-quality, lean telco with premium and financially healthy KPN with increased customer consumer, business and wholesale customer relations. satisfaction. KPN is active in a highly competitive KPN continues to invest in its infrastructure to become the environment. This requires a flexible organization that is undisputed quality leader in the Netherlands. KPN aims for organic capable of delivering a faster time to market and bringing and sustainable growth of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow in innovation to its customers faster. 2019–2021, contributing to a progressive dividend and deleveraging. Strategic priorities 2019-2021 Main pillars Main goals Building the Acceleration of fiber roll-out +1 million FttH households by end 2021 best converged Full mobile network 100% 5G ready by end 2021 smart modernization ~45% of households at >1 Gbps infrastructure Moving to all-IP ~70% of households at >200 Mbps ~50% virtualized network functions 100% all-IP by end 2021 Focusing on Consumer: Consumer: profitable Best household access and +300K converged households by end 2021 growth customer experience 70% postpaid base converged in 2021 Delivering segments Growing converged customer base and product penetration organic Focus on delivering value Business: sustainable Migrate 100% of SME base to KPN ÉÉN by Business: growth by Converged simplified product mid 20201 Migrate 100% of LE base to KPN ÉÉN in 20201 portfolio Value over volume in LE & Corporate Transformation of operating Stabilized end-to-end adj. EBITDA by mid 2020 platform Reduce IT systems with 75% by 2021 Lean and digital operations Accelerating New multi-year opex reduction ~€ 350 million net opex savings2 simplification program From 20 to 2 converged IT stacks, one for and Lean operating model consumer and one for business-to-business digitalization Digital customer journeys From 5 to 1 core networks Automated back-end tasks Simplified end-to-end organization 1 Traditional fixed-voice and legacy broadband. 28 2 Indirect opex adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals, savings compared to 31 December 2018. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Our core activities Our services Our core activities relate to providing fixed and mobile Consumer networks and IT infrastructure for rendering services to KPN’s We are committed to offering KPN’s retail customers a broad retail, business and wholesale customers in the Netherlands. range of services in the areas of communication, information, entertainment and commercial services through singleand Building and maintaining the infrastructure multi-play offerings. The services we offer across our different KPN builds and maintains its infrastructure in a continuous brands include fixed and mobile internet, TV and telephony. process with help from suppliers addressing coverage, capacity, speed, quality, continuity, and safety and privacy Business regulatory. Consequently, KPN’s main investments and expenses KPN offers its business customers (small, medium, large and are conducted to build and maintain its high quality infrastructure. corporate enterprises) a complete portfolio of services from fixed and mobile telephony and internet to a range of Delivering connectivity end-to-end solutions in core connectivity and close-to-core We deliver connectivity services to end-users. We do this by IT services such as cloud services, security and workspace. making sure that we route calls, data and video streams between and towards the users of our networks in a reliable Wholesale and secure manner, safeguarding high quality. For end-users, We provide connectivity solutions to KPN’s wholesale partners it’s all about the quality of our core services. via our fixed and mobile networks. Serving the customer We serve our customers throughout the customer journey, taking care of all interaction between the customer and KPN for the duration of the relationship. We believe that our customers look for a one-stop-shop experience for integrated solutions and want us to simplify their life. We aim to serve our customers with the right products and the right customer experience. Our customers look for a one-stop-shop Read on page experience for 85 how our strategy mitigates integrated solutions the risks that we face. 29 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Our value creation model Our value creation model Enabling people to be connected anytime, anywhere Our Purpose, capitals to ambition & operate business model 30 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices We are at the very heart of our customers’ connected life. We are passionate about offering secure, reliable and future-proof networks and services, enabling people to be connected anytime, anywhere, whilst at the same time creating a more prosperous and cleaner world. To properly understand the ways in which we impact society, The chapters of our integrated Annual Report follow the we have visualized the value we create for our stakeholders structure of this value creation model, providing insights into as well as our impact on society, using the six capitals model our results and how this creates value for our stakeholders of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). and society. We highlighted the assets that are most valuable to our To investigate the topics that are most important from both business model and provide the necessary input for our business perspective and our stakeholders’ perspective, performing our core activities. We do this by following our we perform a materiality assessment annually. Appendix 3 strategy and ensuring responsible operations. The value we describes this process and presents the most material topics create for our stakeholders is the effect of our business in the materiality matrix. Furthermore, the connectivity table models. With our business results and the effects on our in Appendix 2 shows how the most material topics are linked stakeholders, we have an impact on society and on the to our value creation model and how they are reported on in realization of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. this report. Results of Long–term Value we our business impact create model on society 31 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Our value creation model The value we create Our capitals to operate Purpose: To connect everything and everybody in an innovative, reliable and sustainable way. Customer base and demands Ambition: To be at the very heart of our customers’ connected life, we want to be their trusted companion by offering bestin-class quality in terms of access, service and customer Partnerships and experience. suppliers Strategic priorities > Building the best converged smart infrastructure. Networks, IT > Focusing on profitable growth segments. infrastructure and > Accelerating simplification and digitalization. mobile spectrum Core activities: > Invest in a future-proof secure, reliable, highquality network. Skilled and > Offer high-quality products and services with a motivated best-in-class customer experience. workforce > Automating and digitizing where possible, thereby simplifying IT stacks, networks and our organization. How we operate: Solid financial Deliver end-to-end teamwork, speed in execution basis and first time right for our customers. Green energy Governance Risk and control Compliance 32 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Results of our Value we create Long–term impact business model on society Products and services, that are simple, digital, flexible and move to converged Future-proof connectivity Converged smart infrastructure Customer value: Customer in control of secure, reliable Focused innovation and seamless Social and digitalization connectivity inclusion Privacy and security Shareholder value: Organic sustainable Environmental growth impact Sustainable employability Environmental performance Healthcare of the future 33 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Our capitals to operate Our capitals to operate Brief overview of our valuable assets We allocate our six key assets or transform them to maximize the value we create for our organization, our stakeholders and society at large in the short and the long term. Customer base and demands Partnerships and suppliers We have a leading market position in the telecom industry, We are always looking for new partnerships and partners to with commitments to millions of customers. Their demands create new business with. We work with suppliers to improve constitute our license to operate. our supply chain practices and with whom we work towards meeting our strategic goals. 2018 2017 2018  2017 Consumer and Business postpaid Partnering innovative startups & customer base 5,466k  5,556k entrepreneurs ~90 ~60 Consumer and Business broadband Partnering research centers & customer base 3,223k 3,243k¹ universities 3 2 Interactive TV customer base 2,168k  2,116k KPN Ventures Fund size EUR 70 m EUR 70 m Fixed-mobile households 1,343k  1,253k #of critical suppliers 53 53 Wholesale fixed lines 933k  931k 1 Restated: including all Business broadband lines. 34 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Networks, IT infrastructure and mobile spectrum Solid financial basis We continuously innovate and upgrade the capacity of our Capital providers provide us with the necessary capital for integrated network and IT infrastructure to serve KPN’s our capital-intensive business. We aim to realize a return on consumer, business and wholesale customers. investment that outperforms the cost of capital while solidifying our financial position. 2018 2017 20182017 Capital expenditure EUR 1,106m  EUR 1,131m Market capitalization EUR 10.8bn  EUR 12.2bn Average 4G download Net debt/EBITDA ratio 2.5x  2.6x speed mobile network 53Mbps 58Mbps Credit rating Average maximum download Moody’s/S&P/Fitch Baa3/BBB-/BBB  Baa3/BBB-/BBB speed broadband fixed 221Mbps  202Mbps Skilled and motivated workforce Green energy Our people create and represent our company. With an We believe that sustainable business is better business. We engaged population of professionals, young talent, interim are climate-neutral for our own operations and we use 100% employees, our workforce is equipped to anticipate changing green electricity. market needs and offer maximum added value. 2018 2017 2018 20171 Green electricity consumption 100% 100% Full-time domestic personnel 12,412  12,985 Energy consumption 3.234PJ  3.232PJ Full-time personnel abroad 1919 Average training cost in EUR per FTE 1,895  1,517 Employee score for engagement 77% 80% 1 Restated: reclassification of iBasis as discontinued operations. 35 5G The eyes of a specialist always AR on hand Imagine that an accident has happened on a country road. The ambulance gets there within five minutes and has exactly the right medical specialist on board to treat the injuries suffered. Impossible? Not if there is a way of allowing the specialist at the hospital to watch through the eyes of the paramedic. We are testing remote medical assistance with augmented reality and 5G, in collaboration with the Burn Centre at Martini Hospital and Ambulancezorg Nederland. This way, we can use expertise from a distance and the hospital knows even better what to prepare for. 36 37 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The value we create for stakeholders Customer value KPI Result 2018 Result 2017 NPS NL 9 8 NPS Business 0 -1 NPS Consumer 14 13 NPS KPN Fixed-Mobile 25 25 Customer experience our services? For this deep level of customer understanding, we use various types of customer research. We believe that sustainable customer value is created by building a happy and loyal customer base. Satisfied and loyal In our Experience Lab, we interview customers and observe customers have an increased customer lifetime, take more customers’ behavior to determine their needs and services and provide word-of-mouth advertising. expectations, to test prototypes and to validate solutions. In To achieve this, it is increasingly important to create 2018, we conducted about 200 Experience Lab memorable experiences. experiments. In one of these experiments, we tested Voice Response System (VRS). We then introduced VRS in our KPN uses Net Promoter Score (NPS) as a measure of the customer service approach later in the year, allowing satisfaction of our customers and as an indicator of their customers to ask their question right away instead of loyalty. We improved our NPS in 2018 again, in both the having to go through a selection menu. Consumer and Business markets. We did not completely We continuously gather customer feedback on important meet our NPS targets in 2018, due to setbacks in the last customer journeys and touchpoints. In 2018, about 2 million quarter in one of the service channels, the performance of customers responded to our surveys with valuable iTV and the migration of Digitenne. In line with the changed feedback which we use to improve customer experience. management structure, as of 2019 only the NPS scores of For example, we established a customer service team with a Consumer and Business will be reported. wide variety of expert knowledge to increase the pace of solving and addressing complaints. Understanding our customers In 2019, we will continue to engage with our customer Our customers’ expectations are not only being determined community to co-create valuable products, services by their experience of the telecommunications industry. and experiences. Previous experiences of other industries set the bar for experience expectations with KPN. It is important to understand what drives our customers, what is important in their lives, what role can KPN play and how do they perceive 38 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The value we create for stakeholders Customer journey design Our impact on society To deliver great customer experience, we design optimal Including people who have difficulties fulfilling customer journeys. New products and services are designed payments from scratch to match the intended customer journey. The desired KPN is still an active member of the coalition of creditors that customer experience is determined for target customer is looking for solutions to help the growing number of groups, e.g. for consumers and large corporate enterprises. customers with payment arrears and debts. We intend to sign a covenant with the NVVK (the Netherlands’ association for An important aspect is fair communication. Honest and clear debt counseling), resulting in a smoother process for people communication is a vital aspect of all journey designs we deliver. in debt to get the right support from KPN. We design with full transparency in mind, so our customers can make the right decisions. This motivates us to deliver on Including children by helping them to be safe online our promises. Our website includes information to help parents better understand the online life of their children. In 2018, we posted In 2018, we introduced the WiFi Tuner, which facilitates items on the use of mobile phones, safety online, increased in-home WiFi performance. Our customers cyberbullying and understanding the games children play online. increasingly have a > 50 Mbit wireless connection at home. This awareness campaign is one of the initiatives which fits the Other key journey (re-)designs in 2018 were fiber roll-out, KPN commitments in the Alliance. The Alliance is a joint mobile subscription renewal and privacy & consent. initiative of The European Commission and ICT and media companies, NGOs and Unicef to better protect minors online. Alignment on delivering the best possible experience We can only deliver the best possible customer experience Including elderly people who want to live at home when all our employees are aligned on what that experience longer in a safe way should be and understand how to realize this. KPN With KPN Vitaal Thuis, we provide elderly people living on eXperience is an initiative that engages KPN colleagues in their own with a small number of motion sensors that signal various events, workshops and exercises. These help to their daily activities at home. This gives their informal boost maximum employee engagement for showing caregivers a peace of mind and the possibility to keep an eye customer centric behavior. Over 350 KPN employees are on things when they are not there. Consequently, the elderly currently involved in KPN eXperience as change agent. They may live independently and safely at home for a longer inspire and challenge their work environment to become an period of time. ever-more customer-centric KPN. In 2018, we launched the ‘JIJ’-campagne (YOU campaign) to underline customer impact Dementia-friendly stores and the importance of every single KPN employee in this. Since people are getting older, the number of dementia diagnoses is also increasing. Because we want to serve these Reputation & customer loyalty customers in the best way we can, we invested in online 2018 was a milestone year for KPN reputationally. It started training for our employees so that our stores are dementiawith KPN elevating to number 2 in the industry-adjusted friendly. At the end of 2018, 91% of our stores are certified. ranking of the 30 largest publicly traded companies in the Netherlands. In addition, the Dutch general public gave KPN a RepTrak Pulse score of 72.6. The year closed with our first Sponsorship ever six-month period of Pulse scores in the 70s. Sports sponsorship Underlying these developments, KPN saw increased public appreciation of the qualities and behaviors in the RepTrak Speed skating study which the Board of Management has identified as the As the main sponsor of Dutch speed skating, KPN facilitated most essential, reputationally and strategically. the Coolest Ice Rink of the Netherlands during the 2018 Winter Olympics for Dutch skating fans and customers. Together with Dutch Olympic Champion Sven Kramer, KPN developed a speed skating campaign to attract children to the sport and teach them to skate. In the Olympic Stadium in Amsterdam, KPN also celebrated 125 years of Dutch speed 39 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The value we create for stakeholders skating history with the World Allround Speed Skating Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen Championships. With our partner the Rijksmuseum, KPN put KPN is proud sponsor of the Depot Boijmans Van Beuningen together a special exhibition about skating history and 40 in Rotterdam, of which construction started in 2017. This former speed skating champions posed together in front of building will not only store the museums’ artworks during the Rembrandt’s world-famous The Night Watch. We decided to construction, visitors will also be able to view them here. The terminate our sponsorship of the Dutch Olympic/Paralympic top pieces from the KPN art collection will also be housed in team as of 2019. this special building. The expected opening is in 2020. Soccer KPN is the proud sponsor of the Royal Dutch Football KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds Association (KNVB) and the Dutch Premier League (Eredivisie). As soccer is one of the most popular sports in Connecting people for 10 years the Netherlands, KPN likes to associate itself with the sport. Loneliness is a major social problem in the Netherlands, as The goals of the partnerships are to increase brand more than one million Dutch adults feel lonely. This issue is preference and awareness, NPS, to upsell and cross-sell KPN not an easy one to discuss or to solve. With the KPN Mooiste products and services and to promote KPN’s main Contactfonds, KPN has been supporting vulnerable groups partnership with the Dutch Eredivisie and Fox Sports. dealing with loneliness since 2007 by funding a great number of projects in cooperation with NGOs. The foundation TEAMKPN Sportfonds receives the help of KPN employees, our IT resources and Not all national team sports get the same opportunities, financial support. In 2018, we received 1,766 voluntary despite some great achievements. The TEAMKPN contributions to our foundation.. Sportfonds has been set up especially to support promising teams in need of a helping hand. This support of teams with To celebrate the 10th anniversary of the foundation KPN limited resources, like the national men’s volleyball team, launched an integrated campaign in September 2017 to raise means they can keep their Olympic dream alive. awareness about loneliness in the Netherlands. The anniversary was a central theme during the Rijksmuseum Arts and culture summit, the annual relationship event of our CEO. Other initiatives during the lustrum year 2017-2018 included our KPN main sponsor of the Rijksmuseum project KlasseContact and the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds The collection of the Netherlands’ most important museum is Jubilee Tour for lonely elderly people. We also made a film in a source of pride and can be seen as a national treasure. We, 2017 to thank all our social partners, beneficiaries and as the museum’s main sponsor, contribute to making the volunteers. The real beneficiaries of the foundation played Rijksmuseum’s artwork accessible to everyone in the a key role in this film. The foundation’s official mascot Maatje Netherlands, both at the museum and digitally. In 2018, also played a key role during the anniversary celebrations. All Rijksmuseum and KPN launched the renewed Rijks app that these activities resulted in a higher awareness of KPN’s social provides guided tours through the museum and includes role, which led to a higher appreciation of our brand and high-resolution images of the entire collection. Together with reputation among our stakeholders. partner Samsung, KPN launched a campaign for the Samsung Galaxy S9 Rijksmuseum Limited Edition, including a Rembrandt’s The Night Watch themed smart cover and free access to more than 600,000 works of art through the Rijks app. The Royal Concertgebouw Music connects people. That’s why we support the Royal Concertgebouw in Amsterdam with our IT products and services. Via the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, we also help vulnerable groups in society get acquainted with classical music. 40 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The value we create for stakeholders The value we create for stakeholders Shareholder value We delivered on our 2018 outlook: adjusted EBITDA grew with 0.8% y-on-y, Capex was € 1.1 billion and free cash flow was up 10% year-on-year reaching € 804 million. In 2018, we saw significant growth in our converged customer base, resulting in higher customer satisfaction and lower churn. KPI Result 2018 Result 2017 (Restated) Adjusted EBITDA € 2,303m € 2,285m Capex € 1,106m € 1,131m Free cash flow (excl. TEFD dividend) € 804m € 730m Financial review KPN continues to upgrade customers to improved access speeds and focuses on a simplified product portfolio with KPN’s focus on value and convergence further strengthened converged services on the KPN ÉÉN platform. This allows for its position as the leading converged operator in the transformation of the operating platform with lean and digital Netherlands. Increasing fixed-mobile penetration, as a result operations. Furthermore, KPN will have a clear value-overof a targeted household approach, is delivering higher volume approach and focus on profitable growth. customer satisfaction and lower churn. Revenues from Communication Services declined 7.9% Revenue and other income y-on-y in 2018, mainly driven by lower revenues from fixedAdjusted revenues and other income were 1.9% (EUR 111m) voice (-13% y-on-y) and lower Mobile service revenues (-6.3% lower y-on-y in 2018. Residential revenues increased by 0.9% y-on-y). Over the past 12 months, KPN’s M2M base grew by compared to 2017. KPN focused on strengthening household 1.3m SIMs to ~5.0m at the end of December 2018. relationships through its continued focus and convergence. Furthermore, KPN continues to add customers to its fully This was visible in the increased fixed-mobile penetration integrated KPN Things platform. among broadband customers and more SIMs per household. Mobile service revenues declined 6.1% y-on-y, driven by Revenues from IT Services increased 12% y-on-y in 2018, regulation and continued price pressure on the mobile mainly driven by growth in security and cloud services. market. Revenues from Professional Services & Consultancy increased by 8.8% y-on-y, supported by additional projectAdjusted revenues in Business declined 1.9% y-on-y in 2018. based work in 2018. Growth in Professional Services and IT services was offset by lower revenues from traditional single-play services and In Wholesale, adjusted revenues decreased by 8.0% y-on-y in continued mobile price pressure. 2018, mainly due to lower regulated tariffs (MTA/FTA). 41 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The value we create for stakeholders Adjusted revenues in € million -1.9% 5,749 52 41 36 54 5,639 Adj. revenues Consumer Business Wholesale Other Adj. revenues 2017 (incl. 2018 eliminations) In 2018, revenue was not impacted by incidentals. In 2017, the negative impact of incidentals (EUR 7m) related to revenuerelated provisions in Wholesale. Adjusted EBITDA in € million 39.7% 1 40.8% 1 35 2,303 2,285 111 51 63 20 Adj. EBITDA Revenues Costs of goods Personnel IT/TI Other Adj. EBITDA 2017 & services expenses operating 2018 expenses 1 Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted EBITDA increased by 0.8% (EUR 18m) y-on-y. a new collective labor agreement. Other operating expenses Lower revenues were offset by ongoing savings from were 4.4% lower y-on-y and benefitted mainly from less costs simplification and digitalization of services. related to billing & collection and housing & facilities. Cost of goods and services were positively impacted by lower traffic costs compared to 2017. EBITDA was impacted by restructuring costs of EUR 102m (2017: EUR 86m). The net negative impact of incidentals in Due to simplification and digitalization initiatives, IT/TI costs 2018 was EUR 16m (2017: EUR 29m net negative impact). The declined 10% y-on-y in 2018. Personnel expenses were adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 40.8% (2017: 39.7%), higher in 2018 compared to last year due to the impact from supported by a strong cost focus in all areas of the business. 42 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The value we create for stakeholders For information on financial and operational performance per Restatement of 2017 financial information segment, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. In 2018, KPN applied IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ for the first time. Operating profit The 2017 financial information has been restated for Group operating profit (EBIT) increased 4.4% y-on-y to EUR comparison purposes. 789m in 2018. The increase was mainly driven by lower depreciation charges and higher adjusted EBITDA, partly The main impact of IFRS 15 is: offset by higher restructuring charges. Allocation of revenue to the handsets and recognition of revenue at delivery of the handsets under IFRS 15, whereas Financial income and expenses under the previous accounting policies revenue was Net finance expenses increased 7.9% in 2018 to EUR 267m. recognized up to the non-contingent cash received upfront. The EUR 20m decrease in finance expenses, mainly as a Revenue for variable considerations, including revenue result from swapping the 2025/2028 bonds to a floating related to disputes, was recognized when it was probable interest, was offset by the EUR 16m lower dividends received that these would flow to the company. Under IFRS 15 such on KPN’s stake in Telefónica Deutschland and other lower revenue is only recognized when this is highly probable, financial results (2017 included a EUR 30m gain recognized resulting in less revenue recognized. As a consequence, on the sale of our stake in Tecnocom). such revenue, although invoiced, is recognized later when this higher threshold is met. Income taxes In 2018, KPN recognized a tax expense of EUR 233m (2017: A summary of the impact of IFRS 15 on equity and profit in EUR 119m). KPN’s effective tax rate for 2018 is 44.6% (2017: 2017 is as follows (in € million): 23.4%) mainly due to a one-off EUR 107m revaluation of Equity at Equity at KPN’s deferred tax asset driven by the lower corporate tax 1 January Profit for the 31 December rate in the Netherlands (22.55% as of 2020 and 20.5% as of 2017 year 2017 2017 2021). Excluding the one-off revaluation of KPN’s deferred Allocation of revenue to tax asset, the effective tax rate would have been ~23%. handsets under IFRS 15 +304 -62 +242 Revenue for variable KPN continues to qualify as an innovative company and considerations not therefore benefits from the innovation box tax regime, recognized under IFRS 15 -69 -47 -116 a facility under Dutch corporate income tax law whereby Other +50 -5 +45 profits attributable to innovation are taxed at an effective Tax impact (net) -63 +21 -42 rate of 7%. For 2019, the effective tax rate is expected to continue to be ~23%. Due to the Dutch tax rate change, Total +222 -92 +129 this rate is expected to reduce further to ~22% in 2020. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further Under IFRS 9, an additional provision for expected credit information on KPN’s tax position. losses is recognized for trade receivables not yet overdue and for contract assets recognized under IFRS 15, which Net profit mainly relates to the recognition of handset revenue. Net profit for 2018 (continuing operations) decreased by EUR The impact of IFRS 9 on equity at 1 January 2017 and 109m to EUR 280m, driven by a one-off revaluation of KPN’s 31 December 2017 is an increase of EUR 5m after tax. deferred tax asset. The result from discontinued operations Pages 119 to 123 provide a detailed description of the (EUR -10m) comprises the result of iBasis (EUR -7m) and the impact of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 on the Consolidated Statement unwinding of remaining positions related to BASE Company of Profit or Loss and Consolidated Statement of Financial (EUR -9m) and E-Plus (EUR 6m). Position in 2017. Disposal group held for sale: iBasis Free cash flow On 7 March 2018, KPN announced that it had reached an Free cash flow (FCF) for the full year 2018 of EUR 804m was agreement to sell iBasis to Tofane Global. Therefore, KPN has EUR 74m (+10%) higher y-on-y, excluding the EUR 54m accounted for iBasis as a discontinued operations since dividend received from Telefónica Deutschland (2017: EUR 70m). that date. See Notes 3 and 15 to the Financial Statements for The increase was mainly driven by EUR 41m less interest further information. paid, EUR 25m lower capex and EUR 17m higher EBITDA. 43 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The value we create for stakeholders Solid financial position 2019-2021 ambitions Net debt to EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA: organic growth Net debt amounted to EUR 5.9bn at the end of 2018, a Capex: stable at EUR 1.1bn annually decrease of EUR 0.1bn compared to the end of 2017. The Free cash flow (excluding TEFD dividend): three-year decrease is mainly driven by retained cash flow and proceeds mid-single digit CAGR¹ driven by EBITDA growth from selling Telefónica Deutschland shares, partially offset Progressive dividend, supported by FCF by lower hybrid equity credit due to the redemption of the 1 Three year Compound Annual Growth Rate calculated from the end of 2018 EUR 1.1bn hybrid bond. to the end of 2021. KPN remains committed to an investment grade credit profile and aims for a net debt to EBITDA ratio of <2.5x in the medium term. As of 31 December 2018, the net debt to Tax EBITDA ratio was 2.5x (2017: 2.6x). This includes the equity credit on the hybrid bonds representing 0.2x net debt to The overall tax position and optimal use of subsidy EBITDA. The average coupon on senior bonds declined opportunities is managed by KPN’s Corporate Tax y-on-y to 3.8% (2017: 3.9%), mainly due to an adjustment of Department, whereby KPN adheres to its Tax Strategy and the interest duration of KPN’s bond portfolio. Policy (see ir.kpn.com). It is important to KPN to create sufficient tax awareness throughout the organization. KPN regularly organizes Capital allocation and shareholder remuneration meetings, knowledge updates and trainings, to ensure employees act with integrity and adhere to KPN’s tax Over the last few years, KPN has invested significantly in its strategy and policy. network infrastructure, products and customers, resulting in In line with the Tax Strategy and Policy, KPN’s Tax Control high-quality fixed and mobile networks and improved Framework (TCF) is continuously monitored and optimized. customer satisfaction ratings across all segments. KPN will A cornerstone of the TCF is our long-lasting covenant with continue to focus on improving the customer experience by the Dutch tax authorities to self-assess and transparently further investing in the capacity, reliability and stability of its discuss KPN’s current and potential future tax issues. This integrated network. KPN generates FCF (after capital covenant is based on mutual trust and transparency. expenditure), which supports a progressive regular dividend and deleveraging. In 2018, the following main developments and projects were KPN intends to pay a regular dividend per share of EUR relevant to KPN from a tax perspective: 12.0ct in respect of 2018, which is subject to shareholder Changed Dutch corporate income tax rates; for the years approval at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 2019, 2020 and 2021 a gradual change in corporate income 10 April 2019. The provisional ex-dividend date for the final tax rates has been enacted which impacts the valuation of dividend payment of EUR 8.0ct per share is 12 April 2019 and our deferred tax asset (see page 138). the provisional payment date is 18 April 2019. VAT calculation methodology regarding certain mobile At the end of 2018, KPN owned a 4.4% stake in Telefónica consumer propositions; the introduction of new mobile Deutschland, which provides KPN with additional financial consumer propositions in August 2016 led to discussions flexibility and is treated as a financial investment. with the Dutch tax authorities (see also page 122). IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 restatement (see page 118-123); Outlook 2019 (continuing operations) the change of accounting of our mobile propositions could Adjusted EBITDA: in line with 2018 lead to a tax impact which is currently under discussion Capex: EUR 1.1bn with the Dutch tax authorities. The expected outcome of the Free cash flow (excluding TEFD dividend): front-end loaded discussion is already included in the company’s tax position. restructuring charges leading to incidentally lower FCF Sale of iBasis; the major part of the US tax provisioning is compared with 2018 booked as discontinued (see Notes 3 and 15). Regular dividend per share: EUR 12.5ct. Foreign tax compliance; a review of tax returns filed for a foreign subsidiary led to corrective actions and filing of adjusted tax returns for the years 2014-2016. Decrease of the current tax paid; the consolidation of two fiscal unities for Dutch corporate income tax purposes led 44 to a reduction of taxes paid. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The value we create for stakeholders Tax allowance for labor costs relating to R&D activities Taxes paid (€ million) (“WBSO”); KPN is continuously monitoring its innovation activities to substantiate the tax allowance for labor costs. VAT: Wage tax: 591 (53%) 334 (30%) 680 (58%) 293 (25%) Forward-looking Dividend tax: Other: Through offset of available losses in the Netherlands, KPN 61 (5%) 9 (1%) 66 (6%) 10 (1%) expects to pay limited amounts of corporate income tax for the coming years. Based on current projections, KPN expects Corporate Social income tax: to fully utilize its Dutch realized and unrealized losses well security: 9 (1%) within the expiration limits of applicable tax law. 117 (10%) 13 (1%) 114 (10%) KPN will continue to extend and optimize its tax control Total tax: framework, supported by simplification and automation. To 1,120 (100%) obtain additional third party tax assurance, KPN will engage a • 2018 • 2017 1,176 (100%) third party to perform an objective review of KPN’s corporate income tax position. The following tax metrics apply for 2018 KPN expects to continue the discussions with the Dutch tax authorities on the change in the VAT calculation methodology Eff. tax rate (ETR) 44.6% which resulted in a lower remittance of VAT from August 2016 in 2017: onwards of approximately EUR 3m per month (see also page 23.4% 122). Due to a change in applicable regulations, KPN is currently investigating the impact on its position going forward. Normalized ETR 22.9% EBIT Cash tax rate tax rate 23.8% in 2017: 22.3% (CTR) 1.7% in 2017: in 2017: 23.5% 2.4% The reported difference between the effective tax rate and the cash tax rate is mainly caused by the impact of available tax losses (carry forward). The reported corporate income taxes paid relate to taxable profits that cannot be offset against these losses (payable by entities not part of the relevant tax group). The EBIT tax rate is lower than the statutory rate mainly due to the impact of the innovation box facility. Tax overview for continuing operations per country Corporate Other tax In € million Total Profit before tax Corporate Corporate cash tax cash flow Property or FTE unrelated excl. associates and income Effective income tax receivable/ mainly VAT plant and Employees income¹ joint ventures tax expense tax rate cash flow payable & payroll equipment end of year 2018 5,690 531 -232 43.7% -9 1 -1,111 5,638 12,416 NL 2017 5,834 520 -119 22.9% -13 -5 -1,155 5,793 12,991 2018 -1 US 2017 -5 1 -7 -7 17 2018 1 -8 0.8% -1 2 15 Other 2017 1 -6 0.5% 1 -1 1 14 Total 2018 5,691 522 -233 44.6% -9 -1,111 5,641 12,431 Total 2017 5,835 508 -119 23.4% -13 -11 -1,163 5,811 13,005 1 Unrelated income is the total of revenues and (other) financial income. 45 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The value we create for stakeholders Regulation affects our business Spectrum licenses The preparations for an auction in 2019 or 2020 of the 700, KPN is subject to sector-specific regulation and enforcement 1,400 (L-band) and 2,100 MHz bands are ongoing, but no thereof by regulatory authorities, such as the Netherlands formal decisions on timing of the auction procedure are Authority for Consumers and Markets (ACM). As described in available yet. Although the 3.5GHz band at European level is the chapter ‘Compliance and risk’, KPN’s internal risk seen as the primary band for 5G, in the Netherlands severe management and control systems are designed to minimize restrictions on the use of this spectrum still apply, to prevent the risk of non-compliance with regulation. interference with the use of this band by an earth satellite station of the Dutch Ministry of Defense. It was announced in December 2018 that this spectrum will be released for 5G. European developments Although no formal date for actual use is defined, at least Regulation of the electronic communications markets is parts of this band are expected to be available by the end of largely based on European legislation. The EU’s roaming and 2022. An auction will be scheduled in 2021-2022. open internet access regulations are directly applicable in all member states. The application of the regulation of operators with significant market power is enforced nationally, but International roaming on mobile networks under coordination of the European Commission. This still Since 15 June 2017, national retail tariffs must be applied for affects KPN in some fixed markets and on fixed and mobile roaming within the EU/EEA. The roaming regulation will call termination services. Licensing regimes for frequencies expire on 30 June 2022 and only changes if amended or are based on national law. Increasingly, also other regulation replaced prior to that date. An evaluation by the European (such as privacy law and content-related law) has an impact. Commission will start in 2019. In December 2018, the new European Electronic Communications Code entered into force, including amended Market analysis decisions in the Netherlands regulation for the electronic communications sector. The A new decision related to the market for unbundled access to scope of the regulation now includes all interpersonal fixed networks came into effect on 1 October 2018. KPN and communications services (including over-the-top), thereby VodafoneZiggo were designated by ACM as having joint creating an increased level playing field for comparable significant market power in this market. Consequently, both services. Implementation of the new rules in national law KPN and VodafoneZiggo must offer (virtual) access to their should be finalized on 21 December 2020, except for the networks. KPN’s obligations mainly remained the same, regulation of international communication tariffs from home although with more flexibility to migrate from legacy countries to other EU countries (capped by 15 May 2019 at technologies. VodafoneZiggo must first provide an offer, after EUR 19ct voice or EUR 6ct sms, excl. VAT). The impact of which negotiations (and if necessary dispute resolution by most of the many other detailed changes will only be clear ACM) can start. ACM’s decision is under appeal. after national implementation. ACM’s prior decision to regulate the fixed-voice telephony market for dual calls (ISDN2) were annulled by the court, A draft of a new e-privacy regulation (in addition to the effective as of April 2019. General Data Protection Regulation, replacing the existing e-Privacy Directive) is still being discussed by EU institutions. Various legislative instruments that will have lesser impact on KPN have entered into force (such as a new Audiovisual Media Services Directive) or are still being discussed (such as a draft e-evidence regulation). 46 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: What we do The output of our business model: What we do Moving to converged products and services KPI Result 2018 Result 2017 Average fixed revenue per household € 44 € 43 Fixed-mobile households 1,343k 1,253k % SME base migrating from legacy services 41% 9% Wholesale mobile connections 777k 775k Wholesale fixed connections 933k 931k Consumer The consumer market has become ever-more competitive. Going forward, we want to move towards a service that In 2018, we focused on further enhancing service quality, reduces problems and calls, such as proactively informing increasing access to and speeding up our networks, growing clients when our systems show their cables need to be fixed-mobile convergence and new revenue streams. The replaced or when there is an outage in their area. continued drive to simplify our back-end systems and digitalize service delivery enabled KPN to achieve all this. Quality service, clear communication THINGS WE WANT TO IMPROVE Service quality is a crucial factor in customer satisfaction and loyalty. Giving our customers control of their services, through CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS digitalization of the customer journey, is key. Last year, we We aim to reduce the number of customer calls and complaints and increase the saw service handling through online instead of traditional delivery of first time right for our customers . channels increase strongly. We conduct root cause analyses to gain insight in the type of calls and complaints we receive. We are improving the administration process of the calls in order to better cross-correlate the input. We strive to communicate in a simple, transparent and complete manner to customers, so they can take wellinformed decisions and avoid unpleasant surprises. Calls to KPN call centers last year decreased by 12% and customer satisfaction (NPS) rose further to +14 in 2018 from +13 in 2017. 47 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The output of our business model: What we do Access, speed and data Fixed-mobile convergence The quality and reliability of our network is our top priority, We continued to focus on fixed-mobile convergence in 2018 and we notice a direct link between customer satisfaction and and increased fixed-mobile penetration through upselling the speed of our fixed network. and cross-selling. This is an important factor in customer loyalty: churn rates typically halve for KPN customers that Last year, we further upgraded our network to increase combine fixed and mobile services. access speeds to and beyond the modem and to make fast internet possible in all rooms of the house. The total number of fixed-mobile households rose to 1.34 million by year-end 2018 from 1.25 million at year-end 2017. In our ambition to become the best service provider, data and This represented 46% of the broadband customer base analytics aim to be a game-changer. Within the boundaries of (2017: 42%). The number of postpaid customers in fixed-mobile our strict privacy policy, we use them to garner ever-deeper bundles grew to 2.1 million, equivalent to 57% penetration of insights into customer needs and to design and further the postpaid base (2017: 51%). Of the KPN brand postpaid optimize KPN customer journeys. With this as our basis, we base, 70% is now part of a fixed-mobile bundle (2017: 65%). work to develop and deliver products and services that truly fulfill consumer needs, with the aim to improve satisfaction New revenue streams and value per customer. Customers want choice in how, where and when they consume telecom and IT services. This results in new revenue streams for KPN. For example we continue to broaden our range of platforms for TV. We currently offer a set-top box for THINGS WE WANT TO IMPROVE TV, an app for mobile devices and computers, and piloted a RURAL AREAS KPN smart TV app for this purpose. Broadband speed is often a challenge in rural white spots. We launched a Discontinued business technology with a combination of DSL and 4G to enhance broadband speeds and deliver an optimal customer experience in designated areas. KPN has decided to stop KPN Play. KPN Play was introduced We intend to give more customers in all areas access to higher broadband in 2015 as an innovative online TV service on the Dutch TV speeds in the coming years. market. We have concluded that demand in the market is insufficient for this new way of watching TV. KPN has learned from the product and its users and is using this knowledge for other products, including the KPN Interactive TV app that is part of KPN’s internet and TV packages. THINGS WE WANT TO IMPROVE Business IN HOUSE WIFI COVERAGE Sometimes customers experience glitches in their TV or internet speed Whatever the size of the business customer we serve, we aim that is lower than expected, although technically feasible. The resulting to deliver future-proof and easily scalable converged dissatisfaction is an important reason for churn. Research showed that the root cause in most cases is in the customer domain. However, the problem solutions that make the best use of our portfolio of services is often not limited to one cause, so it is important to check the entire from fixed and mobile telephony and internet to end-to-end customer premises connection for realized WiFi speed to the modem. solutions in infrastructure, workspace management and Consequently, we introduced the WiFi Tuner, an online tool that people can use to check WiFi coverage in their home and get customized advice security cloud. to help improve the WiFi quality in rooms where needed. If necessary, we offered free new hardware, such as a modem and one or two additional A clear example of how we are enabling businesses’ future WiFi points. Although this specific campaign is over, we will continue to support customers in optimizing their WiFi signal. growth is the public cloud. Demand for public cloud services is growing strongly as companies shift away from private servers. KPN offers integrated public cloud services in the KPN ÉÉN platform. For these cloud services, enough bandwidth needs to be available. Therefore, KPN is improving its broadband networks, which includes the roll-out of fiber-optic networks. 48 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: What we do Customers recognize that we are increasingly supplying the Listening to customers is key to understanding their present products and services they want at a quality they value, as is needs and future challenges, and so ensuring we develop the evident from the further increase in our NPS. Our NPS among solutions they want. business customers increased to 0 in 2018 and we expect this positive trend to continue. For the second year running, KPN 5G is a prime example of our innovation for B2B. Together was named leading business service provider in the with customers and technology partners, we launched four Netherlands by the Dutch IT Partner Preference Survey of separate field labs in 2018 to explore how 5G technology can Dutch CIOs. optimize business processes and improve customer experience. These range from testing smart antennae in Simplification urban areas to studying connectivity of drones for precision We are further simplifying our portfolio by continuing to agriculture, virtual reality in industry and connected vehicles. phase out products and services such as ISDN2 and PSTN, and moving customers from legacy network services to We expect 5G to benefit many industries, sectors and areas. flexible, scalable solutions such as Hosted Voice. As the tests show, this will also become a new model of collaborative innovation, an ecosystem where we innovate A simpler product and services portfolio creates more clarity together with customers, competitors, equipment and comprehensibility for customers. We also continued to manufacturers and public authorities. simplify our internal processes, a precondition for increased standardization and automation, which in turn improves our Cyber security and cloud workspace efficiency and enables digital transformation. As small and medium-sized companies grow increasingly aware of cyber security, we are enhancing our security service Customer-centric propositions offering to match companies of every size and share the need As the shift continued towards standardized and integrated for cyber security risk awareness and protection. solutions, away from tailor-made single-play services, our integrated KPN ÉÉN product for small and medium-sized Last year, we bundled the services of security companies companies (SMEs) grew strongly. New connections averaged acquired in 2017 into our business customer offering. We 2,200 per week by year-end 2018. further grew our cloud and IT offering by acquiring StartReady, which delivers managed voice, video and chat We are working on strengthening the delivery of KPN ÉÉN by services to our business clients based on Microsoft’s Skype simplifying the underlying IT infrastructure to a single for Business software. platform. This enables faster delivery of services and better digital customer interaction, resulting in higher customer Customers continued moving from on-premises data storage satisfaction. to our data centers in the Netherlands, the public cloud or KPN’s Managed Hybrid Cloud, which flexibly combines our SMEs can choose from KPN’s portfolio of telecom and IT data centers with the integrated solutions of leading products that fit their company’s requirements. We believe international third-party IT companies. that the number one need among SMEs at present is for high-speed broadband, and to that end we are investing in New business upgrading broadband speeds in all the Netherlands’ more Launched in 2017, our new proposition (‘Kleinzakelijk’) for than 3,700 business parks. businesses with fewer than five employees gained traction. In 2018, 27,600 mobile connections were added to the base both Meeting future needs new customers and customers migrating from the Consumer and KPN organized The Digital Dutch for the third consecutive year. Business segment. This customer-centric event gives businesses from SMEs to large Besides our standardized solutions, we continue to win corporates a glimpse into future technologies, stimulating their sizeable deals in the Netherlands with noteworthy customers. imagination and ideas on how to do things differently. We get to We were pleased to both welcome new customers and extend hear customer challenges, needs and wishes first-hand, so we or expand existing contracts. can serve them better now and in the future. 49 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The output of our business model: What we do Examples of new deals Wholesale Royal Vopak and KPN have extended their IT outsourcing agreement for a number of years. Besides hosting, KPN also Partnerships performs the technical application management for a large In 2018, KPN entered into new partnerships with parties such part of the Vopak applications in order to meet Vopak’s desire as Oxxio and Teleena, and also the KNVB for the roll-out of to provide a stable and market-based IT service with the the Video Assistant Referee to all clubs in the Eredivisie in the flexibility to be able to migrate to the public cloud in due time. content and fixed connectivity domain. Together with China’s Mobile telecommunications, connectivity and KPN IT largest internet software company Tencent, leading internet Consulting services have also been extended. video operator Sunway and WeChat, KPN launched WeGo Europe in the WeChat ecosystem, extending the WeChat Go UWV realized a digital transformation for its employees in SIM card partnership. This allows Chinese tourists to easily 2018 with the help of KPN. The delivery and roll-out of find information on sightseeing, restaurants and shopping laptops, Mobile Device Management services for the UWV when in Europe. KPN implemented its agreements with Apple smartphone base, the connection of a new printer park in and Microsoft for direct carrier billing to enable KPN the workplace environment and the installation of WiFi in all customers to pay in-store purchases via KPN’s invoice. 75 offices made this possible. Product development Semiotic Labs has developed a solution for clever asset KPN strives to further simplify its wholesale product portfolio. monitoring of electric motors and rotating equipment in In 2018, KPN continued the migration of wholesale customers factories. They signed a 3-year agreement for M2M services from regulated unbundled local loop (ULL) services to in order to unlock their sensor via 4G, regardless of the commercially agreed virtual unbundled local access (VULA) available connectivity at the various customer locations. The and wholesale broadband access (WBA) services, and M2M service offers a scalable and reliable solution to unlock remains committed to enable providers to deliver broadband the sensor data. speed to their end customers. In Mobile, wholesale customers are being migrated from 3G to 4G services. Furthermore, we announced the phasing out of services on legacy telephony platforms such as SDSL and ILL. Market dynamics Fixed Wholesale revenues were impacted by regulation and lower international voice traffic, partly offset by a positive net intake of WBA and VULA services. Mobile Wholesale revenues continued to be impacted by competitive dynamics such as price pressure in the Dutch mobile market leading to lower revenues from MVNOs, partly offset by the increase in data usage from these MVNOs. Focusing on operational excellence supports KPN’s strategy to remain and enhance its position as a hub for international connectivity with voice, roaming, content delivery and peering. It also helps in becoming the preferred enabler for digital platforms such as WeChat. 50 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: What we do EXAMPLE: IoT solutions and M2M services We combine our reliable network with our IoT portfolio and hardware, connectivity and data services. KPN has been offer a complete ready-to-use and scalable IoT solution. This included for the fifth successive year in the Magic Quadrant enables us to help customers innovate and to deliver real for Managed M2M Services, Worldwide of Gartner Inc., an value with IoT for their business. Besides the reliable M2M international research consultancy. We have improved our and LoRa network, KPN achieved nationwide LTE-M position on both the ability to execute axis and completeness coverage in 2018. KPN Things was introduced in 2017, a of vision axis within the Niche Players quadrant compared to scalable and ready-to-use IoT solution delivering both the previous year. 51 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The output of our business model: What we do Converged smart infrastructure How we connect Our network will become more integrated, with hybrid networks and platforms on which we can deliver converged value propositions. We aim to reach a 100% all-IP infrastructure by the end of 2021 by switching off legacy technologies. In addition, we will be deploying Fiber to the Home and increasing fiber coverage in business parks and through upgrades of copper and hybrid access. In addition to our 4G network, we are modernizing our network in order to make it 5G-ready. We will also virtualize networks and move network functionalities to the cloud. Households Mobile network Street Fixed cabinets network Offices IPTV Voice IT Upgraded Fiber to the copper to Home (FttH) Service home and and Fiber to platform business the Office (FttO) antenna Data center Data storage Housing Internet Core network 52 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: What we do KPI Result 2018 Result 2017 Average download speed 4G 53Mbps 58Mbps Average maximum download speed broadband fixed 221Mbps 202Mbps Weighted downtime -25% -38% # of customers connected in rural areas with combined 4G/DSL solutions 27,492 n/a As data usage across fixed and mobile grows exponentially, Combine we are innovating and investing to upgrade our networks Where phones or computers used to run on separate and IT infrastructure so that we maintain service levels and networks, the world is now moving towards a converged IP continue to further improve the customer experience. experience with a mix of combined technologies. Technologies and topology are moving ever closer together, Last year, we further upgraded capacity on hundreds of our increasingly enabling us to combine the power of different mobile sites to absorb the vast growth in mobile data usage. technologies, for example, combined VDSL and fiber roll-outs A striking illustration of the increasing demand on our to deliver ever-faster internet speeds. network is the fact that total data traffic based on data demand peak measurement across our network increased to Last year, we continued to implement our hybrid access strategy 6.5 Tb in 2018. The average 4G download speed decreased to larger cities and business parks, ensuring optimized to 53 Mbps by the end of 2018, mostly as a result of the extra connections to deliver an excellent customer experience. We capacity that was added to the network. introduced VPlus technology, which enables internet speeds For 2019, we plan site extensions and network modernization of up to 200 Mbps over copper wire, and piloted Bonded activities to deliver the required extra capacity. More than VPlus, which can twin two lines and so offer downlink speeds speed, however, we focused on enhancing the quality of our above 400 Mbps. By the end of 2018, VPlus was available at 4G connections, especially voice quality. We have made voice more than 800,000 addresses in the Netherlands. calls on 4G widely available and introduced voice calls on WiFi to enhance user experience and improve capacity of the To boost bandwidth and speeds for rural users, we began LTE network. offering our service Sneller Internet Buitengebied, a In addition, the roll-out of the next-gen DVB-T2 has started in combination of DSL and 4G LTE technology in one highthe media services domain, allowing customers to benefit speed broadband internet service for designated rural areas. from HD-quality wireless TV services. We acquired around 27,000 users by the end of 2018. Network of the future Massify We are taking six main steps in our networks and With the advent of IoT, devices will intercommunicate en masse. infrastructure to maintain excellent customer experiences in We operate a dedicated LoRa network, which is suitable for the future. Three of these relate to our ‘access’ network, low-cost, high-volume sensors that consume little battery which connects users to KPN as service provider, and three power and are used for street lamps, garbage containers or relate to our ‘core’ network, which connects our main data dykes, for example. At the other end of the spectrum, our 4G centers and other core locations. network enables high-value, battery-intensive devices such as high resolution security cameras requiring large bandwidth. Access network To meet demand in the fast-growing mid-segment of this For our access network, the three steps are to combine, spectrum for devices such as mobile PIN machines or smart massify and verticalize. energy meters, last year we rolled out our LTE-M network nationwide. This makes KPN the first telecom operator in the Netherlands with a complete IoT connectivity offering. 53 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do EXAMPLES: Clever acoustic fireworks detection notified on their smartphone within 10 seconds. They are To reduce the noise pollution of fireworks, Breda uses a shown the exact location and given an indication of the clever acoustic fireworks detection systems, making use of strength of the bang. The system recognizes hotspots and our LTE-M-Network. The fireworks detection system works patterns, useful information that helps the police, supervisors with sound meters that interact with each other via our and youth workers maintain, finetune and develop the city’s LTE-M network. Once a bang occurs, the enforcers are fireworks policy. Verticalize Rationalize Where 4G connects people, the introduction of 5G also Rationalization of our networks is key to maintaining quality facilitates a connection between objects and so increases the and continuity. When customers have migrated to more modern number of possible connections in society. 5G is expected to networks, we decommission legacy network-elements. This benefit many industries, sectors and areas. In addition to saves cost and energy, makes our network more future-proof higher speed, 5G explicitly focuses on flexibility in the and flexible, and improves the customer experience. network to support very short response times and greater reliability, making a wide range of new applications possible Last year, we finished building our multi-brand business for customers and industries. support system for both Consumer and Business mobile customers by integrating the Telfort Business mobile IT We began testing the added value of 5G in four industry verticals system. This enables full decommissioning of legacy IT last year, with field labs for 5G applications in urban areas, systems and allows easier customer migration between agriculture, transport & logistics and the automotive sector. brands, improving time to market. Core network In July, we announced the decommissioning of our 3G For our core network, our three steps are to rationalize, network in 2022. Customer numbers for 3G have fallen virtualize and decentralize. sharply since the introduction of 4G, which has significantly improved mobile internet speed and quality. Almost 95% of the active KPN postpaid customers already have a 4G-enabled smartphone and we expect more postpaid and prepaid users to adopt 4G smartphones in future. 54 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: What we do Virtualize Dilemma fiber roll-out Where people once used an array of separate physical In the Integrated Annual Report 2017 we described our devices such as alarm clocks or radios, these are increasingly dilemma on fiber roll-out, our phased roll-out as part of becoming software-based virtual applications. In line with our Hybrid Access Strategy, as the outcome of the choice this development, KPN is implementing what is called between weighing the cost of roll-out versus deploying a network function virtualization, which enables us to increase best-in-class network and its benefits. In 2018, we presented delivery speeds and reduce energy use. our strategy update, stating that we will accelerate our roll-out of Fiber to the Home; hence in 2018 we made a clear We are working on software defined networking (SDN) – choice for the latter. We now conclude that the benefits of a way to automatically re-route data traffic or optimize accelerated roll-out outweigh the benefits of selective roll-out network performance. We are also testing the use of SDN to and concentrating on copper-upgrades, as broadband speed be able to launch telecom and IT services in hours, rather needs are increasing progressively. We use advanced analytics than the several days this usually takes. to determine where and when to roll-out and in specific cases partner to do so. Decentralize We are decentralizing our network to handle traffic closer to the customer. Our decentralized content delivery network of 161 ‘metro core’ locations improves network efficiency by unburdening our four core network locations and creating virtual entry points for bandwidth-intensive services such as IPTV, YouTube and Netflix. Customers can enjoy high-quality video and faster responsiveness. This decentralized network will also be beneficial for 5G, by making it possible to offer low latency services. These locations will grow in the coming years into a decentralized cloud: small centers where data can be processed fast, also known as edge computing. Combined with 5G technology, this will prepare the network for latency-sensitive use cases in the automotive, health and smart industries. THINGS WE WANT TO IMPROVE NETWORK DISTURBANCES In 2018, the weighted network downtime decreased compared to 2017 by 25%, consequently we did not meet our target of -30%. The number of major disturbances in the network increased compared to 2017 by 12%, mainly due to power failures related to an increase in the installed base of fixed network elements. Each disturbance is one too many, so it is important not only to reduce the weighted downtime, but also to reduce the total number of disturbances. 55 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The output of our business model: What we do Focused innovation and digitalization KPI Result 2018 Result 2017 M2M subscribers (#SIMs) ~5.0m ~3.6m IoT revenues € 47m € 45m # people with secure digital access to healthcare 31,990 n/a We work to constantly break new ground on technological Partnership and cooperation innovation, so we can help Dutch society to progress further By joining forces with ambitious technology companies that in connecting. Spearheading innovation at KPN are three are working on the applications of tomorrow, we can provide interconnected, closely cooperating departments: KPN better, more innovative products to our customers – or their Ventures, KPN New Business and KPN Technology Labs. customers – more quickly. KPN Ventures is our venture capital investment branch. It Through our KPN Innovation Partnerworld program we invests, both directly and indirectly, in proven and scalable support startups, scale-ups and other partners in our innovations by providing capital and enabling access to innovation ecosystem to connect with KPN and get access to KPN’s expertise in connectivity, security and related expertise, infrastructure, KPN partners and customers, and technologies, as well as to our network infrastructure and our financial support. customer base. Investments in so-called tech transfer funds which focus on KPN New Business develops the innovations of tomorrow, the early-stage financing of commercial spin-offs from constantly seeking interesting companies to work with and university research centers help expand KPN’s network of ensuring our collaborations deliver products and services potential innovative technology partners. In 2018, KPN that can help customers. We can get promising ideas to Ventures invested in two tech transfer funds based in market quickly via our internal incubator program. Belgium and France, spanning technology from sensors and network technology to artificial intelligence. KPN Technology Labs are our collection of multidisciplinary Imec.xpand is a technology investment fund focused on telecommunications labs. Here, KPN experts work together commercializing technological innovations spun off from, with customers, developers and suppliers to transform developed or co-developed at imec in Leuven, a leading visionary ideas into concrete products or services that we research institute in nanoelectronics and IT technology. then test with the public in our field labs. France’s PSL Innovation Fund invests in technology startups coming out of the Paris Sciences & Lettres ecosystem of academic and research centers. 56 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: What we do In 2018, KPN was recognized as one of the top three European With KPN SmartLife, we offer a series of smart connected ‘Corporate Startup Stars’ by the European Commission’s home services through a single app. Startup Europe Partnership for its active startup cooperation practices, out of 36 awarded European corporates. Last year, we worked with the Dutch automobile association ANWB to install IoT devices on bicycle locks that connect to our LoRa network. This helps in tracing and retrieving stolen Our innovation focus areas bicycles. We partner with a pest control company to develop connected traps, with sensors that inform the pest control Our innovation efforts are focused on growth sectors company when a rat is trapped, saving the time and money connected to our telecom & IT activities. Last year, our focus needed to check all traps every day. areas for innovation were IoT, digital healthcare, data & analytics, cyber security and networks of the future. Internet of Things By 2020, some 20 billion objects are expected to be connected to the internet globally. KPN is keeping these devices connected. We are also helping other organizations to develop new IoT applications through initiatives such as the Internet of Things Academy we co-founded. At this Academy, we show customers the possibilities of IoT and how it could create value for their businesses. EXAMPLES: Future-proof network for Royal Schiphol Group Royal Schiphol Group, KPN, T-Mobile and VodafoneZiggo are collaborating on a new mobile network in order to further improve the user experience of passengers and employees at the airport. The new mobile network must be ready by 2020 and more than 30 antennae will be installed at the airport to give outstanding mobile coverage. The new network is future-proof and will be suitable for the new generation of mobile networks, such as 5G. The network for emergency services and the portable two-way radio system that is used at Schiphol are also included in the plans. All mobile operators will make use of the same mobile network in all the terminals and on all the piers at Schiphol. The new mobile network will not only raise the quality, but will also save space and energy. 57 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Digital healthcare Safe and secure connections will be needed to transfer data Healthcare costs in the Netherlands alone total some EUR that the patient generates at home into their electronic 97.5 billion a year (2017), with costs increasing 3.5% annually. patient file. As the population ages, the occurrence of chronic illnesses rises and people live longer with those illnesses. At the same KPN Health offers solutions, such as ZorgCloud for data time, the healthcare workforce is declining and hospitals storage and ZorgVrijThuis, a self-learning monitoring system become smaller. for elderly people. KPN subsidiary E-Zorg offers secure IT solutions such as the sharing of medical records between Bridging healthcare and IT healthcare providers. In response to the urgent challenges of the changing healthcare environment, we launched KPN Health in 2018. This New Business division is tasked with devising smart solutions and extending existing IT services used in other fields to the healthcare sector together with our partners. EXAMPLES: Healthcare solutions KPN Ventures has invested in Personal MedSystems We deliver safe chatting and secure mail exchange of sensitive (Germany) and Sensara (the Netherlands). Personal patient information, also with healthcare messenger API. MedSystems has developed a mobile ECG-reading solution called CardioSecur, which enables people to take clinically KPN connects the majority of GPs, pharmacists and validated ECGs anytime, anywhere using their mobile device. hospitals via its secure E-Zorg network. CardioSecur also requests assistance from medical professionals in case the smart algorithms detect unusual CAM-IT solutions, a KPN subsidiary, is one of the largest patterns in the ECG. KPN Health has created a partnership electronical workspace providers in the Dutch healthcare with Personal MedSystems, introducing the CardioSecur sector, serving more than 48,000 healthcare professionals. technology as part of its remote heart monitoring service for Dutch general practitioners (GPs) and their patients. This project won a Computable Award in 2018. Sensara has developed a smart monitoring solution for homes for the elderly. Via sensors, Sensara monitors the lifestyle patterns of elderly people, providing care-givers with detailed insights about the health and real-time situation of the person in question. Sensara is partnering with KPN Health to pilot the solution with the municipality of Helmond to support elderly people with dementia, so they can live safely and independently at home for longer. This project was a finalist for the European Silver Economy Awards. 58 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: What we do Data and analytics As KPN continues to develop extensive knowledge and experience of data and analytics, we increasingly use this to develop products and services for our customers. We have created the Data Services Hub, a real-time streaming platform service to facilitate the secure and reliable exchange of information between people, machines and organizations. Using this hub, public and private parties can cooperate digitally while still retaining control over their own datasets. This has yielded applications such as Talking Traffic, where communication between vehicles with the environment will be enabled. KPN will deliver the data service hub to facilitate information exchange between companies to improve mobility, traffic flow, road safety and the liveability of cities. We began piloting tailored TV advertising, a KPN Technology Labs innovation that uses data analytics to reduce irritation among customers by adjusting the adverts they see to their profile, if they give permission for use of this information. Cyber security KPN Ventures invested in three cyber security startups last year. It was lead investor in the USD 3.5 million seed round of ZecOps, a cyber security startup focusing on automated breach analysis, and it joined as co-investor alongside Charter Communications in the Series B round of CUJO.AI, a provider of home network security and analytics software. It also invested in the Dutch cyber security company Cybersprint. The minority shareholding in SecurityMatters was successfully sold to ForeScout Technologies. We now have four KPN Ventures investments in cyber security startups. The integration of innovative companies like DearBytes and QSight IT is helping us build an increasingly strong and ambitious KPN Security Services unit. Cyber Central foundation, co-founded by KPN in 2017 together with security companies Cisco, Dearbytes and McAfee, aims to make the Netherlands more aware in regards to cyber security. They do this by giving workshops and presentations. In 2018, Cyber Central engaged with about 245 companies. Cyber Central aims to make security accessible and comprehensible to everyone, so that all employees can anticipate digital threats. 59 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The output of our business model: Our value drivers Privacy and security KPI Result 2018 Result 2017 % of customers helped (within eight hours) who were unintentionally infected by malware 99% 99% % of Dutch people that believe their data is safe with KPN 69% 70% Trust Last March, we held a dedicated KPN Privacy Event in The Hague, livestreaming it throughout KPN offices in the As devices and systems become more interconnected and Netherlands so all employees could learn and share sophisticated, so do the threats to cyber security and privacy. knowledge. It included case studies and dilemmas illustrating Customers trust us to keep their data safe and private. We different ethical considerations and perspectives. take this responsibility very seriously: we want everyone to enjoy the benefits of connectivity without having to worry All employees have for years now been required to complete about information security or violations of their privacy. our compliance and integrity e-learning Spot On, part of which relates to privacy. We additionally introduced a specific privacy e-training last year, making sure all employees are Privacy aware of privacy issues in their work. It is crucial that customers can trust us to handle their data Customer awareness with great care and in a way that puts their interests first. In As part of our drive for fair marketing and communication, we 2018, 69% of the Dutch people said they believe their want customers to understand fully how KPN handles data. information is safe with KPN (2017: 70%). In line with our strategic goal to simplify, we centralized the registration of our data processing. We simplified our privacy As a large company and a telecom provider, KPN is governed statement to make it clearer to customers how KPN uses by extensive laws and regulations around privacy. Yet to KPN, different types of data, created a braille version of the privacy safeguarding privacy goes beyond legislation or compliance statement and made a two-minute subtitled animation about frameworks. It is important to embed ethical awareness of privacy at KPN. and responsibility for privacy in the mindset of all employees. GDPR introduction Employee awareness Last May saw the introduction of the EU General Data All employees are required to be aware of the privacy impact Protection Regulation (GDPR), which imposes stricter of everything they do. To ensure new products safeguard requirements on the way companies process data and use privacy by design, last year we implemented the privacy and store customer information. KPN’s GDPR implementation impact assessment: a questionnaire for employees who wish was led by a multidisciplinary team including experts in to develop new products or processes involving personal compliance and governance, commercial use of data, data, or adapt the use of an existing product or process. This is technology, program and project management and key now a compulsory step in KPN’s change management process. business owners. KPN has had a privacy officer for many years, but last year we introduced the legally required role of 60 Data Protection Officer. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: Our value drivers The GDPR implementation revealed several areas where we a Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) to provide needed to improve our processes. We subsequently ran rapid incident response, and a team of senior security officers projects to refine our operations in those areas. For example, to verify the implementation and effectiveness of our security we initiated a project on employee privacy. This project measures. We integrated the SOC into our Chief Information aimed at assessing the employee data that is collected, the Security Office (CISO), enabling closer cooperation between robustness of processes and identifying areas that could be SOC and CERT. amended or improved. We will build on this in 2019. Enhancing security for customers Lawful intercept We concluded a pilot to help customers better defend We respect our customers’ right to privacy. At the same time, themselves against Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) we are legally obliged to disclose certain information, initially anomalies, incorporating this into our overall threat obtained by intercept, to national investigation agencies. Our intelligence program. Such anomalies typically occur when infrastructure must facilitate this and we must cooperate with law criminals hijack BGP traffic and redirect it, which can harm enforcement agencies as specified in the Telecommunications other companies. The pilot monitored BGP traffic to seek Act. To this end, a liaison office is available 24/7 to facilitate anomalies globally and analyze them so we can identify the interaction with law enforcement for all KPN brands. We attacks, enabling us and customers to act at a very early assess incoming warrants and conduct checks to filter out stage to counter a BGP attack. any uncertainties. If we discover discrepancies, we reject the warrant, inform the agency involved and follow the We began extending our new SafeMail platform – which relevant procedures. In 2018, a mismatch was found in 1.3% reduces spam and phishing mails coming from KPN.com of warrants received. Of the interception orders, 99.5% domains – to customers, so they too can have a system of concerned telephone numbers, 0% related to email trusted mail from their own domains. We are developing addresses and in 0.5% of cases we were ordered to intercept a new service to enable the secure transfer of large files, IP addresses. both to customers and within KPN. Within the context of KPN’s Notice and Take Down code of Enhancing security for – and with – society conduct, KPN received four complaints in 2018. These The nature of cyber security is asymmetrical, which involves complaints regarded copyright, intellectual property and offensive and defensive activities between parties with slander disputes. In most instances, we were able to significantly different cyber capabilities, strategy or tactics. effectuate direct contact between the complainer and the This requires fundamental solutions that we can only achieve accused in order to reach an understanding bilaterally. KPN if organizations across the public and private domain work provided the requested identifying information in zero cases. together and share knowledge. At KPN, we share our security knowledge and innovations with Security the outside world to help improve security in society. We continued our Guest Hacker programs, hosting outside As the world is challenged with ever-more sophisticated experts on topics such as high-tech crime to ensure that cyber attacks, keeping KPN’s systems safe demands constant insights from inspiring speakers become widely available. For vigilance and rapid adaptability. We continuously work to the sixth consecutive year, KPN was the main partner for the improve security for our customers and society, by making Dutch Alert Online campaign. the KPN network and use of the network safer, now and for Our Chief Information Security Officer was appointed to the the future. This is vital to KPN’s strategy of delivering the scientific advisory board that will supervise work coming most secure and trusted networks. from the EU’s EUR 1 billion Quantum Technology Flagship initiative. Our ethical hackers team won the first prize in the KPN’s security model is based on the security lifecycle Global Cyberlympics, a prestigious international cyber approach: prevent, detect, respond and verify. Our Strategy security championship. & Policy team works to prevent vulnerabilities and incidents, while our REDteam of ethical hackers proactively detects Innovation for future-proof security vulnerabilities across the organization. We have a Security In 2018, we continued the CISO Labs, an R&D innovation unit Operations Center (SOC) to monitor our systems and aimed at improving and futureproofing the security of networks 24/7 and reactively detect vulnerabilities, customers and KPN. We welcomed PhD students from the 61 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The output of our business model: Our value drivers EXAMPLES: Border Gateway Protocol monitoring In 2018, we finished the pilot for BGP Monitoring together with three large enterprise customers. Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) is a standardized exterior gateway protocol designed to exchange routing and reachability information among autonomous systems (AS) on the internet. The pilot was initiated to improve BGP monitoring and threat intelligence capabilities for ourselves and customers. This should enable us and our customers to act at a very early stage to counter a BGP attack. A BGP anomaly typically occurs when other parties, such as criminals, hijack BGP traffic (the routing protocol of the internet). By redirecting BGP traffic, they can harm other companies. The conclusion of the pilot was that further research is required to create an envisioned prototype of a BGP observatory. The Delft University of Technology is, in cooperation with KPN, currently working on a long-term solution. Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam and Eindhoven University of Projects to enhance the security of our operations last year Technology to work on projects in the labs. included improving our business continuity documentation As part of the Quantum Internet Alliance we are creating tool Q-carbon to tighten control of business continuity with partners, we began building the Netherlands’ first management. We are also developing a project using robotics quantum backbone and set up the first link between The to automate the issuance of digital security certificates and Hague and Delft. thereby improve the resolution of common SSL vulnerabilities and minimize the risk of errors. Securing our network and operations To improve the security of the KPN network, initiatives Detecting and resolving breaches included working to enhance our anti-DDOS capabilities. We In 2018, 22,464 processed virus notifications were detected are looking at alternative techniques and cooperating with based on information from trusted partners. In 99.4% of external partners to achieve this. We are exploring ways to cases, our KPN Abuse team could act on information within simplify and standardize mechanisms for remote access to eight hours to help customers infected by malware, the KPN network, to reduce the risk of unauthorized access. exceeding our 98% target. We piloted standard endpoint protection for KPN servers, and work towards synchronizing time settings in our THINGS WE WANT TO IMPROVE standard protocol, to enhance incident resolution. We enhanced our Domain Name System (DNS) platform and started implementing DNSSEC signing in KPN domains and SECURITY AND SAFETY INCIDENTS DNSSEC validation for customers. DNSSEC is a security measure This year, we again see a strong increase in the number of reports that protects KPN customers from malware or prevents them from customers who act aggressively (physically or verbally) to our being sent to malicious websites (DNS spoofing). It is also a employees, with a total of 188 incidents, including one robbery at a mandatory requirement set by the government. KPN shop. In the most severe cases this has led to the termination of the contract between the customer and KPN. Also, shop employees have received training on how to deal with aggression and robbery. 62 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: Our value drivers Bribery and corruption We organize our stringent approach to bribery and corruption as shown in the table below. Our policy and outcomes Risks and mitigating measures Customers and employees Our policy and the outcome of our policy is described See Compliance and risk, in this paragraph. For more details, see: Appendix 4, GRI Subcode 2 How we interact with third parties https://ir.kpn.com/websites/kpn/English/7050/ code-of-conduct.html Supply chain Our policy and the outcome of our policy is described Appendix 4 in ‘Environmental performance’, p71-72. For more Appendix 2 details, see: https://overons.kpn/content/downloads/KPN_ SUPPLIER-CODE-OF-CONDUCT.pdf, art 5.1, 5.2 We encourage our employees to report any suspicion of In 2018, 175 internal fraud cases were found, concerning non-compliance with the Code of Conduct. Following a amongst other things theft from goods and illegal orders or report, a KPN Security and/or KPN Risk & Compliance expert subscriptions. We took sanctions and action was taken to investigates the potential violation. The outcome may lead to repair shortcomings in procedures and systems in order to a disciplinary action. The severity of the disciplinary action is prevent issues like these in the future. determined by the nature and circumstances of the incident, and may include termination of employment. If necessary, There are no corruption or bribery incidents within the KPN takes additional action to prevent a similar incident in fraud cases, so we did not define KPIs on these topics. the future. Our KPN Security Policy on Incident Management describes Employees can also use the SpeakUp Line, an anonymous how we deal with incidents if they occur. Investigation reporting procedure, which is managed externally by an regarding internal fraud (by employees) is executed by the independent organization. KPN Security department. In 2018, we performed the annual Fraud Risk Assessment (FRA) in order to comply with internal and external fraud regulations (incl. KPI GRI-G4 disclosure SO3), to increase fraud risk awareness, and to evaluate the control framework for Fraud (risks and controls). Fraud risk 2018 is in line with risk appetite and there were hardly any changes in top-3 fraud risks per business unit compared to 2017. Fraud risks are largely mitigated with internal control activities. Residual fraud risk is sufficiently mitigated with process and soft controls. 63 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The output of our business model: Our value drivers Sustainable employability We strive to have the right people and skills in the right roles to support our strategy and fulfill customer needs into the future – whether this means enabling existing employees to learn, develop and acquire new skills, or attracting new talent to KPN. KPI Result 2018 Result 2017 Overall percentage of women at KPN in the Netherlands 22% 23% Employee survey score for engagement 77% 80% Sustainable employability: % of employees with a new job < 1 year after leaving KPN 85% 83% Changing workforce skill areas, we started campaigns focusing on our challenges Our era of fast-moving technological change is changing in their expertise. Despite the increasing scarcity of these the products and services KPN offers and therefore the skills, we succeeded in successfully attracting the Dutch and kinds of expertise we need. This is leading to a changing international talent we need to fulfill our strategy. KPN workforce, as we attract people with new capabilities In 2018, our workforce comprised of 13,177 employees (2017: from the labor market and create new opportunities for 13,838 employees). employees. Dynamic workplaces We need people with new skills and competences to support As people throughout society are increasingly connected our strategy, such as data scientists, agile coaches and cyber always and everywhere, they want the flexibility to choose security specialists. We support employees who lose their where, when and how they work. With the majority of people position and help them to acquire different skills, enabling choosing to work part of their week outside the office, the them to find a new role inside or outside KPN. function of physical offices has changed. At KPN, we enable virtual working and more organizational agility into KPN. In 2018, we successfully combined our recruitment activities Also, we are refashioning our offices to make them warm, in one Talent Acquisition Center, for a total talent open and vibrant spaces that encourage inspiration and management approach towards our business and the labor cooperation with colleagues. market. We invested in our long-term employer value proposition, via the new Fieldlab.nl platform. Via actual In 2018, we completed the partial relocation of our offices innovations, we demonstrate that the digital transformation that began in 2016, as part of plans to use office space more is just beginning. By working at KPN, you can collaborate with efficiently and create modern hubs that put into practice new 64 us on the new opportunities that arise. For talent in critical ways of working. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: Our value drivers To support flexible working, the roll-out of a new IT platform Happiness Week, with activities organized at several of our to 12,000 workspaces was concluded in 2018. This platform locations. We worked on a company-wide vitality program in enables people to work with any device without specific 2018 that we expect to implement throughout 2019. (VPN) connection, independent of location, hardware or Linked to that, KPN has joined the Nationaal network. We also invested significantly in our video Preventieakkoord, a national government initiative to conferencing capacity, as a sustainable alternative to travel improve the well-being of all Dutch people. and to stimulate cooperative teamwork. Our employee engagement survey in September 2018 Employees, on average, work 1.1 days a week remotely (at showed an engagement score of 77% (2017: 80%) with, home). The group of employees that never works at home just like in 2017, 86% of employees saying they are proud of has increased from 15,7% (2014) to 39,9% (2018). Employees the company. also reported that they work on average 2.8 days per week on the assigned location. We link this mainly to the hubs in In the annual survey among highly skilled professionals combination with the changing way of working, i.e. more agile conducted by Intermediair magazine in 2018, KPN was and team-based. named the preferred Dutch telecom provider to work for. KPN’s overall ranking in 2018 was 15. Engaged, vital employees We believe happy and healthy workers are more engaged, Human rights can cope more effectively with everyday stress and are better We explicitly endorse the United Nations Guiding Principles prepared for their future. We support our employees and on businesses and human rights. The obligation to respect create awareness of the importance of taking responsibility human rights is the basis for our way of working and is for their health and vitality, which contributes to their reflected in our Code of Conduct and in the requirements we sustainable employability. We offer programs such as stress impose on our suppliers. Human rights matter most to us for management workshops and mindfulness training. The national three different stakeholder groups. The table below provides Work Stress Week in November was renamed KPN’s Work insight on where the relevant information is stated. Risks and Materiality Our policy and outcomes KPIs mitigating measures Customers Medium/ High for Privacy Our policy and the outcome of our policy is described Privacy and security Compliance and risk, and security on p. 60-63 of section Privacy and security. For more p. 60 Appendix 4 details, see: Appendix 2 See Appendix 3 https://www.kpn.com/algemeen/missie-en-privacystatement/onze-missie.htm Topic ‘Privacy and security’ at https://jobs.kpn. com/over-ons/onze-mensen/human-rights/ Employees Medium Our policy and the outcome of our policy is described (regarding privacy) Fines Compliance and risk, in this paragraph. For more details, see: # incidents reported to Appendix 4 See Appendix 3 regulators, (Compliance https://jobs.kpn.com/over-ons/onze-mensen/ and risk, p. 81) human-rights/ Supply Chain Medium Our policy and the outcome of our policy is described Environmental Appendix 4 on p. 70-72 of section ‘Environmental performance’. Performance, p. 67, 70-72 See Appendix 3 For more details, see: and How we identify low/medium/ high risk suppliers, see: Appendix 2 https://overons.kpn/content/downloads/Supply-Chain.pdf What we expect from our suppliers on human rights, see: https://overons.kpn/content/downloads/KPN_ SUPPLIER-CODE-OF-CONDUCT.pdf 65 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The output of our business model: Our value drivers THINGS WE WANT TO IMPROVE Learning and development Knowledge requirements are developing at a very high pace; to keep up with developments in our field of expertise, GENDER DIVERSITY continuous learning is a must. Jobs are being replaced by KPN aims to have 30% women in its workforce at all levels. automation, so it is crucial to invest in sustainable To reach this target, we implemented additional policies and employability by learning new skills constantly. Innovation is measures. The 2018 results show that gender diversity in more important than ever; a focus on knowledge sharing is senior management increased slightly in 2018 to 22% women fundamental to fuel the innovation process. By nurturing a from 20% in 2017. In middle management it was 16% women in learning and development (L&D) culture, we ensure the 2018 (2017 16%). For KPN as a whole, 22% of the workforce competences and skills of our workforce continuously evolve, were women in 2018 (2017: 23%). These results are below so employees create value for our customers, for KPN and for expectations. society today and tomorrow. People can use their employability budget for training and reappointments. education purposes via KPN Academy, our advanced online learning platform where we provide a wide range of courses We are committed to creating a workplace where lesbian, gay, to develop competences in areas such as digitalization and bisexual and transgender, queer, intersexual people and data analytics. The ownership that employees take people with other sexual and/or gender identity (LGBTQI+) themselves in L&D at KPN is evident from the decentralized can be themselves and are valued. Our platform KPN Pride initiatives in the organization. addresses LGBTQI+ issues directly related to working at KPN. Together with Workplace Pride, a non-profit organization which Diversity and inclusion encourages LGBTQI+ inclusion in the workplace worldwide, We want to be a great place to work; one that embraces and and Leiden University, we sponsored the Workplace Pride uses the unique characteristics of our employees. Chair, an academic chair for research and teaching in LGBTQI+ topics. We were also one of the sponsors of Rotterdam Pride. KPN is ‘the place to be’ for talented people, where every person with talent can make a career in telecoms and IT. We want to Other diversity networks at KPN are: Still Going Strong (55+), be best-in-class with diversity and inclusion in our sector. YoungKPN, Colorful KPN (employees with a migration We introduced three measures in fall 2017 to accelerate background), Pretty Smart (highly intelligent employees) and gender diversity. These measures are: KPN reservists (national defense). Vacancies at and above salary scale 12 are only allowed to be filled when women form at least half of the shortlist. Inclusiveness At least one in three of the appointed functions at and Every year, we hire at least 20 employees with a weak above salary scale 12 should be filled by a woman. position in the labor market. We offer them education at an Making diversity targets part of the discretionary factor for intermediate vocational (MBO) level combined with the bonus plan (STI) for senior management. professional work in the Customer Service department. In one year, they are able to graduate at MBO level. In 2018, 75% of This also applies to the composition of the Board of the employees graduated and 35% of them found a paid job Management and Supervisory Board, excluding inside or outside KPN. KPN also collaborates with the National Elderly Fund to employ elderly people with a weak position in the labor market. 66 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: Our value drivers The output of our business model: Our value drivers Environmental performance KPN is recognized by DJSI and CDP as one of the world’s most sustainable telecom companies. Our ambition is to become a close to 100% circular company by 2025. In addition, we aim for a 50% reduction in CO₂e emissions in our supply chain by 2040. We collaborate with our suppliers to realize these goals. KPI Result 2018 Result 2017 % reduction in KPN’s group energy consumption compared to 2010 24% 24% % reuse and recycling 75% 65%1 Energy savings by customers as % of KPN group 81% 60%2 Circular procurement: number of additional suppliers that signed the KPN Circular Manifesto 11 7 1 We restated our percentage 2017 (53%) because we extended our scope of flows included. See Appendix 7. 2 In 2018 we updated our Teleworking calculation methodology using more accurate data from CBS on the number of Teleworkers in the Netherlands. On a like for like basis the result for 2017 would have been 77%. 67 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The output of our business model: Our value drivers Our ambition for 2025 and beyond To achieve our goal to be close to 100% circular by 2025, we have set ambitious targets. We will reduce CO₂e emissions from our company car fleet by gradually introducing 100% Close to CO₂e-neutral vehicles. From 2025, all vehicles we add to our fleet must be 100% CO₂e-neutral. We aim to reduce emissions 100% circular in our supply chain by 20% in 2025 and by 50% in 2040 compared to 2014. 0% CO₂e We have committed to remaining climate-neutral until at least 2050. KPN has previously reported targets on 2020 and emissions 2030 energy saving. We are in the process of re-assessing the impact of our updated growth strategy and introduction of from new cars new network technology. For this reason, we will not include these long-term targets in this Integrated Annual report. 2025 Our CO₂e-reduction objectives have been approved by the Science Based Targets initiative, which means they are in line with the international climate goals of the Paris Agreement. 100% climateThese targets cover our own CO₂e emissions as well as reducing CO₂e emissions in the supply chain, from the neutral without production stage of equipment to the stage where our customers use this equipment and our services. compensation for car fuels 2030 -50% CO₂e emissions in the supply chain 2040 Figures and calculation methodology: Detailed environmental figures, including intensity figures, targets and avoided energy consumption by our customers can be found in Appendix 7: Environmental figures. Calculation methods are explained in Appendix 3. 68 Overview of major KPIs are shown in Appendix 2. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: Our value drivers Integrated approach Our sustainability approach aims to influence the environmental impact of our total supply chain from suppliers to customers. This encompasses our procurement process, operations and the impact our products and services have before, during and after their use. Suppliers and recyclers Reuse & Energy Landfill Suppliers Procurement Network, data Products Recycling recovery centers, real and services estate, fleet Energy and CO₂e reduction Our energy reduction since 2010 totals 24%, even though the KPN has been climate-neutral since 2015. If we weren’t using volume of our IT services has almost increased 15-fold in the green energy, our gross location-based CO₂e emissions same period. This is better than our target for 2018, due to would be 337 kTon CO₂e. To be climate-neutral, we use 100% additional energy savings in our networks, data centers, green electricity generated by local wind farms and biomass offices and cars. plants. Other CO₂e emissions (9%) due to gas (buildings), gasoline and petrol (cars and emergency power) are compensated with Gold Standard projects and REDD+ forest compensation projects. CO₂e emissions own operations Scope 1 and 2 (in kTon)1 Gross location-based CO₂e Net CO₂e Market based 2010 base year 2017 2018 2010 base year 2017 2018 Scope 1 NL 59 33 31 59 0 0 Scope 2 NL 345 300 306 79 0 0 Total NL 405 333 337 139 0 0 Total KPN group 430 335 337 164 0 0 1 Underlying energy data are disclosed in Appendix 7. 69 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The output of our business model: Our value drivers Becoming circular in our operations requirements on circularity. As of end 2018, 11 additional suppliers KPN is committed to the principles of a circular economy, signed the KPN Circular Manifesto, supporting our ambition, which means we try to use fewer materials, enhance product on top of the 7 suppliers that have signed in 2017. lifespans and take measures to reduce our waste production to zero. We have a roadmap to reach our ambition of having We actively engaged with our suppliers via workshops to close to 100% circular operations by 2025. We will focus on improve our shared understanding of (rare earth) metals and 10-20 iconic products for KPN in our efforts to aim for circular improve reuse and recycling in the supply chain. The KPN design, such as in-home equipment like set-top boxes or Circular Manifesto also addresses reduction of CO2e remote controls and outdoor equipment like street cabinets. emissions in the supply chain. 75% of the weight of equipment and materials that are part of our ‘downstream’ We strive to improve our value chain impact through our value chain are reused or recycled. We aim to save energy procurement process based on sustainable requirements. We and reduce our use of materials by replacing some of our supplemented these requirements last year with hardware with software. Circular economy approach Reduce Extend Recycle Energy efficiency Use of virgin materials Use products longer and High-end second life of Reducing energy usage and > Virtualization better products and materials increased energy efficiency > Dematerialization > Lifespan extension > Reuse > Reused products > Rates of utilization > Recycling > Recycled / biobased materials Supporting actions Goal: zero waste We face a dilemma in seeking to extend the lifespan of contracted suppliers, classifying them based on the potential equipment: these efforts potentially conflict with efforts to social and environmental risks that their operations, products enhance energy efficiency, since they replace equipment with and services represent. newer, less energy-intensive generations. For this reason, we We assess these risks based on three parameters: have included energy efficiency in our circular economy Geographical areas. approach, ensuring our efforts to reduce energy are aligned Spend. with our circular goal of using fewer materials. Potential environmental impact of a supplier’s operations, products or services. Procurement and suppliers Our suppliers have an impact on the extent to which KPN can We updated our Supplier Code of Conduct on living wage, operate as a circular company. We therefore take their now explicitly stating that suppliers have to ensure that they environmental and social performance into account. Our pay according to national legal standards on minimum wage. 70 procurement process includes an assessment of our new Where no national legal standards exist, the remuneration The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: Our value drivers shall be sufficient to meet basic needs (ILO C131 – Minimum Sustainability checks Wage Fixing Convention). We identified 53 critical suppliers in 2018. Critical suppliers are audited by independent external Cooperation with Joint Audit Cooperation auditors. We aim to do this once every 2-4 years. In 2018, KPN KPN is a member with JAC. This association of telecom worked together with Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) to audit operators aims to verify, assess and develop corporate social 42% of our critical Tier I, Tier II and Tier III suppliers. responsibility implementation across the manufacturing centers of major multinational suppliers to the IT industry. Our procurement process is then based on a competitive comparison of suppliers and applies economic, technical and JAC audits ethical criteria to select suppliers. In 2018, we started to add Thanks to the gradual increase in the number of members of standard corporate social responsibility (CSR) criteria into JAC, 87% of our high-risk suppliers were audited between our tender process. These criteria are: 2014 and 2018. All audits were carried out in production Complying with KPN’s Supplier Code of Conduct. plants (suppliers and sub-suppliers) located in Asia, Latin Promoting the reduction of so-called virgin materials America and Eastern Europe. The checks were carried out by  (new, not previously used materials). international specialist companies selected by competitive Promoting reuse and recycling of KPN products tender and covered a total of more than 813,000 workers. to reduce the amount of landfill. The suppliers included in the audit campaign were from the Extending the lifecycle of products. sectors for the user devices and appliances, network Promoting the energy efficiency of KPN products. appliances and IT equipment production. To promote internal awareness and compliance with our Non-conformities quality standards, our procurement staff attended a training The table below shows the non-conformities recorded during session on environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks on-site audits conducted in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. to familiarize themselves with requirements set by the industry organization JAC, as well as the latest developments Corrective action plans based on audits regarding circular criteria in procurement. conducted by KPN 2018 2017 2016 2015 All relevant procurement procedures are in accordance with Business ethics 4 11 7 19 ISO 20400 guidelines. ISO 20400 is the standard for Discrimination 1 sustainable procurement, which means that products or services procured by KPN have the highest possible positive Disciplinary practices 1 2 environmental, social and economic impact. This enables Environment 8 12 18 15 our buyers to take better purchasing decisions. Freedom of association 1 1 1 2 Health & safety 23 27 31 45 The goal of the KPN Circular Manifesto is to ensure that the Labor 4 2 5 equipment we buy from our suppliers is designed in such a way that it can easily be separated into reusable parts or Unlawful labor 5 1 8 recyclable materials. Gaining knowledge of which plastics can Wages & compensation 4 3 6 5 be recycled or separated is key to achieving this objective. Working hours 7 15 16 9 We use certified partners to improve the circularity of our Other 1 products. Based on the information they provide, we expect Total 57 72 83 108 to reduce the use of virgin materials in the future and replace them with products and materials designed to be recycled (i.e. with a lifecycle perspective in mind). For all the non-conformities encountered, we drew up specific corrective action plans (CAPs) that include resolution procedures and timetables. Suppliers and production plants are responsible for following up on these corrective actions. JAC members constantly monitor the implementation of these plans. 71 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The output of our business model: Our value drivers CAPs set clear deadlines aiming to complete all corrective preparation involved in migrating a datacenter. To further actions within 12 months. Although all our suppliers are reduce CO₂e emissions, we are continuing to explore ways to committed to completing all corrective action plans, we have reuse the waste heat produced by data centers in Eindhoven, found that some issues are hard to resolve within one year. In Aalsmeer and Almere. 2018, we closed 77% of all non-conformities raised between 2015 and 2017. For 2019, we aim to reduce our power usage efficiency (PUE) by 13% compared to 2010. In some of our data centers, we Sustainability initiatives rent out space to customers to place their own IT equipment. Working with our suppliers, we implemented the following The way they arrange the equipment in that space influences initiatives in 2018 to improve the sustainability of the supply KPN’s PUE. Data centers used for hosting services can be chain: more energy efficient, as we can influence the IT and thereby the PUE. Sustainable solution 1 KPN started offering obsolete hardware by means of an Energy consumption compared to data communication e-auction. By optimizing our product’s lifecycle, we gain growth maximum financial and sustainable returns. In petajoules KPN selected several parties that committed themselves to our circular annex. This contract includes a set of terms and 4.5 1,800% conditions in line with KPN’s circular economy approach. 4.0 1,600% These parties have committed themselves to inform us on 3.5 1,400% the reuse and/or the recycling of our obsolete hardware in a 3.0 1,200% 2.5 1,000% responsible manner. 2.0 800% 1.5 600% Sustainable solution 2 1.0 400% As of 2018, KPN started refurbishing all standard retail 0.5 200% modems (type 7,360 modems) and PLC adapters instead of 0 0 shredding the equipment at the end of the lifecycle. In total, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 more than 11,000 modems and about 2,500 adapters were Offices and Shops refurbished and remarketed. As a result, we have cut the Cars amount of waste. Data centers Networks Data communication growth (%) Networks and data centers Our fixed and mobile networks account for the majority of our electricity consumption (75%). By removing old As part of our circular ambition, our network components are equipment, replacing it with energy-efficient models and migrating to cloud solutions and network function improving cooling, we saved 36 GWh in 2018, which virtualization. This implies that less hardware will be used in represents 6% of our network energy consumption. This the future. Some network equipment is reused, as well as compensates for the increase in energy usage caused by our metal server racks in our data centers. network expansions and the improved quality and speed of our fixed and mobile networks. In total, our energy efficiency has increased by 12.2% compared to 2010. We have not, however, met our target of 15.5%, mainly because of 72 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The output of our business model: Our value drivers Real estate we buy from our manufacturing partners. For Digitenne, we We focus on ensuring that the buildings we rent are flexible have introduced a set-top box with covers made of 100% in terms of both function and layout. Besides flexibility, we recycled steel. also aim for circularity by, among other things, covering a portion of the square meters we use with carpet tiles that contain To improve the circularity of our product portfolio, we recycled materials. Some of our furniture is reused or recycled. continue to offer refurbished phones via our KPN and Telfort brands. Our customers can also choose to have their mobile We are looking into BREEAM requirements for sustainable handsets repaired through our repair service or insurance offices. Our BREEAM certified offices have saved 55% in service. We have started a pilot in ten stores with a trade-in energy compared to 2010 by optimizing work space and offering for customers for mobile phones. Our goal is to ensure implementing an energy savings program. We refurbished our circular treatment of these phones by selling them to other new head office in 2018 instead of moving to a new building. customers or using spare parts for repair via our partner network. Fleet Services From 2025 onwards, we aim to only add new fossil fuel-free IT has a significant role to play in activities to combat climate company cars. In the meantime, we will reduce the maximum change and its global impact. According to the Global CO₂e emissions of our vehicles by switching to models with e-Sustainability Initiative’s #SMARTer2030 report on the cleaner engines that emit less particulate matter. Last year, Netherlands, IT could contribute to a saving of 74 million tons we reduced fuel use for our leased cars by 44% compared to of CO₂e and 5.6 billion liters of fuel in the country by 2030. 2010, which is equal to our 2018 target. As KPN’s own operations are climate-neutral, all our services As part of the New Way of Living and Working program, we are low-carbon services. Moreover, our customers can reduce encourage employees to work at home if possible and work their own energy consumption and CO₂e emissions. By using allowing and so reduce greenhouse gas emissions caused by our cloud services, video conferencing and audio commuting. Given the increased availability of fully electric conferencing, for example, our business customers can meet cars with a longer range, it is possible for all employees and collaborate online, reducing the need for office space entitled to a company lease car to select a fully electric and the need to commute. This in turn reduces traffic and so vehicle. Our engineers last year continued their efforts to use energy consumption, CO₂e emissions and particulate matter. fossil-free transport as an alternative to petrol cars, to reduce emissions of particulate matter and CO₂e. In 2018, we added By 2020, we want our services to save an amount of energy 100 electric cars and 65 biogas cars to continue transforming for our customers that equates to more than 85% of KPN’s our fleet, which equates to an inflow of 19% fossil fuel-free own energy consumption. We measure this avoided energy cars in total. consumption by calculating the impact on our consumer and business customers of specific products and services (see Products Appendix 7, table 8). The calculations are based on measured Most customer-related products are modems, TV set-top data, available statistics, recognized studies and expert boxes or mobile handsets. For modems and TV set-top judgments. In 2018, we realized 81% savings, which exceeds boxes, standardization is a good way to ensure reuse and our target of 64%. upgrading. We changed the packaging for our new customers, by which we use only FSC carton and reduced the Using these services helped our customers save about EUR 92 dimensions to save transport footprint. million in energy costs. Most of these savings were due to reduced car fuel consumption (55 million liters). This is the equivalent Also, we improved the energy efficiency of the modems and of the fuel that 63,000 cars use in a year. Additionally, our set-top boxes, leading to a decrease in CO₂e emissions. We LoRa network enables energy-efficient IoT applications for improved the calculation method for the collection of our customers such as our Smart City initiatives. modems and set-top boxes, and extended the scope of flows included. This resulted in 67% returns for 2018. With the approach advocated in the KPN Circular Manifesto, we aim to reduce the use of virgin materials in the products 73 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Our long-term impact on society Our value for society and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals Beyond the direct impact that we make with our core sides. Being aware of this, we take our responsibility to business, we also have an impact on society as a whole. We mitigate potential negative impact. Through multiaim to help the Netherlands move forward with our highstakeholder collaboration, we can accelerate positive impacts quality connectivity, our contribution to the healthcare sector, on sustainable development. Our impact on society and the our environmental commitments and our support of social realization of the SDGs is set out below. inclusion. In this way, we contribute to the Sustainable In 2019, we will continue to increase our efforts and further Development Goals (SDGs). align the SDG sub-targets with our own KPIs to gain more insight in our impact on the realization of the SDGs. Our societal impact directly relates to SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure), SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Apart from our impact on the realization of the SDGs 3, 9, 11 Communities) and SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and and 12, as explained in the table below, our non-financial Production). With KPN’s focus on the healthcare sector in the objectives and targets also contribute to other SDGs, albeit in Netherlands, we intend to make a considerable contribution a less impactful way. In Appendix 2: Overview and to the realization of SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-being). We connectivity of non-financial information, we show how our therefore added this SDG to the primary SDGs we focus on. CSR targets and KPIs contribute to the SDGs. The focus areas of these SDGs correspond with the topics that we have discussed with our stakeholders throughout the year. You can find more information on the SDGs and our activities on: https://overons.kpn/nl/kpn-voor-nederland/ We have a strong potential for positive impact at scale duurzaamheid/duurzame-ontwikkelingsdoelstellingen-vn. through our business, but our activities also make demands The numbers in the graphics refer to the official SDG on natural sources, and digitalization also has its negative numbering and not to KPN’s ranking. Our relevance for SDG Responsibility to mitigate potential Strong potential for positive Potential for positive impact in the society negative impact impact value chain Safeguarding privacy and Providing the best service on Stimulating innovation in the security the best infrastructure Netherlands As communication devices and We focus on building the best With our infrastructure, we support data systems that our customers converged networks, making them economic development and use become increasingly faster, more secure and ever more human well-being, with a focus on interconnected and sophisticated, reliable. We invest in the affordable and equitable access for Future-proof Build resilient infrastructure, so do the threats to cyber security automation and digitalization of all. At the same time, we facilitate connectivity promote sustainable and privacy. Therefore, it is vital our end-to-end processes to national technology development, industrialization and foster that we invest in creating a empower customers, improve time research and innovation. p. 52-55 innovation superior network in terms of to market and increase speed of quality and reliability, with a strong innovation. focus on safeguarding privacy and We will accelerate the roll-out of enhancing security for society. FttH and fully upgrade our mobile On our website, we help people network to make sure that we are with information and advice. 5G-ready by using future-proof and flexible technology. We expect to have an all-IP infrastructure by the end of 2021. 74 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Our long-term impact on society Our relevance for SDG Responsibility to mitigate potential Strong potential for positive Potential for positive impact in the society negative impact impact value chain Balancing face-to-face and Improving life in the cities Engaging remote areas in order virtual interaction With focused innovation and to relieve the pressure on cities Despite all the technology digital solutions, we make people We improve the connectivity in available, loneliness is an feel more comfortable and safe, rural areas with DSL and 4G-LTE increasing social challenge in increase the efficiency of broadband solutions. We expect modern society. We should be businesses and healthcare, and that this will contribute to growing Social inclusion Make cities inclusive, safe, careful that digital solutions do not reduce traffic by remote working. economic and social activity in resilient and sustainable lead to feelings of impoverished With our IT infrastructure and data those remote areas, releasing the p. 12-13, 56-57 personal relationships between e.g. centers, we provide the means to pressure on increasingly densely providers and recipients of care. make cities smarter and cleaner; populated cities. By providing a facilitating services like smart better infrastructure to With our corporate foundation, we parking, smart traffic lights, communities in remote areas, we connect vulnerable groups to autonomous driving and crowd may indirectly contribute to a good society; people in need of social control. living environment in the cities. contact, such as the elderly, people with autism or chronically ill children. Dealing with increasing use Future-proof technology makes Helping our customers to save of energy business more sustainable energy New technologies will enable We constantly deploy our Despite the energy new people to create new businesses infrastructure and networks to technologies underlying our and to upload, download and co-create solutions for a more services and products require, we stream faster than before. sustainable use of the enable our customers to reduce Improving our Ensure sustainable Technologies require electricity. environment. Our new the energy consumption in their environmental consumption and production We aim to limit the negative technologies and digital solutions business while using our services. performance patterns impact of our activities, products increase the efficiency of This can have a positive effect on and services on the climate and businesses and make them more the climate. p. 67-73 the environment. Our own sustainable. We avoid the operations are climate-neutral and production of equipment by e.g. all our services are low-carbon. offering cloud services in our green We have started a program to data centers, we avoid traffic by become a circular company by remote monitoring, remote working 2025 and collaborate with our and optimizing logistics processes. suppliers to implement solutions for a more sustainable supply chain. Fighting the side-effects Supporting the health care Keeping healthcare accessible, of connectivity sector affordable and scalable Side effects of the intensive use of KPN offers IT-solutions for the With our focus on new telecommunications, like myopia, health care sector. Our partners technologies and digital solutions, are still under investigation. have direct positive impact on the healthcare sector can increase On our website we help parents health care. KPN facilitates in its efficiency. In the future, more Healthcare of with information and advice products and services which can care will be given at home and the future Ensure healthy lives and concerning dilemma’s on what is improve the accessibility of the remote monitoring of patients will promoting the well-being at best for the well-being for children healthcare. become the norm. p. 58 all ages is essential to with regards to i.e. social media, Safe and secure connections must sustainable development. extensive gaming and general transfer data that the patient screen time. generates at home into their electronic patient file and the right technology must ensure that patients can access data and that information can be shared between patients and healthcare institutions. 75 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Corporate governance Steering the strategy The corporate governance framework of KPN is in line with the requirements of the Dutch Civil Code, the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and applicable laws and regulations, including securities laws, and is based on our strategy. Furthermore, the company is governed by its Articles of Association and internal procedures, such as the by-laws of the Board of Management and the Executive Committee and the by-laws of the Supervisory Board. Legal structure of the company Shareholders Royal KPN N.V. is a public limited liability company Share capital, listings and indices established under the laws of the Netherlands, with ordinary KPN’s authorized share capital totals EUR 720m, divided into shares listed on Euronext Amsterdam. The Articles of nine billion ordinary shares of EUR 4ct each and nine billion Association of KPN were last amended on 20 April 2018. preference shares B of EUR 4ct each. As of 31 December 2018, a total of 4,202,844,404 ordinary shares were KPN has a two-tier management structure with a Board of outstanding. Since 13 June 1994, KPN’s ordinary shares have Management and a Supervisory Board. KPN qualifies as a been listed on Euronext Amsterdam (ticker: KPN). KPN has a ‘large company’ (structuurvennootschap) within the meaning Level I ADR program, which allows investors to trade KPN of the Dutch Civil Code and applies the relevant rules of ADRs in the United States on the over-the-counter market Dutch corporate law. The Board of Management is entrusted (ticker symbol: KKPNY). KPN shares are included in a number with the management of the company. Since September of leading indices, including: AEX, the EURO STOXX 2018, KPN manages its business operations through an Telecommunications Index and the STOXX Europe 600 Executive Committee, as will be further elaborated on Telecommunications Index. hereafter. The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial policymaking by the Board of Management and General Meeting of Shareholders the way in which it manages and directs KPN’s operations. In The General Meeting of Shareholders holds all powers that the performance of their duties, the members of the Board of have not been granted to other company bodies. It has the Management and the Supervisory Board are guided by the authority to appoint members of the Supervisory Board, interests of the company and the enterprise connected upon binding nomination by the Supervisory Board and to therewith and take the relevant stakeholder interests into dismiss the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of account. The Board of Management is accountable to the Shareholders furthermore adopts the Financial Statements, General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with Dutch releases the members of the Board of Management and legislation. Supervisory Board from liability, determines the dividend, determines the remuneration for members of the See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for Supervisory Board and approves the remuneration policy details of KPN’s legal structure. and share (option) plans for the Board of Management. Furthermore, certain decisions are subject to the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders, including decisions entailing a significant change in the identity or character of the company or its business and corporate matters, such as 76 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Corporate governance amendments to the Articles of Association of the company, Please see ‘Composition of the boards’ starting on page 88 a (de)merger or the dissolution of the company, and the issuance for information on the composition of the Board of of shares or reduction of the issued capital of the company. Management and the Supervisory Board, insider transactions and share ownership by the members of the Board of Within four months of the end of every fiscal year, the Board Management and Supervisory Board. of Management prepares Financial Statements, accompanied by an Integrated Annual Report. The Financial Statements are submitted to the Supervisory Board for approval, and Drawing subsequently (within 6 months from the end of the fiscal year) to the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Shareholders Purchase of shares in the company’s own capital and for adoption, and to the Central Works Council for issuance of new shares information purposes. Adoption of the Financial Statements With the general aim of flexibility in financing of the company, does not automatically discharge the Board of Management the General Meeting of Shareholders authorized the Board of or the Supervisory Board from liability. This requires a Management to purchase shares in the company’s own separate resolution by the AGM of Shareholders. capital and also decided to reduce the issued capital through cancellation of own shares held by the company by a number Further General Meetings of Shareholders are held as often that could be determined by the Board of Management. as the Supervisory Board or Board of Management deem necessary. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Furthermore, the General Meeting of Shareholders also Board determine the agenda of the General Meetings of designated the Board of Management as the body Shareholders. Shareholders who individually or collectively authorized to issue ordinary shares and to grant rights to represent at least 1% of the issued capital or who, according subscribe for ordinary shares and to restrict or exclude to the Official Price List of Euronext Amsterdam, represent at statutory pre-emptive rights of existing shareholders upon least a value of EUR 50m have the right to propose items for such issuance or granting of rights. the agenda, within the boundaries of the law. Every shareholder has the right to attend a General Meeting of The above authorities and decisions are limited to a Shareholders, in person or through written proxy, to address maximum of 10% of the issued capital as of 18 April 2018 and the meeting and to exercise voting rights. are applicable until 18 October 2019. Resolutions by the Board of Management implementing the above are subject Obligations to disclose holdings to the approval of the Supervisory Board. Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wft, Wet op het financieel toezicht), legal entities as well as natural The authorities were not used during 2018. persons must immediately notify the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) when a shareholding reaches, exceeds or falls below certain thresholds of the issued capital. Supervisory Board The AFM incorporates these notifications in the public register, which is available on its website. Read more in Note The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the Board of 21 to the Financial Statements for the KPN shareholding as at Management, guided by the interests of the company and 31 December 2018. the enterprise connected therewith and taking into account the interests of the stakeholders. Major investments, acquisitions and corporate matters are subject to Supervisory Board approval. The Supervisory Board observes the functioning of the Executive Committee, has regular interaction with all members of the Executive Committee and can invite Executive Committee members to attend a Supervisory Board meeting. 77 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Corporate governance Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the Board of Management and Executive Committee General Meeting of Shareholders upon binding nomination by the Supervisory Board. The Central Works Council has an The Board of Management is responsible for setting KPN’s enhanced right to recommend persons for nomination to the strategy and for managing KPN’s strategic, commercial, Supervisory Board for up to one-third of its members. The financial, operational, CSR and organizational matters. In Supervisory Board must nominate the recommended September 2018, the Executive Committee was established, persons unless it is of the opinion that any such person comprising the members of the Board of Management and would be unsuitable to fulfill the duties of a Supervisory certain key officers. This structure ensures functional, Board member or such appointment would cause the operational and commercial expertise is entrenched at the Supervisory Board to be improperly constituted. Pursuant to highest level in the organization. The task of the Executive a specific arrangement with América Móvil, América Móvil Committee is to manage the enterprise of the company has the right to designate one person to be nominated by the together with the Board of Management. In principle, all Supervisory Board for appointment as a member of the matters related to the execution of the strategy and the Supervisory Board. day-to-day operations of the company are managed and According to the Articles of Association, the Supervisory resolved by the Executive Committee. The Board of Board must comprise of at least five and not more than nine Management is accountable for the actions of the Executive members. Members of the Supervisory Board resign Committee and holds ultimate responsibility for the according to a schedule set by the Supervisory Board. management of KPN. A member steps down at the first AGM of Shareholders Certain matters, including setting the strategy, annual plan following their first term in office. In accordance with the and risk appetite of the company, mergers and acquisitions, Dutch Corporate Governance Code, members of the corporate finance and corporate governance matters, have Supervisory Board can be reappointed once and thereafter been designated as ‘reserved matters’, and are managed for a maximum of two terms of two years, stating reasons for solely by the Board of Management. In addition, the Board of such further reappointment. The Supervisory Board has Management can at all times decide to reserve any subject determined its ‘profile’, defining the basic principles for its for its own decision-making. The Board of Management is composition. All nominees for election to the Supervisory accountable for its performance to the Supervisory Board Board must fit this profile. According to this profile, the and to the shareholders of the company at the AGM. In Supervisory Board must be composed in such a way that performing their duties, the Board of Management and the members of the Supervisory Board are able to operate Executive Committee focus on long-term value creation for independently of each other and of the Board of the company and the enterprise connected therewith, taking Management. The profile is available on KPN’s website. into account the interests of the stakeholders. The by-laws of the Supervisory Board comprise, inter alia, The members of the Board of Management are appointed rules regarding the members’ duties, powers, working and dismissed by the Supervisory Board. Members of the methods and decision-making, what decisions by the Board Board of Management are appointed for a maximum of four of Management it must approve, training and conflict years per term. The other members of the Executive handling. The by-laws are available on KPN’s website. Committee are appointed by the Board of Management, after consultation with the Supervisory Board. Committees of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Audit The by-laws of the Board of Management and the Executive Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominating & Committee contain, among other things, rules regarding the Corporate Governance Committee and the Strategy & members’ duties, powers, working methods and decisionOrganization Committee. These committees assist the making and conflict handling. The by-laws are available on Supervisory Board in its decision-making and report their KPN’s website. findings to the Supervisory Board. The tasks of these committees are laid down in charters, which are available on KPN’s website. Further information on the activities of the committees in 2018 can be found in the Supervisory Board Report, starting on page 95. 78 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Corporate governance Corporate social responsibility governance to the company and/or to the member concerned and/or to Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is embedded in KPN’s the chairman of the Supervisory Board (or, in case of the organizational structure. CSR themes are defined and chairman, to the vice-chairman of the Supervisory Board). A approved by the Executive Committee, including their member of the Executive Committee, other than a member of ambitions and KPIs. Every CSR theme is assigned to a the Board of Management, is required to immediately report member of the senior management who, as theme owner, is any (potential) conflict of interest in a matter that is of responsible for stakeholder dialog, targets, progress and material significance to the company and/or to the member results. Each theme owner heads a committee, consisting of concerned to the CEO and to the other members of the management of the key departments involved in this theme. Board of Management. The relevant board member or Every five weeks, the theme owners get together to discuss member of the Executive Committee shall not take part in how to align initiatives over the various themes and review discussions or decision-making on a subject in which they progress against targets, with a member of the Board of have a conflict of interest. Decisions to enter into transactions Management periodically in attendance. This meeting is in which there are conflicts of interest with members of each chaired by KPN’s CSR Manager, who is responsible for the of these company bodies that are of material significance to overall reporting, approach and cohesion. The CSR Manager the company or such member require the approval of the reports to the Director Corporate Communication & CSR, Supervisory Board (or, in case of a member of the Executive who is a member of the Executive Committee and Committee, of the Board of Management). responsible for the communication to the Executive Committee. Four times a year, CSR data is included in the There were no conflicts of interest in 2018. overall set of business KPIs that is reported to and discussed with the Board of Management. In order to obtain sufficient For the Statement by the Board of Management and outside reflection, an Advisory Board consisting of external Responsibility Statement, see page 87. experts has been established to advise KPN on its approach to CSR. External auditor Compliance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code KPN complies with all best practices of the Dutch Corporate The external auditor is responsible for the audit of the Governance Code. Until 15 September 2018 KPN deviated Financial Statements. The General Meeting of Shareholders from best practice 3.2.3 regarding severance payments, appoints the external auditor on a yearly basis, upon a where it respected the agreement with Mr. Van der Post, proposal by the Supervisory Board. The external auditor which included a severance payment of 18 months’ base reports to the Board of Management, the Audit Committee salary during his first term of appointment (as was accepted and the Supervisory Board to discuss findings pertaining to under the previous version of the Dutch Corporate their agreed upon procedures for the quarterly financial Governance Code). Since Mr. Van der Post’s resignation as a results and audit of the annual financial results. The external member of the Board of Management on 15 September 2018, auditor attends the AGM of Shareholders to answer this deviation has ended. questions pertaining to the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report, as included in the Integrated Annual Report. The An overview of all principles and best practices of the Dutch Audit Committee approves every engagement of the Corporate Governance Code as well as KPN’s application external auditor, after pre-approval by the internal auditor, to thereof in accordance with the ‘comply or explain’ principle is ensure the external auditor’s independence. All Audit available on KPN’s website. Committee meetings were attended by the external auditor. For the role of the internal auditor, see page 86. Conflict of interest The handling of conflicts of interest between the company and members of the Board of Management or Supervisory Board is governed by Dutch law, the relevant provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the by-laws of the respective boards. A board member is required to immediately report any (potential) conflict of interest that is of material significance 79 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Corporate governance Foundation Preference Shares B KPN above and taking public security considerations into account, (Stichting Preferente Aandelen B KPN) the board of the Foundation may decide to exercise the call option, with a view to enabling the company to determine its KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time, to position in relation to the circumstances as referred to above, the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation), and seek alternatives. The board of the Foundation is of the to acquire a number of preference shares B in KPN, which opinion that under normal circumstances it should not have the same voting rights as ordinary shares, not exercise its voting rights for longer than a limited period. exceeding the total issued number of ordinary shares, minus one share and minus any shares already issued to the The members of the board of the Foundation are J.H. Foundation. Upon exercise of the call option, 25% of the Schraven (Chairman), A.P. Aris, P. Wakkie, F.J.G.M. Cremers nominal value of EUR 4ct per Class B preference share needs and F. van der Wel (succeeding J.E.F. Klaassen as of 1 January to be paid by the Foundation. According to its Articles of 2019). The Board of Management has concluded that the Association, the statutory goal of the Foundation is “to board of the Foundation is independent from KPN in protect KPN’s interests (which includes the interests of accordance with parts c and d of the first subsection of article stakeholders, such as customers, shareholders and 5:71 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act. employees), by, among others, protecting KPN from influences that may threaten its continuity, independence The views of the board of the Foundation, summarized and identity”. Consequently, in the event of any circumstances above, have been published on the Foundation’s website where the company is subject to influences as described (www.prefs-kpn.nl). 80 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Compliance and risk Compliance and risk Compliance and risk Deploying effective risk management is a key success factor for realizing our strategic objectives as it provides reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss. For this reason, KPN has implemented Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. The underlying methodology is based on relevant criteria as set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Key components of the systems are discussed in more detail below. Maintaining effective Internal Risk Management and Control subsequently assesses the main risks that could hinder the Systems requires a continuous and iterative process realization of the strategic objectives and defines and involving several steps. A strong risk culture and control implements countermeasures to mitigate such risks, taking environment forms an important foundation of our control into account the risk appetite. Periodically, KPN’s performance, systems. After setting the strategy, the Board of the top risks, countermeasures, trends and incidents are Management defines its willingness to accept risks (risk reported to and discussed with the Board of Management, appetite) in the pursuit of strategic objectives. Management which defines further remedial actions if necessary. 1 2 3 Implement Objective Define risk strong and strategy appetite risk culture setting 5 4 Report Assess risks top risks, and countertrends and measures incidents Our Internal Risk Management and Control Systems and methodology 81 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Compliance and risk 1. Implement a strong risk culture (control environment) senior management, and initiate responses, if deemed necessary. KPN strives for a business culture in which compliance and The Board of Management has a discretionary authority to integrity are self-evident for all employees. This is, among adapt the variable compensation of senior executives, others, realized by the following actions: based on their demonstrable efforts in promoting a culture of compliance and integrity. The KPN Code of Conduct (the Code) applies to all KPN employees, including the Board of Management, the Supervisory Board , the Executive Committee and 2. Objective and strategy setting temporary staff. It describes how we work in an open, transparent, honest and socially responsible way. We KPN’s objectives and strategy are described on page 28. communicate the Code on our corporate website (ir.kpn. During the objective and strategy setting process, top com), our intranet, via a mandatory e-learning training for management takes into account the company’s known all our employees and via online learning interventions risks and opportunities, and its risk appetite (see next step). (‘Workouts’) that target specific segments of the employee The objectives and strategy are discussed with the population. We have a stringent approach to bribery and Supervisory Board. corruption, fraud and all other forms of (illegal) misconduct, including facilitation payments. The effectiveness of, and compliance with, the Code is structurally assessed by: 3. Define risk appetite Actively detecting and investigating any alleged misconduct and taking appropriate disciplinary action if Pursuing any business objective inevitably leads to taking misconduct is substantiated. risks. Risks can jeopardize achieving those objectives in Monitoring that all staff (both internal and external) various ways. Each type of risk encountered is being dealt completed the e-learning training for the Code. with in a manner that matches the risk appetite of the Board Structural reporting of incidents to the Board of of Management. The risk appetite is the total residual impact Management and (at least annually) to the Supervisory of risks that KPN is willing to accept in the pursuit of its Board. (strategic) objectives. The risk appetite per strategic objective or risk area is determined annually by the Board of To strengthen the tone at the top and in other Management. These risk areas comprise themes such as management levels, we frequently conduct fraud risk financial, operational, strategic, compliance and (information) assessments, including a risk assessment on attitude and security themes. behavior, and provide integrity training. To emphasize desired company culture and behavior and Risk areas with a low risk appetite, and hence a low create awareness in the business, we have implemented a acceptable residual risk, require strong risk management and communication and training program on compliance and strong internal controls. Risk areas with a high risk appetite integrity subjects. Information that is important to share require relatively less risk management and internal control because of (changes in) applicable policies, laws or effort. Our main risks and our response to those risks are regulations or because of a necessity or demand in summarized on page 85 of this Integrated Annual Report. business (riskor need-based) is shared by e-learning, workshop or classroom training. KPN has a prudent risk appetite, which can be described per The Business Control Framework (BCF) comprises all risk category as follows: corporate policies and guidelines that are mandatory for all of KPN’s segments and entities. Strategic risks: In the pursuit of our strategic objectives, KPN KPN requires all employees and encourages external is willing to accept reasonable risks in a responsible way, parties to (anonymously, if desired) report any misconduct taking into account our stakeholders’ interests. by KPN employees (or suspicion thereof). Our whistleblower policy complies with the Dutch Operational risks: KPN is committed to a high quality of Whistleblower Act. customer service resulting in an increasing NPS. We aim to We periodically measure the state of organizational culture, limit the number of interruptions in our networks, services compliance and integrity as perceived by our employees and systems as much as possible. We implement strict 82 and report results as well as plans for improvement to policies to keep our customer data private, safe and secure. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Compliance and risk Financial risks: We strive for the right balance between a Strategic objectives prudent financing policy, sufficient investments in the Every year, we assess the top risks at Group (top down business and fair shareholder remuneration. KPN is approach) and Segment level (bottom up) and, if necessary, committed to an investment-grade credit profile. Read more we implement countermeasures to mitigate them within the in Note 12 to the Financial Statements. For tax matters, defined risk appetite. We conducted risk assessments with KPN has defined a detailed tax risk appetite dashboard. our Commercial and Operations segments, as well as with selected staff functions in the Corporate Center. Compliance risks: We are committed to fully complying with relevant laws and regulations and have a zero tolerance The business objectives are detailed in a strategic business approach to bribery and corruption, fraud and all other forms plan. Every quarter, segments perform a ‘most likely’ forecast of (illegal) misconduct. four to six quarters ahead on their main financials and key performance indicators (the rolling forecast). Segments Financial reporting risks: We have effective control update main risks and opportunities, resulting in a bandwidth frameworks in place to minimize the risk of material of outcomes around expected performance. Each month, misstatements and errors in our financial statements. segment management discusses their actual performance with the Board of Management. 4. Assess risks and countermeasures Operational objectives KPN has business continuity plans in place to safeguard the KPN has implemented effective Internal Risk Management continuity of services to customers and critical systems and and Control Systems to manage its main risks. The main processes. To manage our information security and privacy part of these systems comprises seven KPN Internal Control risks, we have implemented the KPN Security Policy as part Systems, that cover the most relevant risk areas for KPN, of the BCF (for more details, refer to the separate Privacy and as summarized in the table below: security chapter on pages 60-63). We have implemented ISO standards in designated areas to KPN Control System Control system objective improve operational processes. Additionally, we continuously Maintaining sufficient liquidity for simplify services and processes. We implemented quality Liquidity Management and Financial improvement plans such as First Time Right and continued continuity purposes and maintaining Framework financing flexibility to focus on improving NPS. Risks related to climate change and compliance with new environmental legislations are Year Plan & Year Outlook Creating shareholder value incorporated in our risk management and control systems. Maintaining customer service For example, flooding risks are managed in KPN’s business Network Service Levels delivery levels continuity strategy. With our climate-neutral performance for our own operations and continued focus on absolute energy RFR GRIP Framework Maintaining investor trust reduction, we are in a very good position to meet new regulations and customers’ expectations (read more in the Compliance Frameworks Maintaining licenses to operate chapter on Environmental performance, page 67). Measuring strategic success Main non-financial KPIs Our main suppliers comply with the Supplier Code of & integrated reporting Conduct. Via this code, suppliers confirm that they support IT Security and Continuity Mitigating cyber threats and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and operate in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations (e.g. by preventing discrimination, child labor or forced labor, and by recognizing and respecting the environment in their business operations). Compliance with environmental law is covered by our ISO14001 certificate. 83 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Compliance and risk Financial objectives 5. Report top risks, trends and incidents KPN’s Corporate Treasury department manages risks related to cash positions, finance agreements, credit ratings, Segment management provides the Board of Management currency and interest exposures, and non-life insurance (see with a quarterly assurance letter regarding the reliability of Note 12 to the Financial Statements). Corporate Treasury has their financial reporting, the effectiveness of their internal defined policies with clear boundaries for these risks. controls over financial reporting, risk management and Compliance with these policies is monitored frequently. compliance with telecommunication laws, internal policies and other laws and regulations. Twice a year, Corporate As part of KPN’s tax strategy, the Corporate Tax Department Control reports top risks and countermeasures to the Board recommends the most tax-efficient and responsible of Management, including main improvement actions, if any. approach in the interest of all stakeholders, while adhering to KPN’s tax policy and complying with all relevant tax laws and Summary of main risks and countermeasures regulations. This determines KPN’s overall tax risk appetite. The table on page 85 provides a summary of KPN’s main As KPN proactively engages with (Dutch) tax authorities, tax risks and countermeasures, including the expected trends exposures (if any) are contained and under control. Besides a and impact. It also lists the KPIs that are used to monitor the potential tax exposure, reputational risk is always part of the development of the risks and the realization of our risk consideration to apply particular tax planning. appetite. The KPIs are frequently monitored in KPN’s planning and control cycle and discussed in the Board of Financial reporting objectives Management’s business reviews with segment management, Our internal controls for Reliable Financial Reporting (also including improvement actions where necessary. This is known as RFR GRIP Framework) ensure that material important as the risks of service interruptions, threats to misstatements in KPN’s Financial Statements are prevented confidentiality, integrity or availability of networks and or detected in a timely manner. Each quarter, Risk increased costs as a result of frequency auctions might Management and KPN Audit assess the overall effectiveness directly affect our external stakeholders. of the controls before publication of the quarterly figures. For a more extensive list of our risks and countermeasures, The Disclosure Committee examines all reports and see Appendix 4. documents containing financial information that are intended for external publication, to ensure that these fairly present This extensive list also reflects two emerging risks that KPN KPN’s financial position and results. identifies for the near term: Geopolitical volatility, driven by rising international Compliance objectives tensions, protectionism and security concerns, may impact Our compliance risk assessment (CRA) framework comprises our ability to do business in any part of the world. These an integrated framework that oversees risks mainly related to concerns could lead to international bans and other compliance with telecommunications, competition, financial sanctions on suppliers of hardware and software. Reference services (e.g. credit) and privacy legislation. Additionally, we is made to Appendix 4, page 218. monitor compliance with Solvency II requirements (KPN KPN may not be able to attract and retain qualified and Insurance). For compliance risks, relevant processes and diverse members of staff, as the battle for talent is controls have been implemented and are continuously increasing rapidly. This could lead to insufficient monitored. For risks related to our regulated business (as competency in KPN’s workforce, for example in the area of designated by the Netherlands Authority for Consumers & engineers and security or digitalization experts. Reference Markets to have significant market power), compliance is made to Appendix 4, page 219. controls are tested by dedicated staff all year round. As set forth in section 3 sub 1.c of the Non-financial Information Disclosure Decree (Besluit bekendmaking niet-financiële informatie) of 14 March 2017, KPN identified and assessed its main risks regarding environmental, social and personnel matters, human rights and anti-bribery and corruption. For more details on these risks, see Appendix 4. 84 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Compliance and risk Risk category and Main countermeasures Strategic objective Risk risk appetite (summary) Impact Organic sustainable growth; Increased competition from Strategic risk Offer converged services such as High: the described risk could Focusing on profitable current competitors or new KPN ÉÉN and KPN Compleet lead to lower profitability as growth segments market entrants, or new KPN is willing to accept Implement the best converged well as lower market shares. emerging disruptive reasonable risks in a smart infrastructure e.g. by In the longer run, it could technologies responsible way. accelerating fiber roll-out and full impact our continuity. modernization of mobile network Focus on profitable segments and Monitoring KPI: Trend: high-value customers Market shares Improve NPS and offer high quality of service to customers Develop new additional services for customers Best converged smart Damage, service interruptions, Operational risk Accelerating fiber roll-out and full Medium; the incidents could infrastructure; operational issues in KPN’s modernization of mobile network, negatively impact KPN’s Accelerating simplification technical infrastructure and IT KPN is committed to a high moving to All IP customer satisfaction, and digitalization quality of customer Monitor performance of technical reputation and profitability. Insufficient transformation services and to limit infrastructure and IT progress by reducing disruptions as much as Back-up and recovery plans in case Monitoring KPI: complexity, legacy and costs in possible. of emergencies (e.g. ‘be alert’ NPS KPN’s operations procedures) Weighted downtime Implement lean operating model: reduction Trend: including rationalization of networks, IT and portfolio Organic sustainable growth; Threats to the confidentiality, Operational risk Continue and reinforce strategic High; the incidents could generic integrity or availability of KPN’s security programs, such as lead to loss/theft of customer networks, systems or KPN is committed to limit Permanent Vulnerability data, higher costs, penalties (customer) data caused by incidents as much as Management and reputational damage. cyber attacks or terrorism possible and implements Continued implementation This risk could impact our strict policies to keep our of the KPN Security Policy continuity. customer data private, safe Continue and strengthen Security Trend: and secure. Operations Center Monitoring KPI: Potential harm of security incident # data leakages Generic New regulatory decisions in Compliance risk Proactive stakeholder and Medium; the risk could affect the EU and the Netherlands. reputation management including KPN’s future operations and Non-compliance with KPN is committed to full dialog with regulators profitability and cause regulation, including compliance with relevant Strengthening the effectiveness of reputational damage. privacy and tax regulations laws and regulations. the compliance organization and internal controls Monitoring KPI: Trend: Proactive internal Fines compliance investigations # incidents reported to regulators Building the best converged Frequency auctions in Strategic and financial risk Preparation of auctions by High; KPN could smart infrastructure (100% the Netherlands could experienced KPN team and external pay a high price for the 5G ready by end 2021) entail high costs. KPN is willing to accept experts; simulation of auctions required spectrum. This risk reasonable risks in a Investigate alternative combinations could impact our continuity. responsible way. of spectrum and advanced Trend: techniques to meet required Monitoring KPI: technology N/a risk is increasing (worsening) risk is stable risk is decreasing (not as bad) 85 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Compliance and risk Internal Audit Description and evaluation of the Internal Risk KPN’s internal audit function, KPN Audit assesses, in line with Management and Control Systems Dutch Corporate Governance requirements, the design and As set forth by principle 1.2 of the Dutch Corporate effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control Goverance Code and related best practice provisions, KPN Systems and provides assurance to both the Board of has designed and implemented Internal Risk Management Management and the Audit Committee concerning the ‘In and Control Systems to identify and manage the risks Control status’ of KPN’s organization and processes. associated with the company’s strategy and activities. In 2018, KPN Audit systematically assessed the effectiveness of Moreover, KPN Audit conducts ad hoc financial, information these systems. A summary of the main internal Risk technology, strategic and operational audits and special Management and Control Systems is provided in the investigations. KPN Audit conducts its activities in a manner preceding paragraphs. based on a continuous evaluation of perceived business risks and has full and unrestricted access to all activities, During the assessment of the design and operating documents, records, properties and staff. The Chief Auditor effectiveness of the systems, certain weaknesses and reports to KPN’s CEO, quarterly KPN Audit reports are improvement actions were identified and implemented. submitted to and discussed with both the Board of However, none of these were classified as a major failing, as Management and the Audit Committee. KPN Audit liaises referred to in best practice provision 1.4.2 sub iii. For example, extensively with the external auditor, inter alia, based on our continuous monitoring of technical, commercial and International Standard on Auditing 610. financial base differences led to in-depth analysis resolving potential invoice errors. Governance of risk management and compliance – three lines of defense In 2018, KPN was subject to two penalty cases for breaches Although the Board of Management is ultimately responsible of the law, both relating to telecommunication law. The for risk management and compliance, it is business penalties were before 2016. In one of these cases the Court management’s duty to effectively identify, assess and annulled the imposed penalty of (originally) EUR 5,700,000. manage the main risks of the company, in line with the steps A final decision is still pending for the other cases, of which discussed in the previous paragraphs (first line of defense). the penalty amounts to EUR 1,990,000. The Risk Management and Compliance departments (second line) are responsible for the design of the risk management and compliance policies, and to support and challenge business management in their assessment and management of top risks. KPN Audit (third line) performs, where necessary, independent reviews of the design and operational effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. The main results of both the risk assessments and the evaluation of the internal Risk Management and Control Systems are shared with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and discussed with the external auditor. 86 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Compliance and risk Statement by the Board of Management and Responsibility Statement Statement by the Board of Management Responsibility Statement The Board of Management is responsible for the effectiveness With reference to section 5.25c paragraph 2c of the Financial of the design and operation of KPN’s Internal Risk Management Markets Supervision Act, the Board of Management states and Control Systems. These have been designed to manage that, to the best of its knowledge: the risks that may prevent KPN from achieving its objectives. The Financial Statements of 2018 give a true and fair view However, these Internal Risk Management and Control of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss Systems cannot provide absolute assurance that material of KPN and its consolidated companies. misstatements, fraud and violations of laws and regulations The Integrated Annual Report gives a true and fair review have been avoided. The Board of Management reviewed and of the position as at 31 December 2018, the development analyzed: during 2018 of KPN and its group companies included in The strategic, operational, financial, financial reporting and the Financial Statements, together with a description of the regulatory and compliance risks, as discussed in section top risks KPN faces. Summary of main risks and countermeasures on page 84 and 85; and Rotterdam, 22 February 2019 The design and operational effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control Systems, as discussed on pages 81 to 84 of this Integrated Annual Report. Maximo Ibarra Chairman of the Board of Management The results of this review and analysis were shared with the and Chief Executive Officer Audit Committee and Supervisory Board and discussed with KPN’s external auditors. Jan Kees de Jager Member of the Board of Management With reference to best practice provision 1.4.3 of the Dutch and Chief Financial Officer Corporate Governance Code and the chapter ‘Compliance and risk’, including Appendix 4, in this Integrated Annual Joost Farwerck Report, the Board of Management states that, to the best of Member of the Board of Management its knowledge: and Chief Operating Officer i.  This Integrated Annual Report provides sufficient insights into major failings in the effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. There are no major failings to report, see also paragraph ‘Description and evaluation of the Internal Risk Management and Control Systems’ on page 86. ii.  The aforementioned systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial reporting, as included in the Financial Statements on pages 112 to 183, does not contain any material inaccuracies. iii. Based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial reporting, as included in the Financial Statements on pages 112 to 183, is prepared on a going concern basis. iv. This Integrated Annual Report states those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of the company’s continuity for the period of twelve months after the preparation of this report. 87 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Composition of the boards Board of Management The Board of Management manages KPN’s strategic, commercial, financial, CSR and organizational matters. The Board of Management currently consists of three members. At the AGM of Shareholders on 18 April 2018, Mr. Blok Committee in September 2018, Mr. F.H.M. van der Post resigned from office as Chairman of the Board of stepped down as member of the Board of Management on 15 Management and CEO. He was succeeded by Mr. Ibarra. September 2018. Following the change in the structure of the Board of Management and the establishment of the Executive All members of the Board of Management comply with clause 2:132a of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of positions in a supervisory or management board that a director may hold. Composition of the Board of Management End of Name Position Year of birth Start of term current term Chairman of the Board of Management and M. Ibarra 1968 April 2018 2022 Chief Executive Officer September 2014/ J.C. de Jager Board member and Chief Financial Officer 1969 2022 April 2018* April 2013/ J.F.E. Farwerck Board member and Chief Operating Officer 1965 2021 April 2017* * Reappointment 88 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Composition of the boards M. Ibarra Mr. Ibarra was appointed as Chairman of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer on 18 April 2018. Mr. Ibarra is renowned for his experience in digitalization, marketing and customer centricity. He previously worked for the Italian company Wind Telecommunications, where he served as CEO from 2012 onwards. From 2016, as CEO of Wind Telecommunications, he was responsible for the integration of the 50/50 joint venture between the Italian telecommunications activities of VEON (Wind Telecommunications) and CK Hutchison (3 Italia). Mr. Ibarra joined Wind Telecommunications in 2004 and served in a number of leadership roles until his appointment as CEO in 2012. Prior to joining Wind Telecommunications, Mr. Ibarra held several leadership and commercial positions at a number of companies including Benetton, FIAT and DHL. In the early days of his career, he held several marketing related roles at Vodafone Italy and Telecom Italia. In addition, he was Professor of Marketing and Digital Marketing at the Luiss University & Business School in Rome. Mr. Ibarra is a member of the Supervisory Board of Mediobanca (Italy). Mr. Ibarra has the Colombian and Italian nationality. J.C. de Jager Mr. De Jager is a member of the Board of Management and Chief Financial Officer. From 2007 to 2012, Mr. De Jager was a member of the Dutch government, first as State Secretary for Finance (from 2007 to 2010), thereafter as Minister of Finance (from 2010 to 2012). As Minister of Finance, Mr. De Jager’s responsibilities encompassed the budget, general financial and economic policy, supervision of financial markets and cooperation with international financial institutions. As State Secretary for Finance, Mr. De Jager was responsible for many change processes, among others within the Dutch Tax and Customs Administration. From 1992 to 2007, Mr. de Jager founded and was Managing Partner at ISM eCompany, an e-business solutions company, for which he acted as special advisor after resigning from the Dutch Cabinet until he was appointed to the board of KPN in September 2014. Mr. De Jager is a member of the board of Stichting AECA Nederland and the chair of the Economic Board Zuid-Holland. Mr. De Jager is a Dutch citizen. J.F.E. Farwerck Mr. Farwerck is a member of the Board of Management and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Farwerck started working at KPN in 1994 and has held senior management positions in various divisions. He has been responsible for all of KPN’s activities in the Netherlands as Managing Director Netherlands since February 2012 and has been responsible for the operating activities of KPN as Chief Operating Officer since September 2014. Mr. Farwerck is a member of the executive committee of VNO-NCW, a member of the board of Nederland-ICT, of the board of The Hague Security Delta and of the board of FME, as well as a member of the Cyber Security Council. He is also a member of the Strategic Advisory Board TNO. Mr. Farwerck is a Dutch citizen. 89 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Composition of the boards Composition of the Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises the members of the Board of Management (Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Chief Operating Officer (COO)) and the following senior management: Babak Fouladi Jean-Pascal van Overbeke Marieke Snoep Chief Technology & Digital Officer Chief Consumer Market Chief Business Market Hilde Garssen Hans Koeleman Paolo Nanni Chief People Officer Chief Corporate Chief Transformation Officer Communications & CSR Jasper Spanbroek Wouter Stammeijer General Counsel & Chief Strategy Officer Company Secretary 90 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Composition of the boards Composition of the boards Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial D.W. Sickinghe policymaking by the Board of Management and the way in Mr. Sickinghe was appointed which it manages and directs KPN’s operations. KPN’s Chairman of the Supervisory Supervisory Board currently consists of eight members. Board on 15 April 2015. Mr. Sickinghe is Managing At the AGM of Shareholders on 18 April 2018, Mr. Sickinghe Director of Fortino Capital and Mrs. Zuiderwijk were re-appointed as members of the (Belgium). Furthermore, he is Supervisory Board. Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Van Eeghen & Co All members of the Supervisory Board comply with clause 2:142a (the Netherlands), member of the board of uniBreda of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of positions on (Belgium) and member of the board of Guberna (Belgium). a supervisory or management board that a director may hold. Mr. Sickinghe was previously Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Telenet N.V. (Belgium) in the period Two vacancies will arise at the closure of the AGM of Shareholders 2001-2013. Prior to that, he held various management in 2019, as Mr. Hartman and Ms. Sap will be stepping down, positions at Hewlett-Packard (Switzerland), NeXT Computer having reached the end of their four-year term of office. (France), Wolters Kluwer (the Netherlands) and was founder of Software Direct (France). Mr. Sickinghe is a Dutch citizen. Mr. Spanbroek, General Counsel and Company Secretary and member of the Executive Committee, acts as secretary to the Supervisory Board. Composition of the Supervisory Board Committees Nominating Strategy & & Corporate Year Start End of Organization Governance Audit Remuneration Name of birth of term current term Committee Committee Committee Committee D.W. Sickinghe 9 April 2014 1958 2022 X X X (Chairman Supervisory Board) 18 April 2018* 12 April 2012 P.A.M. van Bommel 1957 2020 X 13 April 2016* 10 April 2013 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 1957 2021 X 12 April 2017* 7 April 2009 10 April 2013* D.J. Haank (Vice-Chairman) 1953 2021 X X X 12 April 2017* P.F. Hartman 1949 15 April 2015 2019 X X 4 September E.J.C. Overbeek 1967 2021 X 2017 J.C.M. Sap 1963 15 April 2015 2019 X 9 April 2014 C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 1962 2022 X X 18 April 2018* X Chairman X Member * Reappointment 91 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do P.A.M. van Bommel Mr. Van Bommel is currently a E.J.C. Overbeek member of the Board of Mr. Overbeek is Chief Management and CFO of ASM Executive Officer of HERE International N.V. and, as part Technologies. Having spent of that position, also a nearly 30 years in the ICT non-executive director of ASM industry, Mr Overbeek has PT (Hong Kong). Furthermore, gained extensive experience he is a member of the in the global digital and Supervisory Board of Neways Electronics International N.V. communication industry. Prior to joining HERE Technologies, Before his appointment as CFO at ASMI, Mr. Van Bommel was he held several management roles at Cisco, including leading CFO at Odersun, CFO at NXP and CFO at various divisions of the global services organization and the Asia-Pacific, Japan & Philips. Mr. Van Bommel is a Dutch citizen. China region. Mr. Overbeek is a Dutch citizen. C.J. García Moreno Elizondo J.C.M. Sap Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is Ms. Sap holds several currently CFO of América supervisory positions, Móvil. He is member of the including chairing the Board of Directors of Grupo Supervisory Boards of the Financiero Banco Inbursa and GGZ affiliate Arkin, the member of the Board of Netherlands Public Health Directors of Nacional Federation and Fairfood Financiera. He is also a International. Ms. Sap is also a member of the Supervisory Board of Telekom Austria Group. member of the Supervisory Board of KPMG N.V. and Prior to joining América Móvil, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo held non-executive director of Renewi plc. Between 2008 and positions at, among others, the Mexican Ministry of Finance 2012, Ms. Sap represented the Dutch Green Party, as the Director General of Public Credit and at the Swiss Bank GroenLinks, in the lower house of the Dutch parliament, the Corporation Warburg as Executive Director and Managing last two years of which she was party leader. Before that, she Director. Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is a Mexican citizen. worked as an economist in the fields of science, policy and business. She was, inter alia, head of the Incomes Policy D.J. Haank department at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment Mr. Haank is currently member and director of the LEEFtijd center of expertise, a consultancy of the Supervisory Board of for sustainable employment issues. Ms. Sap is a Dutch citizen. TomTom N.V., member of the Supervisory Board of Singel C.J.G. Zuiderwijk Uitgeverijen, member of the Mrs. Zuiderwijk is chair of the Supervisory Board of Albelli Board of Management of the B.V. and non-executive Board Dutch Chamber of Commerce. member of SPI Technologies She is currently a member of Singapore. Mr. Haank was the CEO of SpringerNature, and the Supervisory Board of APG prior to that the CEO of Elsevier Science and Executive Board and is also a member of Forum member of Reed Elsevier PLC. Mr. Haank is a Dutch citizen. Smart Industry and of the NL2025 network. Mrs. P.F. Hartman Zuiderwijk worked for Mr. Hartman is currently the PinkRoccade in various management functions from 1993 to chairman of the Supervisory 2003. Thereafter, Mrs. Zuiderwijk chaired the board of the Board of Fokker Technologies Hilversum hospital and, following the merger with the Gooi Group B.V. and of Texel Airport Noord hospital, the Board of the Tergooi hospitals. Mrs. N.V. and non-executive director Zuiderwijk was also a member of the Innovation Platform of of Constellium B.V. and member the Dutch government (from April 2007 to May 2010) and a of the Advisory Board of member of the Care Innovation Platform of the Dutch Aviation Glass & Technology. Ministry of Health (from April 2008 to May 2010). Mrs. He was vice-chair of the Supervisory Board of Air FranceZuiderwijk is a Dutch citizen. KLM Group in 2013 2017. Before that, he spent 40 years 92 working for KLM, the last seven of those as CEO. Mr. Hartman is a Dutch citizen. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Composition of the boards Insider transactions by such employees. Members of the Board of Management KPN employees that have access to inside information and Supervisory Board are furthermore subject to reporting because of their employment, profession or duties, including obligations to the AFM. all members of the Board of Management, Executive Committee and Supervisory Board, are subject to the Code of The following table provides an overview of transactions in Conduct ‘Inside Information’. This Code of Conduct comprises 2018 by members of KPN’s Board of Management and rules for the possession of and transactions in KPN securities Supervisory Board. Date Name Transaction Price per share Vesting of 172.86% of the 378,878 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2015 into 350,680 ordinary 16 April E. Blok EUR KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax) Vesting of 172.86% of the 185,724 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2015 into 171,901 ordinary 16 April J.C. de Jager EUR KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax) Vesting of 172.86% of the 170,867 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2015 into 158,150 ordinary 16 April J.F.E. Farwerck EUR KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax) Vesting of 172.86% of the 208,012 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2015 into 192,530 ordinary 16 April F.H.M. van der Post EUR KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax) 19 April M. Ibarra Award of 511,032 conditional KPN shares (LTI 2018) EUR 19 April J.C. de Jager Award of 245,951 conditional KPN shares (LTI 2018) EUR 19 April F.H.M. van der Post Award of 255,061 conditional KPN shares (LTI 2018) EUR 19 April J.F.E. Farwerck Award of 227,733 conditional KPN shares (LTI 2018) EUR Award of 79,554 conditional shares subject to a retention period as compensation for services and 18 May M. Ibarra EUR availability 18 December M. Ibarra Bought 100,000 ordinary KPN shares EUR 2.62 93 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Composition of the boards Stock ownership Board of Management 1 Number of ordinary shares 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 M. Ibarra 100,000 J.C. de Jager 491,284 319,383 J.F.E. Farwerck 369,236 211,086 1 Shares held by current members of the Board of Management (including vested shares in lock-up period). Share ownership relates to ordinary shares. In 2011, a share ownership recommendation was introduced whereby the members of the Board of Management are encouraged to acquire company shares equal to one times the annual fixed compensation for members of the Board of Management (excluding CEO) and two times the annual fixed compensation for the CEO (read more in Note 5). Retained vested shares as part of the LTI will be included in the share ownership recommendation. Stock ownership Supervisory Board Number of ordinary shares December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 D.W. Sickinghe 380,000 380,000 P.A.M. van Bommel 114,000 114,000 D.J. Haank 24,351 24,351 94 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Report by the Supervisory Board Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report 2018 was a pivotal year for KPN. The appointment of a new CEO led to several important changes in both policy and governance. The Supervisory Board has executed a broad agenda, as will be further elaborated on in this report. At the heart of the tasks of the Supervisory Board is the safeguarding of the longterm value of our company, in the interest of its various stakeholders – most notably our customers, our employees and our shareholders. By enabling our employees to use their talents and skills to provide the best services to our customers, we create returns to our shareholders’ investments – a true symbiosis. The year 2018 step for a sustainable future. At the same time, it was important to keep the investment levels within reasonable Strategy boundaries, leading to a substantial rebalancing of the The appointment of Maximo Ibarra as new CEO in April 2018 investment mix, to ensure a stable capex envelope in absolute was the starting point of a review of the company’s strategy, terms. resulting in an updated strategy for the coming years. The Supervisory Board was closely involved in the development of The Supervisory Board was also fully aligned on other key this updated strategy, most notably during a two-day elements of the updated strategy, including the further focus meeting in July. In this meeting, the Board of Management on the company’s core business as provider of connectivity presented its views on the status of the company and in and adjacent services, the integration of the multiple particular on the next steps it envisaged. The Supervisory acquisitions over the past years, and the further simplification Board extensively discussed the key components thereof with of the company and its product portfolio. Accelerated the Board of Management during this session. In subsequent simplification and the transformation to a digital operating meetings in the second half of the year, further attention was model, will make KPN lean, faster, and more agile and will at given to the implementation plans for the key pillars of the the same time deliver sustainable improvements in KPN's new strategy, such as the network roll-out and the Business indirect opex base. segment strategy. All these elements together are aimed at bringing ‘organic The plan to build the best converged infrastructure, sustainable growth’, as was rightly chosen as the key indicator underpinned by accelerated fiber roll-out, full mobile network of the updated strategy. In the last months of the year, the modernization and accelerated simplification of the operating Supervisory Board reviewed the translation of the strategy model received the Supervisory Board’s full support. For a into the annual plan for 2019, which it approved in its telco operator, the quality of its access network remains a key December meeting. In this review, it gave specific attention to driver of competitive advantage. Fiber is perceived as the the measures to mitigate identified risks in the plan, including superior and future-proof technology and therefore the the required speed of implementation of the multi-year indirect logical next step for KPN’s roll-out. On top of that, the quality opex reduction program and the revenue expectations. and availability of mobile access is a crucial contributor to the optimal service provision to our customers. Following Governance investments in upgraded copper and 4G over the past years, To support the updated strategic direction and to strengthen further investments in the best converged infrastructure – the execution power of the company in a rapidly changing through fiber and 5G are the natural and necessary next environment, the Supervisory Board worked closely with the 95 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Report by the Supervisory Board CEO to make changes to the governance structure and performance was solid but that the competitive pressure, the management of the company. The institution of an Executive fast moving market and certain underlying trends made it Committee aims to lead the operations of the company and critical to continuously invest in the development of the support the Board of Management in both formulating and business to ensure sustainable growth going forward. implementing the strategy. It enables all key players to be Furthermore, results were still supported by inorganic growth involved in decision-making, and strengthens the speed and through earlier acquisitions and free cash flow growth was power with which implementation of such decisions can take supported by improving the company’s financing. Ultimately, place. To ensure that the division of roles and responsibilities acquisitions should be integrated in, and supportive to, KPN’s between the Executive Committee, the Board of Management core business performance. In this respect, the Supervisory and the Supervisory Board is clear and unambiguous, new Board critically reviewed and discussed the plans for rules of procedure have been agreed. These rules amongst integration of companies acquired in recent years with KPN’s others enable the Supervisory Board to keep a good existing security activities and overall portfolio. oversight over the broader Executive Committee, and therewith over the developments in the total company. Also Corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’) has, over the past years, in practice, there are frequent contacts between (members become an integral part of KPN’s strategy. KPN is conscious of) the Supervisory Board and members of the Executive of its contributions to society and the UN Sustainable Committee, and members of the Executive Committee attend Development Goals, whether directly through its products parts of the meetings of the Supervisory Board. and services, through the way it runs its business, or via its charity fund ‘KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds’. At the same time, it In setting up the Executive Committee, new positions were is very much aware that e.g. its energy consumption is created to lead the Consumer Market, Business Market and amongst the highest in the country, and acts to reduce its Technology & Digital departments. This results in clear consumption levels, remain CO₂e neutral, and to become end-to-end responsibilities, and a dedicated focus on close to 100% circular by 2025. The Supervisory Board technology and customers. New management was brought in supports this integral approach towards sustainability. to provide the company with fresh insights and strong In the first quarter of the year, the Supervisory Board experience from the industry. The Supervisory Board – monitored the intended sale of iBasis to Tofane. It supported through its Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee the strategic rationale of the transaction, given the current reviewed the candidates for these positions and provided its strategic focus of the company on its Dutch business. It feedback on each of them. In anticipation of these changes, reviewed and approved the key terms of the transaction, and Frank van der Post agreed to step down from the Board of the accounting (as ‘discontinued operation’) as of the Management, prior to the original end date of his first term. transaction date. The Supervisory Board is grateful to Mr. van der Post for his achievements in his position as Chief Commercial Officer, most notably visible in the strong improvement in customer About the Supervisory Board satisfaction in the past years. Finally, the Supervisory Board agreed to the changed portfolio for Mr. Farwerck in the Board The composition of the Supervisory Board remained of Management, focusing on Regulatory & Public Affairs, New unamended in 2018, with the reappointments of the Ms. Business division, Wholesale Business Unit and the oversight Zuiderwijk and Mr. Sickinghe at the General Meeting of of Joint Ventures & Partnerships. Shareholders in April. Although with 25% female members the Supervisory Board has not yet reached the desired level of The Supervisory Board continued to have a regular dialog 30%, it does have a strong mix of backgrounds and with the Central Works Council, and appreciates the open and experience, supporting a diverse view on a wide range of professional relationship between the Central Works Council, topics. At all times, the composition of the Supervisory Board the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. was such, that the members were able to act critically and independently of one another, the Board of Management and Business performance any particular interest involved, as provided for under best Throughout the year, the Supervisory Board continuously practice provisions 2.1.7 to 2.1.9 of the Dutch Corporate reviewed the development of the business and the related Governance Code. Throughout the year, seven members of financial results. It based its review on presentations by the Supervisory Board, including the Chairman, were management, the review of monthly and quarterly results, independent from the Company within the meaning of these 96 and its contacts with members of staff. Overall, it felt that provisions. Mr. García Moreno Elizondo, who was appointed The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Report by the Supervisory Board upon the nomination of America Móvil, is not considered independent under provision 2.1.8 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. For an overview of the current skills and competences in the Supervisory Board, please refer to the skills matrix. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on related party transactions. C.J. D.W. D.J. P.A.M. van García C.J.G. P.F. J.C.M. E.J.C. Skills / Characteristics Sickinghe Haank Bommel Moreno Zuiderwijk Hartman Sap Overbeek Business leadership x x x x x x x Industry knowledge (Telco) x x x Industry knowledge (IT) x x x Commercial x x x x x Operational x x x x Employment / social relations x x x Society / government relations x x x Corporate social responsibility x Financial markets x x x x Finance, audit & risk x x x x x Financial experts (Dutch Corporate x x Governance Code) International experience x x x x x x Executive / Non-executive (Full-time) Executive position at another x x x x x x company Mainly non-executive role x x Diversity Male x x x x x x Female x x Also in the coming years, we will continue to review the the Supervisory Board believes Ms. Sap fits the profile of the composition of our Board, with an aim to maintaining a Supervisory Board and the desired skills, and therefore diverse composition, and reaching the level of 30% female happily accepts the recommendation. For the position of Mr. members. In this context it is noted that, in case of potential Hartman, key requirements include experience in managing reappointments, the Supervisory Board would first determine large companies, strong social relations and a broad network whether the existing member would be (proposed for) in business and politics. The Committee concluded that a reappointment, and aim for further female candidates if the reappointment of Mr. Hartman would best fit this profile. The existing member will not be reappointed. Given that Central Works Council and Board of Management support the consideration, we believe the diverse composition of the nomination. Supervisory Board can be reached by 2022 at the latest. At the end of the 2019 AGM, both Ms. Sap and Mr. Hartman The Supervisory Board annually evaluates its own will have reached the end of their first term of office. The performance. Whereas this is normally done in December or position of Ms. Sap is subject to the enhanced right of January, given the important changes in the company’s recommendation of the Central Works Council, which governance structure and management in the last months of recommended her reappointment. Based on the skills matrix, 2018, we have decided to delay this evaluation to the first half 97 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Report by the Supervisory Board of 2019, to be able to include the first observations and frequent contact. The overall attendance at the Supervisory insights from this change in our evaluation. We intend to use Board meetings was 91%. An overview of attendance per the support of an independent expert for this review, and will member of the Supervisory Board and per Committee is report on it in the next annual report. provided in the table. All members had adequate time available to prepare themselves and give the required Meetings attention to the matters at hand. In the event members could The Supervisory Board met on 8 occasions in 2018, of which 7 not join a meeting, the Chairman discussed the matters at were regularly scheduled. Most meetings took – at least partly hand before and after the meeting, in order to obtain the place with the Board of Management. Also outside of formal input and views of all Supervisory Board members. board meetings, members of the Supervisory Board were in Name Board (8) Audit (5) SOC (1)1 RemCo (6) NomCo (5) Van Bommel 100% 100% Garcia Moreno 75% 60% Hartman 100% 100% 100% 100% Haank 88% 100% Overbeek 75% 100% Sap 88% 100% Sickinghe 100% 100% 100% 100% Zuiderwijk 100% 100% 100% 100% Total 91% 87% 100% 100% 100% 1 Mr. Overbeek joined the Board in the course on the year, and attended 5 out of 6 board meetings, but could not attend the one meeting of the SOC that was held since he joined. Meetings of the Supervisory Board always commenced with a Audit Committee closed part, in which only the members of the Board and The Audit Committee had five regularly scheduled meetings (partly) the CEO would participate. In the quarterly meetings, in 2018, all of which were also attended by the CFO, the this closed session was normally followed by a meeting in external auditor Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (‘EY’), the which all members of the Board of Management, and possibly Internal Auditor and the Director Corporate Control. The relevant members of the Executive Committee, would be Chairman of the Supervisory Board frequently attended the present. This ‘open’ part of the meeting typically starts with meetings. The Audit Committee – as well as the Chairman of presentations by management on the state of the business, the Supervisory Boardmet separately with EY, the followed by a discussion on one or more strategic or independent external auditor appointed by the General otherwise relevant topics, the review of the quarterly Meeting of Shareholders. disclosures and any decisions that need to be taken. When deemed relevant, the meetings may also end with a ‘closed’ part. In line with its tasks, the Audit Committee reviews and discusses all financially relevant matters that are presented to the Supervisory Board, most notably the quarterly and annual Committee Reporting reporting and (the financial and risk-related aspects of) the strategic plan. It has a specific focus on the effectiveness and The Supervisory Board has established four Committees: The outcome of the internal control framework and the risk Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee (RemCo), the management systems of the company, for which it receives Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee (NomCo) and reviews reports by the internal auditor, the Compliance and the Strategy and Organization Committee (SOC). The Office and the Disclosure Committee. Each quarter, the Audit main considerations and conclusions of each Committee were Committee also reviews the conclusions of the external 98 shared with the full Supervisory Board. auditor, as included in its Board Report. Overall, the The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Report by the Supervisory Board Committee is satisfied by the processes around external the intended sale of iBasis, and supported the strategic reporting as operated by the company, as is also confirmed by rationale for that. the reports from the internal and external auditors. The audit plans, both for the internal and external auditor, are annually Following the appointment of the new CEO and in light of the reviewed by the Committee, and are subsequently submitted subsequent full strategy update, the Supervisory Board to the full Supervisory Board for its approval. decided to review the company’s strategy in the framework of the full board. The Strategy and Organization Committee was During 2018, the Audit Committee also monitored KPN’s reshaped to be a standing sounding committee on strategic financing policy and profile. It reviewed and supported the matters for the Board of Management. It had no more formal proposals for dividend payments throughout the year and meetings, but its members had frequent ad hoc contacts with concluded that, although the total dividend paid over 2017 the CEO or other members of the Board of Management on was slightly higher than the profit available for distribution, specific matters related to the strategy. and therefore required a withdrawal from the freely distributable reserves, such decision could be taken in reason, Remuneration Committee taking into account the stakeholders’ interests. The The Remuneration Committee met on six occasions during Committee also oversaw the redemption of the EUR 1.1bn 2018. The CEO attended (parts of) the Committee meetings. hybrid bond, issued in March 2013, at its first call date. It The Committee assisted the Supervisory Board in executing furthermore monitored the monetization of (part of) the and reviewing KPN’s remuneration policy and ensuring that stake held in Telefónica Deutschland and supported regular members of the Board of Management are compensated updates of its financing arrangements. consistently with that policy. As to the updated strategy, the Committee supported the As part of its annually recurring tasks, the Committee defined Supervisory Board in analyzing the risks in the plan, most the level of pay-out for individual members of the Board of notably the execution risks and the safeguards built in for Management as part of the STI plan 2017 and LTI grant 2015, that. It concluded that the level of risk was within the risk and determined the financial and non-financial targets and appetite and therefore acceptable. The Committee, on behalf performance criteria for the STI and LTI plans 2018 for the of the Supervisory Board, would continue to monitor the Board of Management. actual risk management and realization of the plan, as well as Capex deployment, throughout the year. During 2018 the Committee undertook a full review of the remuneration policy, to establish whether the policy was still The Audit Committee furthermore discussed other topics in line with the company’s objectives and market practice. An that were within its scope of attention, most notably the initial review confirmed that KPN’s remuneration policy is impact and implementation of IFRS 15 and 16 and other broadly in line with current market practice, and there was no accounting matters, compliance, fraud management, tax, and need for a full overhaul. The Committee did however Cyber Security. conclude that the policy could be further improved and aligned with the company’s strategy by enhancing the Finally, the Audit Committee reviewed the performance simplicity and long-term focus of the plan, as well as share evaluation of EY over 2018. It concluded, also based on inputs ownership for members of the Board of Management. It from management and the internal auditor, that EY had done therefore considered various alternatives to reach these a good job, had sufficient objectivity and independence, being goals, leading to a proposal for an updated remuneration both critical when necessary, and constructive when possible. policy, as will be submitted to the General Meeting of It therefore recommended to the full Supervisory Board to Shareholders for its approval. The main elements of the nominate EY for appointment to the 2019 General Meeting of change include a reduction in the number of performance Shareholders as the company’s independent external auditor criteria and a rebalancing of the weight between these for the financial year 2020. criteria, the introduction of strategic performance criteria, an extended holding period for shares and increased share Strategy and Organization Committee ownership guidelines (including partial payment of the The Strategy and Organization Committee met only once in a annual STI variable pay in shares until such guidelines have formal committee meeting in January, reviewing the ongoing been met) and updated reference peer groups. A detailed transformation of the Business segment and discussions on description of the proposed changes will be included in the content acquisition in Consumer segment. It also discussed meeting documents for the General Meeting of Shareholders 99 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Report by the Supervisory Board to be held in April 2019. In the review of the remuneration As to the composition of the Supervisory Board itself, the policy, the Committee used the services of Korn Ferry, a Committee steered the process leading to the proposed specialized and independent remuneration consultancy firm. reappointment of Mr. Hartman and Ms. Sap, who are are due to step down at the 2019 General Meeting of Shareholders. During an annual evaluation meeting with the individual Please refer to ‘About the Supervisory Board’ above for a members of the Board of Management, the Committee took further explanation on the reasons for these nominations. note of the views of their members on their own remuneration. The Committee also reviewed and supported the proposed remuneration packages of the newly recruited Financial Statements members of the Executive Committee. The Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2018, Further details on the remuneration policy are provided in the were prepared by the Board of Management and approved by ‘Remuneration Report’ starting on page 101. the Supervisory Board. The Report of the Independent Auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, is included in the ‘Other Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Information’ on pages 184-192. The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee met The Supervisory Board recommends that the AGM adopts on five occasions in 2018. The Committee was closely these Financial Statements. involved in setting up the new Executive Committee structure. It discussed the governance structure and the division of tasks and responsibilities between the Executive Final remarks Committee, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board, ensuring sufficient oversight by the Supervisory Board We are much indebted to our customers individuals, families, over the activities of both the Board of Management and the small and big companies or organizations. We strive to improve Executive Committee. The rules of procedure developed in our services each day. Our employees and management make this respect were incorporated in new By-Laws of the Board us who we are. Their daily actions, initiatives and commitment of Management and the Executive Committee, as approved constitute the DNA of our company. Our business partners by the Supervisory Board in October. enable us to reach our goals together. Our shareholders and bondholders trust us with their financial resources to allow us In line with the new governance, members of the Executive to finance our business. We aim to be an engaged member of Committee are appointed, dismissed or suspended by the the Dutch society at large. Board of Management, after consultation of the Supervisory Board. On behalf of the Supervisory Board, the Nomination The Supervisory Board is grateful to all stakeholders for their Committee interviewed various candidates for appointment contribution to our company. to the Executive Committee, most notably Mr. van Overbeke, Ms. Snoep, Mr. Fouladi, Ms. Garssen and Mr. Nanni. As to the composition of the Board of Management, the Duco W. Sickinghe, Chairman Committee proposed the reappointment of Mr. de Jager as CFO in early 2018, and supported the change in portfolio for Peter A.M. van Bommel Mr. Farwerck in autumn, as part of the new governance structure Carlos J. Garcia Moreno Elizondo of the company. In summer, the Committee led the process of Derk J. Haank departure of Mr. van der Post to facilitate the new governance Peter F. Hartman structure. In line with his contractual arrangements, Mr. van Edzard J.C. Overbeek der Post received a severance payment of 18 months base Jolande C.M. Sap salary as part of the arrangements around his departure. Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk The Committee noted that this amount is higher than currently mentioned as best practice by the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, but concluded that it was in line with the previous code, which was applicable when the initial contract with Mr. van der Post was entered into (as was disclosed in previous Annual Reports). The Committee therefore concluded that it 100 could and should live up to its contractual obligations. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Introduction KPN’s remuneration policy; a balanced approach between long-term value creation and short-term We are committed to preserving the confidence and trust of performance our stakeholders by presenting the details and The objectives and principles of KPN’s remuneration policy implementation of our remuneration policy for the Board of are based on a balanced approach between market Management. competitive standards, the ratio between fixedand variable pay (with a focus on long-term value creation) and the KPN’s core values are Customer, Together and Simplicity, economic and social contribution of the company linked to which form the essence of our organizational culture. the non-financial parameters of the variable pay. Considering these core values and also being aware of the public debate surrounding the topic of executive remuneration, Objectives: Principles: we strive to balance our core values and all stakeholder Market competitive standards: interests in our remuneration programs. We thereby emphasize shortand long-term value creation through Attracting, motivating and retaining Paying at market-competitive level the necessary leadership talent pay-for-performance based on financial and non-financial targets and benchmarked competitive pay levels. This Complying with best practice in Enhancing transparency and clarity corporate governance ensures a strong alignment with the company’s annual performance goals and long-term value creation strategy Differentiating by experience and Supporting a work environment where based on addressing the needs and challenges of society. inspiring leadership is the norm responsibility, while promoting internal fairness The Remuneration Committee’s (the Committee) tasks are Ratio base/variable pay (focus on long-term value creation): laid down in the terms of reference of the Committee. The Driving performance based on Committee assists the Supervisory Board with establishing, digitalization and simplification that Paying for performance implementing and reviewing the company’s remuneration generates long-term sustainable and policy to ensure that members of the Board of Management profitable growth are compensated in consistence with that policy. The Encouraging customer satisfaction and Rewarding a customer centric Chairman and members of the Remuneration Committee are loyalty, agility and innovation approach appointed by the Supervisory Board. The Committee Economic and social contribution: currently consists of Mr. Hartman (Chairman), Mr. Sickinghe, Mrs. Zuiderwijk and Mr. Haank. Creating economic value by addressing Balancing all stakeholder interests the needs and challenges of society Overview Executive Executive Supervisory remuneration at a remuneration Board pay policy glance policy – overview A B C In-depth insight into Highlights of KPN’s Highlights of KPN’s KPN’s remuneration policy for remuneration policy and a ctual remuneration policy for the the Boardof Management and remuneration Supervisory Board execution thereof 101 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Remuneration Report A. Executive remuneration at a glance Considering the objectives and principles of our remuneration policy, the pay mix for executives consists of the following four elements that are further explained in this report: Component Form Fixed/variable Drivers Base salary Cash Fixed Experience and responsibility Benefits (primarily pensions) Funded by cash contributions Fixed Market-competitive standards Performance – assessed through annual financial and non-financial Short-term Incentive (STI) Cash Variable targets Performance – assessed through relative TSR (peer group), Long-term Incentive (LTI) Conditional shares Variable free cash flow, earnings per share and non-financial parameters The ratio between fixed and variable pay The ratio between fixed and variable pay is influenced by the The peer employment group consists of Dutch-listed and extent to which targets are met. The following pie charts European sector-specific companies. The advice of Korn represent the pay mix for both the CEO and the other board Ferry, an independent external consultant, is used by the members in case of an on-target performance. The different Committee to ensure an objective benchmark for KPN’s pay mix for the CEO (when compared to the other executives) remuneration policy and levels of remuneration. reflects the outcome of the benchmark reference. KPN’s benchmarked remuneration levels KPN’s remuneration levels are benchmarked against other companies in order to ensure that KPN’s total level of compensation based on the pay mix is in line with KPN’s remuneration policy and objectives, as described above. Remuneration policy Compensation Compensation policy policy CEO CEO OtherOther Executives Executives BaseBase BaseBase STI STI STI STI LTI LTI LTI LTI 30% 30% 36% 36% 42% 42% 40% 40% 28% 28% 24% 24% 102 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Remuneration Report Actual remuneration current members of the Board of Management (in thousands of EUR) See the section ‘Personnel expenses’ in the Consolidated Financial Statements for full disclosure of remuneration cost under IFRS principles (also including former members). Actual vested LTI over results in Pension cost and Name Year Base STI the past 3 years social security Total Maximo Ibarra³ 2018 657 704 129 1,490 Jan Kees de Jager 2018 668 382 232¹ 131 1,413 2017 643 367 888² 124 2,022 Joost Farwerck 2018 625 393 214¹ 147 1,379 2017 611 332 817² 144 1,904 1 Final measurement of the 2016 share grant was conducted in 2019, which leads to 42.5% vesting of the shares in April 2019. The amounts give an indication of the underlying value of the shares that will vest in April 2019 based on the closing share price of KPN at 15 February 2019 (EUR 2.72). 2 Final TSR measurement for the 2015 share grant was conducted in 2018, which led to vesting of shares in April 2018. The estimated numbers in the 2017 Remuneration Report are restated with the actual value at vesting. 3 Actual remuneration since appointment as a member of the Board of Management (18 April 2018). For transition activities and professional services prior to this Mr. Ibarra received monthly advisory fees totaling EUR 195,000 in cash, EUR 200,000 in cash subject to a 3-year retention period and EUR 200,000 in shares subject to a 4-year retention period. Incentives aligned with strategy and sustainable KPN’s internal pay ratio performance growth In line with the revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code, The focus of KPN’s strategy is on offering the best converged KPN takes into account the internal pay ratios within the smart infrastructure, focus on profitable growth segments organization when formulating the remuneration policy. In and acceleration of simplification and digitalization. light of transparency and clarity, KPN applies a methodology Combined with a flexible and simplified integrated network to calculate the internal pay ratio that is IFRS-driven. and operating model, KPN is building the Netherlands’ digital highway by accelerating its FttH roll-out and modernizing its KPN’s internal pay ratio is calculated as the total CEO mobile network. Together, this leads to organic sustainable compensation divided by the average employee growth of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow, supporting compensation (total personnel expenses divided by the progressive dividend and deleveraging. The goals and average number of FTEs). When calculating the pay ratio for objectives of this strategy are reflected in the shortto 2018, the CEO compensation for 2018 has been recalculated medium-term targets and long-term targets, which are used on an annual basis. Consequently, KPN’s calculated pay ratio to compensate senior management for their performance. in 2018 is 29 (2017: 36). For further details, see Note 5 to the The performance measures also strengthen sustainable Consolidated Financial Statements. performance growth by focusing on both financial and non-financial performance indicators. Level of variable compensation aligned with the company’s risk profile KPN aligns incentives with its long-term strategy, but it also needs to focus on short-term success in order to achieve further growth. The company’s risk profile is embedded in the short-term and long-term incentive structure. The measurement of the incentive structure is assured by KPN’s standards of internal financial control. 103 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Remuneration Report B. Executive remuneration policy – overview Strategic Pillars based on ‘Organic sustainable growth’ Objectives of KPN’s remuneration policy The essence of our organizational culture is aimed at delivering results. KPN’s remuneration programs therefore Short-term targets Long-term targets emphasize variable pay and long-term value creation. Sustainable performance growth Financial Financial The performance measures of the shortand long-term Non-financial Non-financial incentive plans are aligned with sustainable performance growth. The focus is on both financial and non-financial targets in order to support creation of economic value by Reward Reward addressing the needs and challenges of society. Examples of Cash Conditional shares such non-financial performance measures are: customer and employee satisfaction, loyalty and customer base, reputation targets and energy reduction targets. The alignment of KPN’s sector-specific companies. The following table shows the remuneration policy with its strategic goals is reflected in the current composition of KPN’s employment peer group: following overview. Principles of KPN’s remuneration policy KPN’s remuneration policy is guided by the following main principles: 1) Paying at market-competitive level: this is achieved through benchmarking against an employment market peer group; 2) Pay-for-performance: target remuneration aims at 30–40% of pay in base pay and 60–70% in variable pay in order to maintain a strong alignment with the company’s annual financial performance goals and long-term value creation strategy; 3) Differentiating by experience and responsibility: this is achieved through alignment of the pay with the responsibilities, relevant experience, required competence and performance of individual jobholders. Consequently, there can be substantial differentials in pay levels, despite employees having similar job titles; and 4) Balancing all stakeholder interests based on a transparent remuneration policy. These principles apply to all levels of senior management. The company’s remuneration policy is compliant with the relevant legal requirements and the principles of the revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Composition of employment market peer group and market assessment To ensure the overall competitiveness of KPN’s remuneration levels, these levels are benchmarked against an employment market peer group. The Committee uses one peer group consisting of Dutch-listed companies and European 104 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Remuneration Report Employment peer group Performance incentive zone AkzoNobel NV BT Group Plc The target ranges for financial and operational performance comprise: DSM NV Cap Gemini NV A ‘minimum’ at which the minimum incentive is paid. Heineken NV Portugal Telecom SA Performance below this level is not generating a payout; An ‘on-target’ performance level at which an ‘on-target’ Randstad Holding NV Proximus SA incentive is paid; and RELX NV/Plc Swisscom AG A ‘maximum’ at which the maximum incentive is paid. Royal Ahold Delhaize NV Vodafone Group Plc The STI is designed to strike a balance between the company’s risk profile and the incentive to achieve ambitious Royal Philips NV Unilever NV/Plc targets. The pay-out methodology is based on a separate pay-out approach for each of the financial and non-financial The Committee regularly reviews the peer group to ensure targets. The Supervisory Board’s ability to apply a that its composition is still appropriate. The composition of discretionary factor ranges between 0.7 (reducing the the peer group might be adjusted as a result of mergers or incentive by 30%) and 1.3 (increasing the incentive by 30%). other corporate activities. With this discretionary factor, the Supervisory Board is able to express the assessment of the overall individual performance Base pay of each member of the Board of Management. The The Committee determines appropriate base pay levels taken Supervisory Board has agreed a set of non-financial KPIs with into account the underlying principles of the remuneration each individual member of the Board of Management. The policy. Each year, the Supervisory Board considers whether performance based on these KPIs will be evaluated by the circumstances justify an adjustment in base pay within the Committee annually and discussed with the individual board market-competitive target range for individual members of members at the end of each year. The outcome of this the Board of Management. discussion will be used by the Supervisory Board as a reference to determine the discretionary factor. Short-term incentives (STI): 70% financial and 30% non-financial targets Discretion both upwards and downwards can be applied by the Supervisory Board if the outcome of the STI scheme General would produce an unfair result or if the outcome would not be At the beginning of each year, the Supervisory Board sets considered to reflect the basic objectives and principles of financial and non-financial target ranges for the Board of pay as outlined in this section. Management. These ranges are based on the company’s business plan. At the end of the year, the Supervisory Board Actual pay-out levels reviews the company’s performance against the target Based on the financial and non-financial targets set by the ranges. Members of the Board of Management are eligible for Supervisory Board, the performance (and weight) was: an annual cash incentive only if company performance is at or Free cash flow (35%) around maximum level. above the predetermined ranges. EBITDA (20%) around on-target level. Revenue (15%) around on-target level. Objectives: focus on both financial and non-financial Employee engagement (15%) between minimum and targets on-target level. The objective of this STI scheme is to ensure that the Board Net Promoter Score (15%) below minimum level. of Management is well incentivized to achieve company performance targets in the shorter-term. Specific details on targets cannot be disclosed for performance measures, as this would require providing commercially sensitive information. The Committee uses scenario analyses to estimate the possible outcomes and decides whether a correct risk incentive is set for the members of the Board of Management with respect to the overall level of pay and pay differentials within the company. 105 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Remuneration Report Short-term Incentives (STI) Component Short-term incentives Form of compensation Cash Value determination CEO: 90% of base pay. Other members of the Board of Management: 60% of base pay Targets Financial targets (70% weight) typically are: EBITDA Free cash flow Revenue Non-financial targets (30% weight) typically are: various measures of customer and employee satisfaction, customer loyalty and customer base. A circuit breaker is applicable as a minimum requirement for pay-out of the STI non-financial parameters. If this minimum requirement is not achieved, the non-financial parameters of the STI will not generate a pay-out. On-target 100% of the on-target incentive paid Discretionary factor A factor between 0.7, reducing the incentive by 30%, and 1.3, increasing the incentive by 30%. Scenario maximum Pay-out capped at 150% of the ‘on-target’ incentive (i.e. 135% of base salary for the CEO and 90% of base salary for the other members of the Board of Management). Long-term incentives (LTI) Component Long-term share-based compensation Form of compensation Shares Value determination1 CEO: 135% of base pay. Other members of the Board of Management: 90% of base pay. Targets Financial targets: 25% based on relative TSR versus peer group 25% on free cash flow 25% on earnings per share Non-financial targets: 12.5% on sustainability/environmental targets 12.5% on stakeholder/customer targets. Vesting of non-financial targets will be subject to achieving a cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three years (i.e. qualifier for vesting). On-target 100% of the granted shares vest. Scenario maximum Position 1 in TSR peer group and maximum performance of financial and non-financial targets: 200% of the shares vest. 1 Based on the average share price of the first trading day after the AGM. Dividend paid during the vesting period will be included in the value determination. Long-term incentives (LTI): 75% financial and 25% each of the financial and non-financial targets. non-financial targets It is considered that comparing KPN’s TSR with a wider group of companies (either geographically or with other industries) is General not considered to be meaningful. Variations in returns would In addition to the base pay and the short-term annual cash most likely be attributed largely to macro-economic events incentive described above, a long-term incentive based on and/or sector shifts rather than to variations in management performance shares is used to ensure that the interests of the actions. Therefore, benchmarking TSR achievements relative members of the Board of Management are aligned with those to other, similar companies emphasizes rewarding for specific of its long-term (or prospective) shareholders and to provide KPN performance. an incentive for members of the Board of Management to continue their employment/service agreement relationship The non-financial parameters set are based on energy with the company. reduction and a reputation dashboard. See the relevant sections of this Integrated Annual Report for detailed The number of shares granted under this plan is based on a information about energy reduction and reputation. The percentage of base pay as shown in the LTI table. The vesting performance period of the LTI plan is set at three years. 106 methodology is based on a separate vesting approach for Vesting is, in principle, also subject to the condition that the The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Remuneration Report member of the Board of Management has not resigned within Performance incentive zone three years of the date of the initial grant. The Committee In line with the design of KPN’s LTI plan, the target uses scenario analysis to estimate the possible outcomes of performance ranges for vesting of the LTI plan comprise a the value of the shares vesting in coming years and decides threshold below which no shares vest, an on-target whether a correct risk incentive is set for the members of the performance level at which shares vest at on-target and a Board of Management with respect to the overall level of pay maximum at which the shares vest at the maximum level. and pay differentials within the company. Once vested, the shares will have to be held for a minimum See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a period of two years. An exception to this rule is made for further description and valuation of the option and share plans. shares that are sold to cover income tax obligations in relation to the vested shares typically the value taxed as Performance-measuring and peer group performance income equals the number of shares vested multiplied by the The following table provides an overview of KPN’s share price at the time of vesting. An external remuneration performance peer group to determine KPN’s relative consultant calculates the end-of-year TSR peer group shareholder return for LTI plans. position and the number of shares vested based on this Companies included in the peer group target, and makes certain that calculations are performed objectively and independently. The TSR is calculated based BT Group Plc Tele2 AB on the three-month average share price at the start and end of the performance period. Deutsche Telekom AG Telekom Austria AG Orange Belgium SA Telia Company AB Discretion both upwards and downwards can be applied by the Supervisory Board if the outcome of the LTI incentive Orange SA Vodafone Group Plc scheme would produce an unfair result or if the outcome would not be considered to reflect the basic objectives and Proximus SA Swisscom AG principles of pay as outlined in this section. Telenor ASA¹ KPN NV The LTI plan rules contain a change of control clause, which 1) In 2018 TDC was delisted. Telenor replaced TDC group for the 2018 grant and possible future grants. For grants of previous years that have not yet provides for immediate vesting at 100% (irrespective of the vested, TDC will remain in the peer group and its TSR performance after actual performance at that moment, whether higher or lower) delisting will be adjusted with the average TSR performance of the TSR peer and lifting of the blocked period normally applicable, to companies (i.e. the so-called “synthetic approach”). enable the member of the Board of Management to dispose Vesting Vesting of their shares in the situation of a change of control. Position Position The immediate vesting at 100% will be pro rata for the time schedule schedule Position 1 200% Position 5 100% passed in the plan during the vesting period of three years. Position 2 175% Position 6 75% (i.e. 1/3 in year one, 2/3 in year two, full in year three). Position 7 Position 3 150% No vesting and below Actual pay-out levels Position 4 125% Vesting Weighting Outcome percentage The table above provides the vesting schedules of the TSR TSR 25% 0% 0% part in the LTI plans. Please note that the peer group used for EPS 25% 0% 0% relative TSR reflects the relevant competitive market in which FCF 25% 0% 0% KPN competes for investor preference. As such, it is different from the employment market peer group, which is used to Energy 12.5% 140% 17.5% determine competitive pay levels for the CEO and other Reputation 12.5% 200% 25% members of the Board of Management. The peer group may Total vesting 42.5% be adjusted if an individual company no longer qualifies as a relevant peer company. The vesting schedule for financial The LTI plan 2016 vests in April 2019 and the final TSR and non-financial targets other than TSR is: threshold measurement for this share grant was conducted midperformance 25%, on-target performance 100% and February 2019. The targets for the LTI plan 2016 were set at maximum 200%. the grant date in April 2016. 107 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Remuneration Report The vesting of the LTI plan 2016 is based on the strong Loans performance of the non-financial targets based on Company policy does not allow loans or guarantees to be sustainability and reputation (both with a weight of 12.5%). granted to members of the Board of Management. According to DJSI and CDP, KPN is recognized as one of the world’s most sustainable telecom companies. This is reflected Terms of employment in a strong performance of the sustainability target during the Members of the Board of Management have a service agreement vesting period 2016-2018 based on energy consumption. The for a definite period of time. All members of the Board are vesting of 140% for this part of the LTI plan 2016 was the appointed for a period of four years, which is in line with the result of additional energy savings in our networks, data requirements of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. centers and offices despite an exponential increase in the volume of our IT services. The strong upward movement of Severance arrangements KPN’s reputation as concluded by the Reputation Institute Severance payments for the CEO and current members of the (the leading international organization devoted to advancing Board of Management are aligned with the revised Dutch knowledge about corporate reputations) improved further Corporate Governance Code and equal one-year base pay. Such during the vesting period 2016-2018 and resulted in a vesting payments also apply if a member of the Board of Management of 200% for this part of the LTI plan 2016. terminates his agreement with the company as a consequence of change of control over the company, subject to specific During the vesting period 2016-2018 KPN’s results on free conditions applicable thereto. cash flow (weight 25%) and earnings per share (weight 25%) performed below the minimum of the applicable bandwidth and Share ownership guidelines therefore do not contribute to the vesting of the LTI plan 2016. The members of the Board of Management are encouraged KPN’s TSR performance (weight 25%) during the vesting period to acquire company shares equal to one times the annual resulted in a 8th relative position in terms of TSR performance fixed compensation for members of the Board of in the peer group of European telecommunications Management, excluding the CEO, and two times the annual companies and this outcome is below the minimum position fixed compensation for the CEO. Retained vested shares as for generating a vesting for this part of the plan. part of the LTI plan will be included in the share ownership guideline. Claw-back clause The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to recover Outlook for 2019 variable pay awarded on the basis of incorrect financial or The current remuneration policy was reviewed in 2018. Based other data. on the outcome of this review, some adjustments to the current remuneration policy will be presented for approval to Benefits and others the AGM of Shareholders in April 2019. The details of the proposed adjustments in the remuneration policy will be Pensions included in the notes to the agenda for this meeting. Members of the Board of Management are eligible for a defined contribution pension plan with a contribution based on the fiscal defined contribution table that corresponds to a retirement age of 68, an annual accrual rate of 1.875% and a pension accrual capped at EUR 105,075 base pay. Board members receive a fixed gross allowance equal to the associated pension contribution paid by the company prior to 2015 for the base pay part above the capped amount. Additional arrangements The additional arrangements, such as a housing allowance, life insurance coverage, expense allowances, use of smart phones and company car provisions needed for the execution of their roles, are broadly in line with other companies of similar size and complexity, as well as with market practice. 108 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Remuneration Report C. Supervisory Board pay policy The Committee is responsible for reviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes to the pay of the Supervisory Board. Any recommended changes to Supervisory Board pay must be submitted to the AGM of Shareholders for approval. Members receive an additional fee if a meeting is held in a country other than the member’s country of residence. Shareholdings in the company held by Supervisory Board members serve as a long-term investment in the company and help to align their interest with those of KPN’s other shareholders. No Supervisory Board member is granted shares as a form of pay. As a policy, the company does not provide loans or guarantees to its Supervisory Board members. The table below shows the pay-out to Supervisory Board Members and fixed committee fees on an annual basis. Amounts in EUR Annual fees Chairman Supervisory Board 100,000 Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board 70,000 Member Supervisory Board 60,000 Chairman Audit Committee 20,000 Member Audit Committee 10,000 Chairman Strategy & Organization Committee 12,500 Member Strategy & Organization Committee 7,500 Chairman Remuneration Committee 10,000 Member Remuneration Committee 5,000 Chairman Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee 10,000 Member Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee 5,000 See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Personnel expense) for details on actual remuneration of the Supervisory Board. Peter F. Hartman (Chairman of the Remuneration Committee) Duco W. Sickinghe Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk Derk J. Haank 109 110 111 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS For the year ended 31 December 2017 € million Notes 2018 (Restated) Revenues [4] 5,633 5,740 Other income 5 2 Total revenues and other income 5,639 5,742 Cost of goods & services 1,302 1,365 Personnel expenses [5] 1,141 1,121 Information technology/Technical infrastructure 442 493 Other operating expenses [6] 569 595 Depreciation, amortization and impairments [10/11] 1,397 1,414 Total operating expenses 4,850 4,986 Operating profit 789 755 Finance income 55 69 Finance costs -319 -338 Other financial results -3 22 Financial income and expenses [7] -267 -247 Share of the profit/loss (-) of associates -9 1 Profit before income tax from continuing operations 513 509 Income taxes [8] -233 -119 Profit for the year from continuing operations 280 390 Profit/loss (-) for the year from discontinued operations [15] -10 – Profit for the year 271 390 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests – – Profit attributable to equity holders of the company 270 390 Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to equity holders of the company [9] for the year in EUR > Basic (continuing operations) 0.06 0.08 > Diluted (continuing operations) 0.06 0.08 > Basic (discontinued operations) – – > Diluted (discontinued operations) – – > Basic (total, including discontinued operations) 0.06 0.08 > Diluted (total, including discontinued operations) 0.06 0.08 112 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended 31 December 2017 € million Notes 2018 (Restated) Profit for the year 271 390 Other comprehensive income, net of tax Other comprehensive income to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met: Net gain/loss (-) on cash flow hedges [16] -20 14 Currency translation differences [16] 4 – Net other comprehensive income/loss (-) to be reclassified to profit or loss in -16 14 subsequent periods Items of other comprehensive income not to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Retirement benefits remeasurements -1 12 Net gain/loss (-) on equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income [12] -116 16 Net other comprehensive income/loss (-) not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent -117 28 periods Other comprehensive income/loss (-) for the year, net of tax -133 42 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 138 432 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, attributable to: Equity holders of the company 138 432 Non-controlling interests – – 138 432 Total comprehensive income/loss (-) attributable to equity holders of the company arises from: Continuing operations 148 446 Discontinued operations -10 -14 113 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Assets 31 December 2017 1 January 2017 € million Notes 31 December 2018 (Restated) (Restated) Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment [10] 5,641 5,811 5,969 Intangible assets [11] 3,169 3,341 3,250 Equity investments accounted for using the equity method 17 21 24 Equity investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income [12.1] 26 20 1,909 Derivative financial instruments [12.3] 185 168 298 Deferred income tax assets [8] 702 907 1,030 Trade and other receivables [13] 197 138 57 Contract assets and contract costs [13] 33 35 46 9,970 10,441 12,583 Current assets Inventories 58 54 42 Trade and other receivables [13] 802 735 736 Contract assets and contract costs [13] 107 288 346 Income tax receivables [8] – 1 – Equity investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income [12.1] 449 1,071 – Other current financial assets [12.1] 50 329 140 Cash and cash equivalents [14] 594 856 1,179 2,059 3,333 2,443 Assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale [15] 148 1 2 Total assets 12,177 13,776 15,027 114 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Equity and liabilities 31 December 2017 1 January 2017 € million Notes 31 December 2018 (Restated) (Restated) Equity Share capital 168 168 171 Share premium 8,445 8,445 8,651 Other reserves -398 -406 -432 Retained earnings -6,270 -5,814 -5,661 Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities – 1,089 1,089 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company 1,945 3,482 3,818 Non-controlling interests – – – Total equity [16] 1,945 3,482 3,818 Non-current liabilities Borrowings [12.2] 6,986 7,579 7,897 Derivative financial instruments [12.3] 302 328 197 Deferred income tax liabilities [8] – 1 – Provisions for retirement benefit obligations [17] 206 218 262 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [18] 119 103 90 Contract liabilities [19] 206 155 108 Other payables [19] 17 22 22 7,835 8,406 8,576 Current liabilities Trade and other payables [19] 1,361 1,517 1,608 Contract liabilities [19] 253 270 236 Borrowings [12.2] 589 18 735 Derivative financial instruments [12.3] 16 – 1 Income tax payables [8] 2 16 4 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [18] 78 66 49 2,298 1,888 2,634 Liabilities directly associated with the assets and disposal groups [15] 98 – – classified as held for sale Total equity and liabilities 12,177 13,776 15,027 115 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Equity Equity attributable to attributable holders of to equity perpetual holders Subscribed Share Share Other Retained capital of the Total € million, except number of shares Notes ordinary shares capital premium reserves earnings securities company equity Balance at 1 January 2017 4,270,254,664 171 8,651 -451 -5,859 1,089 3,601 3,601 Transition impact IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 [2] – – 19 198 – 217 217 Balance at 1 January 2017 Restated 4,270,254,664 171 8,651 -432 -5,661 1,089 3,818 3,818 Profit for the year – – – 390 – 390 390 Other comprehensive income for the year – – 14 28 – 42 42 Total comprehensive income for the year – – 14 418 – 432 432 Share-based compensation [5] – – – -7 – -7 -7 Sold treasury shares – – 12 – – 12 12 Share buyback and cancellation -67,410,260 -3 -206 – – – -209 -209 Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) – – – -51 – -51 -51 Dividends paid – – – -513 – -513 -513 Total transactions with owners, recognized directly in equity -67,410,260 -3 -206 12 -571 – -768 -768 Balance at 31 December 2017 Restated 4,202,844,404 168 8,445 -406 -5,814 1,089 3,482 3,482 Transition impact IFRS 9 [2] – – 4 -4 – – – Balance at 1 January 2018 Restated 4,202,844,404 168 8,445 -402 -5,818 1,089 3,482 3,482 Profit for the year – – – 271 – 271 271 Other comprehensive income for the year – – -16 -117 – -133 -133 Total comprehensive income for the year – – -16 154 – 138 138 Share-based compensation [5] – – – -15 – -15 -15 Sold treasury shares – – 20 – – 20 20 Repayment of EUR Hybrid bond (including paid coupon of EUR 51m [12.2] – – – -62 -1,089 -1,151 -1,151 after tax) Dividends paid – – – -529 – -529 -529 Total transactions with owners, recognized directly in equity – – 20 -606 -1,089 -1,675 -1,675 Balance at 31 December 2018 4,202,844,404 168 8,445 -398 -6,270 – 1,945 1,945 116 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS For the year ended 31 December 2017 € million Notes 2018 (Restated) Profit before income tax from continuing operations 513 509 Adjustments for: – Net financial expense [7] 267 247 – Share-based compensation [5] -3 6 – Share of the profit/loss (-) of associates 9 -1 – Depreciation, amortization and impairments [10/11] 1,397 1,414 – Other non-cash income and expense -5 4 – Changes in provisions (excluding deferred taxes) 53 54 Changes in working capital relating to: – Current assets 51 3 – Current liabilities -58 -13 Dividends received [12.1] 54 71 Income taxes paid/received -9 -13 Interest paid -310 -351 Net cash flow from operating activities from continuing operations 1,959 1,929 Net cash flow from operating activities from discontinued operations 9 21 Net cash flow from operating activities 1,969 1,950 Disposal of equity investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income [12.1] 464 890 Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (net of acquired cash) -17 -165 Disposal of subsidiaries and associates (net of cash) 1 3 Investments in software -289 -307 Investments in other intangible assets -1 -1 Investments in property, plant and equipment -817 -824 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 5 2 Changes in other current financial assets [12.1] 274 -190 Other – -6 Net cash flow from investing activities from continuing operations -379 -599 Net cash flow from investing activities from discontinued operations -7 -11 Net cash flow from investing activities -387 -610 Dividends paid -529 -514 Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bonds -67 -67 Repayment of perpetual hybrid bonds -1,100 – Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives [12] -126 -872 Share repurchase [16] – -209 Other – -3 Net cash flow from financing activities from continuing operations -1,822 -1,665 Net cash flow from financing activities from discontinued operations – – Net cash flow from financing activities -1,822 -1,665 Total net cash flow from continuing operations -242 -335 Total net cash flow from discontinued operations 2 10 Changes in cash and cash equivalents -240 -325 Exchange rate differences – -1 Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 852 1,178 Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 612 852 Bank overdrafts 5 4 Cash classified as held for sale -24 – Cash and cash equivalents [14] 594 856 117 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements GENERAL NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [1] General information early adopted any of these standards. In 2018, KPN applied IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN or the company) was incorporated Financial Instruments for the first time. KPN has adopted both in 1989 and is domiciled in the Netherlands. KPN is registered standards retrospectively (except the provisions for hedge at the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague (file no. accounting in IFRS 9 which have been applied prospectively) 02045200). The address of KPN’s registered office is and restated the 2017 financial information for comparison Wilhelminakade 123, 3072 AP, Rotterdam. KPN’s shares are purposes in these 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements. A listed on Euronext Amsterdam. cumulative transitional adjustment was recorded on 1 January 2017, the date of initial application. The nature and effect of KPN is a leading telecommunications and IT provider in the the changes as a result of adoption of these new accounting Netherlands, offering fixed and mobile telephony, fixed and standards are described below. mobile broadband internet and TV to retail consumers. KPN is market leader in the Netherlands in infrastructure and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers network related IT solutions to business customers. KPN also IFRS 15 supersedes IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 provides wholesale network services to third parties. Revenue and related Interpretations and it applies, with limited exceptions, to all revenue arising from contracts with The Financial Statements were approved for issuance by both its customers. This new standard introduces new guidance on the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management on 22 the recognition and measurement of revenues and also February 2019 and are subject to adoption by the Annual provides a model for the sale of some non-financial assets General Meeting of Shareholders on 10 April 2019. that are not an output of a company’s ordinary business activities. [2] Summary of significant accounting policies IFRS 15 establishes a five-step model to account for revenue Basis of preparation arising from contracts with customers and requires that The Consolidated Financial Statements of KPN have been revenue be recognized at an amount that reflects the prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS) and with exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. the statutory provisions of Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil IFRS 15 requires entities to exercise judgement, taking into Code, under the historical cost convention, except for certain consideration all of the relevant facts and circumstances equity investments accounted for using the equity method, when applying each step of the model to contracts with their and certain equity investments and derivative financial instruments customers. The standard also specifies the accounting for the measured at fair value, and on a going concern basis. incremental costs of obtaining a contract and the costs directly related to fulfilling a contract. In addition, the standard Comparative financial information for 2017 has been restated requires additional disclosures. to reflect the implementation of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Certain figures may not tally exactly due to rounding. In IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial addition, certain percentages may have been Instruments. This standard introduces new requirements for calculated using rounded figures. classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting of financial instruments. Summary of significant accounting policies The general accounting policies as applied are described below. Significant accounting policies are described in the Notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in accounting policies and disclosures KPN applies new standards and amendments issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), when 118 effective and endorsed by the European Union. KPN has not The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 impact on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 2017 Restated (before held IFRS 9 Reclassi­for sale 2017 Adjustment IFRS 15 fications/ classification € million Published (h) Adjustment rounding iBasis) Revenues 6,497 – ( a) to (f) -135 – 6,362 Other income 1 – – 1 2 Total revenues and other income 6,498 – -135 1 6,364 Cost of goods & services 1,923 – (g) -35 31 1,919 Personnel expenses 1,151 – – – 1,151 Information technology /Technical infrastructure 502 – – -9 493 Other operating expenses 616 – (g) 13 -22 607 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 1,424 – – – 1,424 Total operating expenses 5,616 – -22 – 5,594 Operating profit 882 – -113 – 769 Financial income and expenses -241 – – – -241 Share of the profit of associates 1 – – – 1 Profit before income tax from continuing operations 642 – -113 – 529 Income taxes -157 – (i) 21 – -136 Profit for the year from continuing operations 485 – -92 – 393 Profit/Loss (-) for the period from discontinued operations -2 – – -1 -3 Profit for the year 483 – -92 – 390 Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to equity holders of the company for the year in EUR Basic (continuing operations) 0.10 – -0.02 – 0.08 Diluted (continuing operations) 0.10 – -0.02 – 0.08 Basic (discontinued operations) 0.00 – – – 0.00 Diluted (discontinued operations) 0.00 – – – 0.00 -Basic (total, including discontinued operations) 0.10 – -0.02 – 0.08 -Diluted (total, including discontinued operations) 0.10 – -0.02 – 0.08 119 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 31 December 2017 Restated (before held 31 December IFRS 9 Reclassi­ for sale 2017 Adjustment IFRS 15 fications/ classification € million Published (h) Adjustment rounding iBasis) Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 5,811 5,811 Intangible assets 3,341 3,341 Equity investments accounted for using the equity method 21 21 Equity investments measured at fair value through other 20 20 comprehensive income Derivative financial instruments 168 168 Deferred income tax assets 947 2 (i) -42 907 Trade and other receivables 141 – -3 138 Contract assets and contract costs – (g) 33 2 35 10,449 2 -10 – 10,441 Current assets Inventories 61 (d) -3 -4 54 Trade and other receivables 762 -7 -5 -15 735 Contract assets and contract costs – (a) to (f) 269 19 288 Income tax receivables 1 1 Equity investments measured at fair value through other 1,071 1,071 comprehensive income Other current financial assets 329 329 Cash and cash equivalents 856 856 3,080 -7 261 – 3,333 Assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale 1 – – – 1 Total assets 13,530 -5 251 – 13,776 Equity and liabilities Total equity 3,358 -5 (k) 129 – 3,482 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 7,578 1 7,579 Derivative financial instruments 328 328 Deferred income tax liabilities 1 1 Provisions for retirement benefit obligations 218 218 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 103 103 Contract liabilities – (e) 116 39 155 Other payables (and deferred income) 62 -.40 22 8,290 – 116 – 8,406 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,782 (d) -3 -262 1,517 Contract liabilities – (c), (d) 8 262 270 Borrowings 18 18 Income tax payables 16 16 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 66 66 1,882 – 5 – 1,888 Total equity and liabilities 13,530 -5 251 – 13,776 120 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements 31 December IFRS 9 Reclassi­2016 Adjustment IFRS 15 fications/ 1 January 2017 € million Published (h) Adjustment rounding Restated Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 5,969 5,969 Intangible assets 3,250 3,250 Equity investments accounted for using the equity method 24 24 Equity investments measured at fair value through other 1,909 1,909 comprehensive income Derivative financial instruments 298 298 Deferred income tax assets 1,091 2 (i) -63 1,030 Trade and other receivables 61 -4 57 Contract assets and contract costs – (g) 42 4 46 12,602 2 -21 – 12,583 Current assets Inventories 47 (d) -3 -2 42 Trade and other receivables 766 -7 -5 -19 736 Contract assets and contract costs – (a) to (f) 326 21 346 Other current financial assets 140 – 140 Cash and cash equivalents 1,179 1,179 2,132 -7 318 – 2,443 Assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale 2 – – – 2 Total assets 14,736 -5 297 – 15,027 Equity and liabilities Total equity 3,601 -5 (k) 222 – 3,818 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 7,897 7,897 Derivative financial instruments 197 197 Provisions for retirement benefit obligations 262 262 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 89 1 90 Contract liabilities – (e) 69 39 108 Other payables (and deferred income) 62 -40 22 8,507 – 69 – 8,576 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,839 (d) -3 -227 1,608 Contract liabilities – (c), (d) 9 227 236 Borrowings 735 735 Derivative financial instruments 1 1 Income tax payables 4 4 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 49 49 2,628 – 6 – 2,634 Total equity and liabilities 14,736 -5 297 – 15,027 121 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements The most significant differences with KPN’s previous the period the subsequent exploitation services were accounting policies, caused by the adoption of IFRS 15 and provided. Under IFRS 15, if the transition phase is treated IFRS 9, include the following: as a separate performance obligation, part of the contract revenue is allocated and subsequently recognized as (a) Postpaid mobile contracts via KPN shops and website: revenue based on the percentage of completion method Under the previous accounting policy, revenue related to and the transition costs are expensed as incurred during the sale of handsets in postpaid mobile contracts was the transition phase. This results in earlier recognition of recognized up to the non-contingent cash received revenue and expenses under IFRS 15. upfront, i.e. the amount the customer paid for the handset when it was delivered to the customer. Under IFRS 15, (e) Variable consideration: Revenue for variable additional revenue is allocated to the handset at the start considerations, including revenue under dispute, was of the contract. The amount of revenue is calculated recognized when it was probable that these would flow to based on the relative standalone selling price of the the company. Under IFRS 15, such revenue is only handset, regardless of the actual contract pricing. For recognized when it is highly probable. As a consequence, example, compared to the previous accounting policies, a such revenue, although invoiced, is recognized only when postpaid subscription with a handset results in recognition this higher threshold is met. This can result in a contract of higher non-service revenues upon delivery of the liability, in particular in the Wholesale segment, which bills handset to the customer and lower subscription fees customers at (regulated) tariffs that may be disputed by (service revenues) during the subscription period. other operators and regulators. (b) Postpaid mobile contracts via third parties: Under IFRS The introduction of new mobile consumer propositions in 15, handset-related dealer fees result in an unbilled August 2016 caused a change in the VAT calculation receivable on the statement of financial position that will methodology which resulted in a lower remittance of VAT decrease when instalments are billed to the end-customer, from August 2016 onwards of approximately EUR 3m per i.e. handset-related fees are no longer being expensed as month. The view of KPN is not shared by the Dutch tax incurred as part of the costs of goods and services. The authorities. KPN concluded, based on the applicable handset instalment payments are no longer accounted for regulations, that a positive outcome of this dispute is not as service revenues, but netted against the receivable. highly probable and therefore recorded a contract liability for the VAT amount under IFRS 15. (c ) Installation services: Under our previous accounting policy, no revenue was recognized if the installation (f) Consumer credit legislation: As of 1 May 2017, KPN is service was provided free of charge. Installation services legally required to treat a handset combined with a offered to consumer customers are generally considered postpaid subscription as a consumer loan under the a separate performance obligation. Under IFRS 15, Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel revenue is then allocated to the installation service at the toezicht) if the consumer customer repays the handset in start of the contract, based on its relative standalone monthly instalments and the credit amount is above EUR selling price, regardless of the actual contract pricing. The 250. The separate legal entity KPN Finance B.V. is the difference between the amount of revenue recognized contract party in the loan agreement in both direct and and the amounts charged to the customer is recognized indirect channels. The outstanding consumer loans in as a contract asset. KPN Finance B.V. amount to EUR 114m at A contract liability is recognized for the installation fees 31 December 2017. These consist of EUR 1m unconditional charged to the customers in case the connection is not receivables classified in ‘Trade and other receivables’ and treated as a separate performance obligation. EUR 113m for conditional receivables that were not yet invoiced and were eliminated upon KPN group (d) Transition phase of projects for business customers: consolidation under IAS 18 because as explained under (a) Under our previous accounting policy, estimated transition revenue related to the sale of handsets in postpaid mobile costs relating to fixed-price contracts involving managed contracts was recognized up to the amount the customer IT services exceeding the revenue invoiced for the paid for the handset when it was delivered to the transition phase were capitalized and subsequently customer. IFRS 15 considers this a contract asset for both amortized to profit or loss on a straight-line basis during consumer and business customers. As of 1 January 2018, 122 the contract with consumer customers for the instalment The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements payments of the handset has changed in both direct and Standards issued but not yet effective indirect channels, resulting in an unconditional IFRS 9 receivable. Taken into account the low interest rates and IFRS 16 contract duration, these receivables do not include a This standard introduces on balance sheet accounting for significant financing component. almost all leases. For lessees, the distinction between financial leases (‘on balance’) and operating leases (‘off balance’) is removed. (g) Postpaid mobile contracts via third parties: Under our For lessors, the accounting requirements remain substantially previous accounting policy, transaction-related dealer fees unchanged and the two types of leases remain in place. IFRS were expensed as incurred as part of the costs of goods 16 will have a significant impact on KPN as a lessee. and services. Under IFRS 15, transaction related dealer fees paid to acquire or retain subscribers are capitalized At the commencement date of a lease, KPN will recognize a and recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract lease liability for the present value of future lease payments term of the underlying customer contract. and an asset representing KPN’s right to use the underlying asset of the lease (‘right-of-use asset’). After transition to (h) Provision for trade receivables and contract assets: In IFRS 16, lease expenses currently reported under operating addition to the provision for overdue trade receivables expenses will be replaced by depreciation of the right-of-use measured under the previous accounting policy, under asset and interest expenses from the lease liability. IFRS 9 a provision is recorded for the expected loss on trade receivables and contract assets not yet overdue. IFRS 16 has been endorsed by the EU and is effective as of Provisions for expected credit losses recognized for 1 January 2019. contract assets are shown in the column IFRS 15 adjustments. Transition to IFRS 16 (i) Income tax: A corresponding effect on income tax has KPN will apply the standard using the full retrospective been recorded in relation to the above mentioned approach. Therefore, during 2019, KPN will restate 2018 adjustments at the respective tax rates. financial information included in these Financial Statements. The impact of IFRS 16 will be reflected in the opening balance (j) Reclassifications: Several reclassifications were made to of 1 January 2018. present conditional contract receivables under the previous accounting policy as contract assets, deferred KPN does not apply the practical expedients for low value revenue as contract labilities and deferred transitions cost leases (leases of an underlying asset with a value less than as cost to fulfil a contract (contract costs) under IFRS 15. EUR 5,000) and short term leases (leases with a total expected term less than 12 months) except for short-term Other significant differences of IFRS 9 with KPN’s previous rental vehicles. Regarding vehicles leases, KPN applies the accounting policies are: practical expedient not to separate non-lease components from lease components. Therefore, the full monthly lease fees Available-for-sale financial assets/Equity investments will be reflected on KPN’s balance sheet. For all types of measured at fair value through OCI: As of 1 January 2018, assets, electricity and fuel related expenses will remain part of fair value movements recorded in OCI are no longer operating expenses. recycled through profit or loss (other financial results) for all assets recognized in this category. This means that a Per transition date, KPN applies IFRS 16 only to leases which decrease in the fair value which is considered permanent or were previously identified as leases under IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 a sale of these assets no longer impact profit or loss. There in accordance with the practical expedient allowed under were no permanent decreases in fair value in 2017. IFRS 16. Hedge effectiveness testing of the cross-currency swaps KPN will present the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities and interest rate swaps: Cross-currency basis spreads are on the balance sheet. In the Statement of Profit or Loss, the no longer included in the risk designation. This leads to depreciation and impairment expenses related to the differences in the amounts recorded for hedge right-of-use asset will be presented as part of KPN’s total ineffectiveness at 1 January 2018. This caused a depreciation and impairment expenses. The interest reclassification within total equity on 1 January 2018 from expenses related to the lease liabilities will be presented as retained earnings to other reserves. part of the finance cost. 123 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements Estimated financial impact The amount of depreciation and interest expenses following The implementation of the software required to perform the the implementation of IFRS 16 will not be equal to this amount IFRS 16 calculations has not been completed per date of as the interest expenses on the lease liability do not follow a publication of these Financial Statements. The current linear pattern. A reliable estimate of the effect on net income estimate of the IFRS 16 accounts that will be recognized on is not yet available as per date of publication of these KPN’s balance sheet as per 1 January 2018 is in the range of; Financial Statements. € million 1 January 2018 The cash flows related to the payments on lease liabilities will Right-of-use asset 950m – 990m transfer from cash flow from operating activities to cash flow Lease liability (non-current) 910m – 940m used in financing activities. The interest paid on the lease liabilities will remain part of cash flow from operating activities. Lease liability (current) 140m – 150m The total net cash flow for 2018 will not be affected. Reversal IAS 17 positions (net decrease of liabilities) 20m – 40m Deferred tax asset (increase) 15m – 30m In March 2019, KPN will publish more details on the impact of Equity effect net of tax (decrease) 25m – 70m IFRS 16. Nonetheless, the estimated impact of the adoption of IFRS 16 may be subject to change until the publication of The reversal of accounts recognized under IAS 17 mainly KPN’s Financial Statements 2019. include financial lease assets (EUR 56m), financial lease liabilities (EUR 66m), provisions for onerous building leases The ‘on balance’ recognition of KPN’s lease liability is not (EUR 10m) and deferred lease incentives. The net impact on expected to have an impact on KPN’s financing arrangements equity will be offset by a deferred tax asset, determined which do not contain any financial covenants. against the applicable rate. Composition of KPN’s Lease portfolio and main As at 31 December 2017, KPN reported an off balance sheet assumptions obligation for operating leases of EUR 775m, and an on KPN’s lease portfolio mainly consists of buildings, site rentals, balance sheet financial lease liability of EUR 66m. The off mobile towers and vehicles. balance sheet obligation was determined based on the nominal contract values of KPN’s operating leases, not taking Main assumptions applied in determining the appropriate book into account any renewal options unless they have been values of the lease liability and right-of-use asset include the exercised. IFRS 16 requires the lease liability to be recognized assessment of the lease term and the appropriate discount rate. at discounted value and, among other factors, requires that The lease term is impacted by the assessment of the reasonably the likelihood of early terminations or use of renewal options certain criterion in respect of renewal or termination options. is taken into account. The lease liability expected to be recognized at 1 January 2018 (estimated EUR 1,050 – 1,090m) As the implicit discount rates of KPN’s leases were not readily exceeds the total lease commitments reported under IAS 17 available, with the exception for vehicles, KPN applies the (EUR 841m) by EUR 210 250m due to a mix of renewal incremental borrowing rate applicable at commencement options deemed reasonably certain, early termination options date of a lease to determine the discounted value of the lease which are reasonably certain not to be exercised and fixed liabilities. Upon modification of a lease, the remeasurement of indexation taken into account under IFRS 16. An estimate of the lease liability is performed using the applicable discount the impact on KPN’s balance sheet as per 31 December 2018 rate at the date of the remeasurement. KPN’s incremental is not yet available as the loading of the 2018 full year contract borrowing rates are mainly determined using a risk free rate changes in the IFRS 16 tool has not yet been completed. combined with a spread reflecting KPN’s credit risk. The Nonetheless, KPN’s lease portfolio nor estimates driving the applicable rate per contract is primarily dependent on the lease liability have not changed significantly during 2018. expected term of a lease at its commencement date. IFRS 16 will increase KPN’s EBITDA due to the replacement of Provision for onerous lease contracts operating lease expenses with depreciation charges of the The transition to IFRS 16 will change the accounting of the right-of-use assets and the interest expenses related to the restructuring provision related to contractual obligations lease liabilities. The fixed costs of rental and operating leases (onerous building leases). The provision related to the leases recognized in operating expenses that KPN expects to will be replaced by an impairment of the right-of-use asset for 124 reclassify upon transition to IFRS 16 is EUR 180m for 2018. the related lease contract. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in This interpretation clarifies the application of the recognition foreign currencies are translated to euro using the rates at and measurement requirements of IAS 12 Income Taxes when reporting date. Exchange rate differences are recognized in there is uncertainty regarding income tax treatment. profit or loss except when these differences are related to The interpretation addresses: qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment Whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments hedges in which case the exchange rate differences are separately. recorded in OCI. The assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax treatments by tax authorities. Exchange rate differences on non-monetary assets and How an entity determines taxable profit or loss, tax bases, liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates. from that asset or liability. Exchange rate differences arising How an entity considers changes in facts and from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, circumstances. of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments are recognized in OCI. An entity has to determine whether to consider each uncertain tax treatment separately or together with one or Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition more other uncertain tax treatments. The approach better of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the predicts the resolution of the uncertainty that should be foreign entity and translated at the closing rate at the followed. reporting date. This interpretation has been endorsed by the EU and is Subsidiaries effective as of 1 January 2019. KPN concluded that the latter For consolidation purposes, the results and financial position would not affect the reported tax position. of subsidiaries are translated to euro at closing rate of the date of the financial position (assets and liabilities) or at the Basis of consolidation average exchange rates applicable for the specific reporting KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial period (income and expenses). All resulting exchange results of its subsidiaries and incorporate KPN’s share of the differences are recognized in OCI. results from associates. Statement of Cash Flows Subsidiaries are all entities directly or indirectly controlled by The Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the indirect KPN. Control is defined as the power over an entity, i.e. the method. Cash flows denominated in currencies other than ability to govern the financial and operating policies, resulting EUR are translated at average exchange rates. Cash flows in obtaining the gains or losses from the entity’s activities. relating to interest and taxes on profits and tax deductions Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which relating to interest on perpetual hybrid bonds are included in control is obtained by KPN and are deconsolidated from the the cash flow from operating activities. The consideration date on which KPN’s control ceases. All intercompany paid in cash for acquired subsidiaries is included in the cash transactions, balances and unrealized results on transactions flow from investing activities net of cash acquired. Cash flows with subsidiaries are eliminated. resulting from the disposal of subsidiaries are disclosed separately, net of cash sold. Investments in property, plant Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without and equipment, which are financed by financial leases, are not change of control that do not result in loss of control are included in the cash flow used in investing activities. accounted for as equity transactions. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in Significant accounting estimates, judgments and equity. assumptions made by management These are evaluated continuously and are based on historic Foreign currency translation experience and other factors, including expectations of future The Financial Statements are presented in euro (EUR), which events thought to be reasonable under the circumstances. is KPN’s presentation currency as well as functional currency. Actual results may deviate from the estimates applied. All amounts are rounded to millions unless stated otherwise. Estimates are revised when material changes to the Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into euro underlying assumption occur. using the exchange rates applicable at transaction date. At 125 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements The accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions deemed significant to KPN’s financial statements relate to: Determination of deferred tax assets for losses carry Note 8 forward and provisions for tax contingencies Determination of value in use of cash-generating units Note 11 for goodwill impairment testing Assessments of exposure to credit risk and financial Note 12.4 market risks The ‘more likely than not’ assessment required to Note 18 and 21 determine whether or not to recognize a provision for idle cables, which are part of a public electronic communications network The assumptions used to determine the fair value less Note 15 costs of disposal of assets and liabilities held for sale, including discontinued operations Assessment whether revenue for variable consideration Note 4 and 19 is probable or highly probable, This concerns revenue related to disputes and revenue related to VAT unused multipurpose bundles In preparing the Financial Statements, KPN has applied the concept of materiality to the presentation and level of disclosures. Only essential and mandatory information is disclosed which is relevant to a reader’s understanding of these Financial Statements. 126 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements [3] Segment reporting iBasis Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with iBasis offers a comprehensive portfolio of voice termination the internal reporting to KPN’s CEO, who is the Chief and data services for many of the world’s largest fixed and Operating Decision-Maker according to IFRS 8 ‘Operating mobile operators, as well as voice over broadband. Segments’. Other activities Comparative financial information for 2017 has been restated Other activities comprise KPN Holding, remaining activities to reflect the following main events: abroad and eliminations. Implementation of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15. Reclassification of iBasis as ‘disposal group held for sale’ as Segment performance of 7 March 2018. In the Statement of Profit or Loss, the As part of the simplification process, KPN has limited the results of iBasis are presented as discontinued operations. intercompany charges to charges that are considered relevant for tax purposes. All KPN’s activities are in the Netherlands, except iBasis. The EBITDA of Consumer, Business and Wholesale The Netherlands represents the contribution margin of these segments and Operational segments in the Netherlands remained the EBITDA of NOI consists mostly of operating expenses. unchanged and comprise of Consumer and Business, Due to the fact that KPN neither allocates interest expenses Wholesale and Network, Operations & IT (NOI). For general to segments nor accounts for taxes in the segments, the information on these segments read more in chapters disclosure is limited to operating profit for the year. ‘Shareholder value’ and ‘Converged products and services’. The Netherlands’ Other segment includes the results of KPN’s For an explanation of incidental transactions included in Corporate Center and eliminations. Revenues, Other income and EBITDA, see Appendix 1. 127 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements Segmentation 2018 Commercial Operations i€ million Consumer Business Wholesale NOI Other Total The Netherlands Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 2,981 2,110 501 23 2 5,617 Other income 5 5 Inter-division revenues 11 33 117 1 -146 15 Total 2,992 2,143 618 30 -145 5,638 Operating expenses -1,085 -1,020 -163 -1,043 -121 -3,433 EBITDA2 1,907 1,122 454 -1,013 -266 2,205 DA&I -162 -73 -19 -1,134 -8 -1,397 Operating profit 1,745 1,049 435 -2,148 -273 808 Total assets 4,246 2,463 986 9,439 -6,801 10,333 Total liabilities 4,398 2,815 744 8,826 -14,179 2,604 Of which Total The discontinued KPN continuing € million Netherlands iBasis Other activities 3 KPN Group operations operations Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 5,617 485 1 6,102 469 5,633 Other income 5 5 5 Inter-division revenues 15 43 -59 Total 5,638 528 -58 6,108 469 5,639 Operating expenses -3,433 -505 39 -3,898 -445 -3,453 EBITDA2 2,205 23 -19 2,209 24 2,186 DA&I -1,397 -10 -1,407 -10 -1,397 Operating profit 808 13 -19 803 14 789 Total assets 10,333 174 1,670 12,177 12,177 Total liabilities 2,604 153 7,475 10,231 10,231 128 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Segmentation 2017 (restated) Commercial Operations € million Consumer Business Wholesale NOI Other Total The Netherlands Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 3,026 2,139 529 18 3 5,714 Other income 0 0 2 2 Inter-division revenues 18 44 136 1 -174 26 Total 3,044 2,183 665 21 -171 5,741 Operating expenses -1,168 -1,001 -216 -1,067 -101 -3,554 EBITDA2 1,876 1,182 449 -1,047 -272 2,187 DA&I -181 -66 -19 -1,140 -7 -1,414 Operating profit 1,695 1,116 430 -2,187 -280 774 Total assets 5,054 2,906 896 9,635 -6,969 11,522 Total liabilities 5,123 2,885 887 9,526 -15,721 2,700 Of which Total The discontinued KPN continuing € million Netherlands iBasis Other activities3 KPN Group operations operations Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 5,714 648 1 6,362 622 5,740 Other income 2 2 2 Inter-division revenues 26 57 -84 Total 5,741 705 -83 6,364 622 5,742 Operating expenses -3,554 -681 65 -4,171 -598 -3,573 EBITDA2 2,187 24 -18 2,193 24 2,169 DA&I -1,414 -10 -1,424 -11 1,414 Operating profit 774 14 -19 769 13 755 Total assets 11,522 288 1,967 13,776 13,776 Total liabilities 2,700 163 7,430 10,294 10,294 1. External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 2. Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. 3. Including eliminations. 129 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS [4] Revenues Service revenue is all revenue recognized over time and includes fees for usage of KPN’s network and facilities, for € million 2018 2017 (Restated) example monthly subscription fees and revenues from Service revenue 5,186 5,291 customer specific IT solutions. Non-service revenue 429 443 Non-service revenue is revenue recognized at a point in Revenues from contracts with time and includes for example sale of handsets, peripheral 5,615 5,734 equipment as well as software licenses sold without ongoing customers support. Rental and other revenue 18 6 Total 5,633 5,740 In 2017 and 2018, the time value of money was not significant and therefore not recorded. Accounting policy: Revenues unconditional (only the passage of time is required before The core principle is that revenue is recognized to depict payment of the consideration is due). the transfer of promised goods or services to the customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which KPN KPN recognizes contract liabilities in the Statement of expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or Financial Position for considerations received in respect of services. unsatisfied performance obligations. Contract liabilities are recognized as revenue when KPN performs under the Revenue is recognized when it is probable that the contract. economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to KPN and the amount of revenue and associated costs can Accounting policy: Costs to obtain and/or fulfill a be measured reliably. contract The incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a KPN follows the 5-step process of IFRS 15 to recognize customer are recognized as an asset if KPN expects to revenue. See paragraph ‘Changes in accounting policies and recover those costs. Costs to obtain a contract that would disclosures’ in Note 2 for an explanation of KPN’s most have been incurred regardless of whether the contract was significant accounting policies related to revenue obtained are recognized as an expense when incurred, recognition. unless those costs are explicitly chargeable to the customer regardless of whether the contract is obtained. An adjustment for the time value of money is made to a transaction price for the effects of financing, if time between Costs to fulfill a contract are recognized as an asset if: recognition of revenue and cash receipt is expected to The costs relate directly to a contract; and exceed 12 months and if it provides the customer with a The costs generate or enhance resources that will be used significant benefit. in satisfying performance obligations in the future; and The costs are expected to be recovered. Revenue is recognized either at a point in time or over time. In general telco and IT services are delivered over-time, Capitalized contract costs are amortized on a linear basis whereas handsets and peripheral and network equipment, over the period in which KPN transfers the related goods or in case they are treated as separate performance services to the customer. KPN applied the practical obligations, are delivered at a point in time. expedient to immediately expense contract costs when the asset that would have resulted from capitalizing such costs If KPN transfers goods or services to a customer before the would have been amortized within one year or less. customer pays consideration or before payment is due, a contract asset is recognized in case the earned Assets recognized for costs to obtain a contract and costs consideration is conditional. A contract receivable is to fulfill a contract are subject to impairment testing. 130 recognized if KPN’s right to an amount of consideration is The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Information about KPN’s performance obligations regarding invoice applies. The remaining performance obligations communication services is summarized below: expected to be recognized in future periods which need to be disclosed relate mainly to the transition & transformation Contracts for fixed-voice/internet/television: projects for workspace and related services with business Revenue from in-home installation services is recognized at customers which were approximately EUR 5m as at 31 a point in time (at completion of the installation). December 2018 and EUR 4m as at 31 December 2017. Revenue from network access is recognized over time during the subscription period. One-off connection fees, Revenues, disaggregated information1: subscription fees and services to provide customer premises 2017 equipment are not separate performance obligations and are € million 2018 (Restated) bundled with the performance obligation for network access. Unbundled fixed lines service revenues 294 311 Bundled fixed lines service revenues 1,569 1,530 Postpaid mobile contracts via KPN shops and website: Other (mainly peripheral equipment) . 53 58 Revenue from sale of handsets is recognized at a point in time (upon delivery of the handset equipment). Consumer Residential Communication Services 1,916 1,899 Revenue from network access is recognized over time during the subscription period of 12 or 24 months. Mobile service revenues 833 887 Other (mainly handsets) . 243 257 Postpaid mobile contracts via third parties: Consumer Mobile Communication Services 1,076 1,144 The handsets sold and delivered by third parties, related to Total Consumer revenues 2,992 3,044 KPN subscription contracts, are not performance obligations for KPN. Amounts paid to the third party to acquire or retain Mobile service revenues 502 536 subscribers are capitalized as a contract asset and Internet of Things 47 45 decreased with the monthly instalment payments. Broadband & Network services 358 368 Revenue from network access is recognized over time. Fixed-voice 266 306 Other (mainly handsets, peripheral equipment and Information about KPN’s performance obligations regarding software licenses). 157 189 other Business revenues is summarized below: Business Communication Services 1,330 1,444 Workspace and related services: IT services2 327 292 Transition projects for corporate customers are separate Professional Services & Consultancy3 480 441 performance obligations. Revenue is recognized over time Other 5 6 (percentage of completion during the project phase) and Other Business revenues 812 739 includes the delivery of peripheral equipment and software licenses if KPN performs the installation and/or must Total Business revenues 2,143 2,183 provide ongoing support. Exploitation services are recognized over time. Mobile service revenues 124 121 Fixed lines revenues 494 544 Generally the payment term is 2 weeks in the consumer Total Wholesale revenues 618 665 market and 30 days in the business market. KPN applies the practical expedients provided in IFRS 15 Other (including eliminations) -120 -152 under which disclosure of amounts of consideration allocated Total 5,633 5,740 to the remaining performance obligations (unsatisfied or partially satisfied) do not need to be disclosed. This applies to reporting periods presented before the date of initial application of IFRS 15, contracts with an original expected 1 Including inter-division revenues 2 Including security, cloud and workspace service except for large corporate duration of less than one year and those performance customers obligations which are regarded as satisfied when the right to 3 Including workspace and related services for large corporate customers 131 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements [5] Personnel expenses Share plans KPN has granted shares (equity-settled) and share-based € million 2018 2017 awards (cash-settled) on its shares to members of the Board Salaries and wages 848 850 of Management and senior management: the Performance Retirement benefits 91 88 Share Plan (PSP). The conditionally granted PSP award will Social security contributions 113 113 vest after three years if the employee is still employed by KPN. Vesting is based on individual vesting of 25% relative TSR Additional labor capacity 130 117 versus peer group, 25% free cash flow, 25% earnings Own work capitalized -114 -109 per share, 12.5% on sustainability/environmental targets and Other 74 62 12.5% on stakeholder/customer targets. Vesting of nonTotal personnel expenses 1,141 1,121 financial targets will be subject to achieving a cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three years (i.e. a qualifier In addition, there were employee redundancy costs which for vesting). The list of companies included in the peer group are not included in personnel expenses but in other operating and the vesting schedule can be found under ‘Long-term expenses. See Note 18 ‘Provisions for other liabilities and incentives’ in the ‘Remuneration Report’ section. charges’ for information on employee redundancy costs. The main features of the awards granted under the PSP and Number of own personnel (FTE) 31 December 31 December Restricted Share Plan to KPN management are summarized per segment 2018 2017 on the next page. Consumer 2,330 2,518 Business 3,457 3,511 Wholesale 225 221 Network Operations & IT 5,330 5,583 iBasis 262 295 Other 1,065 1,147 Total FTE 12,669 13,275 > Of which discontinued operations 238 271 132 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Board of Holding period after Management Senior management Maximum term Settlement type1 Vesting period vesting of/until 2014 X X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years X 3 years Cash 3 years – 2015 X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years X 3 years Cash 3 years – X (CCO) 4 years Equity² 4 years – 2016 X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years X 3 years Cash 3 years – 2017 X X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years X 3 years Cash 3 years – 2018 X X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years X (CEO)³ 4 years Equity² 4 years _ X 3 years Cash 3 years – 1 The cash-settled share awards will be settled in cash and no holding restrictions apply. An exception to the holding period for equity-settled plans is made with respect to shares that were sold upon vesting to cover the tax obligation on the vested shares. After vesting, the holder is able to sell a number of unconditional granted shares only up to the amount necessary to settle the wage taxes liability relating to the profit made on the stock compensation plan. Wage tax in the Netherlands is generally 52% of the total vested amount. 2 Including deferred dividend. 3 In May 2018, KPN’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Ibarra was granted shares which vest in April 2022 if he is still employed by KPN. For this plan, no other performance measures are applicable. The total compensation expense associated with the share awards, the service conditions were met in the year 2018. The plans was EUR 4m in 2018 (2017: EUR 11m) and the related intrinsic value at vesting was EUR 13m. liability (for cash-settled shares) on 31 December 2018 was EUR 4m (2017: EUR 13m). This liability is included under The following table presents the number of shares and Other payables. For the 2015 Share Plan and share-based share-based awards in thousands under the share plans. Total Granted/ Total Granted/ Total -of which: 31 Dec additional Exercised/ 31 Dec additional Exercised/ 31 Dec Non2016 vesting1,2 Vested Forfeited 20173 vesting2 Vested Forfeited4 20183 vested 2014 Share-based awards Sr. man. 2,874 – -1,976 -898 – – – – – – 2014 Shares BoM/Sr. man. 1,465 – -1,007 -458 – – – – – – 2015 Share-based awards Sr. man. 2,216 – – -143 2,073 1,510 -3,583 – – – 2015 Shares BoM 943 – – – 943 876 -1,819 – – – 2015 Shares CCO 159 – -106 – 53 – -53 – – – 2016 Share-based awards Sr. man. 2,529 – – -170 2,359 – – -151 2,208 2,208 2016 Shares BoM 900 – – – 900 – – -132 768 768 2017 Share-based awards Sr. man. – 1,205 – -40 1,165 143 – -167 1,141 1,141 2017 Shares BoM/Sr. man. – 2,347 – -41 2,306 195 – -531 1,970 1.970 2018 Share-based awards Sr. man. – – – – – 1,384 – -52 1,332 1,332 2018 Shares CEO – – – – – 80 – – 80 80 2018 Shares BoM/Sr. man. – – – – – 3,109 – -124 2,985 2,985 1 On the basis of a 100% grant. The equity-settled share numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be granted in additional shares. 2 At grant date, the fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo Simulation model except for the separate CEO shares. In April 2018, the fair value was EUR 1.95 (2017 grant: EUR 2.43) for the 2018 share-based award (cash-settled), EUR 2.19 (2017 grant: EUR 2.68) for the 2018 equity-settled share grant for the Board of Management (excluding deferred dividend) and EUR 2.06 for the 2018 separate equity-settled share grant for the CEO. Final TSR measurement for the 2015 share grant was conducted in February 2018 which resulted in 172.86% vesting in April 2018. 3 At 31 December 2018, the fair value of each cash-settled share-based award was measured, using recent strategic plans, forecasts and a Monte Carlo Simulation model, based on the most recent available share price of KPN and its performance compared with peer companies at the moment of valuation (i.e. closing share prices as at 31 December 2018). At 31 December 2018, the fair value is EUR 1.05 (2017: EUR 2.29) for the 2016 share-based award, EUR 1.74 (2017: EUR 2.50) for the 2017 share-based award and EUR 2.38 for the 2018 share-based award. 4 At the end of 2018, KPN held the 8th position with respect to the 2016 share grant and at the end of 2017, KPN held the 3rd position with respect to the 2015 share grant. This position and the outcomes of the other targets leads to 42.5% vesting in April 2019 of the 2016 share grant. Final TSR measurement for the 133 2016 share grant was conducted in February 2019. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements The fair value of each award at the grant date is determined using the following assumptions: € million 2018 CEO 2018 PSP 2017 PSP Risk-free interest rate based on euro government bonds for remaining time to maturity of 2.7 years -0.0% -0.0% -0.1% Expected dividend for KPN (based on one year’s historical daily data preceding the date of award) 4.1% 4.1% 2.6% Expected volatility (PSP grant based on 2.7 years’ historical daily data) used for TSR n/a 23.8% 26.3% Share price at date of award (closing at grant date) EUR 2.42 EUR 2.47 EUR 2.79 The following paragraphs provide detail on the actual Details of actual remuneration remuneration of the Board of Management and the The remuneration of the Board of Management, representing Supervisory Board. Please refer to the Remuneration Report the costs incurred by the company measured under IFRS for the executive pay policy. principles, is as follows: LTI2 Pension costs3 & Salary STI1 Share awards social security Total Name current member Year (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) M. Ibarra1 (since April 18, 2018) 2018 657,092 703,647 328,275 129,108 1,818,122 J.C. de Jager 2018 667,569 381,562 537,855 130,608 1,717,594 2017 642,917 366,604 544,618 123,750 1,677,889 J.F.E. Farwerck 2018 625,000 392,687 503,383 146,946 1,668,016 2017 610,833 332,477 498,478 143,876 1,585,664 Total current members 2018 1,949,661 1,477,896 1,369,513 406,662 5,203,732 2017 1,253,750 699,081 1,043,096 267,626 3,263,553 LTI Pension costs 2 3 Severance STI1 Share awards & social security Total Name former member Year Salary (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) E. Blok (up to and including April) 2018 283,333 850,000 315,577 374,031 86,819 1,909,760 2017 850,000 859,222 1,082,299 269,492 3,061,013 F.H.M. van der Post (up to and including 2018 525,000 1,050,000 459,816 788,378 130,261 2,953,455 September) 2017 700,000 362,866 700,798 179,962 1,943,626 Total former members 2018 808,333 1,900,000 775,393 1,162,409 217,080 4,863,215 2017 1,550,000 1,222,088 1,783,097 449,454 5,004,639 1 Actual STI relates to performance in the current year but paid out in the following financial year. Please refer to the ‘Short-term incentives’ section in the Remuneration Report section for the actual pay-out levels per target in 2018. For transition activities and professional services prior to becoming CEO, Mr. Ibarra received monthly advisory fees totaling EUR 195,000 in cash which is not included in the table. 2 The amounts in the table represent the cost recognized for shares in 2018 and 2017 based on their fair values at grant date. The fair value of the share-based award is recorded as cost over the vesting period. Please refer to the ‘Long-term incentives’ section in the Remuneration Report for a further explanation. The EUR 200,000 in cash subject to a 3-year retention period and EUR 200,000 in shares subject to a 4-year retention period for Mr. Ibarra are included in the amounts over the retention period. 3 The pension costs include the costs for survivor’s pension, disability coverage, administration as well as the gross allowances. The fixed gross allowance (for the base pay part above EUR 105,075) in 2018 was EUR 82,005 for Mr. Ibarra, EUR 80,131 for Mr. De Jager (2017: EUR 76,000) and EUR 82,980 for Mr. Farwerck (2017: EUR 82,000). For the former members the fixed gross allowance in 2018 was EUR 49,595 for Mr. Blok (2017: EUR 171,000) and EUR 81,542 for Mr. Van der Post (2017: EUR 119,000). The table on the next page presents the number of shares and share-based awards in thousands under the share plans. 134 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Pre-tax market value on Granted or As of 31 Pre-tax fair vesting date or Granted as of Vested forfeited in December value on grant end of lock-up End of lock-up Grant date 1 January 2018 in 2018² 2018¹,² 2018 date (EUR)³ in 2018 (EUR) period M. Ibarra 19/4/2018 – – 511,032 511,032 1,119,160 – 19/4/2023 18/5/2018 – – 79,554 79,554 163,747 – 19/04/2022 J.C. de Jager 19/4/2018 – – 245,951 245,951 538,633 – 19/4/2023 13/4/2017 210,492 – – 210,492 564,119 – 13/4/2022 14/4/2016 177,106 – – 177,106 514,862 – 14/4/2021 16/4/2015⁴ 185,724 -358,129 172,405 – 541,618 888,339 16/4/2020 J.F.E. Farwerck 19/4/2018 – – 227,733 227,733 498,735 – 19/4/2023 13/4/2017 202,396 – – 202,396 542,421 – 13/4/2022 14/4/2016 162,938 – – 162,938 473,674 – 14/4/2021 16/4/2015⁴ 170,867 -329,480 158,613 – 498,290 817,275 16/4/2020 Former members E. Blok 13/4/2017 412,889 – -275,259 137,630 1,106,543 – 13/4/2022 14/4/2016 361,297 – -120,432 240,865 1,050,319 – 14/4/2021 16/4/2015⁴ 378,878 -730,584 351,706 – 1,104,904 1,812,214 16/4/2020 F.H.M. van der Post 19/4/2018 – – 70,850 70,850 155,162 – 19/4/2023 13/4/2017 226,684 – -88,155 138,529 607,513 – 13/4/2022 14/4/2016 198,359 – -11,020 187,339 576,645 – 14/4/2021 16/4/2015⁴ 208,012 -401,106 193,094 – 606,614 994,943 16/4/2020 1/3/2015 53,095 -53,095 – – 566,177 122,947 N/a. 1 The shares granted to the Board of Management represent 25% of the total number of shares and share-based awards granted in 2018 to all employees. The 2018 grant numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. 2 The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be additionally granted in shares. 3 Value is calculated by multiplying the number of share awards by the fair value at grant date. 4 Final TSR measurement for the 2015 share grant was conducted in February 2018 which resulted in 172.86% vesting in April 2018. 5 All shares are in the vesting period or lock-up period and are conditional. See page 94 for stock ownership of members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. 135 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements Supervisory Board The table below shows the actual fee received by each member of the Supervisory Board. Membership Committee Amounts in € fee 2018 fee 2018 Total 2018 Total 2017 Accounting policy: Share-based compensation D.W. Sickinghe 100,000 16,875 116,875 122,500 For equity-settled plans, the fair value of shares granted to D.J. Haank 70,000 16,250 86,250 82,500 employees is measured at grant date. For cash-settled plans, the fair value of the liability for the awards granted P.A.M. van Bommel 60,000 20,000 80,000 80,000 is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. The costs of share-based compensation plans are C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 determined based on the fair value of the shares and the number of shares expected to vest. On each balance date, C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 60,000 11,875 71,875 77,500 KPN determines whether it is necessary to revise the expectation of the number of shares that will vest. The fair P.F. Hartman 60,000 16,875 76,875 82,500 value is recognized as personnel expense in profit or loss J.C.M. Sap 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 over the vesting period of the shares against an increase in equity in case of equity-settled share-based E. Overbeek 60,000 11,250 71,250 16,875 compensation plans and against recognition of a liability Total 530,000 113,125 643,125 601,875 in case of cash-settled share-based compensation plans. [6] Other operating expenses Accounting policy: Operating expenses Other operating expenses comprise, among others, a net Operating expenses are divided in direct cost (cost of addition to the restructuring provision, see Note 18. goods and services) and indirect cost (IT/TI, personnel expenses and other operating expenses). Auditor’s fees The fees listed below relate to the services provided to KPN Cost of goods and services are costs incurred in the and its consolidated group entities by Ernst & Young context of a sales transaction and include subscriber Accountants LLP, as well as by other Dutch and foreignacquisition and retention costs and traffic expenses. based EY individual partnerships and legal entities, including These costs are expensed as incurred, except handset their tax services and advisory groups: fees paid to dealers and transaction related dealer € million 2018 2017 commissions that are capitalized and amortized over the Financial statements audit fees 4.1 4.0 contract term . The cost of a handset is expensed when Other assurance fees 0.5 0.8 the handset is sold (as incurred), both as individual sale or Total audit fees 4.6 4.8 as component of a transaction in combination with a Tax fees 0.2 0.2 subscription. Total 4.8 5.0 IT/TI is an abbreviation for information technology and The total fees of Ernst & Young Accountants LLP charged to technical infrastructure. IT expenses relate to KPN’s IT KPN and its consolidated group entities amounted to environment and include licenses and maintenance EUR 4.6m in 2018 (2017: EUR 4.8m). The financial statements expenses for software and/or IT hardware when not audit fees include the fees for professional services rendered directly related to a sales transaction. TI expenses are for the audit of KPN’s annual financial statements and the expenses related to KPN’s fixed and mobile networks. annual statutory financial statements of subsidiaries or services that are normally provided by the auditor in Personnel expenses are all expenses related to KPN’s connection with the audits. The other assurance fees include workforce, both related to own employees and external the fees incurred for assurance and related services that are personnel. Other operating expenses include expenses reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review related to marketing and communication, billing and of KPN’s financial statements., such as revenue and IT-related collection, housing and facilities. 136 assurance services and regulatory-related assurance services. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements [7] Financial income and expenses € million Notes 2018 2017 Finance income 55 69 Interest on borrowings -310 -327 Interest on provisions for retirement [17] -7 benefit obligations Interest on other provisions -5 -4 Other interest expense –4 – Finance costs -319 -338 Result on sale of equity instruments 30 Amortizable part of hedge reserve [12.1] -15 -16 Amortization discontinued fair value [15] 39 39 hedges Derivative financial instruments not [12] -31 -28 qualified for hedge accounting Exchange rate differences 3 -3 Other 1 – Other financial results -3 22 Total -267 -247 Finance income included a dividend received from Telefónica Deutschland of EUR 54m (2017: EUR 70m). Interest on borrowings decreased by EUR 17m, which was mainly related to swapping of the 2025 and 2028 fixed bonds to floating interest. Interest on borrowings included a non-cash amount of EUR 8m (2017: EUR 12m) relating to debt issue costs and similar costs, which are amortized over the remaining life of the respective bonds using the effective interest rate method. In 2017, the Result on sale of equity instruments, in Other financial results, included a gain of EUR 30m from the sale of KPN’s stake in Tecnocom. 137 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements [8] Taxation The Netherlands The tax book loss, which is recognized as a result of the sale KPN is investigating the impact of the pending legislative of E-Plus in 2014, was used to offset KPN’s taxable income in proposal to change the Dutch fiscal unity regime. If enacted, the Netherlands in 2014 up to and including 2018, and will be certain interest deduction limitations must be applied as if the used to offset most of KPN’s taxable income in the fiscal unity does not exist. Netherlands in the coming years. Dividends received and/or capital gains realized (proceeds above tax book value), on See Note 20 ‘Business combinations and other changes in KPN’s shareholding in TEFD are subject to Dutch corporate consolidation’ for the impact of the acquisitions, which are income tax, but can be offset against aforementioned tax separately liable for income taxes and for which no loss carry book loss (note: dividends qualifying as specific capital forward is available. repayments are tax exempt). The summary of the remaining tax book loss is provided on the next page. Income tax expense € million 2018 2017 KPN has an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities with Current tax -10 -10 respect to the application of the Dutch innovation box tax Deferred taxes -223 -109 regime. This is a facility under Dutch corporate income tax Income tax (charge)/benefit from law whereby profits attributable to innovation are taxed at continuing operations -233 -119 an effective rate of 7% (2017: 5%). The application of the innovation box resulted in a benefit of EUR 10m over 2018 The reconciliation from the Dutch statutory tax of 25% (2017: (2017: EUR 10m). 25%) to the effective tax rate of 44.6% (2017: 23.4%) is explained in the table below. The book tax expenses Reggefiber Group’s fiscal unity, which became part of KPN’s increased with EUR 114m from EUR 119m in 2017 to EUR 233m main fiscal unity in 2018, has pre-fiscal unity tax losses carry in 2018, mainly due to the change in Dutch tax rates which forward. At 31 December 2018, a DTA of EUR 43m (2017: EUR has a negative effect on the valuation of our net deferred tax 54m) was recorded, of which EUR 15m (2017: EUR 20m) assets for an amount of EUR 107m. relates to recognized tax losses carry forward. 522 (2017: 508) -107 (20.4%) -233 (44.6%) (2017: 0; -0%) (2017: -119; 23.4%) -131 (25%) (2017: -127; 25%) 0 (0.0%) -5 (1.0%) -1 (0.2%) (2017-3; 0.6%) (2017: 7; -1.3%) +10 (-2.0%) (2017 -7; 1.4%) (2017: 10; -2.1%) Profit before Taxes at Dutch tax rate Not taxable Innovation tax Deferred tax Other Income tax income tax Dutch adjustment income, non facilities related to benefit/ from statutory deductible current year current year (charge) from continuing tax rates expenses and continuing operations operations liq. Losses excluding associates and joint 138 ventures The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Net DTA of the Dutch fiscal unity with regard to the book loss on the sale of E-Plus € million Net DTA Realized Unrealized Offset by DTL Net Loss Balance at 31 December 2016 904 470 501 -67 3,616 Movement 2017 -134 -140 – 6 -536 Balance at 31 December 2017 770 330 501 -61 3,080 Movement 2018 -237 -196 -90 49 -574 Balance at 31 December 2018 533 134 411 -12 2,506 Deferred tax positions Deferred tax assets Tax loss & Unrealized other carry liquidation Bonds & Restriction on Fiscal Offset € million forwards1 losses2 hedges3 depreciation4 goodwill5 Other by DTL Total6,7 Balance at 31 December 2016 565 518 176 160 48 79 -516 1,030 restated Income statement benefit/ -68 -17 -8 -19 -10 -10 108 -24 (charge) Transfer to current tax -94 – – – – – – -94 Tax charged to OCI – – -5 – – 2 – -3 Other (exchange, reclassification, -2 – – – – – – -2 change in consolidation) Balance at 31 December 2017 401 501 163 141 38 71 -408 907 restated Income statement benefit/ -18 -15 -11 57 -2 148 158 (charge) Transfer to current tax -169 – – – -4 16 – -156 Tax charged to OCI – – -1 – – – -1 Tax rate changes8 -16 -90 -26 -25 -17 -16 – -190 Other (exchange, reclassification, -3 – – – – – – -3 change in consolidation) Transfer to held for sale -13 – – – – – – -13 Balance at 31 December 2018 183 411 120 104 75 70 -260 702 1 Net off settable losses expected to be recovered within the expiration limits of applicable tax law. 2 Unrealized losses expected to be realized upon liquidation of the former E-Plus entities. Consequently, expiration limits are not yet applicable. 3 Amounts relate to capitalized costs for tax purposes, derivative positions adjusted for tax purposes and unrealized FX results included in the hedge reserve. 4 Amounts relate to assets depreciated in 5 years for tax purposes and less than 5 years for book purposes. 5 Amounts relate to goodwill depreciated for tax purposes (originated from internal transfers). 6 Of which EUR 93m to be recovered within 12 months (2017: EUR 131m). 7 Recoverability depending on future taxable results. Based on current projections, KPN expects to fully utilize its realized and unrealized losses well within the expiration limits of applicable tax law. 8 Representing the impact of the Dutch corporate tax rate change of which net 22m has been charged to OCI. 139 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements Deferred tax liabilities Taxable temporary differences Software DTL Accelerated Goodwill Offset against € million development1 recapture2 depreciation3 depreciation4 PPA5 Other tax assets Total Balance at 31 December 2016 164 67 62 62 50 111 -516 – restated Income statement (benefit)/ -15 -18 -40 16 -7 -55 108 -11 charge Tax charged to equity – – – – – -17 – -17 Tax charged to OCI – 12 – – – – – 12 Other (exchange, reclassification, – – – -8 29 -4 – 17 change in consolidation) Balance at 31 December 2017 149 61 22 70 71 36 -408 restated Income statement (benefit)/ -12 -7 -19 19 -8 3 148 125 charge Transfer to current tax – – – –4 – -2 – -6 Tax charged to equity – – – – – -17 – -17 Tax charged to OCI – -40 – – – – – -40 Tax rate changes6 -27 -3 –1 -17 -11 -3 – -61 Other (exchange, reclassification, – – – – -2 – – -2 change in consolidation) Balance at 31 December 2018 110 12 3 68 50 16 -260 1 Amounts relate to a capitalized software costs which is taken as an expense for tax books. 2 Amounts relate to the unrealized capital gains on the stake in Telefónica Deutschland which are considered taxable in the Netherlands (recapture rule). 3 Amounts relate to a temporary tax allowance (2009-2011 and part of 2013) to accelerate depreciation on investments for tax purposes. 4 Amounts relate to acquired goodwill depreciated for tax purposes (not for book purposes). 5 See Note 20 ‘Business combinations and other changes in consolidation’ for the impact of the acquisitions. 6 Representing the impact of the Dutch corporate tax rate change of which net 22m has been charged to OCI. Tax loss carry forward 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (Restated) Tax loss Maximum deferred Recognized deferred Tax loss Maximum deferred Recognized deferred € million carry forward tax asset tax asset carry forward tax asset tax asset Koninklijke KPN – 782 180 180 1,469 367 367 corporate tax1 Other 73 16 3 178 45 34 Total KPN Group 855 196 183 1,646 413 401 1 The offset of realized losses with future profits is limited to 9 years for losses incurred in years ending 2018 and is limited to 6 years for losses incurred in 2019 and onwards. 140 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Expiration of the available tax loss carry forward and recognized tax assets 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (Restated) Tax loss Maximum deferred Recognized deferred Tax loss Maximum deferred Recognized deferred € million carry forward tax asset tax asset carry forward tax asset tax asset 2019 1 3 1 1 2020 1 2 1 1 2021 5 1 1 9 2 2 2022 17 3 3 16 4 4 2023 755 174 174 N/a N/a N/a Later 75 16 4 1,616 405 393 Unlimited 1 – – 1 – – Total KPN Group 855 196 183 1,646 413 401 Accounting policy: Taxation only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable Current income tax profit will be available against which the temporary The current income tax charge is calculated in accordance differences can be utilized. with the prevailing tax regulations and rates, taking into account non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses. DTLs are recognized for all taxable temporary differences The current income tax expense reflects the amount for the except when they arise from the initial recognition of current reporting period that KPN expects to recover from goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a or pay to the tax authorities. Current income tax related to business combination and, at the time of the transaction, items recognized directly in equity/OCI is recorded in affects neither the profit or loss reported in the Statement of equity/ OCI and not in profit or loss. KPN’s management Profit or Loss nor the taxable profit or loss. Also, no DTLs periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns are recorded for taxable temporary differences associated regarding situations in which applicable tax regulations are with investments in subsidiaries and associates when the subject to interpretation and establishes provisions when timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be deemed appropriate. controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax Deferred income taxes positions are stated at nominal value and are measured at Deferred income tax positions are recognized for temporary the corporate income tax rates KPN expects to be differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities applicable in the year when the asset is realized or liability is and their carrying values. DTAs are recognized for settled based on enacted or substantially enacted tax laws. deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any unused tax losses. DTAs are DTAs and DTLs are netted if there is a legally enforceable recognized only to the extent that it is probable that future right to offset current tax assets against current tax taxable profits will be available against which the temporary liabilities and the DTAs/DTLs relate to income taxes levied differences can be utilized. Both the recognized and by the same taxation authority on the same taxable entity unrecognized DTAs are reassessed on each reporting date or if, in case of different taxable entities, there is an intention based on available projections. If future taxable profits are either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net insufficiently available, derecognition may become inevitable basis, or to realize the assets and settle the liabilities unless certain exceptions can be applied. DTAs are recorded simultaneously, in each future period in which significant for deductible temporary differences associated with amounts of deferred tax liabilities or assets are expected to investments in subsidiaries and associates and are recorded be settled or recovered. 141 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements [9] Earnings per share The following table shows the income and share data used in the calculations of the basic and diluted EPS. 2018 2017 € million (Restated) Profit for the year from continuing 280 390 operations Profit for the year from discontinued -10 operations Profit for the year 270 390 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests Deduction for perpetual capital securities -46 -51 Adjusted profit (loss) attributable to 224 339 ordinary shareholders of the company Weighted average number of 4,194,973,500 4,225,436,268 subscribed ordinary shares Dilution effects: options and non-vested 6,385,261 4,748,779 shares Weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares including 4,201,358,761 4,230,185,047 dilution effects Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to equity holders of the company for the year 2018 2017 € million (Restated) Basic (continuing operations) 0.06 0.08 Diluted (continuing operations) 0.06 0.08 Basic (discontinued operations) 0.00 0.00 Diluted (discontinued operations) 0.00 0.00 Basic 0.06 0.08 (total, including discontinued operations) Diluted 0.06 0.08 (total, including discontinued operations) Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. Share options and non-vested shares are regarded to have potential dilutive effects on the ordinary shares. Coupons and carrying amount adjustments on the perpetual capital securities were deducted from the profit attributable to equity holders, since the perpetual hybrid bonds represented equity but did not constitute profit attributable to ordinary holders. The total basic earnings per share EUR 0.06 (2017: EUR 0.03) 142 includes tax expense. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION [10] Property, plant and equipment Plant and Other tangible Assets under € million Land and buildings equipment non-current assets construction Total Balance at 1 January 2017 489 5,237 31 211 5,969 Investments 42 712 14 70 838 Depreciation -63 -902 -15 – -980 Impairments and retirements -3 -8 – -14 -25 Change in consolidation 1 5 4 1 11 Other 1 -3 – – -2 Closing net book value 466 5,042 35 268 5,811 Cost 1,880 9,499 98 268 11,745 Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,414 -4,458 -63 – -5,935 Balance at 31 December 2017 466 5,042 35 268 5,811 Investments 36 781 19 -17 820 Depreciation -64 -880 -16 – -960 Impairments and retirements -1 -3 – -6 -11 Transfer to assets held for sale – -19 – – -19 Other – – -1 1 – Closing net book value 437 4,921 37 246 5,641 Cost 1,872 9,361 101 246 11,580 Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,435 -4,440 -65 – -5,940 Balance at 31 December 2018 437 4,921 37 246 5,641 The book value of property, plant and equipment (PPE) of Accounting policy: PPE which KPN as the lessee is the beneficial owner under financial PPE are valued at cost less depreciation and impairment. lease programs amounted to EUR 48m (2017: EUR 59m). The cost include direct costs (materials, direct labor and work contracted out) and directly attributable overhead costs. Asset retirement obligations are capitalized as part of the cost of tangible fixed assets and expensed as either depreciation over the assets’ estimated useful life or as impairment charges. PPE are depreciated using the straight-line method, based on estimated useful life, taking into account residual value. Land is not depreciated. PPE are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of the assets concerned may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the assets’ book value exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that the impairment no longer exists. The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an assets’ fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. 143 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements Estimated useful lives of the principal PPE categories The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least annually and adjusted if appropriate. The strategic plan PPE category Depreciation period that was updated in late November 2018 includes, amongst Land No depreciation others, accelerating the rollout of fiber. Therefore the Buildings 14-33 years depreciation period of all new investments in copper Network equipment 3-7 years infrastructure will be adjusted on 1 January 2019 and capped Fiber network infrastructure 30 years at 10 years. Copper network infrastructure 5-10 years Vehicles 10 years Interest is capitalized as an increase in PPE if the construction Office equipment 4-10 years of assets takes a substantial period of time and the amount is material. [11] Intangible assets Statement of changes in intangible assets with finite lives and goodwill Computer Software in Customer € million Goodwill Licenses software development relationships Other Total Balance at 1 January 2017 1,428 1,037 476 43 247 19 3,250 Investments 106 24 296 11 2 – 439 Change in consolidation¹ – – 14 – 57 6 77 Amortization – -85 -291 – -26 -7 -409 Impairments – – -9 – – – -10 Subsequent PPA, exchange rate differences and other -5 – – – – -1 -6 Closing net book value 1,530 976 487 53 279 17 3,341 Cost 2,326 1,385 994 53 406 76 5,240 Accumulated amortization/impairments -796 -410 -507 – -127 -59 -1,899 Balance at 31 December 2017 1,530 976 487 53 279 17 3,341 Investments 11 – 252 37 – – 300 Change in consolidation² -41 – 1 – 5 -6 -41 Amortization – -85 -299 – -30 -6 -420 Impairments – – -7 – – – -8 Subsequent PPA, exchange rate differences and other3 11 – – – -18 3 -4 Closing net book value 1,510 890 434 89 236 9 3,169 Cost 2,167 1,385 991 89 369 53 5,055 Accumulated amortization/impairments -657 -495 -557 – -132 -44 -1,885 Balance at 31 December 2018 1,510 890 434 89 236 9 3,169 1 The change in consolidation in 2017 mainly include the customer bases of Qsight IT/InSpark, DearBytes, Solcon and Cam IT. 2 The change in consolidation in 2018 mainly include the held for sale of iBasis and the customer base of StartReady BV. 3. Includes the EUR 14m adjustment of the valuation of the customer bases of Qsight/InSpark. See Note 20. Goodwill per CGU 31 December 31 December € million 2018 2017 Consumer 770 770 Business¹ 701 679 Wholesale 40 40 iBasis² – 41 1 The change in goodwill mainly relates to the acquisition of StartReady (EUR 11m) and the subsequent PPA adjustment of Qsight/InSpark (EUR 10m). Total 1,510 1,530 2 iBasis is classified as ‘disposal group held for sale’ as of 7 March 2018. 144 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Goodwill impairment tests Key assumptions in goodwill impairment tests The annual impairment tests as at 31 December 2018 did not EBITDA Capex Discount Terminal sales indicate that the book value of KPN’s goodwill is not CGU margin intensity rate growth¹ recoverable. KPN’s market capitalization on 31 December Consumer 2018 47% – 53% 22% – 23% 8% – 9% 1% 2018 was higher than the book value of its equity. A test has Consumer 2017 48% – 60% 20% – 23% 7% – 8% 0% been performed of the recoverable amount of the book value Business 2018 24% – 35% 13% – 15% 8% – 9% 1% of each cash-generating unit (CGU), based on their Business 2017 30% – 37% 10% – 17% 7% – 8% 0% value-in-use, which was determined by using the discounted Wholesale 2018 45% – 55% 25% – 28% 8% – 9% 1% cash flow method. Key assumptions used in the cash flow projections are estimated EBITDA, capex, change in working Wholesale 2017 55% – 64% 21% – 35% 7% – 8% 0% capital and pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) 1 Estimates after 10 years and are not significantly different from those used in prior year. The cash flow projections are management’s best estimate based on the updated strategic plan (see page 28) Since the headroom of the Dutch CGUs is more than and extrapolation to terminal values. The WACC is calculated sufficient, no sensitivity analysis is disclosed for these CGUs. using a Capital Asset Pricing Model. For all three CGUs, the A reasonable possible change in assumptions would not annual impairment tests in 2018 and 2017 resulted in result in an impairment. significant positive headroom as at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017. Accounting policy: goodwill and intangibles with finite lives The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair Internally developed and acquired software, not being an value of the identifiable net assets acquired in a business integral part of PPE, is capitalized on the basis of the costs combination is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill on acquisitions incurred, which include direct costs and directly attributable of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on overhead costs incurred. acquisition of associates is included in investments in associates. Other intangible assets such as customer relationships and trade names acquired in business combinations are Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment capitalized at their fair values at acquisition date and are testing. The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of amortized using the straight-line method over the economic CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the useful life. business combination. Goodwill is carried at cost less Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever accumulated impairment losses and tested for impairment events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book annually or whenever there is an indication that goodwill value of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss may be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the recoverable is recognized for the amount by which the book value of the amount is lower than the book value. The recoverable licenses exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairments are amount is defined as the higher of the fair value less costs of reversed if and to the extent that the impairment no longer disposal and the value in use of the CGUs concerned. exists. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed in the event Intangible assets not yet available for use are tested that circumstances that triggered the impairment have annually for impairment or whenever KPN has an indication changed. that the intangible fixed assets may be impaired. For example, licenses are tested as part of a CGU as licenses do Licenses and software are valued at cost less amortization and not generate independent cash flows. impairment. Amortization is calculated using the straightThe amortization periods of the intangible assets with finite line method over the economic useful life and commences lives are for licenses 5-20 years, software 3-5 years and other at the date that services can be offered (available for use). intangible assets 4-20 years. 145 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements [12] Financial assets and financial liabilities Summary of the financial assets and liabilities at carrying amount and fair value, classified per category. 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 € million Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Financial assets at FVPL Other current financial assets [12.1] 50 50 329 329 Derivatives [12.3] 185 185 168 168 Cash and cash equivalents, including classified as held for sale [14] 618 618 856 856 Financial assets at amortized cost Trade and other receivables, contract assets and prepayments [13] 951 951 1,022 1,022 Financial assets at FVOCI Equity investments [12.1] 475 475 1,091 1,091 Total financial assets 2,279 2,279 3,466 3,466 Financial liabilities FVPL Derivatives [12.3] 318 318 328 328 Financial liabilities at amortized cost Borrowings [12.2] 7,575 8,070 7,596 8,479 Trade and other payables [19] 1,191 1,191 1,327 1,327 Total financial liabilities 9,084 9,579 9,251 10,134 Fair value measurement hierarchy at 31 December 2018 (€ million) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets at FVPL Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 23 − 23 Derivatives (interest rate swap) and other − 162 − 162 Financial assets at FVOCI Equity investments: Listed securities 449 − − 449 Unlisted securities − − 26 26 Total assets 449 185 26 660 Financial liabilities at FVPL Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 280 − 280 Derivatives (interest rate swap) − 38 − 38 Total liabilities − 318 − 318 146 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Fair value measurement hierarchy at 31 December 2017 (€ million) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets at FVPL Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 3 − 3 Derivatives (interest rate swap) and other − 165 − 165 Financial assets at FVOCI Equity investments: Listed securities 1,071 − − 1,071 Unlisted securities − − 20 20 Total assets 1,071 168 20 1,259 Financial liabilities at FVPL Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 293 − 293 Derivatives (interest rate swap) − 35 − 35 Total liabilities − 328 − 328 Fair value estimation [12.1] Financial assets Level 1: Fair value of instruments traded in active markets and based on quoted market prices. Level 2: Instrument is not Equity investments measured at fair value through OCI traded in an active market and fair value is determined by This includes KPN’s stake in Telefónica Deutschland (TEFD). using valuation techniques based on maximum use of KPN sold 124.6m TEFD shares (4.2%) through various observable market data for all significant inputs. Level 3: One transactions during 2018 at an average price of EUR 3.73 per or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable share. The cumulative loss on the sold shares in 2018 was market data, the fair value is estimated using models and EUR 52m. KPN considers the stake in TEFD as a financial other valuation methods. The valuation of available-for-sale investment which provides additional financial flexibility. The unlisted securities is based on a discounted cash flow model. fair value of KPN’s 4.4% stake in TEFD was EUR 449m as at 31 December 2018 (2017: EUR 1,071m for a 8.6% stake). In 2018, a net loss of EUR 158m in the fair value of the stake in TEFD has been recorded through OCI. In 2018, KPN received a Accounting policy: Financial assets dividend from TEFD of EUR 54m (2017: EUR 70m) which has Financial assets are classified at initial recognition. been recorded as Finance income. The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial asset’s contractual cash flow This also includes several minority stakes of which the largest characteristics and KPN’s business model for managing them. is Actility SA, a provider of network solutions and managed information systems for the Internet of Things market with a KPN initially measures a financial asset at its fair value carrying value of EUR 7m (2017: EUR 7m). No dividends were plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value received from these investments in 2018 or 2017. through profit or loss, transaction costs. These investments were irrevocably designated at fair value For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial through OCI because KPN believes that the fluctuations in assets are classified in four categories: the fair value of these investments do not give a fair view of Financial assets at amortised cost (debt instruments). KPN’s performance. Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI) with recycling of Other current financial assets cumulative gains and losses (debt instruments). Other current financial assets include investments in shortFinancial assets designated at fair value through OCI term money market funds for EUR 50m (2017: EUR 329m), with no recycling of cumulative gains and losses upon which are held at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL). derecognition (equity instruments). These funds have low volatility, with an investment objective Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. of preservation of principal. 147 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements [12.2] Financial liabilities The carrying amounts and fair value of borrowings is as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 € million Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Eurobonds EUR 3,913 4,040 3,903 4,194 Eurobonds GBP 1,493 1,774 1,504 1,884 Global bonds USD 1,089 1,131 1,070 1,152 Hybrid bonds (GBP and USD) 967 1,007 946 1,064 Other borrowings 113 118 173 185 Total borrowings 7,575 8,070 7,596 8,479 > of which: current 589 595 18 18 > of which: non-current 6,986 7,475 7,578 8,461 The fair value for eurobonds, global bonds and hybrid bonds is based on the listed price of the bonds. Other borrowings include financial lease obligations, cash collateral received on derivatives, bank overdraft and other loans. KPN’s weighted average interest rate on the borrowings outstanding before swaps on 31 December 2018 was 5.1% (2017: 5.2%). The weighted average interest rate after swaps was 4.2% (2017: 4.5%). Excluding all hybrid bonds, the average interest rate on the senior bond portfolio after swaps on 31 December 2018 was 3.8% (2017: 3.9%). Senior bonds In 2018, KPN’s senior bond portfolio has not changed. Hybrid bonds On 14 September 2018, KPN exercised its first call option and redeemed the EUR 6.125% Perpetual Hybrid Securities with an outstanding principal amount of EUR 1,100m. € million Nominal Nominal € Coupon Classification Redemption First call date Swapped Credit rating GBP hybrid bond 400 460 6.875% Liability 14 Mar 2073 14 Mar 2020 Fixed 6.78% BB/Ba2 USD hybrid bond 600 465 7.000% Liability 28 Mar 2073 28 Mar 2023 Fixed 6.34% BB/Ba2 As at 31 December 2018, two hybrid bonds remain Accounting policy: Borrowings outstanding which are treated for 50% as equity and 50% as After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are debt in KPN’s gross and net debt definitions. subsequently carried at amortized cost; any difference KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the elect to defer payments of interest on the hybrid bonds. redemption value is recognized in the P&L over the period Arrears of interest must be paid if dividends are paid on ordinary of the borrowings using the effective interest method. The shares and in the event of early redemption, at final maturity. amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discounts or premiums on acquisition or issuance and transaction costs. The effective interest rate amortization is recognized in the P&L as finance costs. 148 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities Derivative financial € million Borrowings instruments Net liability Balance at 1 January 2017 8,632 -100 8,532 Exchange differences -253 255 2 Movements recorded as net cash flows arising from/used in financing activities: Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives¹ -749 -20 -769 Other movements² -34 25 -9 Balance at 31 December 2017 7,596 160 7,756 Exchange differences 47 -47 Movements recorded as net cash flows arising from/used in financing activities: Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives¹ -56 -56 Other movements² -12 20 8 Balance at 31 December 2018 7,575 133 7,708 1 In the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows this line item includes a payment of EUR 65m in 2018 and EUR 90m in 2017 regarding cash collateral on derivatives (presented as non-current other receivables). 2 Other movements predominantly are fair value adjustments. (derivative financial instruments). [12.3] Hedging activities and derivatives Part of KPN’s derivatives portfolio contains reset clauses or KPN uses derivatives solely for the purpose of hedging collateral postings at pre-agreed dates (see Note 12.4 underlying exposures. The primary risks managed using ‘Liquidity risk’). derivative instruments are foreign currency risk and interest rate risk. Derivatives designated in a hedge relationship 31 December 31 December Cash flow hedges € million 2018 2017 Bonds denominated in foreign currencies are hedged with Assets (current and non-current) 185 168 cross-currency swaps. The currency exposure is hedged by effectively fixing the countervalue in foreign currency to euro Liabilities (current and non-current) -318 -328 and by hedging the interest rate exposure by swapping the Total derivatives -133 -160 fixed interest rates in foreign currency to fixed rates in euro. o f which: designated in a hedge There is an economic relationship between the hedged items -233 -291 relationship and hedging instruments as the terms of the cross-currency of which: other derivatives not 100 131 swaps match the terms of the bonds. KPN has established a designated in a hedge relationship hedge ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships as the quantity The ineffective portion of the hedge relationships recognized of hedged items equals the notional amount of the crossin the P&L during 2018 resulted in a loss of EUR 1m (2017: currency swaps. The hedges are until maturity of the EUR 1m loss). underlying senior bonds, or until the first call date in case of the hybrid bonds. For these hedges, KPN meets the criteria of, Derivatives positions are reported on a gross basis and and also applies, cash flow hedge accounting. The include a credit value adjustment attributable to derivative effectiveness of the hedges are determined at inception and counterparty default risk of EUR -1m as at 31 December 2018 on a quarterly basis. To test the hedge effectiveness, KPN (2017: EUR +2m). Part of the derivatives portfolio is subject to uses the hypothetical derivative method and compares the master netting agreements that allow netting under certain changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments against circumstances. If netting had been applied, the total the changes in the fair value of the hedged items attributable derivatives asset position would be EUR 26m and the total to the hedged risks. If the cumulative change in fair value of derivatives liability position would be EUR 159m at 31 the hedging instrument and hedged item are not equal in December 2018 (2017: EUR 32m and EUR 192m respectively). absolute terms, the difference will be reported in the P&L to 149 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements the extent that, in absolute terms, the fair value change of the hedging instrument is greater than the fair value change of the hedged item. Hedge ineffectiveness can arise from: Different curves linked to hedged items and hedging instruments. The counterparties’ credit risk differently impacting the fair value movement of the hedging instruments and hedged items Changes in the terms of the hedge item or hedge instrument. An overview of the cross-currency swaps at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is presented below: Nominal Coupon Nominal Coupon Maturity date Fair value Fair value (receive) (receive) (pay) (pay) 2018 (EUR m) 2017 (EUR m) GBP 96 6.000%, annual EUR 123 4.580%, annual 29-05-19 -16 -15 GBP 400 6.875%, annual EUR 460 6.777%, annual 14-03-20 -22 -23 USD 600 7.000%, semi-annual EUR 465 6.344%, semi-annual 28-03-23 23 -5 GBP 400 5.000%, annual EUR 474 4.424%, annual 18-11-26 -60 -46 GBP 850 5.750%, annual EUR 971 5.432%, annual 17-09-29 -118 -78 USD 1,000 8.375%, semi-annual EUR 756 8.557%, semi-annual 01-10-30 -64 -123 -257 -290 The impact of the cash flow hedges on the Statement of Financial Position is as follows: Change in fair value Line item in Statement of used for measuring € million Notional amount Carrying amount Financial Position ineffectiveness for the period As at 31 December 2018: Cross currency swaps GBP 2,029 -217 Derivative financial instruments -55 Cross currency swaps USD 1,221 -40 Derivative financial instruments 88 Total 3,250 -257 33 As at 31 December 2017: Cross currency swaps GBP 2,029 -162 Derivative financial instruments -23 Cross currency swaps USD 1,221 -128 Derivative financial instruments -212 Total 3,250 -290 -234 150 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements The change in fair value of the associated hedged items attributable to the hedged risks was not materially different from the change in fair value of the associated hedging instruments, resulting in no significant ineffectiveness gains or losses in 2018 (2017: EUR 2m loss). The effect of the cash flow hedge in the P&L and OCI is as follows: Ineffectiveness Amount Total hedging gain/ recognized as a reclassified from (loss) recognized in gain/(loss) in OCI as a gain/ € million OCI P&L Line item in P&L (loss) in P&L Line item in P&L Year ended 31 December 2018: Cross currency swaps GBP -55 Other financial results -16 Other financial results Cross currency swaps USD 88 Other financial results 63 Other financial results Total 33 47 Year ended 31 December 2017: Cross currency swaps GBP -23 -1 Other financial results -71 Other financial results Cross currency swaps USD -212 -1 Other financial results -184 Other financial results Total -234 -2 -255 Fair value hedges In 2017, the 1.125% fixed rate eurobond maturing on 11 hedge ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships as the September 2028, has been swapped to a floating rate using quantity of hedged item equals the notional amount of the fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps, whereby KPN receives a hedging instrument. For these hedges, KPN meets the fixed rate of 0.907% and pays interest at a variable rate equal criteria of, and also applies, hedge accounting. If the to six-months Euribor. In 2018, the 0.625% fixed rate Eurobond cumulative change in the fair value of the hedging maturing on 9 April 2025 has also been swapped to a floating instrument and hedged item are not equal in absolute terms, rate using fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps, whereby KPN the difference will be recorded in the P&L. The hedge receives a fixed rate of 0.920% and pays interest at a variable ineffectiveness can arise from: rate equal to 6-month Euribor (in arrears). The swaps are Different curves linked to the hedged items and hedging used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of instruments. these fixed rate eurobonds against changes in the euro The counterparties’ credit risk differently impacting the fair interest curve. value movement of the hedging instruments and hedged There is an economic relationship between the hedged item items. and the hedging instrument as the terms of the interest rate Changes in the terms of the hedge item or hedge instrument. swaps match the terms of the fixed rated bonds (i.e. notional The impact of the fair value hedges on the Statement of amount, maturity and payment dates). KPN has established a Financial Position is as follows: Change in fair value Line item in Statement of used for measuring € million Notional amount Carrying amount Financial Position ineffectiveness for the period As at 31 December 2018: Interest rate swaps 1,250 24 Derivative financial instruments 26 As at 31 December 2017: Interest rate swaps 625 -1 Derivative financial instruments -1 151 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements The impact of the hedged items on the Statement of Financial Position is as follows: Line item in Change in fair value Accumulated fair value Statement of Financial used for measuring € million Carrying amount adjustments Position ineffectiveness for the period As at 31 December 2018: Fixed rate Eurobonds 2025 & 2028 -1,263 -25 Borrowings -26 As at 31 December 2017: Fixed rate Eurobonds 2025 & 2028 -1,237 1 Borrowings 1 The ineffectiveness recognized in the P&L for the year ended 31 December 2018 was a loss of EUR 1m (2017: EUR nil). Derivatives not designated in a hedge relationship In 2011, fixed rate eurobonds with maturities on 21 September The cumulative gain of EUR 224m will be amortized to 2020, 4 October 2021 and 30 September 2024, were swapped earnings until maturity of the bonds. The gain realized in the to a floating interest rate based on 3-month Euribor using P&L in 2018 was EUR 20m (2017: EUR 20m). The balance of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. Subsequently in May the unamortized gain was EUR 68m at 31 December 2018 2015, KPN swapped the floating rate exposure on these (2017: EUR 88m). Since May 2015, KPN holds the interest rate bonds to a fixed rate for the remaining maturity of these swaps on these bonds at FVPL for an amount of EUR 100m bonds and discontinued fair value hedge accounting for the as at 31 December 2018 (2017: EUR 131m) and recorded a loss fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. of EUR 31m in 2018 (2017: EUR 28m loss). Accounting policy: Derivatives and hedging activities >T here is ‘an economic relationship’ between the hedged Derivatives are recognized at fair value. Gains and losses item and the hedging instrument arising from changes in fair value are recognized as finance >T he effect of credit risk does not ‘dominate the value cost/income during the period in which they arise to the changes’ that result from that economic relationship extent that the derivatives have no hedging designation or >T he hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as they are ineffective. that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Group actually hedges and the quantity of the Derivatives related to loans are designated as either cash flow hedging instrument that the Group actually uses to hedge or fair value hedges. As of 1 January, 2018, KPN adopted the that quantity of hedged item new IFRS hedge accounting (IFRS 9), which replaced the IAS 39 hedge accounting. The application of IFRS 9 results in a Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which is better alignment with the risk management of the company designated as a fair value hedge, along with the gain or loss and provides more possibilities to apply hedge accounting. on the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded as finance cost/ income. Changes in the fair IFRS 9 also recognizes the offsetting effects in the P&L. value of an effective derivative, which is designated as a Beginning 1 January 2018, the hedge documentation cash flow hedge, are recorded in OCI for the effective part, includes identification of the hedging instrument, the until the P&L is affected by the variability in cash flows of hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the designated hedged item. The ineffective part of the the Group will assess whether the hedging relationship cash flow hedge is recognized as finance cost/income. If an meets the hedge effectiveness requirements (including the underlying transaction has ceased to be an effective hedge analysis of sources of hedge ineffectiveness and how the or in case of early redemption of the hedged item, hedge hedge ratio is determined). A hedging relationship qualifies accounting is discontinued prospectively which means that for hedge accounting if it meets all of the following subsequent changes in fair value are recognized in the P&L effectiveness requirements: as finance cost/income. The cumulative amount recorded in OCI is released in the P&L. 152 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements [12.4] Financial risk management and policies Financing policy Financial risk management KPN strives for the right balance between a prudent financing KPN is exposed to a variety of financial risks. The overall risk policy, investments in the business and shareholder management program focuses on the unpredictability of remuneration. KPN is committed to an investment grade financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse credit profile. It is KPN policy to utilize excess cash for effects on KPN’s financial position and performance. operational and financial flexibility and/or shareholder Derivatives are used to hedge certain risk exposures (see remuneration. 12.3). The financial risks are managed by KPN’s Treasury department under policies approved by the Board of The net debt/EBITDA ratio is one of the drivers for KPN’s Management and Supervisory Board. These policies are credit rating and is based on the nominal value of borrowings. established to identify and analyze financial risks, to set KPN remains committed to an investment grade credit profile appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor adherence and aims for a net debt/EBITDA ratio of below 2.5x in the to those limits. KPN’s key financial risks are: medium term. Credit and counterparty risk Liquidity risk The difference between the carrying value and nominal value Market risk of borrowings includes: (1) carrying value adjustments resulting from fair value hedges and (2) in case of foreign Credit and counterparty risk currency bonds, the difference between the nominal amount Credit risk arises from the possibility of asset impairment at the prevailing spot rate and the swapped nominal amount occurring when counterparties are unable to meet their in EUR. obligations in transactions involving financial instruments. Capital preservation is KPN’s main priority when investing excess cash. KPN’s counterparty policy sets limits for the 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 maximum exposure per counterparty, which are primarily € million (Restated) based on credit ratings, investment periods and collateral. Borrowings 7,575 7,596 The minimum counterparty credit rating (Moody’s Bank overdraft -5 -4 equivalent) is A3 for cash balances and for entering into new Perpetual hybrid bonds 1,100 derivative transactions. Cash balances used for working capital purposes can also reside at banks with lower credit ratings. 50% equity credit for hybrid bonds -463 -1,013 Cash collateral paid on derivatives -180 -114 As at 31 December 2018, KPN’s cash balances and short-term Difference between carrying value and -374 -335 investments were held in bank accounts, bank deposits, nominal value money market funds with maturities up to three months. The Adjusted gross debt 6,553 7,230 majority of cash balances were invested with counterparties Net cash and cash equivalents 613 852 with a credit rating equivalent to A2 at Moody’s or stronger Short-term investments 50 329 and the counterparties of outstanding derivatives have a Net debt 5,890 6,049 credit rating equivalent to Baa1 or higher with Moody’s. Normalized EBITDA 2,327 2,309 Credit risk on trade receivables is controlled using restrictive Net Debt/EBITDA 2.5x 2.6x policies for customer acceptance. Credit management is focused on mobile services. Before accepting certain new customers in this segment, the creditworthiness of prospective clients is checked. In addition, KPN keeps track of the payment performance of customers. If customers fail to meet set criteria, payment issues must be resolved before a new transaction will be entered into. KPN’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only to wholly-owned subsidiaries. At 31 December 2018, KPN had parent guarantees and bank guarantees outstanding to third 153 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements parties for various Dutch wholly-owned subsidiaries. The carrying See schedule of the allowances for expected losses in Note 13 amount of financial assets including cash represents the for information about credit losses on trade and other maximum credit exposure, which amounts to EUR 2,279m at receivables. There were no other credit losses. 31 December 2018 (2017: EUR 3,466m). On 31 December 2018, total outstanding bank guarantees amounted to EUR 7m (2017: EUR 8m), which were issued in the ordinary course of business. Maturity analysis of the financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities on 31 December 2018: Borrowings Derivatives Derivatives Derivatives Trade and other Interest on Financial Other debt inflow outflow payables and Bonds and bonds and lease and cash (including (including accrued € million loans1 loans2 obligations collateral interest) interest) expenses Total 2019 573 295 9 7 -479 432 1,029 1,866 2020-2023 1,690 891 24 1 -2,241 2,010 2,375 2024 and further 4,973 992 22 0 -5,168 4,980 5.799 Contractual cash flows 7,236 2,178 56 8 -7,887 7,423 1,029 10,040 1 Includes the GBP and USD Hybrid Bonds with final maturities in 2073 (redemption value of EUR 971m). 2 Interest payments on the GBP and USD hybrid bonds (EUR 67m per year until the first call dates in 2020 and 2023 respectively) are not included. KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of interest on these hybrid bonds. Any arrears of interest must be paid at the latest at redemption in 2073, the amount of which cannot be reliably measured because of the duration of the hybrid bonds. Liquidity risk Available financing sources Liquidity risk is the risk that KPN will not be able to meet its In addition to the available cash and cash equivalents and financial obligations associated with financial instruments as short-term investments and cash flows from operations, KPN they become due. KPN’s approach to managing liquidity is to has the following committed financing resources available: ensure sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring Revolving credit facility unacceptable losses or risking damage. Part of the derivatives In June 2018, KPN exercised the remaining one-year contain reset clauses or collateral postings at pre-agreed extension option for its EUR 1.25 billion revolving credit dates, in order to mitigate counterparty exposure during the facility, which brings the final maturity of the revolving credit life of the swap. These reset clauses will result in early euro facility to 1 July 2023. The facility is used for general corporate settlement obligations in cash with the swap counterparty, purposes and does not contain any financial covenants. The which could lead to additional cash inflows or outflows before facility was undrawn per 31 December 2018. maturity. During 2018, KPN paid net collateral of EUR 113m (2017: paid EUR 111m), according to pre-agreed settlement schedules. In order to reduce liquidity risks, the reset clauses or collateral postings are spread over different points in time. 154 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Capital resources covenants matches and manages the intercompany and external KPN’s existing capital resources contain the following exposures using forward exchange contracts. No hedge covenants as at 31 December 2018, which could trigger accounting is applied for these hedge instruments. additional financial obligations or early redemption of the outstanding indebtedness. All senior bonds issued after 1 As at 31 December 2018, more than 97% of cash and cash January 2006 (EUR 5.4bn at 31 December 2018) contain a equivalents was denominated in the functional currency of change of control clause. KPN may be required to early the related entities. More than 99% of the net amount of redeem, in case certain changes of control occur and within trade receivables and more than 96% of the amount of trade this change of control period (max. 90 days) a rating payables was outstanding in the functional currency of the downgrade to sub-investment grade occurs. The hybrid related entities. bonds also contain a change of control clause by means of which KPN has the possibility to repurchase the hybrid bonds Interest rate risk and interest rate profile at par. A 5% interest step-up applies if a rating downgrade Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash occurs during the change of control period in respect of that flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate as a result of change of control. In addition, many of KPN’s capital changes in market interest rates. Borrowings, derivatives, resources contain a covenant prohibiting KPN from entering cash and cash equivalents are subject to interest rate risk. into any amalgamation, demerger, merger, corporate With regard to interest rate risk exposure, KPN periodically restructuring or reorganization, unless prior written consent evaluates the desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate has been given by a majority of the lenders or bondholders or liabilities, balancing the benefit of lower interest costs vs. the the resulting company assumes all of the rights and variability of cash flows. Any interest exposure longer than obligations with respect to the loans or bonds. one year is considered to be fixed. KPN may use derivative financial instruments to adjust the desired interest rate Market risk exposure. KPN is exposed to various kinds of market risks in the ordinary course of business. These risks include foreign As of 31 December 2018, after swaps, 83% of KPN’s interestcurrency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. bearing gross debt (excluding bank overdraft) was at fixed interest rates (2017: 92%). Foreign currency exchange rate risk Foreign currency risks mainly result from settlement of In February 2018, KPN swapped the 0.625% coupon on the international telecommunications traffic and purchase of 2016 2025 eurobond to 6-month Euribor (in arrears) to assets and primarily consists of GBP and USD exposure. adjust the mix of fixed and floating rate interest rate liabilities. Foreign currency exchange rate risks related to bonds that With a view to the existing and forecasted debt structure, are not denominated in euro are hedged into euro in line with KPN could enter into additional future derivatives to further KPN’s hedging policies. adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rate liabilities. As a result of currency fluctuations, the value of subsidiaries A sensitivity analysis on 31 December 2018 with regard to could fluctuate and affect the financial position and equity interest rate risk on interest-bearing liabilities (excl. cash flow positions from year to year. These translation exposures are hedges) showed that, ceteris paribus, each adverse change of not hedged. 100 bps in the 6-month Euribor would hypothetically result in EUR 10m higher interest costs per annum. Group companies and business operations are obliged to hedge their firm commitments and highly predictable anticipated transactions in non-functional currencies by forward contracts. Accordingly, KPN’s Treasury department 155 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements Cash flow hedges KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis on 31 December 2018 with regard to interest rate and currency risk on the cash flow hedges. KPN applies cash flow hedge accounting on all bonds not denominated in euro. With all other variables held constant, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in interest rates based on various scenarios. This would hypothetically result in a higher or lower value on the balance of the hedge reserve, which is included in equity attributable to equity holders. In a similar way, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in the EUR/USD rate and the EUR/GBP rate, holding all other variables constant. The results of the analysis are shown in the table below, indicating the hypothetical impact on the fair value of the crosscurrency swaps (excluding the partially offsetting impact on the hedged items). GBP USD Total € million (before tax) Change 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Change in interest rate +1%-point -10 -8 -4 -11 -14 -19 -1%-point 11 9 3 11 14 20 Change in FX rate +10%-point 38 70 47 60 85 130 -10%-point -46 -86 -57 -73 -103 -159 Prospective effectiveness testing indicates that all cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective. Consequently, the expected impact on the P&L is immaterial. Derivatives held at fair value KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis on 31 December 2018 with regard to the fair value of interest rate swaps (excluding the partially offsetting impact on the hedged items): € million Change 2018 2017 Changes in EUR interest rates +1%-point -96 -61 -1%-point 102 68 For a sensitivity analysis on interest rate risk regarding pensions, see Note 17. 156 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets The following financial assets are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements (continuing operations only): Not offset: Financial € million Financial liabilities Net amount in instruments/Cash 31 December 2018 Gross amount set off balance sheet collateral Net amount Cash and cash equivalents 594 – 594 -5 589 Derivatives 185 – 185 185 Trade and other receivables – – – – – Total 779 779 -5 774 31 December 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 856 – 856 -4 852 Derivatives 168 – 168 -48 120 Trade and other receivables 123 -59 64 – 64 Total 1,147 -59 1,088 -52 1,036 Financial liabilities The following financial liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements: Not offset: Financial € million Financial liabilities Net amount in instruments/Cash 31 December 2018 Gross amount set off balance sheet collateral Net amount Derivatives 318 – 318 -180 138 Trade and other receivables – – – – – Total 318 – 318 -180 138 31 December 2017 Derivatives 328 – 328 -114 214 Trade and other receivables 151 -59 92 – 92 Total 479 -59 420 –114 306 For the financial assets and liabilities summarized above, each Accounting policy: Offsetting financial assets and agreement between KPN and the counterparty allows for net liabilities settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported on a both parties elect to settle on a net basis. net basis on the balance sheet only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 157 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements [13] Trade and other receivables, contract assets and contract costs 13.1 Trade and other receivables 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (Restated) € million Current Non-current Current Non-current Trade receivables 343 – 379 – Financial receivables handsets 187 – – – Sales to be invoiced 128 – 240 – Interest to be received 23 – 16 – Prepayments, accruals and other receivables 121 197 100 138 Total 802 197 735 138 Trade receivables are generally on payment terms of 14 to 30 The aging of the gross trade receivables is as follows: days. 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 The held for sale classification of iBasis resulted in a decrease € million (Restated) in 2018 of trade receivables of EUR 22m and sales to be Trade receivables gross invoiced of EUR 35m. Amounts undue 234 225 As of 1 January 2018, KPN’s general terms and conditions Past due 0–90 days 77 106 of the contract with customers in the Consumer segment for a handset with postpaid subscription have changed. Past due 91–360 days 34 28 The instalment payments on the handset loan, as issued by KPN Finance B.V., have become unconditional on the delivery More than one year 27 50 of the telco service, resulting in a financial receivable instead Total trade receivables gross 373 409 of a contract asset. Provision for credit risk exposure 30 30 The non-current other receivables relate for EUR 180m to Total trade receivables net 343 379 cash collateral received on derivatives (2017: EUR 114m). The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate their fair value. Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing. Sales to be invoiced include accrued income related to usage of KPN’s network which is invoiced monthly in arrears. 158 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements 13.2 Contract assets and contract costs 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Upon invoicing, the amounts recognized as contract assets (Restated) are reclassified to trade receivables. € million Current Non-current Current Non-current The decrease of the contract assets is related to the Contract assets 103 1 283 2 instalment payments of handsets accounted for as financial Costs to obtain receivable instead of as a contract asset as of 1 January 2018 – 32 – 33 a contract Costs to fulfill a (see Note 13.1). 4 – 5 – contract Total 107 33 288 35 Contract costs Contract costs include: Transaction-related dealer fees paid to acquire or retain Contract assets mobile subscribers. A contract asset is recognized in case the earned Costs incurred during the transition phase of projects for consideration is conditional. This includes: business customers to be able to deliver exploitation Handsets delivered at the start of postpaid mobile contracts services which are not treated as a separate performance entered into before 2018. obligation. The costs are capitalized as costs to fulfil a Handset-related dealer fees (amounts paid to dealers for contract and expensed in principle on a straight-line basis the delivery of handsets to the end-customer/postpaid over the remaining contract term in which the exploitation mobile contracts via third parties). services are delivered. Installation services at the start of the contract if the amount of revenue recognized is higher than the amounts charged upfront. Transition projects for business customers when the 13.3 Allowances for expected credit losses revenue recognized is higher than the amounts invoiced for The movement schedule of the allowances for expected the transition phase. credit losses is as follows: Allowance for expected credit losses Financial receivables € million Trade receivables handsets Contract assets Total Balance at 1 January 2017 32 – – 32 Transition impact IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 7 – 5 12 Balance at 1 January 2017 restated 39 – 5 44 Additions/releases P&L 19 – 3 22 Usage -28 – -28 Balance at 31 December 2017 restated 30 – 8 38 Additions/releases P&L 14 5 -7 12 Usage -10 -10 Other movements -4 – – -4 Balance at 31 December 2018 30 5 1 36 159 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements [14] Cash and cash equivalents Accounting policy: Trade and other receivables, contract assets and contract costs Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid Trade and other receivables and contract assets classify instruments, mainly balances on bank accounts, bank as financial assets and are measured at amortized cost if deposits, AAA-rated money market funds, all with initial both of the following conditions are met: maturities of three months or less. The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective to hold financial assets in order to collect The main cause for the decrease in cash and cash equivalents contractual cash flows. was the EUR hybrid bond redemption in the third quarter of The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on 2018, partially offset by retained cash flow during the year. specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 31 December 31 December € million 2018 2017 Financial assets at amortized cost are subsequently Cash 318 321 measured using the effective interest method less Short-term bank deposits, repurchase 300 535 provisions for impairment. An allowance for expected agreements and money market funds credit losses is recorded for all financial assets and Classified as held for sale -24 – contract assets at initial recognition. This allowance is regularly updated. Total cash and cash equivalents 594 856 The amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discounts or premiums on acquisition and Accounting policy: Cash and cash equivalents transactions costs. The effective interest rate amortization Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, is recognized under finance income or finance costs. deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three See Note 4 for the accounting policy regarding contract months or less. Bank overdrafts are included within costs. borrowings in current liabilities. 160 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements [15] Non-current assets, liabilities and disposal groups Results from iBasis are reported as ‘profit/loss (-) for the held for sale period from discontinued operations’ and cash flows as ‘cash flows from discontinued operations’, separate from results € million 31 December 7 March and cash flows from KPN’s continuing operations as of 1 2018 2018 January 2017 in these Consolidated Financial Statements. Intangible assets 49 46 Since the internal reporting of iBasis as operating segment to Property, plant and equipment 27 19 KPN’s Chief Operating Decision-Maker remains unchanged, iBasis is still included in KPN’s segment reporting. Other non-current assets 7 13 Current assets 90 86 Accounting policy: Non-current assets and disposal Fair value adjustment of disposal group -25 -12 groups held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held Total assets of disposal groups held for sale 148 152 for sale as well as liabilities directly associated herewith Non-current liabilities -2 -2 are stated at the lower of carrying amount (book value) and fair value less costs of disposal if their carrying Current liabilities -95 -98 amount is recovered principally through a sale transaction Total liabilities directly associated with the rather than through continuing use. If fixed assets are non-current assets and disposal groups -98 100 transferred to held for sale, depreciation and amortization classified as held for sale ceases. A disposal group classifies as a ‘discontinued operation’ based on its significance to the KPN Group. On 7 March 2018, KPN announced that it had reached an agreement to sell US-based subsidiary iBasis Inc. to Tofane Global. The following table summarizes the results of iBasis included KPN has classified iBasis as a ‘disposal group held for sale’ as in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as ‘profit/loss at 7 March 2018. The classification has resulted in an for the period from discontinued operations’: accumulated impairment of EUR 25m per 31 December 2018, as the fair value less costs to sell of the disposal group was € million 2018 2017 lower than the carrying value. iBasis continues to be included in KPN’s segment reporting until the sale is completed. Revenues and other income 469 622 On completion of the sale of iBasis, the cumulative amount of Operating expenses -447 -608 currency translation adjustments recorded in other Finance income and expenses 2 6 comprehensive income will be recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss (result from discontinued Share of the loss of associated and joint ventures operations). The balance as at 31 December 2018 is a gain of Income taxes -7 -17 EUR 11m. Result for the period from discontinued All assets and liabilities of iBasis have been presented operations before impairment and tax effects 17 3 separately on KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Financial resulting from the transaction Position as of 7 March 2018 as ‘assets of disposal group Impairment disposal group -25 classified as held for sale’ and ‘liabilities directly associated Profit/Loss (-) for the period from -7 3 with assets and disposal group classified as held for sale’. discontinued operations related to iBasis These assets and liabilities will continue to be accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS standards except that Some results (and cash flows) from discontinued operations the non-current assets are no longer amortized or may continue to arise following the unwinding of remaining depreciated as of 7 March 2018 following guidance of IFRS 5. positions of E-Plus (sold in 2014) and BASE Company (sold in 161 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements 2016). The negative result from discontinued operations of [16] Equity EUR 10m (2017: nil) includes, besides the EUR -7m result from iBasis (2017: EUR 3m), EUR -9m results related to BASE Limitations in distribution shareholders’ equity Company (2017: EUR -4m) and EUR 6m result related to Total distributable reserves at 31 December 2018 amounted E-Plus (2017: EUR 1m). The negative result related to BASE to EUR 1,609m (2017: EUR 3,021m). The decrease is mainly Company in 2018 arose from a balance sheet guarantee. The due to the redemption of the EUR Perpetual Hybrid positive result related to E-Plus relates to settlement of Securities with a remaining outstanding principal amount of several German tax positions. EUR 1,100m. For further details on non-distributable reserves, see Note C to the Corporate Financial Statements. The cash flow from discontinued operations is as follows: € million 2018 2017 Share capital Authorized capital stock totals EUR 720m divided into nine Cash flow from operating activities 9 21 billion ordinary shares of EUR 4ct each and nine billion preference shares B of EUR 4ct each. At 31 December 2018, a Cash flow from investing activities -7 -11 total of 4,202,844,404 ordinary shares were outstanding and Cash flow from financing activities fully paid-in. In 2017, 67,410,260 shares were repurchased Total net cash (outflow)/inflow from (total cost of EUR 209m). These shares were subsequently 2 10 discontinued operations cancelled. Dutch law prohibits KPN from casting a vote on shares KPN holds (treasury shares). The ordinary shares and preference shares B carry the right to cast one vote each. The ordinary shares are registered or payable to the bearer. Shareholders may request the company to convert their registered shares to bearer shares, but not vice versa. Share premium In 2017, the share premium reserve decreased with EUR 206m due to the cancellation of repurchased shares. Number of Treasury Fair value reserve Currency Total treasury shares Hedge AFS financial translation Other € million, unless indicated otherwise shares reserve reserve assets reserve reserves Balance at 1 January 2017 10,334,291 -115 -353 -19 36 -451 Transaction impact IFRS 9 – – – 19 – 19 Balance at 1 January 2017 restated 10,334,291 -115 -353 – 36 -432 Movements recorded in OCI (net) – – 14 – – 14 Sold treasury shares -1,161,443 12 – – – 12 Balance at 31 December 2017 restated 9,172,848 -103 -339 – 36 -406 Transaction impact IFRS 9 – – 4 – – 4 Balance at 1 January 2018 restated 9,172,848 -103 -335 – 36 -402 Movements recorded in OCI (net) – – -20 – 4 -16 Sold treasury shares -1,872,394 20 – – – 20 Balance at 31 December 2018 7,300,454 -83 -355 – 40 -398 162 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements The additional paid-in capital is exempt from Dutch tax up to Foundation Preference Shares B KPN an amount of EUR 9,282m at 31 December 2018 (2017: EUR KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time, to 9,282m). the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation) to acquire preference shares B. For further information about Hedge reserve the Foundation, see the section ‘Corporate governance’. 31 December 31 December € million 2018 2017 KPN is of the opinion that the call option does not represent a Effective portion cash flow hedges¹ -269 -261 significant fair value due to the fact that the preference shares B, issued after exercise of the call option, bear interest Amortizable part² -178 -192 linked to Euribor. Hedge reserve -447 -453 Dividend per share Tax effect 92 114 At the AGM of Shareholders, to be held on 10 April 2019, a Hedge reserve, net of tax -355 -339 final dividend of EUR 8.0ct per share will be proposed in respect of 2018. In August 2018, KPN paid an interim dividend 1 The effective portion of cash flow hedges will be recognized in the P&L in in respect of 2018 of EUR 4.0ct per share, in total EUR 168m, line with the maturities of the related derivatives (see Note 12.3). bringing the total regular dividend in respect of 2018 to EUR 2 The amortizable part of the hedge reserve is amortized over the remaining life of the related bonds (between 2016 and 2030). The impact on the P&L 12.0ct per share. These financial statements do not reflect the will be EUR 17m in 2019. proposal for the remaining dividend payable. Treasury shares reserve In May 2018, the dividend received from KPN’s stake in TEFD KPN purchased shares in its own capital for delivery upon was distributed to KPN shareholders as a special interim cash exercise of share options by management and personnel dividend of EUR 1.3ct per ordinary share (EUR 55m). Total under the share option and performance share plans (Note dividend in respect of 2018, including the additional interim 5). Votes on purchased shares may not be cast and do not cash dividend, will then amount to EUR 13.3ct per ordinary count determining the number of votes required at a General share. Meeting of Shareholders. In 2018 and 2017, no shares were purchased for the share option and performance share plans. In April 2018, KPN paid a final dividend of EUR 7.3ct per share In 2018 and 2017, shares were sold in connection with vesting in respect of 2017, in total EUR 306m. The total dividend in grants of the KPN Restricted Share Plan (see Note 5). respect of 2017 was EUR 12.7ct per ordinary share including the additional interim cash dividend of EUR 1.7ct per share in Treasury shares are accounted for at cost, representing the relation to the dividend received from KPN’s stake in TEFD. market price on the acquisition date. The proceeds at delivery of the treasury shares are recognized directly in the other reserves. Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities On 14 September 2018, KPN exercised its first call option and redeemed the EUR 6.125% Perpetual Hybrid Securities with a remaining outstanding principal amount of EUR 1,100m. The hybrid bond was classified as equity (perpetual capital securities) for an amount of EUR 1,089m. The difference of EUR 11m has been deducted from retained earnings together with the last interest payment of EUR 51m, net of tax. For interest payments and credit ratings, see Note 12.2. 163 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements [17] Retirement benefits the members, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. Retirement benefits are provided through a number of defined contribution plans and funded and unfunded defined In the UK, Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) is a portion benefit plans. The most significant plans are described below. of pension that was accrued by individuals who were contracted out of the State Second Pension prior to 6 April KPN main pension plan 1997. At present there is an inequality of benefits between KPN’s main pension plan covers employees in the male and female members who have GMP. The High Court in Netherlands who are subject to KPN’s collective labor the UK ruled in 2018 that equalization will be required for agreement and employees with an individual labor agreement affected defined benefit pension schemes. A number of and is externally funded through Stichting Pensioenfonds options can be used to equalize. The estimated cost of KPN. This plan is a collective defined contribution pension equalization at 31 December 2018 for the UK plan is EUR 6m, plan and is accounted for as a defined contribution plan which has been recognized as a past service cost in 2018. because KPN has no other obligation than to pay the annual However, the cost to the UK plan for equalizing heavily contribution which is a fixed percentage of the pensionable depends on a complex interaction between the benefit base for a period of five years. After this five-year period, the design and membership profile as well as the method used to annual contribution will be reassessed based on a fixed and equalize which must be determined by the trustees. agreed method in which no reflection to past service or the funded status of the fund is included. Other KPN has a number of other funded (insured) plans in the Getronics UK and US Netherlands and an unfunded transitional early retirement The Getronics US and UK operations were divested in 2008 plan (provision of EUR 33m as at 31 December 2018, last and 2012 respectively. The closed and frozen pension plans of payment expected in 2021), which are all closed to new the former US and UK operations remained with KPN and are entrants. accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The assets of the plans are held separately from KPN in independently Furthermore, with regard to the insured plans, based on administered funds except for two supplemental executive Dutch law, KPN could be required to make contributions if retirement plans in the US. The UK plan operates under the participants of these plans require a value transfer to another regulations of the UK Pensions Regulator and the main US pension fund or insurer. However, the risk related to these plan under the provisions of the Employee Retirement value transfers is limited and therefore no provision has been Income Security Act (ERISA). The deficit in the plans’ funding recognized for these plans. must be recovered by the investment returns in the plans’ assets and contributions by KPN. The pension plans in the Provisions for retirement benefit obligations UK and US expose KPN to a number of risks which can have The provisions for retirement benefit obligations consist of an impact on the future contributions by KPN and the liability the net defined benefit liability regarding pension plans and recorded in its balance sheet. The most significant risks are early retirement plans which are accounted for as defined summarized below: benefit plans as described above. See the table on the next Asset volatility risk: the pension plans’ assets are page for a specification of the balance sheet position. predominantly invested in equity securities and other return seeking assets and therefore the plans’ funding levels are exposed to equity market risks. Interest rate risk: a decrease in interest rates will increase the plans’ liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings. Inflation risk: in the UK the indexation of the accrued benefits is unconditional and is based on a combination of consumer and retail price indices and therefore the UK plan is exposed to inflation risk. Life expectancy risk: the plans provide benefits for the life of 164 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Net defined benefit liability Defined benefit obligation² Fair value of assets (asset) € million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 718 769 -500 -507 218 262 Included in profit or loss: Operating expense¹ -25 1 33 3 8 4 Interest expense (income) 19 21 -13 -14 6 7 Included in OCI: Remeasurements loss (gain): Actuarial loss (gain)³ -35 19 -35 19 Return on plan assets excluding interest income 36 -29 36 -29 Effect of movements in exchange rates 7 -46 -6 32 1 -14 Total -28 -27 30 3 2 -24 Other: Employer’s contribution⁴ – – -28 -31 -28 -31 Benefits paid -48 -46 48 46 – – Balance at 31 December 636 718 -430 -500 206 218 1 Operating expense in 2018 includes a past service cost of EUR 6m regarding the UK plan (see explanation on page 164) and a settlement gain of EUR 2m regarding a supplemental executive retirement plan in the US and in 2017 an amendment gain of EUR 1m due to an increase in the retirement age of the transitional early retirement plan. Also included in 2018 is a settlement loss of EUR 1m due to due to lump sum payments to certain participants of the UK and US plans (EUR 29m defined benefit obligations minus EUR 30m plan assets). Service costs was EUR 1m and administrative costs EUR 3m in both 2018 and 2017. 2 The measurement date for all defined benefit plans is 31 December. 3 The actuarial loss (gain) in 2018 and 2017 consists of demographic assumptions (EUR -10m and EUR -8m), financial assumptions (EUR -27m and EUR +20m) and experience adjustments (EUR +2m and EUR +7m). 4 Includes EUR 3m lump-sum payments in 2017 and in 2018 for (unfunded) supplemental executive retirement plans in the US. KPN considers these plans terminated although certain former participants are questioning whether the assumptions for the calculation of the lump sums are in line with the plans’ terms. Defined benefit obligations Actuarial assumptions The key actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Getronics UK Getronics US Other Getronics UK Getronics US Other Discount rate (%) 2.8 4.3 1.8 2.5 3.6 1.7 Expected salary increases (%) N/a N/a 2.0 N/a N/a 2.0 Expected benefit increases/indexation (%) 2.2-3.2 N/a 0.5 2.1–3.1 N/a 0.5 Life expectancy for pensioners at retirement age: Male 22.7 22.0 21.7 23.1 20.7 21.7 Female 25.0 25.3 23.9 24.9 22.7 23.9 165 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements Plan assets The discount rate is based on yield curves of AA corporate The assets of all defined benefit pension plans as at 31 bonds with maturities equal to the duration of the benefit December 2018 and 2017 comprise of: obligations and in the applicable currency. As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2018, the (weighted) average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 14 years. € million 2018 20175 Quoted in active markets: Assumptions regarding life expectancy are based on Equity securities 25% 28% published statistics and mortality tables that include Fixed income securities¹ 26% 22% allowances for future improvement in mortality. The mortality Real estate² 0% 1% table used in the Netherlands is the projected table AG 2018 which includes projected improvement rates varying by year Commodities³ 1% 1% of birth, corrected for fund specific circumstances. The Other 5% 7% mortality table used in the UK is the 92% of SAPS S2PXA Other: tables CMI 2017 projection with a period smoothing factor of Equity securities 6% 8% 7.5 and a 1.5% long-term improvement, and in the US the Fixed income securities¹ 14% 12% RP-2006 with Scale MP-2018. The life expectancy at the age of 65 is expected to increase in the next 20 years by Real estate² 2% 2% approximately two years in the UK and the US. Other4 21% 19% 1 Including inflation-linked bonds (per Standard & Poor’s rating). Sensitivity analysis 2 As at 31 December 2018, none of the investments in real estate were The table below shows the approximate impact on the located in Europe. defined benefit obligation of a change in the key actuarial 3 Includes investment funds which invest in financial instruments related to commodities such as energy, agricultural products and precious metals. assumptions of 0.5% and in the case of life expectancy of a 4 Mainly insurance contracts. change of one year. 5 The 2017 numbers have been adjusted based on an updated methodology. 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Strategic investment policies € million Increase Decrease Increase Decrease The strategic investment portfolios of the defined benefit Discount rate -40 45 -48 54 plans (before hedging) at year-end 2018 were as follows: Expected salary increases – – – – € million Getronics UK Getronics US Other plans Expected benefit increases 20 -18 28 -22 Life expectancy 26 -26 26 -26 Equity securities 35% 45% 1% Fixed income securities (including inflation35% 25% 0% linked bonds) Other 30% 30% 99% Total 100% 100% 100% In both the UK and the US, a roadmap is in place to move to more fixed income exposure as the funded status improves. The Getronics UK pension fund does not hedge interest rate risks, currency risks and equity risks. The Getronics US pension fund does not hedge currency and equity risks but partially hedges interest rate risk. As the pension funds mainly invest in the global investment funds, a minor part of these investments could be related to 166 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements KPN equities. The pension funds do not have direct Accounting policy: Provisions for retirement benefit investments in KPN equities. obligations Expected contributions and benefits Pension obligations In 2018, the total employer’s contributions and benefit The liability recognized in respect of all pension and early payments for all defined benefit and defined contribution plans retirement plans that qualify as defined benefit obligation amounted to EUR 117m (excluding discontinued operations), is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less consisting of EUR 89m employer’s premiums for defined the fair value of plan assets. KPN uses actuarial contribution plans, EUR 11m contributions for funded defined calculations (projected unit credit method) to measure the benefit plans and EUR 17m payments for unfunded plans. obligations and the costs. For the calculation, actuarial The amount of employer’s contributions in 2019 for the assumptions are made about demographic variables remaining defined benefit pension plans is estimated to be (such as employee turnover and mortality) and financial EUR 31m for both funded and unfunded plans. The total variables (such as future indexation and the discount amount of employer’s premiums to be paid in 2019 for the rate). The discount rate is determined by reference to defined contribution plans is estimated to be EUR 88m. market rates. These are interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefit will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related liability. A net defined benefit asset may arise where a defined benefit plan has been overfunded. KPN recognizes a net defined benefit asset in such a case only when future economic benefits are available to KPN in the form of a reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately in OCI. Past service costs, curtailments and settlements are recognized immediately in the P&L. The amount of pension costs included in operating expenses with respect to defined benefit plans consist of service cost, past service costs, curtailments and settlements and administration costs. Net interest on the net defined benefit liability is presented as part of finance costs. For pension plans that qualify as a defined contribution plan, KPN recognizes contributions as an expense when an employee has rendered service in exchange for those contributions. 167 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements [18] Provisions for other liabilities and charges 31 December 31 December € million 2018 2017 Restructuring provision 69 60 Asset retirement obligations 51 41 Other provisions 77 68 Total provisions for other liabilities and charges 197 169 of which: non-current 119 103 of which: current 78 66 Statement of changes in provisions Total Asset retirement Other Total € million Personnel Contractual restructuring obligation provisions1 provisions Balance at 1 January 2017 23 22 45 34 59 138 of which: current portion 23 6 29 6 14 49 Additions 90 – 90 9 23 122 Releases – -4 -4 – – -4 Usage -65 -6 -71 -1 -21 -93 Other movements incl. discontinued operations – – – -1 7 6 Balance at 31 December 2017 48 12 60 41 68 169 of which: current portion 46 2 48 1 17 66 Additions 100 2 102 10 12 123 Releases – – – – –1 –1 Usage -90 -2 -92 – -9 -101 Other movements incl. discontinued operations – – – – 7 7 Balance at 31 December 2018 58 11 69 51 77 197 < 1 year 58 2 60 4 13 78 1 5 year – 5 5 13 10 28 > 5 year – 4 4 33 54 91 1 Includes provisions for claims and litigations, onerous contracts, warranties and employee benefits. 168 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Restructuring provisions Accounting policy: Provisions for other liabilities Termination benefits are payable when employment is and charges terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for Provisions for asset retirement obligations, restructuring these benefits. Termination benefits are recognized when costs and legal claims are recognized when KPN has a KPN is demonstrably committed either to terminating the present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past employment according to a detailed formal plan without events, and it is more likely than not that an outflow of possibility of withdrawal or to providing termination benefits resources will be required to settle the obligation and the as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary amount can be reliably estimated. redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after 31 December are discounted to present value. Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditure required Other long-term employee obligations include jubilee or to settle the present obligation at balance sheet date. The other long-service employee benefits, long-term disability discount rate used to determine the present value reflects benefits and, if they are not fully payable within 12 months current market assessments of the time value of money after the end of the period, bonuses and deferred and the risks specific to the liability. compensation. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting method similar to that for defined benefit pension plans, except that actuarial gains and losses and past-service costs are recognized immediately in the P&L. [19] Contract liabilities, trade and other payables Asset retirement obligations The provision for asset retirement obligations is based on Trade and other payables assumptions of the estimated costs of removal, discount rate and estimated period of removal, which vary per type of asset. 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (Restated) As defined in the Telecommunications Act, the obligation for landlords to tolerate cables terminates as soon as those € million Current Non-current Current Non-current cables have been idle for a continuous period of 10 years. Trade payables 573 – 631 – Because the date when the cables will become idle is Accrued interest 162 – 161 – uncertain and KPN is not able to predict whether and when Accrued expenses 424 – 494 – a landlord will place a request for removal, KPN is not able Social security and 186 – 211 – to make a reliable estimate of the impact and therefore other taxes payable no provision was recognized at 31 December 2018 nor at Other payables 15 17 19 22 31 December 2017. Total 1,361 17 1,517 22 Contract liabilities 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (Restated) € million Current Non-current Current Non-current Contract liabilities 253 206 270 155 Of which variable – 162 – 117 considerations The contract liabilities primarily relate to the consideration received from customers before satisfying performance obligations, such as advances for subscriptions and airtime. KPN recognizes a contract liability for postpaid and prepaid bundled minutes based on the actual usage of these bundles 169 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements per proposition. The utilization percentage, which is the number of credits used as a percentage of total credits granted for that period, is monitored periodically and based on the historical data. For the transition phase of projects for business customers which are treated as a separate performance obligation a contract liability is recognized if the amount invoiced is higher than the amount of revenue allocated to these projects. For the mobile connection fees charged to the customer a contract liability is recognized if the connection is not treated as a separate performance obligation. Contract liabilities are also recognized for variable considerations which are not deemed highly probable. This applies to the billed roaming and MTA tariffs which are regulated and imposed retrospectively and to VAT related to certain mobile consumer propositions introduced in August 2016. See Note 2 page 122 for explanation of the difference with KPN’s previous accounting policies on variable consideration. In 2018 and 2017, no revenue was recognized from variable considerations related to performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous years. The revenues of the year include the current portion of the contract liability balance at the beginning of the year. Accounting policy: Contract liabilities, trade and other payables Trade and other payables classify as ‘borrowings’ within KPN’s financial liabilities. For the accounting policy, see Note 12. For the accounting policy regarding contract liabilities, see Note 4. 170 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements [20] Business combinations and other changes in consolidation Changes in consolidation in 2018 Purchase price allocation of the acquisitions: On 9 February 2018, KPN obtained control over StartReady € million 2018 20171 B.V. by exercising the call option to acquire the remaining 85% Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed: of the shares of StartReady B.V. The shares were delivered on lntangible assets2 6 63 26 March 2018. KPN already has had a 15% interest in the Property, plant and equipment 11 company since 2014. StartReady is specialized in the delivery of Skype for Business Other non-current assets 5 services. Trade and other receivables 1 26 Net cash and cash equivalents acquired 1 3 The acquisition contributed EUR 1.1m to revenue, EUR 2.1m to Deferred income tax liabilities -1 -15 EBITDA and EUR 0.4m to net profit of KPN in 2018. If the Non-current borrowings & liabilities -15 acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, impact on revenues, EBITDA and net profit of KPN Group Trade and other payables and deferred income -1 -42 would be negligible. Total identifiable net assets 6 36 Cash consideration 14 148 Liability for contingent consideration 5 Changes in consolidation in 2017 Fair value of the already held minority stake 2 KPN acquired a 100% interest in the following companies in Total consideration 16 153 2017: Goodwill 11 117 Name Description Segment Acquisition date Provider of cyber 1 Including subsequent adjustments purchase price allocation DearBytes B.V. Business 31 January 2 Including customer bases, valued at EUR 5m in 2018 resp. EUR 44m in 2017. security services IT provider of Divider B.V. specialized VPN and Business 23 February network solutions Subsequent adjustments purchase price allocation Provider of teleIn 2018 the valuation of the customer bases in the provisional communication Vrieservice B.V. services mainly for Business 23 March purchase price allocation of Qsight IT/InSpark was adjusted small and mediumdownwards with EUR 14m and the related DTL with EUR sized enterprises 3.5m. As a result, the goodwill was adjusted with EUR 11m. Solcon Internet services Internetdiensten provider mainly to Consumer 29 June N.V. consumers Provider of IT services Cam IT Solutions to the healthcare and Business 15 August B.V. public sector Qsight IT Holding Providers of cyber B.V. and InSpark Business 11 December security services Holding B.V. 171 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting policy: Business combinations classified as equity are not remeasured and subsequent KPN uses the acquisition method to account for business settlement is counted for within equity. combinations. The consideration paid is measured at the fair value of the assets transferred, equity instruments For each business combination, KPN elects to recognize any issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value of exchange. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and or at the proportionate share in the acquiree’s net assets. contingent liabilities assumed are measured at their fair Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. values at the acquisition date. When a business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held equity interest is The excess of the consideration paid, non-controlling remeasured at its acquisition date fair value and any interests recognized and the acquisition date fair value of resulting gain or loss is recognized in the P&L. any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the fair value of KPN’s share of the net assets acquired is recorded Contingent considerations are recognized at fair value at as goodwill. If negative goodwill occurs in case of a bargain acquisition date and subsequent changes to the fair value purchase, the difference is recognized directly in the P&L. are recognized in the P&L. Contingent considerations [21] Commitments, contingencies and legal proceedings Commitments More than 5 Total 31 December Total 31 December € million, due by period Less than 1 year 1–5 years years 2018 2017 Capital and purchase commitments 892 121 14 1,027 1,059 Rental and operational lease contracts 163 333 217 714 775 Guarantees and other 1 10 128 139 155 Total commitments 1,056 465 359 1,879 1,989 The amounts as at 31 December 2018 are excluding iBasis. majority of contracts can be cancelled by KPN only, with a Total commitments of iBasis as at 31 December 2018 are EUR notice period of 12 months. 12m. The total commitments of iBasis as at 31 December 2017 (EUR 17m) are included in the total amount of EUR 1,989m. The minimum non-cancellable sublease amounts expected to be received as at 31 December 2018 amount to EUR 5m (31 The capital and purchase commitments mainly relate to December 2017: EUR 7m). These amounts mainly relate to minimum contractual obligations with regard to network subleases of buildings and site sharing arrangements. operations, mobile handsets and telco services. The total net costs of rental and operating leases amounted to EUR 181m in 2018 (2017: EUR 192m) and is (mainly) The rental and operational lease contracts mainly relate to included in other operating expenses. buildings, site rentals, mobile towers and vehicles. The majority of agreements include options for renewal. These Guarantees consist of financial obligations of group options have not been included in the off balance sheet companies under certain contracts guaranteed by KPN. A obligations unless they have been exercised. Also, most rental total amount of EUR 139m relates to parent guarantees (2017: fees are subject to periodic indexation. In addition, the EUR 155m). 172 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements Accounting policy: Leases balance sheet at the lower of the fair value and the present Leases where KPN as lessor retains a significant portion of value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in classified as operating leases. The assets remain on the other long-term payables in the balance sheet. Property, balance sheet and are depreciated over the assets’ useful plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are life. Lease payments received from lessees are recognized depreciated over the shorter of the assets’ useful life and as revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease period. the lease term. If a sale-and-leaseback transaction results in Payments by KPN as lessee under operating leases are a finance lease, any excess of sale proceeds over the charged to the P&L on a straight-line basis over the period carrying amount is deferred and recognized in the P&L over of the lease (net of any incentives received from the lessor). the lease term. If a sale-and-leaseback transaction results in an operating lease, the profit or loss is calculated using the fair value of In case KPN acts as lessor in a finance lease, the transaction the assets sold and recognized in the P&L immediately. is accounted for as a normal sale and the present value of the lease payments is recognized as a receivable. The Leases where KPN as lessee has assumed substantially all difference between the gross receivable and the present risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance value of the receivable is deferred and recognized as leases. KPN then recognizes the leased assets on the interest over the lease term. Contingent liabilities Legal and tax proceedings Indemnification KPN is involved in a number of legal and tax proceedings that In KPN’s Articles of Association and in a further decision by have arisen in the ordinary course of its business, including the Board of Management, which was approved by the commercial, regulatory or other proceedings. Periodically Supervisory Board, KPN has indemnified the members and KPN carefully assesses the likelihood that legal and tax former members of KPN’s Board of Management and proceedings may lead to a cash outflow, and recognizes Supervisory Board, as well as a number of KPN’s officers and provisions in such cases/matters if and when required. directors and former officers and directors, against liabilities, However, the outcome of legal proceedings can be difficult to claims, judgments, fines and penalties incurred by such officer predict with certainty, and KPN can offer no assurances in this or director as a result of any threatened, pending or regard. completed action, investigation or proceeding (whether civil, In some cases, the impact of a legal proceeding may be more criminal or administrative) brought by a third party in relation strategic than financial and such impact cannot properly be to acts or omissions in or related to their capacity as officer or quantified. Below is a description of legal proceedings or director. contingent liabilities that could have a material impact for KPN. The indemnification does not apply to claims and expenses reimbursed by insurers, nor to an officer or a director Idle cables adjudged to be liable for willful misconduct (‘opzet’) or See Note 18 for a contingent liability related to idle cables and intentional recklessness (‘bewuste roekeloosheid’). the accounting policy of provisions. 173 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Consolidated Financial Statements [22] Related-party transactions Transactions with associated companies The total value of sales transactions and purchase transactions by the continuing operations of consolidated KPN considers none of the related-party transactions to be KPN companies with associated companies and other material on an individual basis, except for the transactions non-consolidated companies in 2018 amounted to with shareholders. Transactions between group companies approximately EUR 24m resp. EUR 1m (2017: EUR 23m resp. are not included in the description as these are eliminated in 5m). The total trade receivables and payables as of 31 the Consolidated Financial Statements. December 2018 amounted EUR 4m and less than EUR 1m respectively (31 December 2017: EUR 3m resp. less than EUR 1m). Transactions with shareholders América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (AMX) published on 12 February Transactions with directors and related parties 2019, in its fourth quarter 2018 report, that it owned 16.1% of For details of the relation between directors and the company, KPN’s ordinary share capital at 31 December 2018. The total see the Remuneration Report on pages 101 to 109 of this value of sales transactions by the continuing operations of Integrated Annual Report. Directors in this respect are KPN in 2018 with AMX, its subsidiaries and associated defined as key management and relate to those having companies amounted EUR 3m (2017: EUR 1m) and the total authority and responsibility for planning, directing, and value of purchase transactions amounted EUR 1m (2017: controlling the activities of an entity, either directly or EUR 6m). The total trade receivables and payables at 31 indirectly. At KPN, key management consists of the members December 2018 amounted to less than EUR 1m (31 December of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. 2017: EUR 1m and less than EUR 1m respectively). The company was not a party to any material transactions, or proposed transactions, in which members of the Supervisory Other shareholding equaling or exceeding 3% of the issued Board or Board of Management or close members of their capital: families had a direct or indirect material interest. On 5 December 2018, BlackRock, Inc. notified the AFM that it held 3.83% of the shares and 4.95% of the voting rights The total value of sales transactions by KPN’s continuing related to KPN’s ordinary share capital. operations in 2018 with parties in which members of the On 9 November 2018, Franklin Mutual Series Fund, Inc. Supervisory Board or Board of Management or close notified the AFM that it held 4.99% of the shares and voting members of their families had a direct or indirect material rights related to KPN’s ordinary share capital. interest amounted EUR 9m (2017: EUR 18m) and the total On 23 August 2017, Capital Group International Inc. notified value of purchase transactions amounted EUR 14m (2017: the AFM that it held 3.01% of the voting rights related to EUR 23m), all in the ordinary course of business. The total KPN’s ordinary share capital. trade receivables and payables as at 31 December 2018 amounted EUR 1m and EUR 2m respectively (31 December To KPN’s knowledge, no other shareholder owned 3% or more 2017: EUR 5m and EUR 4m respectively). of KPN’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2018. KPN did not enter into agreements with AMX or other shareholders which could have a material impact on KPN’s Financial Statements. 174 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Finacial Statements [23] Legal structure the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management will determine what proportion of net income remaining after payment of the dividend on any Class B preferred shares will Name of significant subsidiaries and other principal interests: be appropriated to the reserves. The part of the profit KPN B.V. remaining after the appropriation to the reserves shall be at ApplicationNet B.V. the disposal of the AGM. No Class B preferred shares were CAM IT Solutions B.V. outstanding on 31 December 2018. DearBytes B.V. In August 2018, a regular interim dividend of EUR 4.0ct per GroupIT B.V ordinary share was paid (total amount of EUR 168m). The iBasis Inc. Board of Management, with the approval of the Supervisory InSpark Holding B.V. Board, will propose to the AGM to pay a final regular dividend KPN Consulting B.V. of EUR 8.0ct per ordinary share in respect of 2018 (total amount of EUR 336m). KPN EuroRings B.V. KPN Finance B.V. In addition, the received dividend on KPN’s shareholding in KPN Internedservices B.V. TEFD was distributed in May 2018 as a special interim cash NLDC B.V. dividend of EUR 1.3ct per share (total amount of EUR 55m). Qsight IT Holding B.V. This brings the total dividend in respect of 2018 to EUR 13.3ct per ordinary share (2017: EUR 12.7ct). Reggefiber Group B.V. Solcon Internetdiensten B.V. Distribution of the proposed final dividend requires an Telfort Zakelijk B.V. amount of EUR 288m to be withdrawn from the distributable XS4ALL Internet B.V. part of shareholders’ equity which is proposed to the AGM. Yes Telecom Netherlands B.V. KPN Mobile N.V. [25] Subsequent events > KPN Mobile International B.V. KPN Ventures B.V. Sale of iBasis Getronics B.V. The sale of iBasis was completed on 7 February 2019. In the > Getronics Finance Holdings B.V. first quarter of 2019, a book gain from the disposal of iBasis of Telefónica Deutschland Holding A.G. approximately EUR 11m will be recorded (result from discontinued operations). This is mainly due to the recycling The country of incorporation of all entities is the Netherlands, of cumulative currency translation adjustments recorded in except iBasis Inc. which is incorporated in the United States of OCI to the P&L. iBasis will no longer be included in KPN’s America and Telefónica Deutschland Holding A.G. which is segment reporting as of February 2019. incorporated in Germany. The percentage ownership/voting interest of all entities is Brand rationalization 100% except Telefónica Deutschland Holding A.G. in which On 10 January 2019, KPN announced to rationalize the brand KPN has a 4.41% stake. portfolio in the coming periods. The financial impact on future periods relates to higher costs for depreciation, which have [24] Proposed appropriation of result been estimated at EUR 20m for the total rationalization period. Additionally, the brand rationalization will lead to reorganization of staff and buildings (for example shops). On outstanding Class B preferred shares, a dividend is paid The impact of future reorganization provisions cannot be out equal to the average of the 12-month Euribor increased determined reliably yet. by 1%. If the 12-month Euribor is no longer determined, the dividend on preference shares will be calculated based on the yield on state loans. Subsequently, subject to the approval of 175 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Corporate Financial Statements CORPORATE STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS For the year ended 31 December 2017 € million Notes 2018 (Restated) Total revenues and other income – – Other operating expenses -11 -9 Total operating expenses -11 -9 Operating profit -11 -9 Finance income 54 71 Finance costs -309 -328 Other financial results -5 -12 Intercompany interest (net) -805 -747 Financial income and expenses [A] -1,065 -1,016 Income from subsidiaries 1,183 1,158 Profit before income tax 107 133 Income taxes [B] 163 257 Profit for the year 270 390 176 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Corporate Financial Statements CORPORATE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Assets 31 December 2017 € million Notes 31 December 2018 (Restated) Non-current assets Financial fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries 14,347 18,431 Loan to subsidiary 80 − Derivatives 185 168 Deferred taxes 671 949 Other fixed financial assets 181 119 Total non-current assets [B] 15,464 19,667 Current assets Accounts receivable from subsidiaries 634 155 Current income tax receivable 1 − − Other receivables and accrued income 30 20 Equity investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 449 1,071 Other current financial assets 50 330 Cash and cash equivalents 463 682 Total current assets 1,627 2,259 Total assets 17,091 21,926 177 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Corporate Financial Statements CORPORATE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Equity and liabilities 31 December 2017 € million Notes 31 December 2018 (Restated) Equity Subscribed capital stock 168 168 Additional paid-in capital 8,445 8,445 Treasury shares reserve -83 -103 Hedge reserve -355 -339 Legal reserves [C] 168 169 Retained earnings [C] -6,667 -6,337 Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities − 1,089 Profit (loss) current year 270 390 Total equity attributable to equity holders 1,945 3,482 Provisions Provisions for retirement benefit obligations 33 46 Other provisions 22 23 Total provisions [D] 55 69 Non-current liabilities Loans [E] 13,738 16,807 Derivative financial instruments 302 328 Other long-term liabilities 50 100 Total non-current liabilities 14,091 17,235 Current liabilities Accounts payable to subsidiaries1 [F] 147 858 Loans [E] 572 − Derivative financial instruments 16 − Other current liabilities [G] 99 110 Accruals and deferred income 165 171 Total current liabilities 1,000 1,139 Total equity and liabilities 17,091 21,926 1 Current income tax receivables and accounts payable to subsidiaries as shown in the 2017 Corporate Financial Statements were adjusted by EUR 558m (see note F). 178 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Corporate Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CORPORATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The principles for the recognition and measurement of assets [A] Financial income and expenses and liabilities and determination of the result (hereafter 2018 € million 2017 referred to as ‘Accounting policies’) of the Corporate Financial Finance income 54 71 Statements of Koninklijke KPN N.V. are the same as those Interest on borrowings -306 -322 applied to the Consolidated Financial Statements under IFRS (applying the option provided in Article 362 sub 8, Part 9, Other -3 -6 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code). The Consolidated Financial Finance costs -309 -328 Statements have been prepared in accordance with the IFRS (see Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Amortizable part of hedge reserve -15 -16 Amortization discontinued fair value 39 39 hedges In 2018, KPN applied IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Derivative financial instruments not -31 -28 qualified for hedge accounting Customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for the first time. Other 2 -7 KPN has adopted both standards retrospectively (except the provisions for hedge accounting in IFRS 9 which have been Other financial results -5 -12 applied prospectively) and restated the 2017 financial Intercompany interest (net) -805 -747 information for comparison purposes in these 2018 Corporate Total -1,065 -1,016 Financial Statements. A cumulative transitional adjustment was recorded on 1 January 2017, the date of initial application, resulting in an increase in equity of EUR 217m. The new provisions for hedge accounting resulted in a reclassification on 1 January 2018 between the hedge reserve and retained Finance income includes a dividend received from Telefónica earnings of EUR 4m. The impact of new IFRS standards is Deutschland (TEFD) of EUR 54m (2017: EUR 70m). described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements In 2018, interest on borrowings decreased by EUR 16m, which and have a corresponding effect on the Corporate Financial was mainly related to a lower gross debt position. Statements. Intercompany interest (net) mainly includes interest of 8.5% on an intercompany loan provided by KPN Mobile N.V., part of Investments in consolidated subsidiaries are measured at net loans payable to subsidiaries (Note F). asset value. Net asset value is based on the measurement of assets (including goodwill), provisions and liabilities and the determination of profit based on the principles applied in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 179 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Corporate Financial Statements [B] Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries Loan to Other financial € million companies subsidiary2 Derivatives Deferred taxes fixed assets1 Total Balance at 1 January 2017 restated 33,552 − 298 1,094 1,897 36,841 Exchange rate differences -6 − – – – -6 Income from group companies after taxes 1,158 − – – – 1,158 Decrease due to sale – − – – -846 -846 Decrease due to settlement -16,284 − – – – -16,284 Capital contributions 23 − – – – 23 Fair value adjustments – − -130 – 49 -81 Reclassification – − – – -1,071 -1,071 Other -12 − – -145 90 -67 Total changes -15,121 − -130 -145 -1,778 -17,174 Balance at 31 December 2017 restated 18,431 − 168 949 119 19,667 Exchange rate differences 7 − – – – 7 Income from group companies after taxes 1,183 − – – – 1,183 Increase due to new loans – 80 – – – 80 Decrease due to settlement -5,284 − – – – -5,284 Capital contributions 4 − – – – 4 Fair value adjustments – − 17 – – 17 Other 6 − – -278 62 -210 Total changes -4,084 80 17 -278 62 -4,203 Balance at 31 December 2018 14,347 80 185 671 181 15,464 1 The fair value adjustment in 2017 relates to the stake in TEFD. 2 Loan to KPN Finance BV which is repayable latest on 28 September 2023 and is subordinated to all other loans, obligations and creditors. Annual interest is 4.6%. Taxation The corporate statements on behalf of Koninklijke KPN N.V. are prepared as if the company is independently subject to corporate income tax. Thus, excluding the offset of profits within the tax group of which the entity is the parent. As a result, the company reports a tax benefit for the tax deductible interest and no tax on the result of consolidated entities as the tax of these entities are booked at the level of the entity itself. The company’s deferred tax asset represents the future tax relief on taxable profits (within the tax group) due to available losses and is higher than reported on consolidated level, since the asset can be offset against deferred tax liabilities reported in other entities part of the same tax group. 180 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Corporate Financial Statements [C] Equity attributable to equity holders For a breakdown of equity attributable to equity holders, refer to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Notes thereto. Legal reserves Legal reserves (net of tax) are presented below: Revaluation reserve Cumulative property, plant and translation Capitalized software Fair value reserve Other financial € million equipment adjustments development costs equity investments fixed assets Total Balance at 1 January 2017 24 36 87 10 6 163 Addition/release (-) retained earnings -4 – -5 3 12 6 Balance at 31 December 2017 20 36 82 13 18 169 Addition/release (-) retained earnings -2 – – -3 – -5 Exchange rate differences – 4 – – – 4 Balance at 31 December 2018 18 40 82 10 18 168 Pursuant to Dutch law, limitations exist relating to the distribution of equity attributable to equity holders. Such limitations relate to the subscribed capital stock as well as to legal reserves required by Dutch law as presented above. Dutch law also requires that in determining the amount for distribution, the company’s ability to continue to pay its debt must be taken into account. The total distributable reserves amounted to EUR 1,609m at 31 December 2018 compared to EUR 3,021m at 31 December 2017, which still included the EUR 1,100m perpetual hybrid bonds (see Note 16). Retained earnings Movements in retained earnings were as follows: € million 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January -6,337 -6,798 Retained earnings can be reconciled with the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as follows: Transition impact IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 -4 217 Balance at 1 January restated -6,341 -6,581 € million 2018 2017 Retained earnings as per Consolidated -6,270 -5,814 Profit of previous year 390 793 Statement of Financial Position Coupon perpetual hybrid bond (net of Revaluation reserve -18 -20 -51 -51 tax) Capitalized software development costs -82 -82 Redemption of hybrid bond -11 – Fair value reserve equity investments -10 -13 Dividend ordinary shares -529 -513 Actuarial gain/loss pensions and other Other non-distributable reserves -18 -18 -1 12 post-employment plans (net of tax) Fair value adjustment equity Profit for the year -270 -390 -113 16 investments Retained earnings as per Corporate Release/addition legal reserves (except -6,667 -6,337 5 -6 Statement of Financial Position cumulative translation adjustments) Share-based compensation -15 -7 Balance at 31 December -6,667 -6,337 181 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Corporate Financial Statements [D] Provisions [F] Accounts payable to subsidiaries Movements in provisions were as follows: Accounts payable to subsidiaries decreased significantly, mainly due to lower intercompany financial current accounts Retirement benefit Other of a total of EUR 181m (2017: EUR 1,065m). Furthermore, it obligations provisions € million Total consists of interest to be paid to KPN Mobile N.V. of EUR 217m Balance at 1 January 2017 52 25 77 and an operational financial current account of EUR 7m, less Additions/releases to income 2 3 5 an intercompany settlement of net current income tax Additions/releases in OCI 9 – 9 position of EUR 390m. The financial current accounts have Usage -17 -5 -22 indefinite duration. The interest is annually determined and based on 12-month Euribor increased by 0.15% and a risk Balance at 31 December 2017 46 23 69 premium attached by the market to the specific KPN credit Additions/releases to income 2 2 4 risk. Additions/releases in OCI 2 – 2 Usage -17 -3 -20 Due to an inaccuracy in the 2017 financial statement closing Balance at 31 December 2018 33 22 55 process, current income tax receivable at 31 December 2017 was stated at EUR 558m instead of EUR 0m and accounts payable to subsidiaries at 31 December 2017 was stated at The provisions for retirement benefit obligations relate to EUR 1,457m instead of EUR 899m in the Corporate Statement early retirement plans (see Note 17 to the Consolidated of Financial Position 2017 (before EUR 41m restatement due Financial Statements). to IFRS 9 and IFRS 15). The comparatives of these two accounts have been adjusted in the Corporate Statement of [E] Loans Financial Position 2018. Non-current loans include bonds outstanding for EUR 5,922m (2017: EUR 6,477m) and hybrid bonds outstanding for This adjustment does not have any impact on the EUR 967m (2017: EUR 946m); see also Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2017. It also does not have Consolidated Financial Statements. Current loans include any impact on the total equity attributable to equity holders bonds outstanding for EUR 572m. and the net amount of total current assets and liabilities at 31 December 2017 as mentioned in the Corporate Statement of Furthermore, non-current loans also include loans from Financial Position 2017 nor on the ‘Profit for the year 2017’ as subsidiaries for EUR 6,849m (2017: EUR 9,384m). This mainly mentioned in the Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss 2017. relates to a loan payable to KPN Mobile N.V., which bears interest of 8.5% and must be repaid in full, including accrued interest, in 2034. The loan is subordinated to the unsecured and unsubordinated creditors of Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN), but ranks ahead of the hybrid capital securities issued by KPN as long as by their terms these hybrid capital securities are expressed to rank pari passu with the preference share of KPN and the preference shares issued by KPN (if any). There are no loans from subsidiaries with maturity dates in 2019. 182 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Corporate Financial Statements [G] Other current liabilities 31 December 31 December € million 2018 2017 Social security and other taxes payable 95 109 Bank overdrafts 4 1 Total 99 110 [H] Commitments and contingencies Commitments by virtue of guarantees amounted to EUR 139m (2017: EUR 155m). KPN has issued several declarations of joint and several liabilities for various group companies in compliance with Article 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. These declarations of joint and several liabilities for group companies are included in a complete list of subsidiaries and participating interests, which is available at the offices of the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague. Directors’ remuneration See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on employee benefits. Rotterdam, 22 February 2019 Board of Management Supervisory Board Maximo Ibarra Duco W. Sickinghe Jan Kees de Jager Peter A.M. van Bommel Joost Farwerck Carlos J. García Moreno Elizondo Derk J. Haank Peter F. Hartman Edzard J.C. Overbeek Jolande C.M. Sap Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk 183 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Other Information COMBINED INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Dear Shareholders and members of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN), Please find below the main conclusions and main features of our audit and review. For the full text of the independent auditor’s report, which includes the assurance report on sustainability, please refer to the next pages. Summary Conclusions Object of audit or review Outcome of our work performed Level of assurance Financial statements 2018 True and fair view Reasonable (audit) (consolidated and corporate) Sustainability information 2018: CO2e emission data 2018 (Scope 1 and 2) of own Reliable and adequate view Reasonable (audit) operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data Sustainability information 2018 in selected chapters and Reliable and adequate view Limited (review) appendices Other information, including the Reports by No material misstatements to report the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board Main features of our audit & review What we have done Scope of our work Materiality Key audit & review matters Audit of financial statements 2018 Netherlands EUR 45 million, which represents 2.0% • Valuation (in)tangible assets, incl. (consolidated and corporate) United States of America of EBITDA goodwill • Valuation deferred tax assets • IFRS15 • IFRS16 • Reliability of IT systems, including security and cybercrime Audit of CO2e emission data 2018 Netherlands 5% deviation per item • No areas of specific focus (Scope 1 and 2) own NL operations and the underlying energy data Review of sustainability information Selected chapters and appendices Specific materiality levels for each • CO2e Scope 3 estimates, energy for 2018 element of the sustainability savings by customers information in scope • RepTrak pulse score, Net Promoter Score Procedures for Other information, Full reports Similar materiality as our audit or • No areas of specific focus including Reports by the Board of review scopes. Management and Supervisory Board 184 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices  ombined Independent C Auditor’s Report Combined independent auditor’s report on the 2018 Basis for our conclusions financial statements and sustainability information We performed our assurance engagements in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Dutch Standard 3810N, “Assurance engagements Our conclusions relating to sustainability reports”, which is a specified Dutch Based on the procedures we have performed and the Standard that is based on the International Standard on evidence obtained, we have come to the following Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ”Assurance conclusions: Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. Our responsibilities under those With respect to audit procedures performed, in our opinion: standards are further described in the section: Our the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair responsibilities in this report. view of the financial position of KPN as at 31 December 2018 and of its result and its cash flows for 2018 in accordance We believe the assurance evidence we have obtained is with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 conclusions. of the Dutch Civil Code; the corporate financial statements give a true and fair view Our Independence of the financial position of KPN as at 31 December 2018 and We are independent of KPN in accordance with the EU of its result for 2018 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit the Dutch Civil Code; of public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht CO2e emission data 2018 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations accountantsorganisaties (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data as the Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants presented on page 69 of the Integrated Annual Report is bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (comprehensive independence) and other relevant independence regulations option) and the supplemental KPN reporting criteria as in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not perform any disclosed in appendix 3: Transparency, of the Integrated activities that could result in a conflict of interest with our Annual Report. independent assurance engagement. Furthermore, we have complied with the Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels Based on our review procedures performed, nothing has accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information in scope does not present, in all material respects, a reliable and adequate view of KPN’s Our scope policy and business operations with regard to sustainability and the thereto related events and achievements for 2018 in Our engagements scope accordance with the GRI Standards (comprehensive option) The Integrated Annual Report 2018 (hereafter: the Report) of and the supplemental KPN reporting criteria as disclosed in KPN consists of the financial statements and other appendix 3: Transparency, of the Integrated Annual Report. information, including Reports by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, that provides altogether an overview With respect to procedures performed based on the of the policy, activities, events and performances related to requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and both the financial position and the sustainable development the Dutch Standard 720, we conclude that the other of KPN during reporting year 2018. The following information information included in the Integrated Annual Report, in the Report has been in scope for our assurance including the Reports by the Board of Management and engagements: Supervisory Board: The consolidated financial statements, comprising: Is consistent with the financial statements and does not The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 contain material misstatements; December 2018; Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of The Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss, Other the Dutch Civil Code. Comprehensive Income, Changes in Group Equity and Cash Flows for 2018; 185 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Other Information The Notes comprising a summary of the significant Unreviewed references to external sources accounting policies and other explanatory information. The references to external sources or websites in the sustainability information are not part of the sustainability  he corporate financial statements, comprising: T information as reviewed by us, except for appendix 6: Social The Corporate Statement of Financial Position as at 31 figures, appendix 7: Environmental figures (including Scope 3 December 2018; CO2e emissions) and appendix 8: GRI Index, which are The Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss for 2018; available on the website of KPN. We therefore do not provide The Notes comprising a summary of the accounting assurance on this information. policies and other explanatory information. Our scope for the group audit of the financial T  he sustainability information in scope consists of: statements Reasonable assurance CO2e emission data 2018 (Scope 1 KPN is head of a group of entities, both in the Netherlands and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the and abroad. The Dutch entities and segments thereby form underlying energy data as presented on page 69 of the the majority of the business and there are relatively smaller Report; operations in the United States of America. The financial Limited assurance The sustainability information in the information of all these entities has been included in the following chapters and appendices: consolidated financial statements. Chapters: ‘KPN at a glance’, ‘Who we are and what we do’ and ‘The long-term value we create’; Our group audit mainly focused on the more significant Appendices: Appendix 2-3 and 5-8. This includes segments in the Netherlands, including ‘Consumer’, ‘Business’, appendix 6: Social figures, appendix 7: Environmental ‘Wholesale’ and ‘NOI’ as well as ‘iBasis’ (United States of figures (including Scope 3 CO2e emissions) and appendix 8: America). GRI Index, which are available on the website of KPN. Due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, we T  he other information, including the Reports by the Board of performed full scope audit procedures on the financial Management and Supervisory Board included in the Report information of all above mentioned segments. For the pursuant to the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the segment in the United States of America we used EY Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720 concerning component auditors who are familiar with local laws and our obligation to report about the Report by the Board of regulations to perform detailed audit procedures to obtain Management and other information. sufficient coverage for financial statement line items from a consolidated financial statements perspective. Limitations in our engagements scope Where the work was performed by component auditors, we Unexamined prospective information determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the The sustainability information contains prospective audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient and information, such as ambitions, strategy, plans, targets, appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for expectations and estimates. Inherent to prospective our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. The information, the actual future results are uncertain. We do not group engagement team has visited the component team. provide any assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective information in the sustainability information. At other group entities we performed review procedures or specific audit procedures. The group consolidation, financial disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the group engagement team at the company’s head office. These included revenue assurance, purchase price allocation, taxation, fixed assets and goodwill impairment, pensions, derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting and share-based payments. We involved several EY specialists to assist the audit team, including specialists from our tax, valuations, sustainability, actuarial and treasury departments. 186 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices  ombined Independent C Auditor’s Report By performing audit procedures at segment and at corporate Financial statements level as mentioned above, together with the involvement of For the audit of the financial statements our considerations specialists, we have been able to obtain sufficient and regarding the materiality are as follows. appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial information to provide an opinion about the consolidated Materiality EUR 45,000,000 financial statements. Benchmark used 2.0% of adjusted earnings before Reporting criteria interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). The information in the scope of our engagements needs to be read and understood together with the reporting criteria. Additional explanation The users of the financial statements of a for-profit entity typically focus on KPN is solely responsible for selecting and applying these operating performance, particularly reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and profit before tax. Over the past years regulations related to reporting. The reporting criteria used KPN’s profit before tax heavily fluctuated, resulting from the impact for the preparation of the Report are described below. of the discontinuance of operations and other non-recurring transactions. Consolidated Financial International Financial Reporting Furthermore, we note that in KPN’s Statements: Standards as adopted by the external communications, earnings European Union (EU-IFRS) and Part before interest, tax, depreciation and 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. amortization (EBITDA) is commonly used to report on financial performance. Considering these Corporate Financial Statements, Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil aspects, we have concluded that Report by the Board of Code. EBITDA is the most appropriate and Management and the Supervisory stable benchmark for KPN to base our Board: materiality upon. The materiality is thereby set at EUR 45,000,000, using Sustainability information GRI Standards (comprehensive a percentage of 2.0%, which is at the including the CO2e emission data option) and the supplemental lower end of a generally accepted 2018 (Scope 1 and 2) and the reporting criteria developed by KPN range. Last year we used the same underlying energy data: as disclosed in appendix 3: percentage and amount. Transparency of the Integrated Annual Report. These criteria include the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (WRI/ WBCSD). We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the financial statements for qualitative reasons. Materiality We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in the financial statements in excess of EUR 2.25 million, would General: be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in The scope of our assurance procedures is influenced by the our view must be reported on qualitative grounds. application of materiality. Our assurance engagements aim to provide assurance about whether the financial statements Sustainability information and the sustainability information in scope are free from Based on our professional judgment we determined material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud materiality levels for each part of the sustainability or error. They are considered to be material if, individually or information and for the sustainability information as a whole. in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to When evaluating our materiality levels, we have taken into influence the (economic) decisions of users taken on the account quantitative and qualitative considerations as well as basis of the Report. The materiality affects the nature, timing the relevance of information for both stakeholders and the and extent of our assurance procedures and the evaluation of organization. the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusions. For CO2e emission data 2018 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy 187 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Other Information data we have determined the materiality at 5% deviation. The key audit and review matters are not a comprehensive We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements reflection of all matters discussed. which are identified during our assurance engagement and which in our view must be reported on quantitative or These matters were addressed in the context of our assurance qualitative grounds, would be reported to them. procedures for the financial statements and the sustainability information in scope as a whole and to conclude thereon, and Other information, including the Reports by the Board we do not provide a separate conclusion on these matters. of Management and Supervisory Board With respect to the materiality applied to our procedures Following the preparation for the implementation of IFRS 16 performed on the other information in our capacity as auditor ‘Leasing’ by KPN, effective as of 2019, a new key audit matter of KPN and with the knowledge that we have as auditor to ‘IFRS 16’ has been included. conclude whether the other information would not be appropriate or obviously incorrect; General observation > where the other information contains information that has For the audit of the financial statements, we rely on KPN’s also been in scope of our assurance engagements regarding internal control framework and its governance. The the financial statements or sustainability information, similar framework is maintained by the business and continuously materiality for this information has been applied; tested by KPN Risk Management and KPN Audit. The > in other cases, our assessment for materiality was based on Management Board and Audit Committee are being informed findings that could influence the decisions of the users of the outcome of the tests performed on a quarterly basis. dependent on our evaluation of the relevance of that For purposes of our audit, we assess the adequacy of the information for these users. framework and we test the work of KPN Risk Management and KPN Audit. We believe that KPN’s internal control Key audit & review matters framework meets the required criteria and it allows us to perform a system based audit in an effective manner. Key audit and review matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our The key audit matters addressed below are all covered by assurance procedures for the financial statements and the KPN’s internal control framework and have been audited by sustainability information in scope. We have communicated us with satisfactory results. For the interest of the reader, we the key audit and review matters to the Supervisory Board. highlight the most important elements we focused on in 2018. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations Valuation of (in)tangible assets, including goodwill Under IFRS, it is required to annually test the We compared forecasted revenue and profit margins We concur with management that there is no need amount of goodwill and intangible assets with an for all cash generating units with the approved KPN for impairments of goodwill and intangible assets indefinite life for impairment. KPN’s disclosures strategic plans. We also verified the assumptions to with indefinite life and agree with the disclosures in about goodwill and intangible assets are included in which the outcome of the impairment test is most Note 11. Note 11. sensitive and reviewed company’s statement that the headroom of the CGU’s is more than sufficient We concur with management on the impairments No impairments of goodwill and intangible assets and therefore no sensitivity analysis needs to be recorded. with indefinite life were recorded during 2018. disclosed in Note 11. On assets with finite lives an impairment test has to Our audit procedures included, among others, using be performed if indications of impairment exist. EY valuation specialists to assist us in verifying the assumptions and methodologies used by KPN and Some triggering events were identified, for example evaluating the historical accuracy of management’s in the area of hardware and software that required estimates that drive the assessment, such as impairment testing and for which minor impairments strategic plans and expected growth rates. were recorded, as included in Note 10 and 11. The impairment tests were important for our audit as the related asset amounts are significant and the assessment process itself is complex and requires judgment. The impairment test includes assumptions that are affected by future market or economic conditions. 188 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices C  ombined Independent Auditor’s Report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations Taxes Deferred tax At 31 December 2018, the deferred tax assets are Our audit procedures related to the deferred tax We concur with the deferred tax assets recorded. valued at EUR 702 million, related disclosures are assets included, amongst others, using EY tax included in the notes to the consolidated statement specialists to assist us in verifying and interpreting of profit or loss in Note 8. the agreements (‘vaststellingsovereenkomsten’) and other agreements reached with the Dutch Tax The enacted Dutch tax law reduces the corporate Authorities as well as evaluating the assumptions, income tax (CIT) in steps to 20.5% in 2021. IFRS such as expected future taxable income and requires deferred tax assets and liabilities to be methodologies used by the company. measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the asset is realized or the In auditing the tax positions we have taken into liability is settled, the development of the Dutch CIT consideration the enacted Dutch tax law with rate impacts the measurement of in particular the respect to income tax rate. carry forward, including deferred taxes on the balance sheet as per year end 2018. This entailed reviewing the company’s latest approved strategic plan. We discussed this plan with This item was significant to our audit because the management and determined the reasonableness of assessment process is complex and judgmental and the assumptions used regarding the recoverability is based on assumptions that are affected by of the deferred tax assets and assessed the plan’s expected future market or economic conditions. assumptions and sensitivities. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations IFRS 15 IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ Our audit procedures included the IFRS 15 We agree with the restatements and the disclosures has been adopted by KPN retrospectively whereby restatements of the balances as of 1 January 2017 made in the Report in Note 2. 2017 financial information has been restated in the and 31 December 2017. 2018 financial statements as disclosed in Note 2. Furthermore we have audited whether the revenue We concur with the revenue recognition based on recognition in 2018 was in accordance with IFRS 15 IFRS 15 including the relevant notes in the Report. and have audited the relevant disclosure in Note 4. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations IFRS 16 IFRS 16 ‘Leasing’ which will become effective as of We reviewed the IFRS 16 impact analysis as well as We concur with the impact analysis of IFRS 16 and 2019, will have a significant impact on the financial the disclosures included in the Report in Note 2. agree with the disclosures made in the Report in statements as disclosed in Note 2, in which an Note 2. estimation of the potential impact has been disclosed. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations Reliability of IT systems, including security, cybercrime and data privacy At KPN, processes are highly automated and KPN As part of our audit, we have reviewed the quality of In a few instances, we identified situations where continuously invests in simplification and KPN’s IT systems and the controls embedded controls needed improvement. KPN has set-up improvement of IT systems, which has led to several therein with a purpose to express an opinion on the remediation procedures that we have also reviewed changes in 2018 that have been discussed on page financial statements. For this purpose, we performed and tested with satisfactory results. 53. Reliability and security of IT systems are thereby our own procedures and reviewed and tested the high on the agenda of KPN and for that purpose work done by KPN Risk Management and KPN KPN’s internal control framework includes several Audit. Since this is highly specialized work, our audit controls to ensure, inter alia, proper identity, access team includes IT specialists. and change management of its IT systems. KPN also has a security team in place focusing on policies, As part of our testing, we reviewed change security management and a team of ethical hackers. management procedures, access management This team tests the security of KPN’s IT environment procedures, the continuity of IT systems and we and imitates behavior of hackers to stay reviewed the implementation of new IT systems. continuously up to date with the latest developments and helps KPN in managing their own security risks, including cybercrime and data privacy. 189 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Other Information For the assurance procedures concerning the sustainability information in scope, we identified the following key assurance matters: Key assurance matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations Estimations and assumptions in Scope 3 (CO2e emissions) and energy savings by customers Inherent to the nature of information on Scope 3, Our review procedures focused on evaluating the We assessed the reporting criteria as suitable and CO2e emissions and energy savings by customers is suitability and consistent application of the consistently applied and the assumptions made as that they are to a large extent based on the use of reporting criteria and assessing the reasonableness reasonable. We agreed that the methodologies used estimates and underlying assumptions. of the assumptions made. We have also reviewed are sufficiently disclosed in appendix 3. whether the disclosures in the Report are adequate. Key assurance matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations Disclosure of methodology for RepTrak pulse score (reputation) and Net Promoter Score in the Netherlands (customer satisfaction) The indicators RepTrak and NPS are identified by Our review procedures focused on evaluating We assessed the reporting criteriia as suitable and KPN as part of their representation of key whether the methodology is suitable and consistently applied and we agreed that the achievements. The indicators are measured by third consistently applied, assessing whether the methodologies used are sufficiently disclosed in parties. The outcome is influenced by the transparency on the methodology in KPN’s Report is appendix 3. methodology used by the third party. sufficient for a proper understanding by the reader. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Responsibilities Engagement Responsibilities of Board of Management and the We were engaged by the Supervisory Board as auditor of Supervisory Board Koninklijke KPN N.V. on 9 April 2014, as of the audit for the The Board of Management (hereafter: management) is year 2015 and have operated as statutory auditor since that responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the date. financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation and No prohibited non-audit services fair presentation of the other information, including the We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as Report by the Board of Management in accordance with Part referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the other information requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. entities. Management is also responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information in accordance with the GRI Standards (comprehensive option) and the supplemental KPN reporting criteria, including the identification of stakeholders and the determination of material topics. The choices made by management in respect of the scope of the Report and the reporting criteria are set out in the section entitled appendix 3: Transparency, in the Integrated Annual Report. Management is also responsible for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, management should prepare the financial statements using the going concern 190 basis of accounting unless management either intends to The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices  ombined Independent C Auditor’s Report liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Management should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s reporting process. Our responsibilities Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance engagements in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusions. Our assurance procedures aimed at obtaining reasonable assurance have been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all material errors and fraud. The assurance procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed on the plausibility of information and vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent, than for obtaining reasonable assurance. The level of assurance obtained in a review is therefore substantially less than the assurance obtained in an audit. Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements and sustainability information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our assurance procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusions. We apply the “Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen” (NVKS, Regulations for Quality management systems) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and other applicable legal and regulatory requirements. A further description of our responsibilities is included in the Annex to the combined independent auditor’s report. Amsterdam, 22 February 2019 Ernst & Young Accountants LLP signed by F.J. Blenderman 191 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Other Information Annex to the combined independent auditor’s report Work performed We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the assurance engagements performed by a multi-disciplinary team, in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our audit to obtain reasonable assurance about the financial statements Our review to obtain limited assurance about the sustainability information included (consolidated and corporate) included the following: amongst others: > Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial > Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining an statements, whether due to fraud or errors, designing and performing audit understanding of relevant social themes and issues and the characteristics of the procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is entity. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not > Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one application and related disclosures in the sustainability information. This includes resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialog and the reasonableness of omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. estimates by management. > Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to > Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the sustainability design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for information, including obtaining a general understanding of internal control the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s relevant to our review. internal control. > Reconciling the relevant financial information with the financial statements. > Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the > Obtaining an understanding of the procedures performed by the internal audit reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by department of KPN. management. > Identifying areas of the sustainability information with a higher risk of misleading > Concluding on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern or unbalanced information or material misstatements, whether due to fraud or basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a errors. Designing and performing further procedures aimed at determining the material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast plausibility of the sustainability information responsive to this risk analysis. These significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we further review procedures consisted amongst others of: conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in > Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate level responsible for our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if the sustainability strategy, policies and results. such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are > Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information for, based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. carrying out internal control procedures on, and consolidating the data in the However, future events or conditions may cause the company to cease to sustainability information. continue as a going concern. > Obtaining assurance information that the sustainability information reconciles > Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial with underlying records of the company. statements, including the disclosures. > Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant internal and external documentation. > Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying > Performing an analytical review of the data and trends. transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. > Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the sustainability information. > Considering whether the sustainability information as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose of the reporting criteria used. In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for CO2e emission data 2018 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data we performed the following procedures to obtain reasonable assurance: > Obtaining a more detailed understanding of systems and reporting processes, including obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to our assurance engagement. > Evaluating the design, implementation and operating of the relevant internal controls during the reporting year. > Conducting more in-depth analytical procedures and substantive testing procedures on the relevant data. > Investigating relevant internal and external documentation, on a test basis, to determine the reliability of the CO2e emission data 2018 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data. We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed on the other information is less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items. We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the assurance procedures and significant findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our assurance engagements. In this respect we also submit an additional report to the Audit Committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The information included in this additional report is consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report. We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements, the review of the sustainability information in scope and the audit of the CO2e emission data 2018 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data of the current period and are therefore the key audit and assurance matters. We describe these matters in our combined independent auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. 192 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 1: Alternative performance measures Appendices APPENDIX 1: ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES In the discussion of KPN’s financial results, a number of Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA alternative performance measures (non-GAAP figures) are Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA, together also used to provide readers with additional financial information, referred to as the adjusted results, are derived from revenues that is regularly reviewed by management. These non-GAAP (including other income) and EBITDA, respectively, and are figures should not be viewed as a substitute for KPN’s adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals. financial results as determined in accordance with IFRS, which Incidentals are non-recurring transactions which are not are presented in KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements. directly related to day-to-day operational activities at or over Also, the additional information presented is not uniformly EUR 5m, unless significant for the specific reportable defined by all companies, including KPN’s peers. Therefore, segment. the non-GAAP figures presented may not be comparable with similarly named numbers and disclosures by other companies. In addition, readers should be aware that certain information presented is derived from amounts determined under IFRS, but is not in itself an expressly defined GAAP measure. Such non-GAAP measures should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to an equivalent GAAP measure. KPN’s management considers these non-GAAP figures, combined with GAAP performance measures and in conjunction with each other, most appropriate to measure the performance of the group and its segments. The non-GAAP figures are used by management for planning, reporting (internal and external) and incentive purposes. All non-GAAP figures are based on continuing operations unless stated otherwise. KPN’s main non-GAAP figures are explained below. EBITDA KPN defines EBITDA as operating result before depreciation (including impairments) of PPE and amortization (including impairments) of intangible assets. Note that KPN’s definition of EBITDA deviates from the literal definition of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analyses of the results as reported under IFRS as adopted by the European Union. 2018 2017 € million (Restated) Total revenues and other income 5,639 5,742 Cost of goods & services 1,302 1,365 Personnel expenses 1,141 1,121 Information technology/Technical 442 493 infrastructure Other operating expenses 569 595 Total operating expenses (excl. D&A) 3,453 3,573 EBITDA 2,186 2,169 193 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted revenues for the full year. FY 2017 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2018 reported adjusted y-on-y y-on-y € million reported Incidentals adjusted restated Incidentals restated reported adjusted Consumer 2,992 2,992 3,044 3,044 -1.7% -1.7% Business 2,143 2.143 2,183 2,183 -1.9% -1.9% Wholesale 618 618 665 -7 672 -7.0% -8.0% Network, Operations & IT 30 30 21 21 45% 45% Other (incl. eliminations) -145 -145 -171 -171 -15% -15% The Netherlands 5,638 5,638 5,741 -7 5,749 -1.8% -1.9% iBasis 528 528 705 705 -25% -25% Other activities 1 1 1 1 39% 39% Intercompany revenues -59 -59 -84 -84 -30% -30% KPN Group 6,108 6,108 6,364 -7 6,371 -4.0% -4.1% Of which discontinued operations 469 469 622 622 -25% -25% KPN Group continuing operations 5,639 5,639 5,742 -7 5,749 -1.8% -1.9% The following table specifies the revenue incidentals in more detail: € million Segment FY 2018 FY 2017 Change in revenue related provisions Wholesale -7 KPN Group -7 194 194 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 1: Alternative performance measures The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted EBITDA for the full year. . FY 2017 FY 2017 FY 2018 RestrucFY 2018 reported Restrucadjusted y-on-y y-on-y € million reported Incidentals turing adjusted restated Incidentals turing restated reported adjusted The Netherlands 2,205 -11 -91 2,307 2,187 -29 -76 2,292 0.8% 0.6% iBasis 23 23 24 24 -4.8% -4.8% Other activities -19 -5 -11 -3 -18 -11 -8 2.3% -65% KPN Group 2,209 -16 -102 2,327 2,193 -29 -86 2,309 0.7% 0.8% Of which discontinued operations 24 24 24 24 -2.3% -2.3% KPN Group continuing operations 2,186 -16 -102 2,303 2,169 -29 -86 2,285 0.8% 0.8% The following table specifies the EBITDA incidentals in more detail: € million Segment FY 2018 FY 2017 Change in revenue related provisions Revenue -7 Addition to asset retirement obligation Other operating expenses -11 -7 Change of provisions Other operating expenses -5 -16 KPN Group -16 -29 Simplification savings or Simplification program 2018 2017 € million (Restated) KPN’s Simplification program is directed at realizing Net cash flow provided by operating 1,959 1,929 run-rate savings in both capital expenditure (capex) and activities from continuing operations operating expenses (opex). The Simplification program is Capex -1,106 -1,131 aimed at innovation Capex and the operating expense Proceeds from real estate 5 2 categories Personnel expenses, Information Technology/ Free cash flow from continuing 858 800 Technical Infrastructure expenses and Other operating operations (incl. TEFD dividend) expenses, excluding restructuring costs and incidentals. Free cash flow from continuing 804 730 operations (excl. TEFD dividend) Through its nature the program will also mean a reduction in FTEs. The baseline for measurement of the second wave of Net Debt/EBITDA ratio Simplification savings is capex and operating expense levels In the net debt/EBITDA ratio, KPN defines net debt as the at the end of 2016. The baseline is adjusted for major changes nominal value of interest bearing financial liabilities in the composition of the group in the years 2017-2019 excluding derivatives and related collateral, representing the (acquisitions and disposals). The second wave of the net repayment obligations in euro, taking into account 50% of Simplification program has generated run-rate savings of the nominal value of the hybrid capital instruments, less net approximately EUR 225m by the end of 2018. cash and short-term investments. The EBITDA in this context is normalized EBITDA, a 12-month rolling total EBITDA Free Cash Flow (FCF) excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and major changes FCF is defined as cash flow from continuing operating in the composition of the Group (acquisitions and disposals). activities plus proceeds from disposals of PPE minus Capex The calculation of the net debt/EBITDA ratio is provided in (investments in PPE and software). Note 12.4 to the Financial Statements. 195 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices APPENDIX 2: OVERVIEW AND CONNECTIVITY OF NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION High material topics Target Result Reference Strategic pillar Medium material topics Theme/ KPI 2018 2018 Value we create Digital transformation1 Customer value Focusing on Customer loyalty NPS NL 11 9 profitable growth Economic value NPS Consumer Mobile 16 16 segments Fair marketing and communication NPS Consumer Fixed 15 13 NPS Business 3 0 Converged Focusing on Digital inclusion % chronically ill children provided with a KPN Klasgenoot 100% 100% products and profitable growth Community investment (1041) services segments Converged smart Building the best Quality and reliability of Weighted downtime (compared to last year YTD) -30% -25% infrastructure converged smart network infrastructure % of households with possibility of access to at least N/a N/a 100 Mbps connection Average download speed copper >30 Mbps N/a5 Average download speed fiber >100 Mbps N/a5 # of customers connected in rural areas with 4G 20,000 27,492 or combined 4G/DSL solutions Average 4G download speed 58 Mbps 53 Mbs Focused innovation Accelerating Innovation and investments Elderly facilitated to live independently 12,500 12,283 and digitalization simplification and Impact of products and digitalization services # of people with secure digital access to healthcare 22,500 31,990 Digital inclusion Digital knowledge and education Privacy and Building the best S ecurity % of customers helped (within eight hours) who were 98.5% 99.4% security converged smart Privacy and identity unintentionally infected by malware infrastructure Impact of products and % of Dutch people that believe their data is safe with KPN 70% 69% services Fair marketing and communication Sustainable Focusing on Sustainable employment Overall percentage of women at KPN in the Netherlands 27.5% 22% employability profitable growth Diversity and equal Employee survey score for Engagement 80% 77% segments opportunity Buillding the best S ustainable employability: % of employees with a new job >80% 85% converged smart < 1 year after leaving KPN infrastructure % of KPN employees in NL who feel they can work in line 90% 86% Accelerating with the New Way of Living and Working simplification and digitalization 1 All our services contribute to the digital transformation of society. 2 In line with the changed management structure, as of 2019 we only will report the NPS scores of Consumer and Business separately. 3 The 2019 calculation method for the NPS has been updated. Based on this, the Q4-2018 results for Consumer Mobile, Consumer Fixed would not change and Business Market would have been -1. 4 This kpi is relevant again in the updated strategy. 5 This kpi does not represent the technical potential of our network. 196 6 In the new strategy, rural areas will be served with several technologies. 7 The target of >80%, is postponed to 2020 and beyond due to market circumstances. The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 2: Overview and connectivity of non-financial information Result Result Target Target 2017 2016 2019 2020 and beyond GRI KPI/ref Impact/SDG 8 6 discontinued2 – Marketing and labeling 9. Industry, Innovation & Digital device Infrastructure 14 10 17 3 – 11 10 173 – -1 -3 23 – 100% 100% 100% 100% in 2020 Economic performance 4. Q uality Education (1109) (987) -38% + 55% -25% – Indirect Economic Impacts 9. Industry, Innovation & IT infrastructure investments Infrastructure 76% 75% 75%-80%4 85% in 2020 Digital divide Technological applications N/a N/a discontinued – N/a N/a discontinued – N/a N/a KPI redefined – in 20196 58 Mbps 51 Mbps 60 Mbps – 11,446 11,317 12,500 Self-reliance for ~160.000 end-users in 2020 with Indirect Economic impacts 3. G  ood health and Wellbeing smart monitoring services. IT infrastructure Investments 11. S ustainable Cities and N/a N/a 35,000 In 2020 significant contribution to triple aim Technological Applications IT Communities (better health, better quality, better value). 99% 96% 98.5% 99% >2020 Customer privacy 9. Industry, Innovation & Secure use of Products and Infrastructure 70% 70% 70% 70% until 2020 Services 23% 24% 23% 30% in 2021 Employment 5. Gender Equality Diversity and equal 8. D ecent Work and Economic 80% 77% 78% – Growth opportunity 83% 87% 80%7 >80% Non-discrimination 4.Quality Education Labor/Management relations/ 77% 82% 90% – Occupational helath and safety Training and education 197 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices High material topics Target Result Reference Strategic pillar Medium material topics Theme/ KPI 2018 2018 Environmental Building the best Environmental performance % Reduction of energy consumption KPN Group compared 22% 24% performance converged smart Impact of products and to 2010 infrastructure services Absolute car fuel savings compared to 2010 44% 44% Data centers: more energy efficient compared to 2010 15.5% 12.2% (PUE) Collecting customer equipment (KPN specified) 85%/like 67% for like 69%8 % Reuse and recycling 55%/like 75% for like 67%9 Energy savings by customers as % of KPN Group 64% 81%10 Climate-neutral own operations 100% 100% CO₂e reduction in the chain (scope 3) compared to 2014 Projects to 16.7% reduce F ossil fuel-free cars added to company fleet 15% 19% (lease pool + engineers) Environmental Building the best Sustainable suppliers % realized improvements on corrective action plans 70% 77% performance converged smart -Impact of products and % high-risk Tier I, Tier II and Tier III suppliers audited 40% 42% Solutions for a infrastructure services sustainable supply Circular procurement: number of suppliers that signed the 15 18 chain Circular Manifesto suppliers suppliers Sustainable solutions with impact > 1 year including a cost 4 4 savings component for KPN 8 We improved the calculation method in 2018 and extended the scope of flows included. On a like for like basis a best estimate of the 2017 performance is 69%. Because our target 2018 (85%) was equal to our performance 2017 the like for like target is 69%. 9A s of 2018 we use an all-inclusive scope for the calculation of the percentages reuse and recycling. On a like for like basis our performance 2017 would have been 65%. Our target for 2018 is on a like for like basis 67%. 10In 2018 we updated our Teleworking calculation methodology using more accurate data from CBS on the number of Teleworkers in the Netherlands. On a like for like basis the result for 2017 would have been 77%. 11 From now on we will focus on execution of the Circular Manifesto. 198 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 2: Overview and connectivity of non-financial information Result Result Target Target 2017 2016 2019 2020 and beyond GRI KPI/ref Impact/SDG 24% 20% 24% In 2019 we will re-assess the impact of our updated Materials 12. Responsible consumption growth strategy and introduction of new network Energy and production technology Emissions 13. Climate action 43% 39% 45% 100% inflow of fossil free cars in 2025 Effluents and waste (leasepool + engineers) Environmental compliance 15% 15% 13% Target updated based on migration of network datacenters. 85%/like 74% 70% Close to 100% circular operations and services in 2025 for like 69% 53%/ like 46% 77% Close to 100% circular operations and services in 2025 for like 65% 60%/ like 54% 82% 85% in 2020 (depends on # teleworkers in NL and for like broadband market share) 77%10 100% 100% 100% 100% until 2050: from 2030 without compensating for car fuels (science-based target) 12% N/a 17% 20% reduction emissions in 2025; 50% reduction Scope 3 emissions in 2040 (science-based target linked to Paris Climate Agreement) 7% N/a 20% 100% inflow of fossil fuel-free cars in 2025 (leasepool + engineers) 82% 77% 70% – Supplier environmental 17. P  artnership for the Goals 42% N/a 40% 40% assessment 12. Responsible Consumption Freedom of association and and Production 7 suppliers N/a discontinued11 – collective bargaining Bargaining 4 N/a discontinued11 – Child labor Forced or Compulsory labor Human rights assessment Supplier social assessment 199 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices APPENDIX 3: TRANSPARENCY About this report The full scope of the financial information is reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements (page 110 to 175). Scope sustainability information This report specifically reviews developments and The purpose of the information in this report is to inform our performance in 2018 and is based on topics identified as high stakeholders about our role in society, in connection with our material for KPN. The described scope applies to all material main strategic objectives and targets. We regard as topics. Aspects of a more static nature (such as our stakeholders all people and organizations affected by our management approaches to our CSR themes and our operations or with whom we maintain a relationship, such as stakeholders) or with less reporting priority (such as our customers, employees, shareholders, banks, suppliers, impact on biodiversity and the list of external memberships) journalists, partners and social organizations. For more are included in the GRI Content Index (www.kpn.com/ information on our stakeholder approach for specific annualreport) or reported on corporate.kpn.com/dutchstakeholder groups, see Stakeholder dialog in this Appendix. society.htm. The scope of the information in this report covers the KPN Group including subsidiaries in which KPN has a majority Reporting criteria non-financial information shareholding. The scope has not changed compared with last The Integrated Annual Report is published on 24 February, year’s report. Unless stated otherwise, references to KPN 2019. We have prepared this report in line with the should be read as referring to the KPN Group. All KPN's International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Integrated activities are in the Netherlands, except for iBasis, which has Reporting (IR) framework. For the sustainability information been classified as ’disposal group held for sale’ as of 7 March included in this report we followed the Global Reporting 2018. For our non-financial information, we include new Initiative (GRI) Standards Option Comprehensive and acquisitions in our report as of the first full year of ownership. self-developed reporting criteria as disclosed in this Appendix. Non-financial information for divestments that occurred We comply with the EU Directive Non-Financial Reporting, during the reporting year is excluded for the full year. The and integrated all elements in our Integrated Annual Report. data in this report refers to KPN’s performance and not to The Option Comprehensive of the GRI Standards means that of our subcontractors, unless stated otherwise. that KPN reports on all general standard disclosures and all EU Directive: Disclosure of non-financial information and diversity information Requirements EU Directive Subtopic Chapter / Page reference A brief description of the business model The business environment Our purpose and the world around us, p. 24-27 Our strategy and activities, p. 28-29 Our value creation model, p. 30-33 Our capitals to operate, p. 34-35 Organization and structure Our strategy and activities, p 28-29 Our value creation model, p. 30-33 Our capitals to operate, p. 34-35 Markets where the undertaking operates Our purpose and the world around us, p. 24-27 Our strategy and activities, p 28-29 Our value creation model, p. 30-33 Our capitals to operate, p, 34-35 Objectives and strategies Our strategy and activities, p 28-29 Our value creation model, p. 30-33 Our capitals to operate, p. 34-35 Main trends and factors that may affect the undertaking’s Our purpose and the world around us, p. 24-27 future development Relevant social and personnel matters A description of the policies pursued, including due diligence. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 (e.g. HR, safety etc.) The outcome of those policies. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Principle risks in own operations and within value chain. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Appendix 4: List of top risk, p. 212-219 200 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 3: Transparency Requirements EU Directive Subtopic Chapter / Page reference How risks are managed. Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 Appendix 4: List of top risk, p. 212-219 Non-financial key performance indicators. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Environmental performance, p. 67-73 Relevant environmental matters A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence. Environmental performance, p 67-73 (e.g. climate-related impacts) The outcome of those policies. Environmental performance p. 67-73 Principle risks in own operations and within value chain. Environmental performance p. 67-73 Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 How risks are managed. Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 Non-financial key performance indicators. Environmental performance, p. 67-73 Relevant matters with respect for human A description of the policies pursued, including due diligence. Procurement and suppliers, p. 70-72 rights (e.g. labor protection) The outcome of those policies. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Procurement and suppliers, p. 70-72 Principle risks in own operations and within value chain. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Procurement and suppliers, p. 70-72 How risks are managed. Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 Sustainable employability p. 64-66 Procurement and suppliers, p. 70-72 Non-financial key performance indicators. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Procurement and suppliers, p. 70-72 Relevant matters with respect to A description of the policies pursued, including due diligence. Implement a strong risk culture, p. 82 anti-corruption and bribery Insider transactions, p. 93 Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p. 70-72 The outcome of those policies. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 Principle risks in own operations and within value chain. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 How risks are managed. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 Non-financial key performance indicators. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Insight into the diversity (Board of A description of the policies pursued. Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Management and Supervisory board) Supervisory Board report, p. 95-100 Diversity targets Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Supervisory Board report,, p. 95-100 Description of how the policy is implemented Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Supervisory Board report, p. 95-100 Results of the diversity policy Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Supervisory Board report, p. 95-100 specific standard disclosures related to identified material Supplement, as published by GRI in 2003, in determining topics. The process for defining the material topics and report material disclosures, resulting in five additional topics and content, as well as the list of material topics, is described in indicators in the GRI Content Index. For one high material the materiality determination. The results of this assessment topic, customer loyalty, KPN uses and reports bespoke (list of material topics for KPN, including their reporting performance indicators, as outlined in the GRI Index in priority) determine which GRI indicators are set out in the Appendix 8. Integrated Report and which indicators are featured only on our website or in our GRI Content Index. The overview can be The GRI Content Index specifies the aspect boundaries and found in the GRI Content Index in Appendix 8: GRI Content omitted indicators where relevant (including clarifications). Index. In addition to these GRI Standards, KPN has included This Integrated Annual Report has been prepared in the pilot version of the Telecommunications Sector accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. 201 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices Where available and relevant, the report includes data for Reporting ambitions previous years. Quantitative data concerning the workforce KPN adheres to several reporting benchmarks, like the Dow and financial results set out in this report has been collected Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Transparency using our financial data management system. The remaining Benchmark. By doing this, we keep improving our data, set out in this report, has been collected using a performance and our way of reporting by comparing it with standardized questionnaire that was completed with data that of peers and expectations from the industry and other from information management systems by the responsible stakeholders. Our reporting ambitions for the following years KPN business units. The Internal Audit and Corporate Control are to: departments used consistency and availability of supporting keep reporting in line with the IIRC framework and in evidence as the basis for their assessment of the data accordance with GRI standards; reported at group level. Validation criteria set out in advance keep reporting on high material topics; were also used to assess the data. report more on qualitative and quantitative value creation for society; and External assurance maintain a leading position in several benchmarks like the In order to provide our stakeholders comfort over the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Transparency reliability of our reporting, we engaged EY as an independent Benchmark. assurance provider to perform an assurance engagement with the aim of obtaining reasonable assurance on CO₂e Scoping and calculation methodologies environmental emission data 2018 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the figures Netherlands and the underlying energy data as presented on page 69 of the Integrated Annual Report and limited Calculation and determination of reported emissions assurance on other sustainability information as disclosed in In the Integrated Annual Report, KPN reports the CO₂e the following chapters and appendices: emissions in the chapter Sustainability and in Appendix 6. Chapters: KPN at a glance, Who we are and what we do and Reporting is done in accordance with the guidance and The long-term value we create; standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the ISO Appendices: Appendix 1-7: This includes Appendix 6: 14064-1 standard. KPN uses the operational control approach Social figure’, Appendix 7: Environmental figures when reporting CO₂ emissions. Carbon dioxide (CO₂) is the (including Scope 3 CO₂e emissions) and Appendix 8: GRI most relevant greenhouse gas to KPN. Where available, we Content Index, which are available on the website of KPN. have taken CH₄ and N₂O into consideration in our greenhouse The key social and environmental figures, which are available gas emissions information. We use the term ‘CO₂e-emissions’ in the Appendices 6 and 7 on www.kpn.com/annualreport, are to refer to the greenhouse gas emissions reported on. These also part of this report. Partly, they provide more detailed are stated in CO₂ equivalents. The net Scope 2 emissions are numbers on key figures that reflect on high material topics market based and calculated based on the tank-to-wheel within the report (such as CO₂e-emissions and electricity (TTW) CO₂e-emissions factors for renewable electricity. For consumption). The report contains prospective information, renewables (wind, biomass, solar) the TTW values are all zero. such as ambitions, strategy, targets, expectations and ions. The CO₂eemissions of the well-to-tank (WTT) phase are Inherent to this information is that actual future results may accounted for in our Scope 3 emissions (category 3 – Fuel be different from the prospective information and therefore it and energy related activities). The gross emissions disclosed may be uncertain. Therefore, the assumptions and feasibility on page 69 are location based and calculated with grid mix of this prospective information is not covered by the external emissions factors. The KPN emissions report is subdivided as assurance. follows: The Audit Committee approved every engagement of the Scope 1 – Direct emissions: external auditor, after pre-approval by the internal auditor, in Fuel consumption of the lease vehicle fleet (employees’ order to avoid potential breaches of the external auditor’s passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles) independence. For EY’s assurance report we refer to Heating of buildings (gas) p. 184-191. Consumption of coolants for air conditioning and/or cooling Fuel consumption of emergency power generators 202 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 3: Transparency Scope 2 – Indirect emissions: Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions: Electricity consumption of the fixed and mobile networks, Emissions in our upstream value chain (during the datacenters, offices and shops production phase of our products, services and equipment District heating at our suppliers) District cooling Emissions in our downstream value chain (during the use phase including recycling and disposal of the products, Accuracy services and equipment). The accuracy of the electricity consumption data is a key factor in the reliability of the CO₂e-emissions calculations. In The results are presented on page 229 and in Table 7 of the data collection process, a number of factors affect the Appendix 8: Environmental Figures. accuracy of the collected data. In general, data originating We have used two main methodologies to calculate our from direct measurements and recordings or invoices Scope 3 emissions: including measurements from third parties are the most Spend-based method which takes procurement data and accurate. calculates the emissions within an environmentally extended economic input-output (EEIO) model to assess As our electricity providers estimate the electricity the emissions. We used actual data covering January to consumption for a part of our network operations because November and extrapolated to full year. not in all cases a monthly meter reading is performed, some Process-based method which uses quantity-based data to uncertainty exists about the accuracy and completeness of evaluate the emissions associated with specific activities, our energy consumption. To improve accuracy and e.g. kWh of energy usage or quantity of materials purchased transparency we are migrating to remote readable meters, to manufacture goods. reviewing admin processes and updating profiles with our electricity providers to improve the reliability of our energy We used actual data covering January to November and data. extrapolated to full year. All parameters used in the scope 3 calculation are yearly checked whether new values are available. Calculation of emission methods, coverage and assurance is described in the table below. Location/ Emission factor / Scope CO₂e Standard Scope Coverage Approach Market-based Assurance Green energy Scope 1 GHG Protocol KPN Group 98% of all KPN Operational Market based NL: Reasonable co2emissiefactoren.nl Scope 1 business units control approach version 30-11-2018 Guidance and subsidiaries Gold standard & (Opex/FTE) REDD+ forest compensation projects Scope 2 GHG Protocol KPN Group 98% of all KPN Operational Market based NL: Reasonable co2emissiefactoren.nl Scope 2 business units control approach version 20-12-2018 Guidance and subsidiaries 100% green electricity (Opex/FTE) Scope 3 GHG Protocol Netherlands 98% of all KPN Spend based Location based Limited UK DEFRA 2014 Cat: Scope 3 Guidance business units (Environmentally (Indirect emissions 1, 2, 5, 9 and subsidiaries Extended Input from the supply chain) (Opex/FTE) Output data and CBS Statline The (EEIO) approach) EEIO-factors are corrected for inflation. Scope 3 GHG Protocol Netherlands 98% of all KPN Process and Location based Limited co2emissiefactoren.nl Cat: Scope 3 Guidance business units activity based version 20-12-2018 3, 6, 7, 11, 13 and subsidiaries (Opex/FTE) Scope 3 GHG Protocol Netherlands 98% of all KPN Not applicable Not applicable Limited Not applicable Cat: 4, 8, 10, 12, Scope 3 Guidance business units for KPN 14, 15 and subsidiaries (Opex/FTE) 203 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices Calculation methodology estimated energy consumption Teleworkers we now use yearly reported data by The Dutch saved by customers from using our IT solutions National Statistics Bureau (CBS) on the actual number of The calculation of the avoided energy consumption, CO₂e Teleworkers within the Netherlands. Until 2017 we used a emission and the cost reduction for our customers is based method which was partially based on estimates and on models per service. The results are presented on page 230 extrapolation. and in Table 8 of Appendix 7: Environmental Figures. For Teleworking we have updated our reporting methodology. For the determination of the number of Kind of avoidance Avoided energy consumption (most impact) KPN measurement Source external information Teleworking Avoided travel Market share broadband subscribers Publicly available statistics and reports from CBS, (enabled by KPN connectivity) based on Telecompaper Research Kennisinstituut voor Mobiliteitsbeleid, ECN, Netbeheer Nederland, Milieu Centraal, Telecompaper and other sources KPN Audioconferencing Avoided travel Number of audio-conferencing; Publicly available statistics and reports from CBS, average number participants Kennisinstituut voor Mobiliteitsbeleid, British Telecom per meeting and CarbonTrust KPN Colocation Electricity savings Energy efficiency KPN datacenter, Dutch Datacenter Assocation (Housing) Volume KPN Colocation KPN Hosting Electricity savings Energy efficiency KPN datacenter, Dutch Datacenter Assocation Volume KPN Hosting Dematerialization Energy and raw materials CD and DVD papers avoided NVPI, Sociaal en Cultureel Planbureau, IOPscience, savings by e.g. Spotify, Netflix SVDJ, RVO, CE Delft, WWF and, CarbonTrust iTV Cloud solution Energy and raw materials Number of customers, Telecompaper Consumer Panel savings energy consumption KPN Cloud for iTV KPN Video Conferencing Avoided travel Number of videoconferences; CBS Onderzoek Verplaatsingen in Nederland average travel savings per meeting In the calculation we used actual data covering January to home when working at home (rebound effect) in the November and extrapolated to full year. All parameters are Teleworking savings calculation the values are based on yearly checked for updates by KPN and Ecofys and all averages. The average between the lowest and highest updates and changes in calculation and reference values are reported value in reports and research is used. Cost savings checked and reviewed by Ecofys. For the parameters saved are based on the average fuel, electricity and gas prices office space and the extra electricity and gas consumption at published by CBS and Milieu Centraal. 204 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 3: Transparency Other calculation methodologies In this report, all NPS results refer to Q4 of the respective year, based on a 3-month rolling average (December 18 is based on RepTrak October 18, November 18 and December 18). The NPS RepTrak is developed by the Reputation Institute and is used Consumer (Consumer Residential and Consumer Mobile) and as a method to calculate the reputation score of companies NPS Business reflect a weighted average based on (2017 resp. worldwide. The RepTrak methodology measures also the 2015) revenues. NPS Business combines this with fixed drivers of reputation and the consequences for supportive weights for segments. The main score for NPS NL is the behavior. The Reputation Institute’s policy is to adjust all average of the segments NPS consumer mobile, NPS RepTrak scores by standardizing them against the aggregate consumer residential and NPS Business. distribution of all scores obtained from the Reputation Institutes’s Annual Global RepTrak Pulse. Standardization has Stakeholder engagement and materiality the effect of lowering scores in countries that tend to determination over-rate companies, and has the effect of raising scores for companies in countries that tend to rate companies more negatively. Materiality All RepTrak scores are culturally standardized. This means The annual materiality assessment makes sure we are aware that all RepTrak results are comparable across countries, of what happens in our surroundings, where we have impact industries and over time. Every month, the progress on the and how we can add focus to our efforts. It is performed to key attributes that stimulate reputation and supportive make sure we report on all relevant topics in this Integrated behavior is measured. The results are based on a minimum of Report. The assessment is approved by the Board of 300 respondents per company each quarter. The data Management. The process consists of three steps: collection method is an online interview of 20 minutes. The qualified respondents have to be familiar or very familiar with Step 1: Identification of relevant aspects and other the company. Per 1 January 2011, Reputation Institute started topics using an updated cultural bias adjustment procedure, KPN annually updates a shortlist of relevant topics based on whereby the cultural adjustment analysis was rebased based internal and external developments. Relevant topics are those on the latest reputation scores. Because KPN was already in with which KPN has or can have an impact, inside the the midst of the process of setting KPIs, KPN requested the organization and in the value chain or society. Issues Reputation Institute to report KPN’s reputation scores using identified as relevant during a stakeholder dialog, or after a the ‘old’ cultural bias adjustment analysis. Hence, this report media scan was performed, have been taken into account in shows ‘unrebased’ reputation scores for KPN. KPN reports the the materiality process. During an internal consultation held fourth quarterly average in the Integrated Report with employees representing the Corporate Communication department, the shortlist is validated, using the 2017 shortlist Net Promoter Score (NPS) as a starting point in order to increase the continuity and We use NPS as the leading indicator to measure customer comparability. Validating the shortlist resulted in adjusting loyalty. The NPS results included in this report are calculated and refining the definitions of the following topics: and provided by a leading market research company in the “Environmental performance”, “Sustainable employment”, Netherlands. “Diversity and equal opportunity”, “Community investment”. This has improved the readability and comprehension and NPS is based on direct customer input, with the key question did not led to changes of the topics’ substance. being whether a customer would recommend KPN to someone else. Depending on the score they give, the customer is classified as a ‘promoter’ or a ‘critic’. The NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of ‘critics’ from the percentage of ‘promoters’. The result is displayed as an absolute number instead of a percentage, within a range of -100 to +100. 205 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices Step 2: Determining reporting priority The combination of the horizontal axis and the vertical axis The second step aims to assess the relative impact KPN has determines the degree of impact that KPN has with the topic with the identified topics on society. The outcome is on society. KPN divides the results into three categories: presented on the graphically in the materiality matrix below High material topics: we aim to fulfill a leading role on these and used as both input and validation of our (CSR) strategy, topics. By developing policies, setting targets and defining policies and approach and reporting scope. KPN assesses all KPIs to monitor and report on our impact. relevant topics on: (1) the significance of KPN’s impacts and Medium material topics: we want to demonstrate our social (2) the influence on stakeholder decisions. responsibility regarding these topics. Low material topics: these are topics we monitor, but do not The determining of the materiality involves the following necessarily report on. processes: In order to see where the aspect can be found and which GRI an internal consultation held with employees representing topics are translated into KPN topics, please see the cross all sections of KPN in order prioritize the shortlist topics reference in the connectivity matrix. from KPN’s perspective; and an online survey was send to our most important Step 3: Implementation stakeholders to prioritize the shortlist topics from our Based on the priority outcomes of the materiality stakeholder’s perspective. In total 2806 stakeholders determination, approved by the Board of Management, we representing the following stakeholder groups participated determined the topics to be addressed in the report, including by completing the online survey; business market, consumer the scope and aspect boundaries of all material topics. market, investors, suppliers, employees, society, Despite the less importance “Environmental performance” government. was assigned in this analysis, KPN highly values taking its responsibility on this matter and therefor it’s seen as a key element in KPNs strategy. This is why KPN considers this topic as highly material. Materiality assessment 1 1. Quality and reliability of network Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions 2. Security 2 3. Customer loyalty 4 4. Privacy and Identity 5 5. Digital transformation 3 6. Economic value 8 7 7. Innovation and investments 12 8. Fair marketing and communication 9 9. Impact of products and services 16 14 10 10. Digital knowledge and education 18 6 11. Environmental performance 17 15 11 13 12. Digital inclusion 13. Diversity and Equal Opportunity 19 14. Sustainable Employment 15. Sustainable suppliers 16. Internal human rights adherence 20 17. Community investment 18. Taxes 19. Participation in public policy development 21 20. Electromagnetic fields/radiation 21. Biodiversity Significance of KPN's economic, environmental and social impacts 206 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 3: Transparency Business units are informed on new and altered topics to be acted and reported on, to prepare reporting systems, enhance internal mechanisms, develop reporting definitions and, where relevant, targets. Timelines are developed and new/ altered topics are included in the relevant reporting process mechanisms. Stakeholder dialog KPN is in continuous dialog with a diverse set of stakeholders, with equally diverse interests and motivations. These dialogs take place on different levels within our organization and are often a part of our daily business. Members of the Board of Management attend the most important stakeholder dialogs, in which a variety of stakeholders is present. In the table below, we provide insight into all the interactions we have had with different stakeholders. Stakeholder What they expect How we engage Main topics in 2018 Our response group (incl. frequency) Employees Employees expect us to provide To some the changing conditions  eadership that supports our L Development of our engineers personal possibilities to strive in in the world and the labor market culture as described in the KPN and retail sales people. the dynamic workplace. For them, may feel like a threat. That is a Greenprint. Agile on Tour to support this translates into natural reaction and we feel it as Strategic Workforce continuous personal a tailor-made workplace (physical, our responsibility as an employer Management that focuses on development. technology, learning and to both create awareness of the rationalization and Future-proof individuals and development); simplicity in data, consequences of the fast changing standardization, contract organization’ as main theme in organization, technology and environment and encourage and independent sourcing and preparing for the CLA processes; transparency in enable people to seize the capacity planning. negotiations. the organization and from possibilities it offers. In the long A future-proof organizational leadership and a recognizable run, KPN’s HR function will more design with room for authenticity culture and values. and more be using data & digital and diversity. and robotization & AI to create an Proactive and valuable people & New generations expect employee experience in response data analytics. generational awareness, dynamic to increasing consumerism that Integral management of our HR career perspectives, continuous will take shape in alternative chains in which run and change feedback, mentoring and coaching employment relations. are balanced. and empowerment and agility. Performance management with room for new ways of working that leads to empowered employees. Right sizing of our collective labor conditions to support this. 207 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices Stakeholder What they expect How we engage Main topics in 2018 Our response group (incl. frequency) Government Government and regulators expect We proactively engage with A  voiding non-compliance We continued our compliance and us to comply with the rules and government and regulators. As the Integrity and transparency efforts through programs such as regulators regulations and meet the incumbent in the Netherlands, For the next three years, ACM optimizing our business control requirements for licensing. there are special obligations wants KPN to continue to grant system, external reviews, Furthermore, they expect us to be imposed on us, in particular to its competitors access to its benchmarking, enhanced climate responsible and enable competition via regulated copper and fiber-optic network. compliance training and top transparent in our communication, access to our fixed network. We Concerns have been intensifying management meetings. We work Their goal is, amongst others, to engage in a continuous dialog to concerning national (cyber) continuously to meet compliance create a level playing field and explain our efforts and results. security throughout 2018. requirements through clear and protect the interests of end-users. Furthermore, we work together practical legal advice, clear They expect us to run with (local) governments on operational procedures, related infrastructure and services innovation (e.g. IoT) projects which control mechanisms, and clear considered as very important to result in energy and cost savings. and safe ways to report potential the Dutch economy and Dutch misconduct. We interact closely society at large and to create with ACM in relation to coverage of high speed networks, compliance, incidents and wireless and wireline. potentially different views on the interpretation of the law. Investor The investor community – We organize key corporate events O  perational focus on value and We grew the fixed-mobile community financial markets in general, our such as the Annual General fixed-mobile convergence. customer base leading to further shareholders, debt investors and Meeting of Shareholders, Capital Solid financial performance with increasing customer loyalty and research analysts – expects us to Markets Days, and we meet with improving revenue trend, in line low churn levels. be extensive and transparent. We investors, analysts and credit adjusted EBITDA and growing We realized a growing adjusted should be clear and consistent in rating agencies during roadshows free cash flow. EBITDA and free cash flow and a communicating our strategy, and conferences. We also provide Leverage profile, including the solid growth of regular dividend objectives and outlook, and relevant company information redemption of the EUR 1.1bn per share in 2018 compared to transparent about corporate through timely press releases and hybrid bond. full year 2017. governance, including executive regular publications such as our CEO transition and We fully redeemed the EUR 1.1bn remuneration. Their main interest quarterly results and Integrated accompanying strategy update hybrid bond with existing cash at is our commitment to creating Annual Report. with key drivers of growth and the first call date in September value. They want timely and required level of investments. 2018, we gradually reduced our accurate updates and ample Regulatory uncertainty from stake in Telefónica Deutschland opportunity to seek clarification fixed access regulation and and we distributed the dividend and ask questions. merger between T-Mobile and received on our Telefónica Tele2. Deutschland stake to KPN shareholders. We presented our Strategy 2019-2021 in November 2018, highlighting our strategic priorities that will enable us to deliver organic sustainable growth in adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow, contributing to a progressive dividend per share and deleveraging, while continuing to invest in our infrastructure to become the undisputed quality leader in the Netherlands. 208 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 3: Transparency Stakeholder What they expect How we engage Main topics in 2018 Our response group (incl. frequency) Suppliers Our suppliers expect to maintain a KPN has a central Corporate In 2018, we started to add Together with our suppliers we long term commitment and Procurement Organization (CPO) standard CSR criteria into our implemented sustainable cooperation with us. Furthermore, that is responsible for contracting tender process. These criteria solutions which resulted in cost they expect simple contracts, fair deals with suppliers. We make sure are: Complying with KPN’s reduction, reduction in energy prices, acceptable payment terms the principles of our suppliers’ CSR Supplier Code of Conduct; and material use. and compliance with the core policies are in line with our own. Promoting the reduction of We aim for all suppliers we do principles of data protection. We are constantly in touch with so-called virgin materials (new, business with to comply with the Together we should look for our suppliers and invite them to not previously used materials); KPN Supplier Code of Conduct or opportunities regarding our annual Supplier Day. We Promoting reuse and recycling of have their own equivalent code. sustainable cost reduction. increasingly partner with them on KPN products to reduce the Our Code of Conduct helps to sustainable solutions. We are also amount of landfill; Extending the ensure that all of our suppliers a member of the Joint Audit lifecycle of products; Promoting are committed to conducting its Cooperation (JAC), an association the energy efficiency of KPN business in an ethical, legal of 17 telecom operators aiming to products. environmentally, respecting verify, assess and develop the human rights and socially (CSR) implementation across the responsible manner as well as manufacturing centers of JAC standards. important multinational suppliers. We continue to raise awareness of sustainability among our buyers and suppliers. In order to achieve 100% close to circular products we need support of all suppliers. On December 31st KPN and 11 suppliers have signed the circular manifesto. Business Customers expect KPN to help Every day we talk with our  igital Dutch Experience. D Next to our yearly Digital Dutch customers them with the Digital business customers via our High speed internet. Event we opened the Digital Transformation within their Business Partners, Improve Customer Experience & Dutch Xperience Center in companies. They want sincere and account managers, in our XL Loyalty measured by NPS. Zoetermeer. In this Xperience proactive advice that meet their stores and our contact centers. We Migrations of customers to our center we invite customers and specific needs engage integrated KPN ÉÉN platform. we work together with the through our Customer Experience Simplicity in Products & Services. customer on their specific digital Business Customers also expect Lab in which we test the needs challenges. effortless IT solutions and there is and experience of the customers Roll-out high speed internet a growing customer demand for daily. business parks. continuous accessibility, and fast We also engage customer panels, Supported by its simplified and reliable fixed and mobile quarterly market research, round portfolio Business NPS rose to 0 connections. table discussions, workshops in Q4 2018. connecting customers’ strategies Continued successful bundling of with KPN’s and social media services in SME; 41% migration. through our B2B platform The Growth in Professional Services Digital Dutch. We closely monitor supported by integrated our (business) customers’ solutions at KPN’s larger satisfaction and loyalty through customers. NPS. Retail Our retail customers expect We communicate 24/7 with our  eing always connected. B We offered our WiFi Garantie to customers high-quality products and service customers on our front ends A seamless and easy digital all fixed KPN customers (new for the right price. This includes (Customer Service, Engineers, experience. and existing). failure-free networks, clear Stores, Social). We collect and Sustainability. We completely revamped our propositions and processes, a monitor both requested and mijnKPN and KPNiTV apps quick and proper response to unrequested customer feedback based on customer wishes. questions and complaints and on a daily basis and share these We made it possible for good communication. They customer voices throughout the customers to sell back their old want sincere and proactive advice company. We also use external mobile devices to us. about the best possible panels for our Brand NPS and subscriptions that meet their RepTrak to objectively monitor our needs. Besides that, they want reputation. their loyalty to be acknowledged and appr 209 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices Stakeholder What they expect How we engage Main topics in 2018 Our response group (incl. frequency) Society Society expects us to make a We are active in working groups Topics discussed with our societal We launched KPN Health, we positive mark on Dutch society. initiated by NGOs and participate partners were: organized a big internal event on They expect us to be socially and in or liaise with organizations such People pay with trust, not data. privacy and we organized the environmentally responsible and as the European KPN has a national profile as first Kid Cyber Day. to be a good corporate citizen. Telecommunications Network trusted provider. It will be an We joined in a government They want products and services Operators’ Association (ETNO), competitive advantage if we can campaign cyber security, in order that help to solve social and International Telecom Union (ITU), tell customers where their data is to help people to better protect environmental issues. Furthermore, the United Nations Global going. themselves. they expect us to be a frontrunner Compact Foundation, the Dutch Health is a booming market. We We added the SDGs on Health in sustainability and other societal Association of Investors for can transport the data from the and Well-being to our Value issues by creating sustainable Sustainable Development (VBDO), Patient tot the EDP of the Creation Model. partnerships. KPN has the the ICT Coalition and Circle hospital. We should develop new potential to lead debates e.g. on Economy. Furthermore, we products with the big technology privacy and the use of data organize an annual dialog with advantage of KPN and give stakeholders to discuss our patients autonomy. contribution to society and the We should make a next step on desired next steps. We organize an impact measurement. We should Advisory Board meeting four times share dilemmas, this is part of the a year, which we renewed in 2017. story. There does not exist a one-size fits all methodology for Impact Measurement. Advice CSR Advisory board on the SDG’s that are presented in the Value Creation Model: those are the main targets, but the sub targets are more interesting, because KPN’s contribution towards these sub targets show where KPN adds the most value. How we engage with policymakers KPN actively engages with policymakers in politics and KPN refrains from any sponsorship of political parties, political government and sponsors activities which help to debate in individuals or government institutions. Management upholds the public arena the consequences of digitalization and strict standards on ethical and transparent behavior. develop actions to cope with them. For KPN, as a Employees who are politically active have to ask for predominantly Dutch operation, policy is primarily shaped in permission if they have paid political functions, e.g. as Brussels and in The Hague. The focus of our engagement is member of municipal or regional councils. In the past years, there. To increase relevance with policymakers, the aim is to KPN has always had the policy to approach policy makers cooperate as much as possible with other likeminded directly. External public affairs agencies are not paid to speak companies and therefore KPN participates in trade on behalf of KPN. organizations which are active at the European level and in KPN presents the amount of money spent on public affairs in the Netherlands and contributes to these organizations. three categories. KPN does not disaggregate these figures These contributions accounts for the majority of the further as KPN is not at liberty to divulge the contributions to disclosed amounts. The sums apportioned to Brussels are individual organizations. part of the sums disclosed in the Transparency Register to which KPN has subscribed from the start. The Transparency Register also encompasses an estimation of cost of staff. KPN also participates in global organzations like GSMA, which aims to develop the mobile industry worldwide, and which also engages with policymakers in Europe and elsewhere. Finally, KPN contributes to ITU, which is a standardiation body and a United Nations Agency, but which is not a trade organization and therefore is not included in the sums presented. 210 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 3: Transparency Type of trade Geographic scope Spend in 2018 Focus of membership organization in EUR (non-exhaustive) Trade bodies Global 30,000 Develop the mobile industry worldwide with focus on level representing interests playing field and predictability of the law. Create common of mobile operators standards and encourage sustainable innovation. worldwide Trade body European Union 63,601 Create a level playing field within the EU based on an representing Europe’s unambiguous and predictable legal situation. Focus on the telecommunications European Electronic Communications Code, the General Data network operators Protection Regulation, ePrivacy, and the Privacy Shield. Trade body the Netherlands and 393,384 Monitor and influence nationwide issues that are of importance representing the European Union across sectors. Examples include creating a prosperous Netherlands Industry investment climate, fiscal climate, social agenda and a digital and Employers agenda. Trade association for the Netherlands 38,115 Monitor, influence and increase awareness of (issues in) the IT, telecom, internet digital economy, e.g. on continuity and security and privacy. and companies Trade association in the Netherlands 12,100 Monitor and influence national policies in particular for the the technology manufacturing industries, such as health care, metallurgy, industry microconductor industry, and the digital industry. Trade association for the Netherlands 86,354 Monitor and influence national policies specifically in the field of the positioning of the national security. Netherlands defenseand safety-related industry Trade body and the Netherlands and 36,079 Representing the interests of small, medium and larger knowledge centre the European Union organizations who use water and electricity on a professional representing basis. commercial users of electricity and water in the Netherlands Trade body the Netherlands and 15,000 This organization aims to increase the digital resilience of the representing the the European Union Netherlands and to increase the quality and transparency within interests of the cyber the growing cyber security sector. security sector 211 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices APPENDIX 4: LIST OF TOP RISKS Category Risk Countermeasure Evaluation Fast changing market KPN could face increased competition on > Offer converged services (triple-play, quad-play) and Likelihood Medium-high conditions: intensified services and network access from current competitive price/portfolio combinations, such as KPN Impact High competition competitors as well as new market Compleet and KPN ÉÉN Trend entrants and OTT players, or from market > Implement the best converged smart infrastructure in the consolidation. Competition in retail and Netherlands by: Monitoring KPI: wholesale markets can occur based on Accelerating fiber roll-out for Consumer and Business > Market shares price, content, increase of investment in Market, increasing availability of high access speeds and > ARPU customer acquisition or retention costs, improving in-home WiFi coverage subscription options, coverage and service Full modernization of mobile network by enabling the quality. These factors could lead to lower latest innovative technologies profitability as well as lower market shares. Moving to All-IP infrastructure > Lean operating model: acceleration of simplification and digitalization program. This will lead to improved time-to-market, better quality of service and a simplified and agile organization. Additionally, it will lead to a structural lower level of operational costs and swift response to new market developments. > Improve NPS and offer high quality of service to customers > Maintain focus on high-value customers in both Consumer and Business segment > Introduce new innovative products and services to meet changing customer needs > Launch targeted household approach and householdcentric propositions > Strengthen distribution power with business partners, online channels and shops > Improve customer loyalty by optimizing customer journey and implementing advanced data analytics programs > Strategic partnerships and cooperation with OTT players > KPN Ventures to form partnerships with innovative companies. Fast changing market KPN’s business model and financial > Develop new services, business models and pricing Likelihood Medium-high conditions: disruptive performance could be affected by models Impact High technologies or (disruptive) technologies, changing > Develop strategic partnerships with OTT players and Trend business models and customer behavior and new players. KPN’s network suppliers failure to introduce new response to new technologies (such as > Implement an agile organization, technology (such as Monitoring KPI: products and services E-SIM, blockchain, artificial intelligence, applying open innovation models and standardized > Revenues new business fintech), changing customer behavior and technology) and processes to enable swift response to > Revenues existing market developments and its ability to new market developments. business (Mobile, Fixed, successfully introduce new competitive > Introduction of ‘Field labs’, Operator of the Future project TV etc) products or services, are essential to KPN’s (‘Horizon Three’) and ‘Proof of Concept’ to test new performance and profitability in the long technologies with customers run. > KPN ventures: scout, invest in, and create cooperations with innovative technology companies to enhance The introduction of new products and innovation in key areas such as Internet of Things, Smart services such as new propositions may not Home, Cyber Security, Cloud Computing, Data Services, be successful and/or timely. This could Digital Healthcare, Mobile/Video (OTT) services and lead to lower profitability as well as lower Networking Technology market shares. > Perform scenario analysis to timely identify (and act upon) disruptive technologies and changing customer preferences > Continue the exploration of how KPN can adequately respond to changes in the (telecommunications) market and value chain by implementing new business initiatives, in line with KPN’s new strategy. 212 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 4: List of top risks Category Risk Countermeasure Evaluation Operational and quality KPN’s services and technical infrastructure > Implement the best converged smart infrastructure in the Likelihood Low-Medium related incidents and IT may be vulnerable to damage, Netherlands by: Impact Medium service interruptions, operational issues Accelerating fiber roll-out for Consumer and Business Trend and loss/theft or manipulation of customer Market, increasing availability of high access speeds and data. These incidents could be caused by improving in-home wifi coverage Monitoring KPI: failures in the network systems, power Full modernization of mobile network by enabling the >N  PS supplies, failures in supporting computer latest innovative technologies >W  eighted Downtime systems, disasters (fire, flooding) or by Moving to All-IP infrastructure Reduction reduction of legacy systems. These > Lean operating model: acceleration of simplification and > Major incidents incidents could have a negative impact on digitalization program. This will lead to improved society, KPN’s reputation and profitability time-to-market, better quality of service and a simplified and customer satisfaction. and agile organization. Additionally, it will lead to a structural lower level of operational costs and swift response to new market developments. > Monitor performance of technical infrastructure (e.g. traffic growth and utilization rate) and IT > Strengthen the IT and continue implementation of the KPN Security Policy > Back-up and recovery plans in case of emergencies including adequate external communication (e.g. “be alert” procedure and corporate crisis management teams) > For business continuity in the Netherlands: internal continuity and disaster recovery programs regional roaming in which a part of mobile voice traffic can be transferred to other operators in the event of calamities. > Insurance agreements to cover liability claims of customers or third parties in case of service interruptions. Strategic transformation: KPN may not > Lean operating model: acceleration of simplification and Likelihood Medium make sufficient progress in realizing the digitalization program. This will lead to improved Impact Medium necessary simplification and time-to-market, better quality of service and a simplified Trend transformation actions, for example by and agile organization. Additionally, it will lead to a structural phasing out legacy networks and systems, lower level of operational costs. Monitoring KPI: by simplifying our processes and services, > Rationalization of networks: shutting down legacy > OPEX reduction by digitalizing our business, by networks, moving to a single core network and postmerger integration of our acquisitions virtualization or by strengthening our capabilities and > Rationalisation of products and services, IT, datacenters culture. These actions must lead to and technical infrastructure necessary cost reductions, increased > Increased use of standard (cloud) building blocks in agility (e.g. improved time-to-market of networks new innovative services) and higher > Focused innovation and govern innovations and quality of services (e.g. higher NPS and simplification at executive level; strong planning of new First Time Right). If KPN cannot realize innovation and simplification projects simplification and transformation in time, we are not able to adequately respond to actions of our competitors and, consequently, could lead to lower revenues and profitability in future. 213 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices Category Risk Countermeasure Evaluation Operational and quality KPN may fail to meet stakeholder > Embed sustainability in our corporate strategy, ambitions Likelihood Low related incidents expectations relating to energy, emissions and targets Impact Low and sustainability. This could lead to loss > Continued dialog with KPN’s main stakeholders regarding Trend of customers, loss of profitability in the their expectations for energy, emissions and sustainability future and reputational damage. > Maintain KPN’s climate-neutral performance (green Monitoring KPI: energy) > Energy consumption > Continued efforts on reducing energy usage and > Carbon emissions emissions for our own operations and in the supply chain > Circularity (long-term goal > Implement circular operations and services to reduce our close to 100% as of 2025) environmental footprint, e.g. by collecting customer > Percentage of waste equipment for reuse and recycling, increasing the > Ranking in Dow Jones longevity of our products and where possible switch to Sustainability Index and less virgin materials. CDP or similar upcoming > Continue KPN’s CO₂e-reduction objectives as approved by ratings the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTI), which means they are in line with the climate goals of the Paris Agreement. > Measure energy savings by IT solutions for our customers > External communication program about KPN’s activities on corporate social responsibility (e.g. Klassecontact) and on energy management (e.g. realization of CO2e neutral datacenters) and the benefits for KPN customers and Dutch society. Information security Threats to the confidentiality, integrity or > Continued implementation of the regularly updated KPN Likelihood High threats availability of KPN's networks, systems, or Security Policy Impact High data (including customer data) caused by > Continued and reinforced strategic security programs such Trend cyber attacks or terrorism. as Permanent Vulnerability Management, Safemail, Endpoint Protection, and DNS & Network Security. Monitoring KPI: > Continue and strengthen Security Operations Center to > PHOSI (Potential Harm Of improve security visibility and risk intelligence Security Incident) > Consolidate and maintain quality asset registration and > Average days to close configuration management database which enables rapid incidents and response to attacks vulnerabilities > Continue HR strategy focused on attracting and retaining > # data leakages leading security experts > Educate and increase awareness of personnel for security and privacy > In case of emergencies or large incidents, adequate external communication (e.g. “security be alerts”, corporate crisis management teams). 214 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 4: List of top risks Category Risk Countermeasure Evaluation Risks relating to New regulatory decisions in the EU and > Proactive stakeholder and reputation management Likelihood Medium regulatory and the Netherlands could affect KPN’s future including dialog with regulators and decision makers. Impact Medium legislative matters operations and profitability, such as > Quarterly report to Board of Management on status of Trend decisions regarding net neutrality, level new laws and regulations. playing field in access regulation and > Strengthening the effectiveness of the compliance Monitoring KPI: between telco and internet players, organization: > F ines (national) security and spectrum auctions. Centralized organization for compliance and risk > # compliance incidents management reported to regulator KPN may face issues in relation to Compliance training sessions for staff and management, non-compliance with regulation, including for example e-learnings about the Company codes for all –but not limited to– telecommunications staff members of KPN in the Netherlands and privacy regulations. These incidents Pro active internal compliance investigations can lead to fines or have a negative impact Surveys and culture improvement programs on KPN’s reputation and relationship with Improving and maintaining a robust internal control regulators and/or supervisors. framework dedicated to complying with specific regulations Although there is no evidence that Ringfencing wholesale within operations. electromagnetic radiation of (mobile) > For Privacy: implementation program of EU General Data equipment or base stations pose any Protection Regulation (GDPR) requirements. health risks, a change in this view could > For security: good relations and exchange with relevant expose us to significant claims and national security agencies. litigations, a severe drop in our mobile > Regarding electromagnetic radiation: business or high compliance costs of new Monitor national and international scientific research on laws and regulations (e.g. major changes the effects of radiation on health. in our mobile networks). Strict adherence to all national and international standards for radiation (e.g. KPN observes wider safety margins than required by national and international regulations). Participation in spectrum auction in the > Thorough preparation by experienced KPN team and Likelihood Medium Netherlands in 2020 (700, 1400 and 2100 external experts; extensive simulation of auctions Impact High Mhz): KPN has to acquire or to renew the > Investigate alternative combinations of spectrum and Trend required frequency blocks and may have advanced techniques to meet customer demands to pay a high price for the required > Prudent financial policies to secure adequate funding Monitoring KPI: spectrum. > Proactive stakeholder management and dialog with regulators and other governmental bodies. 215 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices Category Risk Countermeasure Evaluation Risks relating to Tax risks: Likelihood Medium-High regulatory and >A  dverse decisions or interpretations of > Act in line with our company-wide tax strategy and tax Impact High legislative matters tax authorities on pending disputes or policy Trend changes in tax treaties, tax laws, OECD > Continuous monitoring of internal control framework for guidelines, EU Directives and other rules key tax risk areas Monitoring KPI: could have a material adverse effect on > Maintain good working relationships with tax authorities > Effective tax rate KPN’s net result and cash flow. > Tax planning >W  ith regard to WBSO and Innovation Box benefits: KPN has a declining number of eligible hours for WBSO, due to stricter interpretation of legislation, lower qualifying Capex budgets for innovation and our new (‘agile’) way of working. > If business results stay behind > If (taxable) profits do not develop according to plan, timely expectations, KPN’s net DTA may have action/tax planning is needed to avoid impairment (loss) to be impaired, partly or in full. of DTA. >W  ith regard to ongoing discussions with > Defending KPN’s position through court procedure. the tax authorities on VAT: The increase in revenues at Consumer as of August 2016 is partly caused by a positive effect resulting from a change in the VAT calculation methodology. This change is the consequence of the introduction of new mobile consumer propositions in August 2016. This has resulted in a lower remittance of VAT from August 2016 onwards of approximately EUR 3m per month. Although the view of KPN is not shared by the Dutch tax authorities, based on the current legislation, KPN is sufficiently confident of this position. Uncertainty about The telecom and IT market is > Strong Capex planning, supported by data-driven decision Likelihood Medium KPN’s future business characterized by increasing competition, making process and based on RoCE and NPV analyses Impact Medium-High model to recover high accelerating changes in customer > Long term vision on our networks, to optimize and align Trend investments behavior, accelerating technological future investments (both timing, size and technology) with developments, increasing price pressure our commercial portfolio, market developments and Monitoring KPI: and shrinking markets. Due to these financial performance >R  oCE developments, high investments in our > Continuous monitoring of realization strategic business > Capex as % of Revenues assets such as technical infrastructure plans and performance, e.g. utilization and return on > Utilization of networks (access and core networks), IT investments infrastructure, licenses and goodwill may > Develop strategic partnerships and investigate options for not be recovered as KPN’s business network sharing models to generate revenue and cash flow > Implement a solid investment policy streams could change in future. Also, > Monitor profitability of the cash generating units and changes in assumptions such as network penetration. profitability, network penetration, long-term growth and discount rate could negatively affect the value of cash generating units. These factors could lead to impairments of assets, licenses and goodwill. 216 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 4: List of top risks Category Risk Countermeasure Evaluation Insufficient cash flows The telecommunications industry is > Continuous monitoring of realization strategic business Likelihood Medium for future CAPEX characterized by rapid technological plans and performance, e.g. organic growth of adjusted Impact High investments changes and innovations. To meet future EBITDA and FCF, utilization and return on investments Trend customer needs and to stay ahead of our > Strong Capex planning, supported by data-driven decision competitors, KPN must continuously making process and based on RoCE and NPV analyses Monitoring KPI: invest in its infrastructure to upgrade, > Develop strategic partnerships and investigate options for > Net cash flow from modernize and simplify our networks and network sharing operating activities supporting systems. If KPN cannot generate sufficient cash flows in future, we are not able to realize and finance the required investments. This could subsequently lead to higher churn of customers, declining market shares and to lower revenues and profitability in future. Lack of new business KPN may not be able to develop sufficient > Focused innovation initiatives, new business as well as Likelihood Medium-High initiatives to new business initiatives and opportunities strategic partnerships and cooperation with OTT players Impact High compensate declining in the near future to compensate declining (open innovation model) to ensure KPN meets the Trend existing business existing business, which may jeopardize changing customer needs and adapts to a dynamic KPN’s profitability. market. Monitoring KPI: > Introduction of ‘Field labs’, Operator of the Future project > Revenues new business (‘Horizon Three’) and ‘Proof of Concept’ to test new > Market sizes (TV, LoRa, technologies with customers etc) > KPN Ventures to form partnerships with innovative > OIT IT and Telco companies. Financing KPN and KPN requires solid access to (debt) capital KPN ensures solid access to debt capital markets by: Likelihood Low-Medium volatile financial markets to finance its operations and > Commitment to an investment grade credit profile Impact High markets refinance its outstanding debt. The > Maintaining a strong liquidity position and prefunding Trend pressure on KPN’s financial framework debt redemptions may increase in the event of higher net > Monitoring and forecasting of metrics used by rating Monitoring KPI: debt levels and/or lower profitability. In agencies > Credit rating that case, KPN might not be able to > Maintaining discipline in allocating capital to investment > Net debt/EBITDA ratio maintain its current credit ratings, which opportunities and shareholder remuneration > Liquidity forecast could negatively affect pricing and > Rating metrics (used in availability of financing resources. credit rating) > Dividend pay out ratio Uncertainty or changes in financial > Cash flow forecasting to ensure sufficient liquidity Likelihood Medium markets could negatively affect pricing headroom in both normal and stressed market Impact Medium and availability of KPN’s funding sources. circumstances Trend > Maintaining a varied maturity profile, limiting the amount of debt maturing in any one calendar year Monitoring KPI: > Financing upcoming debt maturities well ahead of their > Liquidity forecast maturity > Redemption profile > Maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves in the form of cash > Fixed/floating interest rate and / or committed credit facilities mix > Managing the mix of floating and fixed interest rates > Diversification in funding sources 217 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices Category Risk Countermeasure Evaluation Dependence on KPN strongly depends on products and > Establishing a strong and centralized demand and Likelihood Medium suppliers and services of external suppliers. This contract management organization that defines, enforces Impact Medium outsourcing / offshoring dependency relates to adequate and monitors compliance of suppliers with terms of Trend partners telecommunications equipment, software contracts and preparation of re-transition plans as fall and IT services, and contractors’ ability to back scenario Monitoring KPI: build and roll-out telecommunications > Simplification of the supplier landscape in line with KPN’s > Spend development: networks, as well as suppliers’ ability to strategy and cost focus % spend at top 20 suppliers deliver technical support. This > Follow a well-defined outsourcing process (toll gates, risk dependency could potentially lead to analyses etc) unbalanced supply-demand relationships > Evaluation of outsourced activities on effectiveness and and could lead to an inability to obtain the efficiency and (where applicable) preparation of a products and services at a competitive re-transition plan for insourcing price and quality. > Include the possibility to terminate contracts based on non-performance and in that case migration of the Furthermore, we identify the risk of an activities to other suppliers inappropriate level of back-to-back > Include a right to audit clause in supplier contracts and the contracting with regards to customer possibility to conduct regular audits requirements on e.g. price and services in > Monitor compliance of suppliers with the KPN Security supplier agreements. Policy > Align customer contract requirements with supplier Suppliers of KPN could breach relevant contract requirements (this alignment is part of the legislation such as data protection, governance rules for outsourcing). security, privacy, IPR, human rights and/or > Sharing of the KPN’s supplier Code of Conduct with all environmental laws, which could suppliers and request all medium and high risk suppliers negatively impact KPN’s reputation. to confirm compliance with this code. > For high-risk suppliers, performance of audit procedures to evaluate suppliers’ compliance with international standards for human rights and environmental laws. Monitoring of timely follow-up on main audit findings. > Promote transparent pricing and way of doing business Geopolitical Geopolitical volatility, driven by rising > Closely monitor latest global and political developments Likelihood High developments international tensions, protectionism and > Define fall back scenarios and policies if KPN can no Impact High security concerns, may impact our ability longer acquire or use hardware and software from specific Trend to do business in any part of the world. suppliers (‘dual vendors’) These concerns could lead to international > During selection process specific attention for suppliers’ Monitoring KPI: bans and other sanctions on suppliers of risk profile N/A hardware and software. Such sanctions could significantly impact business continuity of those suppliers and consequently could also harm KPN’s availability and use of network equipment. 218 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 4: List of top risks Category Risk Countermeasure Evaluation Employment and KPN may not be able to attract and retain > Improve skilled and talented workforce by: Likelihood Medium diversity qualified and diverse staff members, as the Innovative and inspiring talent management programs to Impact Medium war for talent increases rapidly. This could attract and maintain qualified staff (both from the Trend lead to insufficient competency in KPN’s Netherlands and abroad) workforce. Also, employees or new Discover new talent and make KPN more attractive for Monitoring KPI: candidates may have negative perceptions talented employees across the organization > Employee engagement or uncertainties about KPN’s future. Launch of a new labor market strategy to attract > % women in cao 12 and external staff with new capabilities, e.g. via the new higher If KPN does not meet the diversity goals ‘www.fieldlab.nl’ website > Ranking KPN in ‘attractive and ‘social return’ requirements, this could Promote technical education initiatives at high schools employer’ benchmarks. impact KPN’s future profitability (e.g. lower and universities to attract new and diverse workforce. margins in business market for public > Clear communication to (key) staff about KPN’s strategy sector), customer satisfaction and and reasons for restructuring and value their opinions reputation. > Application of HR ideation campaigns to improve (company wide) restructuring execution Restructurings could lead to less > Sustainable employability and mobility: support employees motivated personnel and/or key personnel in acquiring different skills, enabling them to find a new leaving the Company and thus loss of role inside or outside KPN knowledge and continuity. > Maintain or improve employee engagement and attractiveness as employer > Continued implementation of KPN’s policy to improve diversity in KPN’s workforce > Implementation of a strategic plan on inclusion and social return Equity erosion Group equity position may be negatively > Improve profitability of KPN Group Likelihood Medium-High impacted by impairments of goodwill or > Monitoring (future) development of equity position and Impact Medium other financial assets, lower profits or solvency ratio Trend future dividend payments. If our equity > Balanced shareholder remuneration in relation to profit position is too low, it could potentially limit and cash flow development Monitoring KPI: our dividend payments to shareholders. > Group equity position > Free distributable reserves Volatility in fair value of KPN has a 4.4% stake in Telefónica > Monitor share price of Telefónica Deutschland Likelihood Medium financial assets Deutschland as a result of the sale of Impact Medium-High E-Plus in 2014. This stake is reported as an Trend ‘available for sale financial asset’ and measured at fair value which is based on Monitoring KPI: the share price of Telefónica Deutschland. > Shareprice Telefónica The share price is volatile which could lead Deutschland to lower future other comprehensive income and lower proceeds in future when (parts of) the stake are sold. Adverse macro Although the current macro-economic > Close monitoring of and swift response to new market Likelihood Low economic conditions perspectives are still positive for the developments and trends, for example by drafting Impact Low-Medium coming years, the economic climate could contingency plans such as plans for cost-cutting initiatives Trend deteriorate in the longer term, for example and restructurings. due to continued political uncertainties in > Lean operating model: acceleration of simplification and Monitoring KPI: Europe and the United States and digitalization program. This will lead to improved > Organic revenue growth increasing protectionism in global trade. If time-to-market, better quality of service and a simplified the macro-economic conditions worsen, and agile organization. Additionally, this will also lead to a this could lead to declining spending of structurally lower level of operational costs. customers in both the Consumer and > Seizing new opportunities by innovation and introduction Business market, and will consequently of new services, to compensate for (accelerating) declining lead to lower future revenue growth, telecom and IT businesses. profitability and cashflows. risk is increasing (worsening) risk is stable risk is decreasing (not as bad) 219 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices APPENDIX 5: GLOSSARY This glossary lists the key terms and concepts included in the period, divided by the average number of customers during Integrated Annual Report. that month. Gross service provider revenues represent revenues generated by third-party providers. KPN accounts 3G for the net part as gross service provider revenues. Third generation mobile system, which is based on the UMTS universal standard. Asymmetric cyber security Asymmetric cyber security refers to the offensive and 4G defensive activities between two parties whose relative cyber Fourth generation mobile system, a standard for wireless capabilities (tools, resources, time) differ significantly, or communication delivering high-speed data for mobile phones whose strategy or tactics differ significantly. This is typically a and data terminals. conflict between a professional cyber security team in any public or private organization and an opponent that often has 5G an unlawful status. Fifth generation mobile system, a standard for wireless communication delivering high-speed data for mobile phones Average 4G download speed and data terminals, exceeding 4G speeds. 5G targets high The average download speed is based on the results of a data rates, reduced latency, energy saving, higher system speedtest that customers initiate on 4G with their capacity and massive device connectivity. smartphone. Robot measurements and customers that use other networks than KPN’s are excluded from the results. A Average maximum download speed broadband fixed The average maximum download speed that we report is the ACM (Authority for Consumers and Markets) predicted technical speed, based on the best available The ACM acts as a regulator in the Netherlands and is technologies, per address. Figures are based on year-end data. responsible for monitoring compliance with anti-trust rules. ADR B American depository receipt. BCF (business control framework) Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA The BCF contains all corporate policies and guidelines that Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA are derived from are mandatory for KPN segments and entities. It forms the revenues (including other income) and EBITDA, respectively, cornerstone of the governance of the KPN Group. and are adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals. Incidentals are non-recurring transactions of EUR Bit 5m or over unless significant for the specific reportable A binary digit (bit) is the smallest unit of information. segment, which are not directly related to day-to-day Internet speeds in this report are expressed in Megabits operational activities per second (Mbps). AI (artificial intelligence) B2B AI is the intelligence demonstrated by machines. Business-to-business, commercial transactions between businesses. AR (augmented reality) AR is an interactive experience of a real world environment Broadband where the objects that reside in the real world are Broadband refers to telecommunication that provides ‘augmented’ by computer-generated perceptual information. multiple channels of data over a single communications medium, typically using some form of frequency or wave ARPU (average revenue per user) division multiplexing. ARPU is the sum of connection fees, monthly fixed subscription revenues, traffic revenues and gross service 220 provider revenues less related discounts during a one-month The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 5: Glossary C C2B Consumer-to-business, a business model in which consumers create value and businesses consume that value. Capital expenditure (capex) Investments in property, plant and equipment and software. CO₂e Carbon dioxide equivalent, is a standard unit for measuring CDP carbon footprints. The idea is to express the impact of each The CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) is a joint different greenhouse gas in terms of the amount of CO₂ that initiative of investors worldwide that questions and would create the same amount of warming. That way, a benchmarks listed companies on their approach to climate change. carbon footprint consisting of different greenhouse gases can be expressed as a single number. Churn (calculated on an annual basis) The number of customers no longer connected to an Conflict minerals operator’s network divided by the operator’s customer base. Conflict minerals are minerals mined under conditions of armed conflicts and human rights issues. These minerals are Circular economy used in a variety of products, including consumer electronic The circular economy is a generic term for an industrial devices such as mobile phones. economy that is producing no waste and pollution and in which material flows are of two types: biological nutrients, Critical supplier designed to re-enter the biosphere safely, and technical See high risk supplier. nutrients, which are designed to circulate at high quality in the production system without entering the biosphere. CSR (corporate social responsibility) CSR, to KPN, is the integrated vision of entrepreneurship, in Circular Manifesto which the company takes responsibility and creates value in Document signed by KPN and supplier to support KPN’s economic (profit), ecological (planet) and social (people) terms. circular goal of close to 100% circular products. By signing, We incorporate CSR into our business and by doing so, take KPN and supplier agree to collaborate in contributing to a our social responsibility and contribute to societal challenges. more circular economy. Customer base CISO (Chief Information Security Office) Customer base is the total number of subscribers. CISO is responsible within KPN for the security of the IT and TI architecture. The CISO REDteam, KPN’s ethical hacking team and the CERT (Computer Emergency Response Team), D which acts in case of a potential or actual cyber-attack, all form part of this office. DEFRA UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs. DEFRA CISO labs has published conversion factors to calculate greenhouse gas CISO labs develop new secure and cryptographic products. emissions. Together with other companies and universities we have started research projects in areas such as post-quantum cryptography. DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) The DJSI series is a collection of indices that track the Climate-neutral performance of companies that are frontrunners in terms of For KPN, climate-neutral means operating with zero net CO₂e CSR. The DJSI is based on an analysis of corporate economic, emissions. environmental and social performance. There are several sub-indices based on geographical parameters. Cloud services Cloud services are standardized IT capability (services, software or infrastructure) delivered via internet technologies in a pay-per-use, self-service way. 221 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices DSL (digital subscriber line) G DSL is a technology for bringing high bandwidth information to homes and small businesses over copper PSTN lines. The GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Protocol widely-used term xDSL refers to different variations of DSL, The GHG Protocol is a multi-stakeholder partnership of such as ADSL, HDSL, VDSL and SDSL. business, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), governments and others that develop internationally accepted DVB-T2 (Digital Video Broadcasting Second GHG accounting and reporting standards for organizations. Generation Terrestrial) The extension of the television standard DVB-T, devised for GL (geolocation) the broadcast transmission of digital terrestrial television. Geolocation is the identification or estimation of the realworld geographic location of an object, such as a radar source, E mobile phone, or internet-connected computer terminal. EBITDA GP (general practitioner) Operating result before depreciation and impairments of A general practitioner is a medical doctor who treats acute property, plant and equipment and amortization and and chronic illnesses and provides preventive care and health impairments of intangible assets. education to patients. EEIO (environmentally extended input output data) Green electricity EEIO models estimate energy use and/or GHG emissions Green electricity is electricity from renewable sources. KPN resulting from the production and upstream supply chain only uses wind energy and electricity from biomass that does activities of different sectors and products. The resulting EEIO not compete with food production. emissions factors can be used to estimate cradle-to-gate GHG emissions for a given industry or product category. EEIO Greenprint models are derived by allocating national GHG emissions to Greenprint is a description that helps us to work towards the groups of finished products based on economic flows same goal: achieving the desired customer experience between industry sectors. and in the end becoming the best service provider, based on the why, who, what and how of our existence. F GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) The Global Reporting Initiative is an organization that FTA publishes international standards for CSR reporting. FTA refers to fixed terminating access. H FTE (full-time equivalent) The equivalent of the number of employees with a full-time contract. Hybrid cloud Hybrid cloud is a cloud computing environment which uses a FttH (Fiber to the Home) mix of on-premises, private cloud and third-party, public FttH is defined as an access network architecture in which the cloud services with orchestration between the two platforms. final part of the connection to the home also consists of By allowing workloads to move between private and public optical fiber. clouds as computing needs and costs change, hybrid cloud gives businesses greater flexibility and more data deployment FttO (Fiber to the Office) options. FttO is fiber connection for business customers to the offices. High-risk supplier Our procurement process includes an assessment of all new contracted suppliers, classifying them based on the potential social and environmental risk their operations, products and services represent. We assess this risk based on three 222 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 5: Glossary parameters: geographical areas, spend and potential L environmental impact of a supplier’s operations, products or services. High-risk suppliers are audited by independent LGBTQI+ external auditors once every two to four years. Lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenders, queers, intersexuals and people with other sexual and/or gender identity. KPN I Pride is an inclusive community for LGBTQI+, and all colleagues (including heterosexuals) who are interested in IT LGBTQI+ subjects related to the KPN workfloor. IT refers to information technology. LoRa (Long Range) Industry-adjusted ranking Network architecture to connect millions of low-energy and This ranking takes into account the impact of its industry’s low-data devices to the internet in a cost-effective way. This reputation on a company’s score. opens up countless application possibilities for KPN’s Internet of Things (IoT). IoT (Internet of Things) The Internet of Things connects objects such as garbage bins LTE (Long-Term Evolution) or cars via a chip with the internet. This offers many LTE, commonly marketed as 4G LTE, is a standard for wireless opportunities, such as Smart City solutions. communication of high-speed data for mobile phones and data terminals. IPTV IPTV is a system through which television services are M delivered using the internet protocol suite over a packetswitched network such as the internet. iTV is KPN’s IPTV M2M (machine-to-machine) offering in the Netherlands. Direct communication between devices using any communications channel, including wired and wireless ISO (International Organization for Standardization) This organization is responsible for international Market share management standards such as ISO 14001, ISO 140064-1, Market share is the percentage or proportion of the total ISO 27001 and ISO 22301 (mentioned in this report). available market that is being serviced by KPN. These figures are based on externally available market data, which may not iTV be completely accurate, and may partially be based on estimates. iTV stands for interactive TV. With iTV, the customer can easily choose when, where and which programs to watch. Mbps (Megabits per second) Mbps is a unit of data transfer rate equal to one million bits J per second. The bandwidths of broadband networks are often indicated in Mbps. JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation) The JAC is a cooperation of 13 European telecommunication MHz (megahertz) operators (including KPN) focusing on the social, ethical, and MHz is one million hertz (a unit of frequency). environmental conditions across their supply chains. MTA MTA refers to mobile terminating access. K Multi-play KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds A proposition combining more than one product and/or type This KPN foundation supports societal initiatives aimed at of service is considered a multi-play proposition. Triple-play stimulating social contact, by combining people and and quad-play propositions are types of multi-play technological resources to best advantage. propositions. 223 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices MVNO (mobile virtual network operator) Roaming A mobile operator that does not have its own spectrum or Transfer of mobile traffic from one network to another, its own network infrastructure. Instead, MVNOs have business referring to the exchange of international mobile traffic. arrangements with ‘traditional’ mobile operators to buy minutes of use to sell to their own customers. S Myopia Also known as nearsightedness, a refractive defect of the eyes. Scope 1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions occurring from sources that are owned or controlled by an organization. N Scope 2 NPS (Net Promoter Score) Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the generation NPS is a tool for measuring customer loyalty, based on of purchased electricity, heating or cooling consumed by whether customers would recommend KPN to someone else. an organization. Normalized EBITDA Scope 3 Normalized EBITDA is defined as a 12-month rolling total Other direct greenhouse gas emissions as a consequence of EBITDA excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and the activities of the company, but occurring from sources not major changes in the composition of the Group (acquisitions owned or controlled by an organization. and disposals). SDSL (Symmetric Digital Subscriber Line) O A Symmetric Digital Subscriber Line is a digital subscriber line (DSL) that transmits digital data over the copper wires of the telephone network. OTT (over-the-top) In broadcasting, over-the-top content (OTT) refers to the Service revenues delivery of audio, video, and other media over the internet for Service revenues are defined as the aggregate of connection which no subscription to a traditional cable or satellite fees, monthly subscription fees and traffic fees. The term operator is required. A famous example is WhatsApp, which is service revenues refers to wireless service revenues. replacing text messaging. SIM card (subscriber identity module card) P A chip card inserted into a mobile phone which contains information such as telephone numbers and memory for storing a directory. PUE (power usage effectiveness) An international standard for the calculation of energy #SMARTer2030 efficiency of data centers, which compares the total data GeSI’s SMARTer2030 report demonstrates how ICT initiatives center electricity consumption with the electricity can improve the quality of human life globally by 2030. In consumption of equipment used for customer purposes. In 2015, the #SMARTer2030 report has been launched with the the calculation, data centers with an occupation rate less than aim to extend our horizon to 2030 and to look at ICT-enabled 25% are not taken into account. sustainability from a holistic point of view. The translation of the #SMARTer2030 research into opportunities for KPN and R the Netherlands followed in 2016. RepTrak SME RepTrak, developed by the Reputation Institute, is a method SME refers to small and medium enterprises. to calculate a reputation score of companies. KPN’s reputation is based on three out of twelve RepTrak attributes SOC (Security Operations Center) that are kept confidential and are stable over the years. The SOC monitors the high-risk systems of KPN in order to act quickly in case of security risks or incidents. 224 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 5: Glossary SoHo V SoHo refers to Small Office/Home Office companies. VBDO (Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame Stakeholder Ontwikkeling) Stakeholders are the people or organizations with an interest The Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable in the company, such as customers, employees, shareholders, Development (VBDO) works to create a sustainable capital suppliers, governments and media. market, a market that considers not only financial criteria but also non-financial, social and environmental criteria. VBDO’s Subscriber vision is to increase sustainability awareness among companies A subscriber is defined as an end-user with a connection to and investors. the mobile or fixed networks and/or service platforms of KPN. Virgin materials Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Materials sourced directly from nature in their raw form, On 25 September 2015, countries within the United Nations such as wood or metal ores. Manufacturing products using adopted 17 goals to end poverty, protect the planet, and virgin materials uses much more energy and depletes more ensure prosperity for all as part of a new sustainable natural resources, as opposed to producing goods using development agenda. Each goal has specific targets to be recycled materials. achieved in 2030. Also known as Global Goals. Virtualization T The separation of the physical hardware and the functions to run the network in software. Tier standards (I to IV) Telecommunications Infrastructure Standard for data centers. VoLTE (Voice over LTE) Tier levels describe the availability of data at a location. VoLTE allows the voice service to be delivered as data flows The higher the tier, the greater the availability. Tier IV is the within the LTE data bearer. highest level and entails independent dual-powered cooling and expected data availability of 99.995% or higher. W Weighted downtime reduction Total data traffic The weighted downtime concerns the average monthly time The data demand peak for main traffic streams is based on period in which a combination of KPN platforms and systems continuous five minute timeframe measurements. These is inaccessible to clients due to major incidents, weighted by streams consist of KPN iTV, Netflix, Google and other internet the impact of this downtime. traffic. WBSO (Wet bevordering speuren ontwikkelingswerk) Transparency Benchmark The WBSO is a subsidy that is intended for every The Transparency Benchmark is a yearly benchmark which entrepreneur in the Netherlands who conducts research into investigates the content and quality of the sustainability technological innovations. reports of Dutch companies. Triple-play Term used to describe the provision of telephony, internet and television services to a household by a single provider. TSR (total shareholder return) A measure of the performance of different companies’ stocks and shares over time. TSR is calculated from the growth in capital from purchasing a share in the company, assuming that the dividends are reinvested each time they are paid. This growth is expressed as a percentage as the compound annual growth rate. 225 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices APPENDIX 6: SOCIAL FIGURES Note: 2018 figures are based on continuing operations (excluding iBasis) Table 1: Total number of employees (in FTEs and number) 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 FTE number FTE number FTE number KPN the Netherlands 13,250 14,093 13,021 13,838 12,412 13,157 Table 2: Employee contract type (in % of total number of employees) 2016 2017 2018 KPN the Netherlands Permanent 94.3 94,7 93.6 Temporary 5.7 5,3 6.4 Table 3: Employee employment type (in % of total numbers of employees) 2016 2017 2018 KPN the Netherlands Part-time 26.9 26,7 26.9 Full-time 73.1 73,3 73.1 Table 4: Composition of employees per age category (in % of total numbers of employees) 20161 20171 2018 KPN the Netherlands <30 years 1.3 1.5 10.6 30 50 years 77.7 76.1 53.6 > 50 years 21.0 22.4 35.8 1 The 2016 and 2017 numbers are based on age groups 16-24, 25 to 54 and 55 and older. Table 5: Spread of KPN employees by region (in FTE and numbers, both as % of total) 2016 2017 2018 KPN the Netherlands FTE 97.9 98.1 99.8 number 98.0 98.2 99.8 Other FTE 2.1 1.9 0.2 number 2.0 1.8 0.2 Table 6: Gender proportion among employees (in FTE and numbers, both as % of total) 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 FTE number FTE number FTE number KPN the Netherlands male 78.3 76.1 79.3 77.3 80.2 78.2 female 21.7 23.9 20.6 22.7 19.8 21.8 226 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 6: Social figures Table 7: Gender proportions at management level (as a % of total top and middle management) 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 Top Middle Top Middle Top Middle KPN the Netherlands male 80.6 82.7 79,7 83,9 78.2 83.8 female 19.4 17.3 20,3 16,1 21.8 16.2 Table 8: Employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement (in numbers and % of total number of employees) 2016 2017 2018 KPN the Netherlands number 12,561 11,808 11,117 % 89.1 85.3 84.5 Table 9: Employee training: average number of hours and costs (in hours and euros per FTE) 2016 2017 2018 KPN the Netherlands hours/FTE 64.2 66.4 77.1 euro/FTE 1,236 1,517 1,895 Table 10: Employee turnover (as a % of total employee numbers) 2016 2017 2018 KPN the Netherlands intake 3.5 3.3 4.2 exit 9.5 10.3 14.4 Table 11: Accident rate (in accidents per 100 FTEs) 2016 2017 2018 KPN the Netherlands 0.13 0.08 0.20 Table 12: Absentee rate (as a % of total employee numbers) 2016 2017 2018 KPN the Netherlands 3.98 4.09 4.25 227 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices APPENDIX 7: ENVIRONMENTAL FIGURES 1 As outlined in the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report (see page 184-192 of our Integrated Annual Report 2018), this Appendix is part of the assurance scope of EY’s assurance procedures over KPN’s 2018 sustainability information. 2 Scoping and calculation methodology of the reported items is specified In Appendix 3 (page 200-211 of our Integrated Annual Report 2018). 3 Coverage of all figures according to materiality assessment (98% of operational costs). Table 1: Energy consumption (in PJ) target 2018 2010 compared to base (base year) 2015 2016 2017 year 2018 1 The Netherlands 4.03 3.46 3.36 3.22 – 3.23 KPN non-NL entities 0.22 0.02 0.02 0.01 – – KPN Group 4.24 3.48 3.38 3.23 -22% 3.23 Energy directly consumed 0.54 0.50 0.49 – 0.45 Energy indirectly consumed 2.94 2.88 2.74 – 2.78 KPN Group 4.24 3.48 3.38 3.23 -22% 3.23 1 Energy consumed decreased by 24% compared to base year, so we met our target of 22% decrease. Table 2: Electricity consumption (in GWh) 2010 (base year) 2015 2016 2017 2018 NL KPN Group NL KPN Group NL KPN Group NL KPN Group NL KPN Group Offices 62 65 35 38 34 36 28 29 28 28 Network 658 661 577 580 569 572 547 550 555 555 Data centers 135 135 148 148 148 148 142 142 150 150 Retail 7 7 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 Total 863 868 765 770 756 761 723 726 738 738 Table 3: Fuel consumption, lease vehicle fleet (petrol, diesel and LPG) target 2018 target 2019 2010 compared to compared to target as Unit (base year) 2015 2016 2017 base year 2018¹ base year from 2025 100% inflow of fossil free KPN the Netherlands 1,000 liter 16,716 10,854 10,191 9,492 -44% 9,412 -45% cars Table 4: Other Energy consumption KPN Group Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Natural gas 1,000 m3 4,617 3,856 4,469 3,498 Heating purchased GJ 52,382 39,594 32,279 29,653 Cooling purchased GJ 113,139 102,980 95,139 94,571 Diesel for emergency power generators 1,000 liter 158 242 192 184 228 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 7: Environmental figures Table 5: CO₂e emissions own operations Scope 1 and 2 (in kTon) Market based1 2010 (base year) 2015 2016 2017 2018 target 2050 KPN the Netherlands Scope 1 59.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Scope 2 79.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 total 138.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 KPN non-NL entities Scope 1 4.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Scope 2 20.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 total 25.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 KPN Group Scope 1 63.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Scope 2 100.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 total 163.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1 These CO₂e-values are our market based emissions. In the table on page 69 both location based and market based emissions are published. Table 6: Energy efficiency and Carbon intensity indicators target target target 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 2019 2020 Ton CO₂e per Gb/s KPN Netherlands (2010=100)1 100.0 31.3 16.3 9.9 2.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 GWh per Gb/s Network Netherlands (2010 =100)1 100.0 78.3 53.4 35.4 22.2 14.6 11.2 7.8 5.8 5.6 5.8 – PUE improvement data centers (baseline = 2010) 0% 5% 9% 10% 11% 13% 15% 15% 15.5% 12.2% 13% 19% 1 We improved our methodology, so we restated 2011-2017 Table 7: CO₂e emissions Scope 3 (in kTon) KPN the Netherlands Target 2019 target 2025 target 2040 2014 compared to compared to compared to base year 20151 20161 2017 2018 base year base year base year CAT1 Purchased goods and services 468.9 458.2 459.8 478.0 452.4 – – – CAT2 Capital goods 237.5 198.6 200.0 162.7 174.9 – – – CAT3 Fuel and energy related activities 93.0 128.3 40.7 26.9 9.7 – – – CAT4 Upstream transportation and distribution 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – – – CAT5 Waste generated in operations 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.5 – – – CAT6 Business travel 3.2 3.0 3.3 3.5 3.1 – – – CAT7 Employee commuting 17.7 16.0 16.6 15.5 15.9 – – – CAT8 Leased assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – – – CAT9 Downstream transportation and distribution 23.0 22.3 14.9 19.6 18.3 – – – CAT10 Processing of sold products 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – – – CAT11 Use of sold products 3.7 3.4 3.1 2.8 2.3 – – – CAT12 End-of-life 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – – – CAT13 Downstream leased assets 128.0 144.9 147.1 146.8 135.0 – – – CAT14 Franchises 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – – – CAT15 Investments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – – – Total CO₂e emissions 975.3 974.9 885.5 855.9 812.1 -17% -20% -50% Total upstream CO₂e emissions 820.6 804.3 720.5 686.6 656.6 – – – Total downstream CO₂e emissions 154.7 170.6 165.1 169.3 155.6 – – – 229 1 Our emissions in the value chain decreased by 16.7% compared to base year KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices Table 8: Estimated avoided energy consumption and CO₂e emissions by usage of KPN products and services Estimated avoided energy consumption (in PJ) 2015 2016 2017 2018 target 2019 target 2020 Teleworking (enabled by KPN connectivity) 1 1.340 1.428 1.434 2..144 – – KPN Audioconferencing 0.135 0.140 0.130 0.135 – – KPN Colocation (Housing) 0.095 0.111 0.123 0.120 – – KPN Hosting2 0.036 0.041 0.035 0.030 – – Dematerialization 0.076 0.076 0.130 0.131 – – KPN iTV Cloud solution 0.015 0.017 0.018 0.018 – – KPN Video Conferencing 0.004 0.004 0.056 0.053 – – Total estimated avoided energy consumption 1.701 1.817 1.926 2.631 – – Energy consumption KPN 3.481 3.382 3.232 3.234 – – % avoided energy consumption compared to energy consumption KPN 49% 54% 60% 81% 82% 85% Estimated avoided CO₂e -emissions (in kTon) 2015 2016 2017 2018 target 2019 target 2020 Teleworking (enabled by KPN connectivity)1 106.9 114.7 114.5 172.3 – – KPN Audioconferencing 10.3 10.7 10.0 10.2 – – KPN Colocation (Housing) 10.8 12.7 14.1 13.8 – – KPN Hosting2 4.1 4.7 4.0 3.5 – – Dematerialization 7.4 7.4 10.3 10.4 – – KPN iTV Cloud solution 2.1 2.3 2.5 2.5 – – KPN Video Conferencing 0.3 0.3 4.2 3.8 – – Total estimated avoided carbon emissions 141.9 152.8 159.5 216.4 – – 1 In 2018 we updated our Teleworking calculation methodology using more accurate data from CBS on the number of Teleworkers in the Netherlands. This has resulted in a estimated avoided energy consumption of 2,144 PJ and this relates to 81% avoided energy consumption. When this updated calculation methodology is applied to the previous years the percentages avoided energy consumption are 57% for 2015, 62% for 2016 and 77% for 2017. If the previous method would have been used for 2018 the avoided energy consumption of Teleworking would have been 1,554 PJ and this relates to 63%. For further information on the calculation methodology see Appendix 3. 2 The previously reported avoided energy consumption and CO₂e-emissions of the service KPN Managed workspaces are hosting related and are integrated in KPN Hosting. Table 9: Other environmental impacts KPN Group Unit 2015 2016 2017 20184 Target 2019 Materials usage Cable length 1 2 1,000 km 354 359 364 367 – Paper consumption Tons 1,635 1,042 505 459 – % FSC or PEFC % 99.9% 100% 100% 100% – Coolants Coolants usage (e.g. R407C and R417A) kg 1,180 1,029 889 982 – Water Water consumption offices and shops 1,000 m3 109 89 76 66 70 Water consumption operations3 1,000 m3 251 206 215 182 200 1 Including tubes used for cables. 2 Excluding Reggefiber. 3 Our water management aims to minimize usage of water. The usage of water in operations (e.g. cooling systems) is dependent on weather conditions. 4 In 2018 target for water was 200 for operations and 70 for offices so we realized our target. 230 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 7: Environmental figures Table 10: Circular information on reuse, recycling and disposal 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 target Totals Total volume non-hazardous materials & waste ton 6,627 6,494 5,410 6,557 – Total volume hazardous materials & waste ton 199 275 57 105 – Total volume ton 6,826 6,769 5,466 6,6631 – Volume in scope for % Reuse & Recycling2 % 40% 41% 100% 100% – % Reuse % 8% 12% 6% 7% – % Recycling % 39% 34% 59% 68% – % Reuse and recycling2 % 47% 46% 65% 75% 77% % Incineration % 50% 51% 34% 24% – % Landfill % 3% 3% 1% 1% – Offices and shops Non-hazardous materials & waste ton 1,667 1,848 1,643 1,496 – Hazardous materials & waste ton 3 7 4 1 – Total volume ton 1,670 1,856 1,647 1,497 – Volume in scope for % Reuse & Recycling (this cluster) % 100% 100% 100% 100% – % Reuse3 % – – 2% 8% – % Recycling % 34% 35% 38% 44% – % Reuse and recycling % 34% 35% 40% 52% – % Incineration % 66% 65% 60% 48% – % Landfill % 0% 0% 0% 0% – Network and Datacenters4 Non-hazardous materials & waste ton 4,215 3,957 3,005 4,244 – Hazardous materials & waste ton 196 268 53 105 – Total volume ton 4,411 4,225 3,058 4,349 – Total volume in scope for % Reuse & Recycling ton 309 248 3,058 4,349 – Volume in scope for % Reuse & Recylcing (this cluster) % 7% 6% 100% 100% – % Reuse3 % – – – 3% – % Recycling % 24% 24% 73% 78% – % Reuse and Recycling % 24% 24% 73% 81% – % Incineration % 60% 59% 26% 18% – % Landfill % 16% 17% 1% 1% – Collected Modems and TV set-top boxes Non-hazardous materials & waste ton 732 674 760 811 – Hazardous materials & waste ton 0 0 0 0 – Total volume ton 732 674 760 811 – Volume in scope for % Reuse & Recycling (this cluster) % 100% 100% 100% 100% – 231 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 target % Reuse % 28% 47% 41% 29% – % Recycling % 56%5 38% 47% 57% – % Reuse and recycling % 84% 85% 88% 86% – % Incineration % 13% 10% 12% 14% – % Landfill % 3% 5% 0% 0% – % Collected modems and TV set-top boxes6 % 62% 74% 69% 67% 70% Collected mobile phones Non-hazardous materials & waste ton 13 14 1 6 – Hazardous materials & waste ton 0 0 0 0 – Total volume ton 13 14 1 6 – Volume in scope for % Reuse & Recycling (this cluster) % 100% 100% 100% 100% – % Reuse % 70% 77% 70% 91% – % Recycling % 30% 23% 24% 7% – % Reuse and recycling % 100% 100% 94% 98% – % Incineration % 0% 0% 6% 2% – % Landfill % 0% 0% 0% 0% – % Collected mobile phones7 % 28% 9% 1% 1% – 1 2018 shows a higher volume due to higher outflow from network Lifecycle Management projects (decommissioning). The relative share of hazardous materials and waste is in the same range in 2018 as compared to 2017. For 2019 we aim to realize at least the same percentage of hazardous waste relative to the overall volume processed. We will carefully monitor the development of the volume of hazardous waste with regard to our ambition to become close to 100% circular in 2025. 2 As of 2018 we use an all inclusive scope for total KPN for the calculation of the percentages reuse, recycling, incineration and landfill. All categories are now included. To make the % Reuse & Recycling 2017 comparable to the figure of 2018 the all inclusive scope is also applied to the 2017 figures, which results in a % Reuse & Recycling of 65% (compared to the reported 53% in IAR 2017). 3 As from 2018 we have started to report the reused and/or refurbished volumes for network and datacenters, and as from 2017 for Offices & Shops. 4 Previous year two categories were reported for Network and Datacenters. They are now integrated into one category with totalized volumes for 2015-2017 and percentages recycling, incineration and landfill are recalculated. 5 The previously reported percentage recycling for 2015 (60%) was not the correct value, which is 56% 6 We improved the calculation method and extended the scope of flows included. On a like for like basis a best estimate of the 2017 performance is 69%. 7 All collected mobile phones compared to the total number put on market. No target, because the majority of this category is customer owned. 232 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 8: GRI Index Appendices APPENDIX 8: GRI INDEX GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission General Disclosures Organization 102-1 Name of the organization Koninklijke KPN N.V. Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Our purpose and the world around us, p. 24-27 and services Our strategy and activities, p. 28-29 Our value creation model, p. 30-33 Moving to converged products and services p. 47-51 KPN does not sell products that are banned in certain markets. However, some aspects of our products are subject to stakeholder questions and public debate. This primarily concerns EMF (electromagnetic fields), see https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-the-netherlands/our-network/health and conflict minerals. Through our membership of EICC and GeSI, we support initiatives to prevent human rights violations and the financing of armed conflicts by mineral extraction. KPN will make use of a mineral mapping program which is in development in cooperation with social organizations, thereby responding to the call made by MakeITfair, an organization which is campaigning for the ICT sector to be more transparent about the origin of minerals. See: https://corporate.kpn.com/company-kpn/csr/procurement/what-we-buy.htm 102-3 Location of headquarters Rotterdam, Netherlands 102-4 Location of operations KPN operates in the Netherlands and the Americas 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate governance, p. 76-80 102-6 Markets served Our purpose and the world around us, p. 24-27 Our strategy and activities, p. 28-29 Moving to converged products and services, p. 47-51 Converged smart infrastructure, p. 52-55 Focused innovation and digitalization, p. 56-59 102-7 Scale of the organization Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Consolidated financial statements, p. 110-192 Our main achievements, p. 14-17 Shareholder value, p. 41-46 102-8 Information on employees Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Reporting on employees of and other workers Appendix 6: Social figures, p. 226-227 contractors is considered not applicable to KPN. Our In 2018, about 97% of the KPN workforce is represented in a formal joint stakeholders do not request management-worker health and safety committee, which supports and us to report on such advises on occupational health and safety programs. All employees (on information. the payroll as regular staff) are eligible for regular performance and career development reviews. 61.3% of all employees had at least one performance and career development review in 2018. 36.3% of all employees had reviews on a more regular basis. 38.6% did not have any review in 2018. (This is excluding other participations). The percentage difference between the average salary of men and women in the collective labor agreement (CLA) scales increased from 1.2% in 2017 to 2% in 2018 102-9 Supply chain Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Environmental performance, p. 67-73 Our value for society and contribution to the sustainable Development Goals, p.74-75 233 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-10 Significant changes to the Review of the year, p. 20-21 organization and its supply Shareholder value, p. 41-46 chain Consolidated financial statements p. 110-192 Moving to converged products and services, p. 47-51 Converged smart infrastructure, p. 52-55 Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Environmental performance, p. 67-73 Corporate governance, p. 76-80 Discontinued operation, p. 161 Supply chain management In 2018, JAC raised 96 environmental issues at suppliers following on-site audits. 70 environmental issues were resolved during 2018 (these also include issues raised in previous years). 56 of 96 issues raised in 2018 are still pending. KPN has about 53 high risk suppliers. In 2018, no supplier relations were terminated. In 2018, JAC raised 480 CSR issues at suppliers following on-site audit relating to working hours and health & safety at suppliers. 366 issues in these two categories were resolved during 2018 (these included issues from previous years). 261 of 480 issues raised in 2018 are still pending. In 2018, JAC has raised 566 issues relating to human rights (these include the following auditing categories: health & safety, working hours, child labor & juvenile workers, wages & compensation, forced labor & prison labor, discrimination, disciplinary practice and freedom of association). 429 were resolved during 2018 (including issues raised in previous years). 310 out of 566 issues raised in 2018 are still pending. In 2018, JAC raised 15 CSR issues at suppliers following on-site audits relating to child labor & juvenile workers. 11 issues were resolved during 2018 (including issues raised in previous years). 6 of 15 issues raised in 2018 are still pending. In 2018, JAC has raised 106 issues relating to business ethics (including corruption). 95 issues were resolved during 2018 (including issues raised in previous years). 49 of 106 issues raised in 2018 are still pending. In 2018, JAC raised 6 CSR issues at suppliers following on-site audits relating to forced labor & prison labor. 4 of these issues were resolved during 2018 (including issues raised in previous years). 5 of 6 issues raised in 2018 are still pending. In 2018, JAC has raised 768 CSR issues overall, of which 106 relating to business ethics (including corruption). 95 issues related to business ethics were resolved during 2018 (including issues raised in previous years). 415 out of 768 issues raised in 2018 are still pending. 102-11 Precautionary principle or Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 approach For our approach to EMF, see: https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-thenetherlands/our-network/health 102-12 External initiatives The most important charters, principles, or other initiatives to which KPN subscribes or which KPN endorses are: UN Global Compact UN Declaration of Human Rights International Labor Organization (ILO) OECD Principles of the World Economic Forum RE100 For more information and context, see: http://corporate.kpn.com/ company-kpn/csr/memberships.htm 234 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 8: GRI Index GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-13 Membership of Our most important memberships are: associations GeSI ETNO Green GrId Teleworking Forum Mobility Management Task Force UN Global Compact ITU Nederland ICT ECP For more information and the most recent overview of memberships, see: http://corporate.kpn.com/company-kpn/csr/memberships.htm Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior Introduction by CEO Maximo Ibarra, p. 8-11 decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and In the sections ‘Our purpose and the world around us’ and ‘Our strategy opportunities and activities’ we describe the challenges KPN faces, including the way KPN responds and regards them as challenging opportunities. Our purpose and the world around us, p. 24-27 Our strategy and activities, p. 28-29 Our key impacts are displayed in the ‘Value creation model’ in section Our value creation model, p. 30-33 and explained in Our value for society and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, p. 74-75 In the section Environmental performance we describe the key impacts of climate change to our business, and the way we turned them into business opportunities. These business opportunities are translated into KPIs and include targets, results, goals and evaluation processes. The Board of Management has final responsibility. Environmental performance, p. 67-73 Our CSR governance is described in our Corporate governance chapter. Corporate governance, p. 76-80 In our Compliance & risk section, we describe the main risks KPN faces. The environmental, privacy and security risks are integrated in our risk systems and part of the top risks of KPN. Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, Remuneration report, p. 101-109 integrity standards, and norms of Privacy and security p. 60-63 behavior Sustainable employability p. 64-66 Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 Environmental performance p. 67-73 For more information, see our Code of Conduct and the KPN SpeakUp Line: https://ir.kpn.com/websites/kpn/English/7050/code-of-conduct. html For more information on our management approach on privacy and security, see Security link at: https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-the-netherlands/security 235 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Employees can seek advice and report violations on ethical and lawful concerns about ethics behavior by contacting the KPN Helpdesk Security, Compliance and Integrity. All reports made to this helpdesk are registered. In 2018, 4,825 reports have been made to the helpdesk. However, KPN only registers reports on violations of the Code of Conduct and the subcodes (which include all company policy on ethical and lawful behavior) including the results of formal investigation and follow-up in terms of corrective measures. The system is not yet designed to be able to register requests for advice separately. Reports on possible violations of the KPN Code of Conduct or subcodes (which include all company policy on ethical and lawful behavior) are registered by the KPN Helpdesk Security, Compliance and Integrity. In 2018, 0 reports of possible violations of the Code of Conduct and 1006 reports on possible violations of the subcodes have been registered. In 63 occasions, these were followed by corrective measures. KPN does not register the number of compliants about breaches of the Company Code or other ethical issues at the helpdesks, social media and mvo@kpn.com. For the Code and more information on anonymous reporting, see: https://ir.kpn.com/websites/kpn/English/7050/code-of-conduct.html Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance, p. 76-80 Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 Composition of the boards, p. 88-94 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate governance, p. 76-80 Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 Composition of the boards, p. 88-94 Report by the Supervisory board, p. 95-100 102-20 Executive-level Corporate governance, p. 76-80 responsibility for economic, Composition of the boards, p. 88-94 environmental, Report by the Supervisory board, p. 95-100 and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Corporate governance, p. 76-80 economic, environmental, Composition of the boards, p. 88-94 and social topics Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 102-22 Composition of the highest Composition of the boards, p. 88-94 governance body and its Report by the Supervisory board, p. 95-100 committees KPN’s Supervisory Board members represent amongst others our shareholders and society. Their competences are broad, and cover a range from expert financial knowledge towards green energy solutions and societal development. For more information on the background of our Supervisory Board members, please see: https://ir.kpn.com/websites/kpn/English/7030/supervisory-board.html 102-23 Chair of the highest Composition of the boards, p. 88-94 governance body 102-24 Nominating and selecting Report by the Supervisory board, p. 95-100 the highest governance Corporate governance, p. 76-80 body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Remuneration report, p. 101-109 Corporate governance, p. 76-80 Report by the Supervisory board, p. 95-100 236 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 8: GRI Index GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-26 Role of highest governance Report by the Supervisory board, p. 95-100 body in setting purpose, Composition of the boards, p. 88-94 values,and strategy Corporate governance, p. 76-80 Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 102-27 Collective knowledge of Composition of the boards, p. 88-94 highest governance body Report by the Supervisory board, p. 95-100 Corporate governance, p. 76-80 Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 102-28 Evaluating the highest Report by the Supervisory board, p. 95-100 governance body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 economic, environmental, and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 management processes Report by the Supervisory board, p. 95-100 102-31 Review of economic, Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 environmental, and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s Steering Committee Integrated Reporting. The Board of Management role in sustainability has final responsibility for the Integrated reporting Annual Report. Corporate governance, p. 76-80 Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 102-33 Communicating critical Critical concerns are communicated on a quarterly basis to both the concerns Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. This communication consists of a GRIP report, an external audit report and an internal audit report. The GRIP report is most comprehensive and includes all risks for KPN communicated by risk managers. The external audit report comprises mostly financial risks for KPN whereas the internal audit report reports financial and IT security risks. The Board of Management closely monitors all risks and defines procedures and working methods for critical risks. All risks are reviewed by the Audit Committee. 102-34 Nature and total number of The nature and number of critical concerns raised during The nature and number critical concerns 2018 cannot be communicated, as this concerns sensitive information. of critical concerns raised during 2018 cannot be communicated, as this concerns sensitive information. 102-35 Remuneration policies Remuneration report, p. 101-109 Report by the Supervisory board, p. 95-100 102-36 Process for determining Report by the Supervisory board, 95-100, remuneration Remuneration report, p. 101-109 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement Report by the Supervisory board, p. 95-100 in remuneration 237 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-38 Annual total compensation We monitor the ratio in annual total compensation for our employees in ratio the main country of operation: the Netherlands. The basis for determining the ratio is the pension base salary, which includes all fixed components of the salary of our employees. For the calculation, we use the annualized salary as paid on 31 December of the reporting year. This is not by definition a full time salary, part time salaries are also included. All bonuses paid during 2018 are included in the calculation, just as the value of vested shares or phantom shares received by employees in the reporting year. For the reporting year 2018, the ratio of annual total compensation of the highest-paid individual to the median annual total compensation is 28.1/1. Due to changes in management, the ratio between the highest paid individual and median salary is lower than 2017. The total annual compensation of the highest paid individual is predominately defined by incentives. Consequently this results in highly fluctuating total annual compensation year-on-year even though base payments remains unchanged. 102-39 Percentage increase in We monitor the ratio in annual total compensation for our employees in annual total compensation the main country of operation, the Netherlands. The basis for ratio determining the ratio is the pension base salary, which includes all fixed components of the salary of our employees. For the calculation, we use the annualized salary as paid on 31 December of the reporting year. This is not by definition a full time salary, part time salaries are also included. All bonuses paid during 2018 are included in the calculation, just as the value of vested shares or phantom shares received by employees in the reporting year. For the reporting year 2018, the annual total compensation of the highest paid individual increased with 7.5% in 2018 (compared with 2017) and the annual total compensation of the median increased with 6.2% in 2018 (compared with 2017). The ratio of the percentage increase of the highest paid individual to the increase of the median annual total compensation of 2018 is +1.21/1. Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our purpose and the world around us, p.24-27 engagement Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 102-41 Collective bargaining Appendix 6: Social figures, p. 226-227 agreements This indicator supports Principles 1 and 3 of the UN Global Compact. 102-42 Identifying and selecting Our purpose and the world around us, p.24-27 stakeholders Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 KPN selects stakeholders based on their relevance to the IT industry and to KPN’s CSR themes. They are also organizations or persons (or their representatives) with whom we have a formalized contractual or business relationship, such as customers, investors, employees and suppliers. A major additional criterion is whether they had previously indicated their desire to be involved in KPN’s CSR policy. The other category of stakeholders concerns social organizations with which we do not have a business relationship, but whose views we value because KPN’s operations impact on the interests they represent. We very much wish to engage in dialog with authoritative, influential organizations, such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) or the Nationaal Ouderenfonds, an organization representing senior citizens in the Netherlands. It exceeds our capacity to open up the dialog to every social organization that works on a particular subject. 238 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 8: GRI Index GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Customer value, p. 38-40 engagement Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 KPN does not engage with stakeholders exclusively as part of the report preparations process, although all stakeholders input is considered to be of potential value to the report. KPN wants to know what topics stakeholders deem important and actively respond to their rising demands. One way to interact with its stakeholders is through sponsoring. In 2018 KPN spent 8.593.294 euro on donations, sponsoring and community projects 102-44 Key topics and concerns Our purpose and the world around us, p. 24-27 raised Customer value, p. 38-40 Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the The basis for the entities covered in the consolidated financial practice consolidated financial statements is KPN’s legal structure. All entities covered by the statements consolidated financial statements are also included in the Corporate governance paragraph, p. 76-80 and Consolidated Financial Statements p. 175 102-46 Defining report content Contents, p. 7 and topic Boundaries Our value creation model, p. 30-33 Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 102-47 List of material topics Appendix 3:Transparency, p. 200-211 Appendix 2: Overview and connectivity of non financial information, P. 196-199 102-48 Restatements of Shareholder value p. 41-46 information Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Footnotes included in tables. 102-49 Changes in reporting Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Footnotes included in tables. 102-50 Reporting period 1 January, 2018 31 December, 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report 24 February, 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions mvo@kpn.com regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: accordance with the GRI Comprehensive option. Standards 102-55 GRI Content index The GRI Content index can be found in the downloadmanager on www.kpn.com/annualreport 102-56 External assurance Independent assurance report, p. 184-192 Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Material Topics Economic Economic performance Linked with high material topic: Economic value 239 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Management topic and its Boundaries approach Where impacts occur: Inside: KPN Group (including KPN Netherlands 2018 and all subsidiaries). Outside: providers of capital, governments and communities in countries of operation. For KPN’s involvement, see references in 103-2 103-2 The management Introduction by CEO Maximo Ibarra, p. 8-11 approach and its Our strategy and activities, p. 28-29 components Our value creation model, p. 30-33 Shareholder value, p. 41-46 Corporate governance, p. 76-80 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 79 management approach GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value Our purpose and the world around us, p. 24-27 Economic generated and distributed Our main achievements, p. 14-17 performance Shareholder value, p. 41-46 2018 201-2 Financial implications and Environmental performance, p. 67-73 other risks and Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 opportunities due to Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 228-232 climate change KPN discloses all material carbon emissions, climate governance and management approach, including the financial implications of risks regarding climate change and the costs of mitigating actions for the CDP (formerly, the Carbon Disclosure Project). Find our 2018 disclosure at https://cdp.net/en. 201-3 Defined benefit plan Financial report; Consolidated Financial Statements; [17] Retirement obligations and other benefts, p. 164 retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance KPN does not receive significant financial assistance from the received from government government. Indirect Linked with high material topic: Impact of products and services Economic Impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Management topic and its Boundaries approach Where impacts occur: Inside: not material. 2018 Outside: suppliers, customers, governments and communities in countries of operation. For KPN’s involvement see references in 103-2. 103-2 The management Our purpose and the world around us, p. 24-27 approach and its Our societal value and contribution to the SDGs, p. 74-75 components Corporate governance, p. 76-80 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 79 management approach GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments Converged smart infrastructure, p. 52-55 Indirect and services supported Focused innovation and digitalization, p. 56-59 economic Our value for society and contribution to the Sustainable Development impacts 2018 Goals, p. 74-75 240 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 8: GRI Index GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 203-2 Significant indirect Our value creation model, p. 30-33 economic impacts Our purpose and the world around us p. 24-27 Shareholder value, p. 41-46 Our value for society and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, p. 74-75 Environmental Materials Linked with high material topic: Environmental performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations approach are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: suppliers and 2018 customers in countries of operation For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2. 103-2 The management Environmental performance, p. 67-73 approach and its Corporate governance, p. 76-80 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 79 management approach Our value for society and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, p. 74-75 GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight KPN is a service provider and not a production company. The materials Materials or volume consumed are therefore limited. An overview of the materials used is 2018 given in Appendix 7: Environmental figures table 9, p. 230. 301-2 Recycled input materials Environmental performance, p. 67-73 used Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 228-232 KPN discloses all material carbon emissions, climate governance and management approach, including the financial implications of risks regarding climate change and the costs of mitigating actions for the CDP (former Carbon Disclosure Project). Find our 2018 disclosure at https://cdp.net/en. 301-3 Reclaimed products and Environmental performance, p. 67-73 Reporting on reclaimed their packaging materials Appendix 2: Overview and connectivity of non-financial information, p. packaging material is 194-197 considered not applicable to Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 KPN. Our stakeholders do not This indicator supports Principles 8 and 9 of the UN Global Compact. request us to report on such information. Energy Linked with high material topic: Environmental performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations approach are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: suppliers and 2018 customers in countries of operation For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2. 103-2 The management Environmental performance, p. 67-73 approach and its Corporate governance, p. 76-80 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p.79 management approach 241 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption Our value creation model, p. 30-33 Energy 2018 within the organization Environmental performance, p. 67-73 Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 228-232 This indicator supports Principle 8 of the UN Global Compact. KPN does not sell electricity, heating, cooling or steam. 302-2 Energy consumption Our main achievements, p. 14-17 outside of the organization Our value creation model, p. 30-33 Environmental performance, p. 67-73 Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 228-232 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental performance, p. 67-73 Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 228-232 302-4 Reduction of energy Environmental performance, p. 67-73 consumption Appendix 7,: Environmental figures, p. 228-232 Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 This indicator supports Principle 8 of the UN Global Compact. 302-5 Reductions in energy Our main achievements, p. 14-17 requirements of products Environmental performance, p. 67-73 and services Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 228-232 This indicator supports Principle 8 of the UN Global Compact. Emissions Linked with high material topic: Environmental performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations approach are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). 2018 Outside: suppliers and customers in countries of operation For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2. 103-2 The management Environmental performance, p. 67-73 approach and its Corporate governance, p. 76-80 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 79 management approach Our value for society and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, p. 74-75 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Environmental performance, p. 67-73 Emissions emissions Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 2018 Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 230-232 This indicator supports Principle 8 of the UN Global Compact. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Environmental performance, p. 67-73 GHG emissions Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 230-232 This indicator supports Principle 8 of the UN Global Compact. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Environmental performance, p. 67-73 GHG emissions Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 230-234 This indicator supports Principle 8 of the UN Global Compact. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental performance, p. 67-73 Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 230-234 242 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 8: GRI Index GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 305-5 Reduction of GHG Environmental performance, p. 67-73 emissions Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 230-234 This indicator supports Principles 7, 8 and 9 of the UN Global Compact. 305-6 Emissions of ozoneAppendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 depleting substances Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 230-234 (ODS) This indicator supports Principle 8 of the UN Global Compact. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), Environmental performance, p. 67-73 This indicator is not sulfur oxides (SOX), and This indicator supports Principle 8 of the UN Global Compact. applicable, as KPN’s activities other significant air do not cause any significant emissions emissions of these gases. Marketing and Labeling Linked with high material topics: Security Fair marketing and communication GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations approach are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). 2018 Outside: all customers, suppliers, communities in countries of operation and in countries of suppliers’ operations. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2 103-2 The management Privacy and security, p. 60-63 approach and its Compliance & risk, p. 81-87 components KPN has to comply with the Dutch Reclame Code Commissie which is the Dutch Advertising Code Authority. It contains a body of rules with which all advertising should comply and encourages sensible and responsible advertising. It applies to all forms of marketing including television marketing and telemarketing. Anyone who feels that an advertisement violates the Dutch Advertising Code may submit a complaint to the Advertising Code Committee. Besides the Dutch Advertising Code, KPN has to comply to the Dutch bel-me-niet-register, which is a national do not call list. Customers (both consumers and companies) can subscribe to this list. Organizations are not allowed to call potential customers for advertising purposes. Corporate governance, p. 76-80 See also related performance indicators below 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 79 management approach 243 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product Although KPN’s activities with regard to privacy and security of Marketing and service information customer data go beyond legislation, we have to comply with privacy and labeling and labeling regulation, for example regarding the use of customer data. KPN is 2018 obliged to inform customers on privacy information via the general purchasing agreement whenever a product is sold. Privacy and security are firmly embedded in all parts of the organization, as it is part of the Compliance Risk Assessment framework. KPN’s Privacy Statement, available in Dutch on KPN’s website (http://www.kpn.com/algemeen/ missie-en-privacy-statement/privacy-statement.htm), provides details of KPN’s approach to working with customer data in the Netherlands. The privacy statement applies to all customers who purchase telephony, internet or TV services from KPN or from one of its subsidiaries in the Netherlands and for all users of KPN websites. The Privacy Statement is also anchored in the CRA framework of KPN, meaning that extensive procedures are in place which have to be followed before changes are accepted and the Board of Management has to sign for all changes in the Privacy Statement. Employees receive training on KPN’s privacy policy in the Company Code training. For more information on our management approach on privacy and security, see https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-the-netherlands/security Privacy and security p. 60-63 This indicator supports Principle 8 of the UN Global Compact. 417-2 Incidents of nonIn 2018, there were two reports of incidents in the Netherlands regarding compliance concerning laws designed primarily for the purpose of marketing communications, product and service that were pending or completed during the reporting period and in information and labeling which the company has been identified as a participant. There was one incident regarding customer information which resulted in legal action. NB: This can include legal actions related to events in preceding years. 417-3 Incidents of nonCompliance & risk, p. 81-87 compliance concerning In 2018, there were two reports of incidents in the Netherlands regarding marketing communications laws designed primarily for the purpose of customer information and marketing communications, that were pending or completed during the reporting period and in which the company has been identified as a participant. There was one incident that resulted in legal action. NB: This can include legal actions related to events in preceding years. Security Own % of customers helped Privacy and security p. 60 indicator (within eight hours) who were unintentionally infected by malware Customer privacy Linked with high material topic: Privacy and Identity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: approach Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in 2018 footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: all customers. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2. 103-2 The management Privacy and security p. 63-67 approach and its For more information on our management approach on privacy and components security, see https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-the-netherlands/security For our Privacy Statement, see http://www.kpn.com/algemeen/ missie-en-privacy-statement.htm Corporate governance, p. 76-80 This management approach supports Principle 8 of the UN Global Compact. 244 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 8: GRI Index GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 79 management approach GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints Privacy & security, p. 60-63 Customer concerning breaches of privacy 2018 customer privacy and A selection is made of all incidents at ‘treatment end date’ that have losses of customer data been closed in 2018 and have been reported to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. In 2018, KPN the Netherlands received 189 complaints about privacy. KPN’s integrity experts review incident reports prompted by grievances, with the legal and regulatory framework being the first check made. The next step checks for violations of the KPN Company Code and of the relevant supporting codes. Own % of Dutch people that Privacy and security, p. 60 indicator believe their data is safe with KPN Additional material topics for KPN Customer loyalty GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Management topic and its Boundaries Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in approach footnotes to the tables or text). 2018 Outside: all customers. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2. 103-2 The management Customer value, p. 38-40 approach and its Corporate governance, p. 76-80 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 79 management approach Own Net Promoter Score (NPS) Customer value, p. 38 indicator Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Own RepTrak Customer value, p. 39 indicator Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Digital transformation GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 Management topic and its Boundaries Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in approach footnotes to the tables or text). 2018 Outside: customers, suppliers, governments, local authorities, communities in countries of operation. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2 103-2 The management Our strategy and activities, p. 28-29 approach and its Our value creation model, p. 30-33 components Corporate governance, p. 76-80 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, Board of management management approach (CSR governance), p. 79 Our value for society and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, p. 74-75 245 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2018 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission Own See indicators for: The world is becoming increasingly interconnected. Three major indicator Customer Loyalty; Quality developments have fundamentally changed our industry in the past and reliability of network; decades: the introduction of mobile phones, the internet and Privacy and identity; digitization. These major changes require a high level of systematic, Security; Environmental future-oriented and innovative thinking. Technology is an essential part performance;; Economic of who we are and what we do. Everything we want to achieve for our value customers and society initially has an eﬀect on our own business operations. As digital transformation is highly integrated with our daily business operations all our indicators contribute to our digital transformation. More information on our newest digital developments can be found under ‘Focused innovation and digitalization’ p. 56-59 Quality and reliability of networks GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in Management topic and its Boundaries footnotes to the tables or text). approach Outside: all customers. 2018 For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2 103-2 The management Our strategy and activities, p. 28-29 approach and its The value we create, p. 30-33 components Converged smart infrastructure, p. 52-55 Corporate governance, p. 76-80 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 79 management approach Our value for society and contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals, p. 74-75 Own Average 4G download Converged smart infrastructure, p. 53 indicator speed Own Weighted downtime Converged smart infrastructure, p. 53 indicator reduction Innovation and investments GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material IWhere impacts occure: inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations Management topic and its Boundaries are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). approach Outside: customers, suppliers, governments, local authorities, 2018 communities in countries of origin. 103-2 The management Our purpose and the world around us p. 24-27 approach and its Our strategy and activities, p. 28-29 components Focused innovation and digitalization, p. 56-59 Sustainable employability, p. 66 103-3 Evaluation of the Our value for society and contribution to the Sustainable Development management approach Goals, p. 74-75 Corporate governance, p. 79 Own As this is the first year this indicator topic is highly material for KPN, KPIs directly linked to this topic are not yet in place. KPN does however report on ‘# M2M subscribers’ and ‘IoT revenues’ which are closely related to the topic. Impact of products and services 246 The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendix 8: GRI Index GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Our value creation model, p. 30-33 Management topic and its Boundaries Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 200-211 approach Where impacts occur: Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations 2018 are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: customers, suppliers, governments, local authorities, communities in countries of origin. 103-2 The management Our value creation model, p. 30-33 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Our value for society and contribution to the Sustainable Development management approach Goals, p. 74-75 Corporate governance, p. 79 Own See indicators for: Converged smart infrastructure, p. 53 indicator Quality and reliability of Privacy and security p. 60 network; Customer privacy; Focused innovation and digitalization, p. 56 Security; Digital Environmental performance, p. 67-73 transformation; Innovation Shareholder value, p. 41-46 and investments;; Environmental performance; Economic value 247 248 Colophon For additional information Forward-looking statements and management KPN Investor Relations estimates Tel: +31 (0) 704460986 Certain of the statements we have made in this Integrated ir.kpn.com Annual Report are ‘forward-looking statements’. These ir@kpn.com statements are based on our beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to us. They include Published by information concerning our possible or assumed future Royal KPN N.V. results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, P.O. Box 25110 competitive position, potential growth opportunities, potential 3001 HC, Rotterdam operating performance or expense improvements and the The Netherlands effects of future legislation or regulation. Chamber of Commerce registration number 02045200 Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of Content and organization forward-looking terminology such as the words ‘believe’, Royal KPN N.V. ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘intend’, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘predict’, ‘potential’, ‘continue’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘shall’, or the RRED Communications negative of these terms or similar expressions. www.rred.nl Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and Stampa Communications assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those www.stampacommunications.com expressed in these forward-looking statements. No undue reliance should be put on any forward-looking statements. Sustainalize Unless required by applicable law or applicable rules of the www.sustainalize.nl stock exchange on which our securities are listed, we have neither the intention nor an obligation to update forwardConcept and design looking statements after distribution of this Integrated De Designpolitie Annual Report. All market share information in this financial www.designpolitie.nl report is based on management estimates based on externally available information, unless indicated otherwise. Online Please visit our Integrated Annual Report website: The terms ‘we’, ‘our’ and ‘us’ are used to describe the company. www.kpn.com/annualreport We always aim to further improve our CSR activities and The inside pages of this publication have been printed on PaperWise, a reporting. Therefore, we highly appreciate your feedback, PAPER & BOARD new generation of paper and board questions and comments on our Integrated Annual Report MADE OF with a very low environmental impact. AGRI-WASTE The cover has been printed on and CSR activities. Please contact mvo@kpn.com. WWW.PAPERWISE.EU wood-free white offset paper (FSC). 249 KPN aims to deliver organic sustainable growth 250 251 Royal KPN N.V. Wilhelminakade 123 3072 AP Rotterdam The Netherlands P.O. Box 25110 3001 HC Rotterdam The Netherlands www.kpn.com
