UN Global report 2.7.2019 Statement of continued support 2.7.2019 I am pleased to confirm that Maintpartner Group Oy reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr Pasi Tolppanen, CEO, Maintpartner Group Oy 1. HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS • Our employees can report any misconduct to their supervisors or Maintpartner management. Maintpartner respects and supports the fundamental human rights as defined by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • In the intranet, we have an application where feedback can be registered. We also have a procedure to handle the feedback. We support fair and equal treatment of all our employees. Our code of conduct sets out the standards for responsible behavior for each • An e-learning course on our Code of Conduct is available for employees in our individual employee. In the code of conduct we address topics such as intranet and it is considered as a part of Maintpartner Induction Process. keeping promises, showing respect, professional pride, communication and conflicts of interest. • We have mapped the overall picture of our data processing procedures to ensure we understand the types of personal data we process, lawful reason to We are committed to protect personal data and to comply with the collect the data, where the collected data is stored and security measures used General Data Protection Regulation. to protect it. We have updated our privacy statement and related internal instructions accordingly. We require also our contractors and suppliers to comply with these principles. It is a prerequisite to be accepted as approved supplier. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES IMPLEMENTATION We carry out personnel satisfaction surveys annually where feedback on human rights including, for example, equality is assessed. • We treat people equally, respect our employees, and never accept, for example, discrimination of any kind or harassment. Our suppliers and If any misbehaving is appearing, HR management together with supervisors and subcontractors are required to comply with the same principles. We audit employee representatives follows strict procedures of correcting actions. Actions supplier’s and subcontractor’s performance on these. are monitored by systematic follow-up procedure. 2. LABOUR ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS • We carry out regular observation walks and recognize near misses to ensure safe working conditions. We analyze the information on preventive actions taken We comply with all applicable labor laws and other regulations in and accidents to prevent further accidents. We also proactively make countries where we operate. We expect also our suppliers, subobservations for improvements. contractors and other business partners do the same. It is a prerequisite to be accepted as approved supplier. The policy is set out in our Code of • We continuously develop working environment and train our employees in work Conduct, which is published also on our web site. Health and safety at safety. work are our top priorities. • In the intranet, we have an application where safety, environment and quality related deviations are registered and a procedure in place to take corrective actions, where necessary. IMPLEMENTATION • In our e-learning platform there are several courses on safety and • We comply with the relevant labor agreements and the co-determination environmental issues available for all employees. law. • We have established Maintpartner’s European Works Council which is a dialogue channel between employer and employees in matters that MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES concern the people from different Maintpartner countries. We carry out personnel satisfaction surveys annually. • We promote occupational health and safety as well as work ability by preventive actions and active risk management as well as by managing We follow up Rate of safety incidents, Number of reported near misses per sickness absences. We respect the occupational knowledge of different employee and Sick leave percentage which have developed favorably during the age groups and share it amongst each other. past years. 3. ENVIRONMENT ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Maintpartner is active in industrial service business and does not We follow the number of environmental deviations and carry out analysis of manufacture goods. Therefore our direct environmental impact is environmental aspects at our sites. We follow improvement proposals of relatively small. Our goal is to minimize our environmental impact and to energy/environment related topics. burden the environment as little as possible. We also help our customers to improve their environmental impact. We require also our contractors and suppliers to comply with these principles. It is a prerequisite to be accepted as approved supplier. IMPLEMENTATION • We minimize the environmental impact of our work by improving our operations. We burden the environment as little as possible e.g. by decreasing our own and our customers’ use of natural reserves, such as energy and raw materials. • We pay special attention to energy efficiency related issues and utilize the improvement proposals made by our personnel by converting them into concrete actions for the benefit of our customers. • As a decentralized organization we focus on avoiding unnecessary travels and thereby reduce our environmental impact. 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We do not engage in corruption, extortion or bribery, and we are During the reporting period we have no reported cases concerning violation of committed to prevent them. We do not allow any kind of bribery or other anti-corruption principles. illegal payments when dealing with customers, suppliers, sub-contractors and other business partners. We act determinedly to prevent bribery, corruption and financial crime. We do not accept hospitality, gifts, paid jobs on the side, or any other benefits that might affect or that might be used to affect our judgment. We monitor our own actions to recognize possible conflicts in advance and to prevent their development. We require also our contractors and suppliers to comply with these principles. It is a prerequisite to be accepted as approved supplier. IMPLEMENTATION • We have established ethical guidelines, our Code of Conduct, where zero tolerance on corruption is set out. • Our Supplier and Subcontractor Requirements establish specifications for anti-corruption and ethical behavior.
