Serving Shareholders and Investors The Mitsubishi Estate Group maintains good communication with shareholders, investors and all other stakeholders by proactively disclosing corporate information in a timely manner. Committed to Prompt, Accurate and Impartial Disclosure External Evaluation Following its own Disclosure Regulations, Mitsubishi Estate Mitsubishi Estate for selected for inclusion in the following Indexes publishes information that the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Security in fiscal 2018. A Love for People Listing Regulations mandates for timely release through TDnet •FTSE4Good Global Index 17th consecutive year (Timely Disclosure Network), a system operated by the exchange, as •FTSE Blossom Japan Index 2nd consecutive year well as via other channels. Mitsubishi Estate is committed to the •MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index 2nd consecutive year prompt, accurate and impartial disclosure of information to all of its •SNAM Sustainability Index shareholders and investors. •GRESB Public Disclosure 2nd consecutive year A Love for the City Company Executives Give Briefings for Shareholders, Investors and Analysts The IR Office, set up within Mitsubishi Estate’s Corporate Communications Department, is a dedicated organization with the mission of disclosing appropriate information in a timely manner, Socially responsible investing is an approach to investing in companies that takes into consideration their environmental and social initiatives and corporate governance as well as economic aspects. We will continue to integrate our business with CSR as we pursue sustainable corporate management. publicizing management strategies, and providing feedback to the Forever Taking on New Challenges company drawn from views expressed in the capital markets. The IR Office provides accurate and impartial information to customers and the mass media, as well as to all shareholders, investors and analysts. The IR Office’s main IR activities consist of updating the Investor Relations page on Mitsubishi Estate’s website, holding financial results briefings twice a year, holding small meetings with institutional investors, giving facility tours, and actively meeting with institutional investors in and outside Japan The(aboutSpirit420ofsuch Mitsubishi: The Three Principles meetings were held in fiscal 2016). In fiscal 2017, the Group Shoki Hoko published a new medium-term management plan for fiscal Shoji Komei Ritsugyo Boeki 所期奉公 2017–2019. Company executives and general managers participate 処事光明 立業貿易 Corporate Responsibility to Society Integrity and Fairness Global Understanding in briefings on financial results and the Group’s longand through Business medium-term management plans society, Strive to enrich and in small both meetings withMaintain principles of Expand business, based on an institutional investors. These opportunities materially for direct dialogue and spiritually, while with transparency and openness, all-encompassing global shareholders and investors help totowards contributing ensurethe that their views are conducting business with integrity perspective. incorporated into the preservation management of the global of the company. and fairness. The company also proactively environment. participates in seminars organized by the stock exchange and securities companies to provide briefings for individual investors to enhance information disclosure and make it more broadly accessible to the investor community. Stock details (as of March 31, 2018) Mitsubishi Estate will continue its efforts to increase Number of authorized shares 1,980,000,000 dissemination of IR information in English and augment its Integrated Report, IR explanatory material The andMission Fact Book to the Mitsubishi ofimprove Number of Estate Group shares issued and 1,390,908,105 communication with overseas investors. We contribute to society through outstanding (Of which treasury stock: 2,897,424) urban development. IR Information for Mitsubishi Estate Number of shareholders 67,881 By building attractive, environmentally sound communities where people can live, Japanese: http://www.mec.co.jp/j/investor/index.html work and relax with contentment English: http://www.mec.co.jp/e/investor/index.html we contribute to creating a truly Stockmeaningful compositionsociety. (shareholding percentage) (as of March 31, 2018) The Mitsubishi Estate Group Code of Conduct Financial institutions In order to carry out the Group Mission, we pledge to observe the following Code of Conduct. 36.06% We will act with We will strive to earn We will strive to create Financial instrument business operators integrity. the trust of our clients. a vibrant workplace. other Operating and 1.82% companies We will base our conduct on laws We will approach all objectives While aiming at personal growth, and ethics and always reflect with from our clients’ point of view, we will respect the human rights 11.27% humility upon our behavior, providing safe and reliable and the diversity of opinion of valuing our communication with products and services, and make others and increase our creativity society and placing priority in our information availableForeign as individualsand professionalism, while corporate activities on earning appropriate. and companies displaying our collective trust through fairness and 43.91% strengths as a team. transparency. Individuals and other Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines for Conduct Briefing session for institutional investors (May 2018) (Revised April 2018) 6.94% Formulated: December 1, 1997/Revised: August 1, 2002/Revised: January 1, 2006 442 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Contents The Spirit of Mitsubishi: The Three Principles/The Mission of 2 Key Environment Mitsubishi Estate Group/The Mitsubishi Estate Group Code of CSR Conduct/Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines for Conduct Theme Pursue cutting-edge environmental initiatives to realize a sustainable society through our business activities Contents/Editorial Policy 3 Message from the President 4 Long-Term Environmental Vision/ 28 Basic Environmental Policy CSR Strategy at the Mitsubishi Estate Group Environmental Topics 29 Message from the Director Responsible for CSR 7 Climate Change Strategies 29 The Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Process to Provide Value to Society 8 Preserving Biodiversity 31 Key CSR Themes and the KPI/Operational Framework for CSR 10 Using Water Resources Efficiently 32 Communicating with Stakeholders 12 Initiatives Overseas 33 Sustainability Highlights 14 Key Human Resource Development CSR Support for human resource development and active Key Urban Development Together with Society Theme careers for the creation of communities of the future and CSR Safe and secure community development through support for work styles tailored to individual lifestyles Theme both physical and social infrastructure advancement together with the local community Human Resource Development 34 Urban Development Enabling People to Live, 18 Promoting Diversity 35 Work and Relax—Safely and Securely Creating a Vibrant and Pleasant Workplace 37 Urban Development Conducive to Child-Rearing and 20 Work Health and Safety 39 an Aging Population Cooperating with Local Communities 21 Key Compliance Communicating with Clients 22 CSR Promotion of compliance meeting the expectations of Theme clients and society Key Cutting-Edge Community Development CSR Compliance in Practice 40 Theme Innovative community development tailored to the era of globalism Corporate Governance 42 The Globalization of Marunouchi 24 Cooperating with Business Partners 43 Sharing Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Urban Development 26 Serving Shareholders and Investors 44 with the World Financial and Non-Financial Information 45 Progressive Initiatives in Marunouchi 26 Editorial Policy The Mitsubishi Estate Group began publishing its Environmental Report in Scope fiscal 2000. Since fiscal 2005, the Group has published the CSR Report, The organizations covered in the 2018 CSR Report are Mitsubishi Estate expanding the coverage of the report to include corporate social responsibility. and 52 Group companies (46 in Japan and 6 overseas) that share the In fiscal 2014, in order to identify the key CSR themes that the Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Estate Group Code of Conduct. Estate Group should address over the medium to long term, the Group solicited opinions from various stakeholders, held thorough internal See the website for a list of organizations covered discussions, and ultimately decided upon five key CSR themes. Next, an implementation framework was established and key performance indicators Period (KPIs) were defined under each of the five themes. In fiscal 2017, the Group This report covers fiscal 2017 (April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018), but also endeavored to expand KPI target values and the scope of disclosure. includes information pertaining to other fiscal years. Additionally, since three years had passed since the establishment of the key CSR themes, a working group across all businesses in the Group was Reference Guidelines constituted and they have undertaken a revision of the key CSR themes from Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards an SDGs perspective. Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 edition), Ministry of the We hope that all stakeholders will read this report and share their Environment, Japan opinions and impressions with us without hesitation. ISO 26000 Reporting Structure See the website for the GRI Guideline Sheet The volume and the thoroughness of the information included in the CSR See the website for a list of organizations covered in the report Report increases every year. Thus the company publishes the print edition as a digest version for general readers that mainly explains the company’s initiatives concerning material issues in an easy-to-read format while the Publication date: December 27, 2018 homepage version is a complete edition that covers all content that needs to be reported including all kinds of technical data. Detailed information on Next issue: corporate overviews and results are also provided on the homepage. The next issue is scheduled for publication in November 2019. Production overseen by: CSR & Environmental Sustainability Department, Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. Websites Contact address: Information on CSR: http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/index.html Otemachi Park Building, 1-1, Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Investor relations: http://www.mec.co.jp/e/investor/index.html Tokyo 100-8133, Japan Corporate information: http://www.mec.co.jp/e/about/index.html Tel: +81-3-3287-5780 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 3 Message from the President We will continually contribute to sustainable community development with the goal of enhancing corporate value and delivering social value. Junichi Yoshida President & Chief Executive Officer, Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. Creating new value and challenges while listening intently to the voices of society when it comes to social issues and the needs of customers. giving back to community development from our new headquarters The future of the Otemachi Building The Mitsubishi Estate Group relocated its headquarters in The Otemachi Building, our former headquarters, turns 60 January 2018 as part of its efforts to develop a workplace years old this year. Typically, a building’s lifespan lasts where all employees can have an appetite to tackle about 50 years. Instead of simply rebuilding old buildings, challenges in order to create new value over the long we hope to contribute to sustainability through the term, given the many changes taking place in the effective utilization of existing building stock and by business climate. At the new headquarters, we maintaining the townscape. By undertaking a large-scale introduced a free-address work environment and created facelift, instead of a complete rebuild, we aim to inject the a large number of common areas to complement work Otemachi Building with a new sense of life as a venue for areas. Through this, we hope to encourage casual sharing various values deeply rooted in the community conversations and develop a workplace that offers and make it a building with a lifespan of 100 years that will innovative and efficient work styles. In addition, another always be cherished by the people who work there. aim of our headquarters relocation is to help improve the appeal of communities in Japan’s capital of Tokyo and Viewing the constantly changing business other areas, through proactive real life testing of leading edge technologies that can make a difference in society climate as an opportunity and make people’s lives more fulfilling. Even after With the country’s population in decline, I have heard relocation, we stand committed to taking on new much pessimism about the future of real estate in Japan. 4 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Nevertheless, I believe that the Mitsubishi Estate Group’s considered at the national and worldwide level. This community development efforts will ensure thinking began with the signing of the Paris Agreement at communities maintain their value by constantly listening COP21 in 2015, and has carried over with Japan’s to the needs of society, including not only tangible government stating its intention to use renewable energy aspects such as buildings, but also intangible ones to power 100% of its energy needs in the future. Although required by real estate users. Japan is faced with a declining population, overall the world’s population is rising which is expected to have Looking at the long term, it will be rather difficult to put a immeasurable impacts on our planet’s climate. stop to Japan’s declining population. Yet, by committing the necessary resources to the necessary areas, I believe Our deep involvement in community development in the cities can still thrive economically. In particular, it will be expansive Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho area important to utilize the unique characteristics of each area (approximately 120 ha) requires that we take the lead in in terms of in-bound business and tourism to appeal the working to reduce the CO2 emissions of this entire area. positive qualities of Japan to foreign visitors and all the With urban development said to be a possible cause of people who use the community. natural disasters, we recognize that the mission of the Mitsubishi Estate Group as an integrated real estate business In addition, in an aging society, we need to uncover needs is found not only in the conventional scrap-and-build that have yet to materialize at this juncture. We must approach to urban development, but also in the effective continuously think of what we can do to make cities more utilization of existing building stock through renovations, comfortable and convenient not only for seniors but all and the energy self sufficiency of entire buildings. There are people. For example, at Group companies that specialize in truly a number of areas where we can make a difference. the operation of commercial facilities, we have launched training for employees to learn about the underlying spirit Additionally, within the Mitsubishi Estate Group’s airport of service and best practices. In this manner, each and every business, we must not forget about the environment of the one of our employees needs to be involved in community surrounding area and consideration for biodiversity. In development that is more in tune with our customers. particular, this includes Shimojishima Airport in Miyakojima City, Okinawa Prefecture, and others. The surrounding environment Building up know-how there contains important eco tourism resources; therefore, we with leading edge technologies will pay close attention so as not to harm this environment We will continue to make full use of such leading edge even as the Group expands the airport business. technologies as AI and IoT, and push ahead with work style reforms by using these technologies to make communities Contributing to the creation of more appealing. In communities that are evolving through the interactions of the various people and companies there, social value with an eye on the SDGs attracting technology companies along with repeated real Based on the Spirit of Mitsubishi’s “The Three Principles” that life testing of novel approaches to building management forms the very philosophy of the entire Mitsubishi Group, and community area management will play an important the Mitsubishi Estate Group advocates as its most basic role toward helping the Mitsubishi Estate Group in mission contributions to a truly meaningful society through accumulating building, facility and community community development. Goal 11 (Sustainable Cities and management know-how that can be shared with the rest Communities) of the Sustainable Development Goals of the world in the future. Our response to climate change The Mitsubishi Estate Group Long-Term Environmental Vision up to 2050 considers honing advanced environmental technologies in all business activities and taking on challenges posed by new value creation as growth strategies. Until now, we have actively worked on energy conservation and greening at development projects, knowing that we have a responsibility to reduce certain elements connected to environmental destruction, even during maintenance and upkeep. Climate change is an issue that must be Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 5 adopted by the United Nations in September 2015 like there has been a clear change in attitudes in Japan requires the four elements of inclusive, safe, resilient and toward ESG factors. Worldwide ESG investment sustainable. Each is required to achieve this goal; lacking increased to 2,500 trillion yen as of 2016, meaning this just one will not suffice. The Mitsubishi Estate Group has information has become both a quantitative and built up a broad track record in contributing to Goal 11, objective measure of investment decisions. including establishing a BCP, helping build advanced disaster-resilient cities through disaster prevention In terms of ESG, the Mitsubishi Estate Group not only training, and carrying out initiatives for biodiversity, complies with relevant laws and regulations, but also among others. In addition, I believe that the element of works to engage in community development with a variability is also important. Looking outside of our own long-term perspective in harmony with society. While values, we find there are people of different cultures, we can take pride in these efforts, in the future we will religions, customs, and values. Cities need to be give consideration to ESG through our businesses, and developed for these people of varying backgrounds to disclose information more clearly and fairly. In particular, communicate more easily and effectively with one with regard to governance, recently the world has seen a another. This is what it means to develop attractive spate of cover-ups and falsifications, where on many communities with a long-term perspective. For this occasions the trust a company has built up over the reason, I feel that variability is a necessary element that years has disappeared in an instant. In terms of the translates to sustainability. operation of the Board of Directors, we are working to make it easier to incorporate the views of shareholders and outside directors, to strive toward management that is objective as well as transparent, and to maintain as well as increase the trust of stakeholders. Toward a sustainable organization To become a sustainable corporation, I feel we need to embed the ability to transform into our businesses, in advance of the many swift changes taking place in the business climate and social needs. The future of Japan will see AI and IoT replace people to perform various tasks given the country’s declining population. The vision of the future where people’s roles are set to change gradually is coming into focus. My prediction is In 2015, the Mitsubishi Estate Group established five Key that people with exceptional and specialized knowledge CSR Themes and 28 KPIs based on these themes. Since will not gather in a single organization, but rather choose then, we have used the PDCA cycle as an indicator for to work at companies, spaces and areas with the resources evaluating sustainability strategy. I believe we need to where they can contribute their skills. I believe this is the rethink these themes given the growing momentum world that is almost upon us. Companies must develop behind environmental, social and governance (ESG) workplaces where it is easier for employees to get outside investment and expanding initiatives for the SDGs. In order to and work with others, and build relationships with highly fully integrate CSR with corporate management, we specialized people active in various sectors, in order to revised our guidelines on conduct and established a policy have that “it factor” among potential employees. on human rights. We also signed the UN Global Compact in April 2018 to clearly demonstrate our stance as a ESG and the SDGs represent important factors for a corporation. In addition, I believe that we need to take company to be a sustainable organization. We will ownership of the various social issues around us and change analyze latent opportunities and risks company-wide, the way we think so that we can solve issues through our and by incorporating ESG investment and the SDGs into businesses. As a result, we have launched an in-house management, we will aim to provide value to society, working group on the SDGs beginning in fiscal 2018. and further enhance corporate value. Initiatives for ESG aimed at the sustainable enhancement of corporate value Since the SDGs were adopted by the United Nations, and Junichi Yoshida President & the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) Chief Executive Officer, announced its selection of ESG investment indices, I feel Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. 6 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 CSR Strategy at the Mitsubishi Estate Group Message from the Director Responsible for CSR Responding to a changing environment Since the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the United Nations in 2015, needless to say momentum is building internationally, and in Japan, for initiatives to achieve the SDGs. Today, the world faces such issues as climate change, food and water security, and the loss of biodiversity. Even when looking at Japan, our various issues include overwork, a rapidly aging population, and Noboru Nishigai declining birth rate, along with mental and physical health Senior Executive Officer issues. As one would expect, it is almost impossible for a Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. single company to address these issues alone, and Mitsubishi Estate is no exception. Mitsubishi Estate Group’s idea of urban development Our mission is encapsulated in the phrase, “By building involves engaging customers and local community attractive, environmentally sound communities where members to better understand all possible impacts our business people can live, work and relax with contentment we activities will have, such as on human rights and the environment. contribute to creating a truly meaningful society.” This requires that the Group work with all stakeholders Throughout our more than 100 years of history in urban including business partners in an appropriate manner. development, we have enhanced our corporate value and One of our key CSR themes is the environment. We are prospered as a company by continually creating value for society aiming to promote leading initiatives in the environment to through our efforts to address social issues alongside various contribute to a sustainable society. In particular, we consider other companies, organizations, and local governments. our initiatives to combat climate change to be one of our In 2015, the Group established five key CSR themes as most important duties, since this is an issue facing all life on important management tasks for addressing social issues, Earth. Additionally, the Mitsubishi Estate Group Long-term after taking into account the views of stakeholders. KPIs Environmental Vision and Basic Environmental Policy have been assigned to each theme, which are managed emphasize the importance of helping society to recycle more, using the PDCA cycle. Given the growing momentum to fostering harmony between nature and human society, and tackle the SDGs, we considered it an excellent time to revisit promoting environmental management collectively by the these key CSR themes; therefore, in May 2018, we set up an Group. In our business activities, we are promoting the use in-house cross-functional working group representing all of renewable energy and supplying buildings and homes business divisions. recognized as both environmentally and socially friendly. This will result in smart communities with efficient Revisions to Code of Conduct and electricity and water usage, transportation, and physical joining the UN Global Compact distribution. Such communities will have less pollutants and For the Group to address social issues responsibly and waste, use energy, water and raw materials more efficiently, actively, we need to share our values and expectations as well as produce fewer greenhouse gas emissions. across the entire Group more so than before. Our Code of Conduct and Guidelines for Conduct form the basis of Working together with stakeholders these actions. The guidelines were recently revised in April Contributions to global environmental issues are only 2018, given the expansion of our business domains and feasible if we work with customers, communities, and changes in society’s needs in terms of compliance. business partners to foster understanding in our Additionally, we joined the UN Global Compact to deliver a philosophy, instead of taking a go-at-it-alone approach. stronger message about our corporate stance not only to Therefore, in addition to the Mitsubishi Estate Group Green employees but also society as a whole. We are now working Procurement Guidelines, we are sharing the Mitsubishi within the constructs of international initiatives aimed at Estate Group CSR Procurement Guidelines established in the realization of a sustainable society. April 2016 with business partners, so that together we can address social issues including the environment. Efforts to address social issues In order to accelerate our initiatives toward social issues, through business activities it is important that we obtain the understanding of Urban development involves more than just erecting stakeholders and work alongside them. We hope to make buildings or homes as tangible infrastructure. It is important our key CSR themes even more effective by setting up for all people living, working and residing there to have opportunities to engage stakeholders annually. As part of this, healthy and safe experiences, from children to the elderly. we solicited the views of outside experts once again this year. Therefore, urban development includes such considerations Looking ahead, I hope to continue receiving your candid as disaster prevention and barrier-free designs. The opinions, so that we may utilize them in the Group’s initiatives. Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 7 CSR Strategy at the Mitsubishi Estate Group Customers The Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Process to Shareholders Provide Value to Society Investors To contribute to the creation of a sustainable future, it is important to work toward resolution of a variety of issues in the course of conducting business activities. In order to promote efforts toward achievement of the Business SDGs, the Mitsubishi Estate Group has incorporated the partners aim to achieve “long-term corporate value enhancement and mutually profitable relationships with stakeholders by establishing a position as a Acquisition of forerunner of ESG-conscious corporations” in the assets/investment Planning/design Group’s Medium-term Management Plan, and taking a global perspective on changes to the social and Medium-term Management Plan (FY2018 FY2020) business environments, is steadily working to do so Basic policy Realization of profit as a result under five key CSR themes. of reinforced income stream during the previous mid-term Expanded reproduction of existing expertise 1. Completion of landmark projects The Mitsubishi Estate (with concentration in the Marunouchi area) will contribute to Enforce the most Group’s Value Chain operating cash flow efficient use of management resources 2. Expansion and advancement of overseas business Increase the speed and Business 3. Accelerate fee business model through capital recycling quality of decision-making environment Aim to achieve long-term corporate value enhancement and Progress of the mutually profitable relationships with stakeholders by establishing “Fourth Industrial Revolution” a position as a forerunner of ESG-conscious corporations. Diversifying workstyles and Redevelopment/ Management communication styles driven sale of assets (AM/PM) by workstyle reforms Social Aging infrastructure and The Mission of the environment growing need for safety and security Mitsubishi Estate Officers/ employees Global population growth and Group urbanization Growing presence of venture companies We contribute to Declining birth rate and aging society and startups in society through Competitors in Japan, as well as a decline in population economic activities urban development. Increasingly visible signs of climate change Diversification of values and needs Shortages of water resources and food related to living Heightened concerns over sustainability areas Mitsubishi Estate of biodiversity and resources Group Stakeholders Heightened concerns over human rights issues An eye toward changes in Promotion of the Medium-term global social issues Management Plan with a 10-year and the business environment and 20-year outlook The Mitsubishi Estate Group broadly considers Both a medium-term perspective and a long-term changes in global social issues and the business perspective are critical for a company that has urban environment, and verifies new business opportunities development as its core business to achieve sustained and risks in light of our management resources. That growth. Accordingly, the Mitsubishi Estate Group has information is utilized to formulate new growth formulated and is implementing a three-year Medium-term strategy and CSR strategy, and to strengthen our Management Plan that has an eye on the circumstances of management structure. society 10 years and 20 years in the future. 8 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Toward a New Stage Key CSR Themes of Innovating Business Urban Development Together with Society P18 Models and Creating Value through Urban Development Business Development, Consulting Office Cutting-Edge Community & Solutions Business Building Business Development P24 Lifestyle Property Business Residential Project Business management International Business Environment P28 Innovation of the business model for growth in the 2020s Investment 1. Improve the productivity Management of business activities Business 2. Effective use of existing social resources 3. Enriching the quality of life Hotel and Airport Business Architectural Design and Compliance Human Resource Engineering P40 Development P34 Business Leasing/sales Real Estate Services Business The Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Business Educational institutions Local Governments/ communities, governmental NGOs, NPOs Media agencies Building a new value creation model while working on key CSR themes with diverse stakeholders To implement business plans and CSR activities in a advice of outside experts, and medium/long-term steady manner, the Mitsubishi Estate Group places growth strategy, etc. We are pursuing a business emphasis on dialogue with diverse stakeholders in model that contributes to achievement of a each business. In 2015, Mitsubishi Estate formulated sustainable society through the Group’s business five “key CSR themes” in light of such dialogue, the activities and unified efforts. Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 9 CSR Strategy at the Mitsubishi Estate Group Key CSR Themes and the KPI/Operational Framework for CSR Key CSR Themes and Performance Indicators In order to help build a sustainable society for the future, In fiscal 2016, aiming to take initiatives based on the key the Group believes that it must identify the issues it is best CSR themes to the next level, Mitsubishi Estate again asked positioned to address and work to provide solutions in its stakeholders for their opinions and made revisions internally business operations. The Group has established five key CSR in line with changes in the social environment to establish themes, based on the opinions of its various stakeholders more appropriate indicators. and thorough internal discussions. Key performance In fiscal 2018, we are implementing internal working groups indicators (KPIs) have been set for each of these themes and throughout all business fields to review materiality because it progress is being managed accordingly. has been three years since establishment in fiscal 2015. Process for Selecting Key CSR Themes (as established in 2015) The process used for determining the Mitsubishi Estate Group’s important CSR themes is described below. Reflecting Social Views Deciding on Key CSR Themes Select Themes to be Evaluated and Initial Evaluation Final Evaluation and KPIs Aspects that were expected to The 33 themes selected in step Based on the results of Step 2, The 15 themes identified in Step be important for the Group’s 1 were assessed through the 33 themes were plotted in 3 were further consolidated and CSR were added to the 46 questionnaires given to terms of their “significance to integrated into the Group’s five material aspects laid out in the stakeholders such as customers, the company’s management” key CSR themes. G4 Sustainability Reporting business partners and and “significance to Guidelines from GRI, and 33 of shareholders, interviews with stakeholders,” and the 15 most these were then chosen as experts, and exchanges of views relevant themes were identified. important issues that the Group with management and outside should address. experts. Mitsubishi Estate 15 issues Group’s Initiatives Urban development to create safety and Expanding the use of renewable energy security More efficient use of energy, water, and raw materials Significance to stakeholders Urban development to support declining and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions birthrates and aging populations Supporting new working and living styles through Coexisting harmoniously with local information and communication technologies communities Appropriate employment and supporting ways of 33 Cooperating with the government to enhance working that fit individual lifestyles relevant issues the international competitiveness of Tokyo and Developing the capabilities of employees the Marunouchi area compared to other Asian capitals Utilizing diverse human resources and providing equal opportunities Promoting smart communities Preventing corruption, anti-competitive behavior, and Venture company support, intellectual value improper political involvement creation through interaction Compliance and risk management Providing buildings and homes that are environmentally and socially friendly Significance to Company management Operational Framework for CSR Board of Directors Mitsubishi Estate takes an active, group-wide approach CSR Committee Risk to CSR. Chaired by the President & Chief Executive Committee Chair: President & Chief Management Officer of Mitsubishi Estate, the Group’s CSR Executive Executive Officer of Mitsubishi Estate & Committee Deputy Committee Chair: Director in Committee comprises executives in charge of charge of Mitsubishi Estate’s Environment/CSR Compliance Committee members: Executives in charge Committee respective business fields and the Corporate Group, as of respective business fields Executives in charge of the Corporate Group well as managers of the major Group companies, and Presidents of core operating companies it ensures group-wide implementation of CSR. The CSR Chairman, Full-time members of the Audit Committee, and others as observers & Environmental Sustainability Subcommittee serves as forum for detailed discussion to prepare for CSR CSR & Environmental Sustainability Subcommittee Committee meetings. Meetings of the CSR Committee held in fiscal 2017 1st meeting (July 2017: regular meeting) 2nd meeting (February 2018: regular meeting) • Fiscal 2016 Key CSR themes/KPI performance report • Efforts toward SDGs and review of key CSR themes and KPI • CSR activities report, etc. • Launch of the Human Rights Due Diligence Workshop 10 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 *Refer to the KPI on the pages for each key CSR theme for details on the range covered by numerical figures. Fiscal 2018 key performance Key CSR themes Objectives Fiscal 2017 results* Boundary Ref indicators (KPI) Urban We will strive to create communities 1 Deepen disaster prevention Refer to text of report Mitsubishi Estate Group P18 Development in which people can live, work and measures through a system for relax in safety and security, with healthcare collaboration in the event Together with thoughtful consideration of disaster of a disaster and use of neighborhood Society response and barrier-free systems. disaster prevention groups Safe and secure We will work to develop 2 Number of buildings that are to 20 sites Mitsubishi Estate Group P18 community communities conducive to raising take in stranded commuters or development children and in which the elderly serve as tsunami evacuation sites through both can live comfortably. under agreements with local physical and social We will communicate with the local government authorities infrastructure communities involved in our main 3 Rate of participation in first aid training 62% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal: 100%) Mitsubishi Estate Group P19 advancement businesses, ascertain the impact of 4 Number of buildings recognized as 13 buildings and projects Mitsubishi Estate Group P20 together with the our business activities on human barrier-free under Barrier Free Law local community rights and the environment, and 5 Number of participants in seminars 18,356 people a year Otemachi, Marunouchi P20 respond appropriately. and events held by community and Yurakucho development groups 6 Number of participants in 370 people/2,324 people Mitsubishi Estate Group P21 “Experience Nature” Projects (single year/cumulative) 7 Number of visitors to the Mitsubishi 367,679 visitors a year Mitsubishi Estate Group P21 Ichigokan Museum, Tokyo Cutting-Edge We will provide offices, housing and 1 Number of offices of foreign 71 offices Otemachi, Marunouchi P26 Community commercial facilities suited to a new financial companies in Otemachi, and Yurakucho work style utilizing information and Marunouchi and Yurakucho area Development communications technology. 2 Number of companies 42 (26) companies Otemachi, Marunouchi P26 Innovative We will develop a forum for participating in EGG JAPAN and Yurakucho community interaction and support venture (Entrepreneur Group for Growing development companies and the creation of a JAPAN), of which the number in tailored to the era new intellectual property. parentheses indicates foreign of globalism We will strengthen the appeal of companies Tokyo’s Marunouchi area and 3 Number of buildings connected to 62 buildings Otemachi, Marunouchi P27 enhance its competitive strengths optical fiber in Otemachi, and Yurakucho compared to cities in Asia in Marunouchi and Yurakucho area cooperation with national and city governments and Chiyoda-ku. Environment We will efficiently utilize energy, 1 Energy use/CO2 emissions About 272,000 kl/ Mitsubishi Estate Group P31 Pursue water and raw materials and reduce About 529,000 t a year cutting-edge greenhouses gases in our business 2 Waste generated/water used 44,967 t/About 5,648,000 m a year Mitsubishi Estate Group P29 3 environmental activities. 3 Number of projects recognized 9/20/22 buildings and projects Mitsubishi Estate Group P31 initiatives to realize We will strive to create a smart with CASBEE (new construction a sustainable community with efficient design)/Development Bank of society through transportation and distribution Japan (DBJ) Green Building/ABINC our business systems as well as electricity and certifications activities water use. 4 Number of buildings using district 115 buildings/About 7,429,000 m2 Mitsubishi Estate Group P29 We will expand the use of heating and cooling, and their total renewable energy in buildings and floor space residences. 5 Solar power output About 8,497 kW/17 sites Mitsubishi Estate Group P29 We will proactively provide 6 Area of green on roofs and walls About 33,800 m2 Mitsubishi Estate Group P31 buildings and residences certified as 7 Rate of annual adoption for heat 100% Mitsubishi Jisho being environmentally and socially P29 insulation functions level 4 Residence responsible. 8 Rate of annual adoption for primary 100% Mitsubishi Jisho P29 energy consumption level 4 Residence 9 Rate of annual adoption for soleco 58.8% Mitsubishi Jisho P31 system Residence 10 Rate of annual adoption for 100/100/100% a year Mitsubishi Jisho P31 high-efficiency appliances (hot Residence water heaters/LED equipment/ ultra-water-conserving toilets) 11 Smalland medium-sized building 15 buildings/634 units Mitsubishi Jisho P32 renovations/condominium Residence renovations 12 Rate of annual use of Japan-grown 50% a year Mitsubishi Estate P32 timber Home Human We will select and hire employees 1 Number of people taking 71/1/82 people a year Mitsubishi Estate Group P38 Resource equitably, provide appropriate childcare leave of absence, education and training nursing care leave of absence Development opportunities for the employees and shortened work hours Support for human responsible for future community 2 Number of hours of overtime on 17.21 hours Mitsubishi Estate Group P38 resource development, and will support average per month development and flexible work styles tailored to 3 Training time/cost per employee 11.92 hours/74,275 yen a year Mitsubishi Estate Group P35 active careers for the individual lifestyles. creation of 4 Rate of reinstatement to work 97.7% Mitsubishi Estate Group P39 We will offer equitable after maternity/childcare leave (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal: 100%) communities of the opportunities so that a diverse future and support for 5 Number/ratio of female 78 people/6.55% (Mitsubishi Estate Mitsubishi Estate Group P37 workforce can succeed in its jobs, managers only fiscal 2030 ongoing goal: over 10%) work styles tailored to regardless of gender, age and/or individual lifestyles disability. 6 Employment rate for persons 2.20% Mitsubishi Estate Group P37 with disabilities (Fiscal 2020 ongoing goal: 2.2%) Compliance We will respond appropriately to 1 Compliance training such as Refer to text of report Mitsubishi Estate Group P40 Promotion of prevent bribery, violation of the training by level and CSR lectures compliance anti-monopoly law and 2 Compliance survey “Extent to 88% Mitsubishi Estate Group meeting the inappropriate political donations. which Code of Conduct is expectations of In addition to complying with laws achieved” clients and society and regulations, we will strive to 3 Rate of participation in 99% Mitsubishi Estate Group meet the expectations of clients compliance e-training (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal: 100%) and society, as well as understand and respond appropriately to various business risks. Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 11 CSR Strategy at the Mitsubishi Estate Group Communicating with Stakeholders Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Relationships with Stakeholders The Mitsubishi Estate Group’s business is built upon the foundation of its relationships with a wide variety of stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, local communities, government and local authorities, Customers business partners, and executives and employees and Local communities, Shareholders their family members. NPO, NGO Business activities in urban development involve many stakeholders by their very nature, and the Mitsubishi Estate Group has the responsibility to pursue its business activities Government while living up to the trust placed in it by these stakeholders. authorities Mitsubishi Investors In particular, the Group’s business entails close Estate involvement with the tenants of its buildings and the Group stakeholders in the local community as partners in building Business Media a sustainable community. In the Marunouchi area, the partners Group prioritizes interactive communication on a daily basis Executives through the Council for Area Development and Competitors and Management of Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho. employees Two of the general principles of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code, which was issued by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, are “appropriate cooperation with stakeholders other than shareholders” and “dialogue with shareholders.” The Group will take a range of initiatives to communicate with stakeholders in various forms and reflect their opinions in management. Methods for Dialogue with Stakeholders Stakeholders Definition Opportunities for dialogue Primary themes Users of tenant Urban development to create safety and buildings, parties to security housing and Customer satisfaction surveys, questionnaires, etc. Quality and safety management for Customers condominium Communication through marketing activities products and services contracts, various Urban development to support declining subcontractors, etc. birthrates and aging populations Local community and Meetings with influential stakeholders Economic contributions to the Community local residents involved Dialogues through cooperation with community and Society in the Mitsubishi Estate administrations, local government and NPOs Promoting smart communities Group’s business Social contribution initiatives Sustainable use of forest resources Developing the capabilities of employees, Communication via personnel evaluations utilizing diverse human resources and Mitsubishi Estate Group Employees employees Dialogue via compliance survey and other providing equal opportunities internal platforms Maintaining safety as well as physical and mental health Communication during operations Construction Subcontractor evaluation systems, training Supply chain management Business subcontractors, sessions for registered construction firms, quality Green procurement Partners cooperating companies, and safety promotion conferences, other Urban development to create safety and suppliers, etc. Communication during procurement activities security Notification of CSR procurement guidelines Financial results briefings (twice a year) Small group meetings and property tours for Shareholders Individual and analysts Economic performance and Investors institutional investors Meetings with Japanese and foreign institutional Healthy corporate management investors Communication using IR tools 12 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Comments from Experts while their acuteness is growing in recent years. The SDGs can Mitsubishi Estate’s be seen as a basic stance for finding solutions to these issues. Management is Evolving as Viewing the SDGs as a growth mechanism for future It Tackles the SDGs corporate activities, Mitsubishi Estate has established CSR Procurement Guidelines and supply chain management, while signing the UN Global Compact and releasing a statement on Setsuko Egami human rights in 2018. In this manner, we have greatly expanded Outside Director our initiatives and are making progress. Changes are taking place Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. in shareholder actions and evaluations, as overseas and domestic institutional investors and others are shifting focus to ESG investments that value mediumto long-term returns over Mitsubishi Estate has worked for many years to address short-term gains. As it examines concepts of sustainability for the environmental issues because of the unique nature of the real next 100 years, Mitsubishi Estate intends to work in an integrated estate business as a consumer of natural resources. Looking back, manner to address the SDGs from the perspective of business the 1970s were signified by The Limits to Growth of the Club of development, business investment, and risks and opportunities. Rome, the 1980s were marked by the exploration of approaches to With regards to diversity, which tends to be viewed as a sustainable development, and the 2000s saw many countries begin social issue only, Mitsubishi Estate’s ratio of female managers to take concrete actions toward environmental issues. In other stood at 5.1% as of April 2017. The action plan chart of the Act on words, the world has been driven to find approaches and Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the mechanisms for sustainability, instead of simply pursuing prosperity Workplace released in 2016 states that companies are to increase and development. the ratio of women in assistant manager positions to 20% by This represents the basic philosophy in which sustainability around 2020. However, diversity is also a strategy for enhancing is viewed as the very foundation of the fulfilling society we live collaborative strengths by incorporating varied skills, in today. Mitsubishi Estate engages in a wide range of business approaches, and sensitivities within the same corporate culture. lines including office buildings centered on Marunouchi, We have cited increased mid-career hiring as a way to residential, commercial facilities, and logistics facilities. Within accomplish this, but we still have a long way to go. Efficiently our current approach to achieving growth, we have promoting diversity as a corporate management strategy incorporated sustainability into specific elements and processes, requires integrated thinking, a large scope, and myriad actions. and we have worked carefully to monitor targets and results. Mitsubishi Estate’s new innovative office has spurred on work However, global issues such as resources, air pollution, ocean style reform more so than expected. I have high expectations pollution and food security have become more complicated, for top management’s further commitment toward diversity. experience with new town development and other projects. Becoming an Appealing, Success at creating a mobility version of model cities with smart Sustainable Company through communities will make it possible to export urban infrastructure to Appealing Urban Development other countries. I believe this area will become a business opportunity in the future. Thinking about the concept of urban development using a Takeshi Mizuguchi (Ph.D. in Business Administration) broader context should also greatly expand developer possibilities. Professor, Faculty of Economics The time spent at the office occupies more than half of a Takasaki City University of Economics worker’s day, and for this reason the office environment is an extremely important consideration. Mitsubishi Estate’s new One of the expectations placed on developers is the creation of headquarters features comfortable workspaces. It is the type of infrastructure that addresses climate change. office where employees will want to work for the next 30 years. I The private sector’s ideas and networks are needed in order to would like Mitsubishi Estate to leverage this know-how in future achieve the 2°C target of the Paris Agreement. urban development for the creation of new communities. Energy consumption varies largely based on the quality of Virtual spaces using AI and social media are growing mobility. One approach to fulfilling Mitsubishi Estate’s mission of immensely. Looking ahead, I believe it is a good idea to create a “We contribute to society through urban development” is to rethink long-term vision for 2050 aimed at the creation of community land use as well as help create cities with convenient and energy spaces directly linked with people and urban areas that provide efficient mobility options through a combination of electric appealing spaces capable of drawing people outside. The more vehicles, hydrogen vehicles and bicycles. capable it becomes at appealing urban development, the more Such an overarching concept requires partnerships with Mitsubishi Estate will become an appealing company. This will also government and consortiums. I believe that the Mitsubishi Estate attract much more talent and lead to the creation of a sustainable Group is well positioned to tackle this challenge given its company in the process. Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 13 Sustainability Highlights The Mitsubishi Estate Group is carrying out various initiatives both internally and externally to help realize a sustainable society, including work style reforms following the relocation of its headquarters, becoming a signatory to the UN Global Compact, and establishing a Group-wide policy on human rights. Highlight Creating a Constantly Evolving Office that Influences Future Community Development The Headquarters Relocation Project Today More efficient On January 5, 2018, Mitsubishi Estate relocated its operations headquarters to the Otemachi Park Building to revitalize its workspaces in the pursuit of new value creation. The new headquarters’s concept is embodied in the words “limitless communication.” This signifies our commitment to create a venue for generating new value through workspaces where people truly connect without limits. We will fulfill this commitment as part of our work style reforms for productivity and employee health advancement. Creating spaces Under this project, we will usher in workspace and where people truly connect without limits program innovations based on the voice of employees. Our new headquarters will also serve as a real-life testing ground in which outcomes, knowledge and know-how will be proposed to customers and utilized in the planning of New value innovative new office buildings. creation 14 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Free-address work environment Open staircases between floors Employees can choose their workplace on any given day from a host of different seating options, Private stairways have been installed so that employees including low tables, high tables, large desks and individual desks, among others. Efforts were can move freely between floors, bypassing the building’s made to reduce paper and digitize documents, eliminating more than 70% of document storage common areas. This promotes casual conversations, cabinets compared to before the move. encourages health advancement and mitigates the risks posed by loss or theft of confidential information. SPARKLE Cafeteria Double the common area The cafeteria serves free breakfast for a healthier start to the day. One-third of the new headquarters is allocated to common areas, or double the Employees can also use the cafeteria as a workspace, encouraging new amount of the previous one. This creates opportunities for insight through ideas and new insights. discussion and increases motivation and productivity. Trials targeting certain departments are implemented All-hands-on-deck project revitalizing by the CHANGE WORK Project Team to gauge the pros and workspaces for new value creation cons of novel approaches. In turn, the actual introduction of new facilities and programs is determined based on Today, company needs for office space are becoming more repeated real life trials and reviews. varied and sophisticated. This includes the need for workspaces that are more productive, comfortable and environmentally friendly. Viewing these changes as a Creating workspaces that foster natural business opportunity, Mitsubishi Estate is working to interactions among a diverse workforce develop and share a new vision for office space. This requires that we establish creative work styles in a The new head office’s concept is “limitless communication comfortable and healthy workplace for our own people. from MEC Park.” The goal is to create a park-like setting With this in mind, in April 2017 Mitsubishi Estate established where a truly diverse workforce congregates, resulting in the Work Style Reform Promotion Committee, which natural interactions between all employees. The new office reports directly to the President. The committee’s will also produce new value for customers and society by Promotion Secretariat, comprising mid-career and younger stimulating people’s sensitivities and intellect, and also by employees and Promotion Leaders from each department, involving everyone in the creation process. works together to brainstorm novel ideas, with final Following this concept, we have reformed the office decision-making entrusted to senior management. In this environment at our new headquarters in many ways. For manner, the project involves the voice of all employees. example, we adopted a free-address work environment that balances the operating styles of varied work styles and Workflow of the all-hands-on-deck project group work. To promote dialogue, our executive officers in Questionnaire charge of each business no longer have private offices. In addition, one-third of the entire headquarters is allocated to Promotion Promotion Work Style Reform Leader Secretariat Promotion Committee common areas to foster encounters with people of varying One person from Staffed mainly by mid-career and Chaired by the president with backgrounds from both inside and outside the company. every dept. members from senior management younger employees Separate, private stairways between floors have been Discussions Discussions Discussions installed to open up vertical exchanges and promote communication. We have also built an in-house cafeteria Head and that serves employees free breakfast and lunch, playing the employees of CHANGE WORK Project Team Labor union each department dual role of health promoter and separate workplace. Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 15 Nap room Varying forms of spatial design are used for each floor and each purpose, with emphasis given to Varying forms of spatial design A new power nap program has been boosting insight, motivation, and productivity. Common areas are set up throughout the office for introduced for improving employees to work alone or hold meetings. performance. Fingerprint identification system (top) and position Wellness program Features a flexible onsite fitness program for employees for the purpose of health advancement. information system (bottom) We have introduced a number of new technologies for real life testing at our new office. Developing workspaces for various work styles Developing new proposals and and ensuring employees contribute their skills new community building through real life to the fullest testing of leading edge technologies Creating new value through people’s encounters The Headquarters Relocation Project adopted a number of requires an office that respects each and every employee’s leading edge technologies based on the voice of work style and that helps maintain their mental and employees to create an office space that encourages physical health. inclusive, natural communication, while also considering Our new headquarters features workspaces with employees’ varying work styles and health. varying forms of spatial design to cater to the unique work Such technologies include a security system with styles of individual employees. We have also rolled out a fingerprint reader and payment system linked to individual bank number of systems for fully supporting performance at accounts. The new headquarters also features an employee work, including a power nap program using the nap room location system that provides information on how busy and work interval program, where employees can take common areas or the cafeteria may be, and allows colleagues to extended breaks from work even during busy periods. Also, find one another with a quick glance of the screen. the cafeteria serves free breakfast and there is an onsite Mitsubishi Estate plans to propose the outcomes, fitness program, too. knowledge and know-how gained from these new approaches to customers, and utilize them in the planning of innovative new office buildings. Various initiatives are now underway at the new headquarters with the goal of Equipment, making it a starting point for future community development. facilities, spaces Propose new knowledge and know-how to customers Starting point for future community development Programs Operating Propose innovative structure new office buildings 16 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Sustainability Highlights Highlight Highlight Signed Established the United Nations the Mitsubishi Estate Group Global Compact April 2018 Human Rights Policy April 2018 In April 2018, the Mitsubishi Estate Group became a In recent years, the advance of globalization has pushed signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. Our corporate activities beyond national borders, and corporate corporate slogan is “A Love for People. A Love for the City” social responsibility (CSR) has become more sophisticated and our Group mission is to contribute to society through and international. The Sustainable Development Goals urban development. (SDGs) were adopted by the UN in 2015, and momentum Henceforth Mitsubishi Estate will uphold the Ten has been building for “ESG investment,” in which investors Principles of the UN Global Compact and endeavor to select companies that consider the environment (E), society respect human rights, eliminate unfair labor, protect the (S), and governance (G) as the targets of their investment. environment and avoid The Mitsubishi Estate Group established the “Mitsubishi corruption as it continues to Estate Group CSR Procurement Guidelines” and other contribute to the development initiatives that advocate “respect for human rights and of a sustainable world by diversity,” and has given consideration to human rights and establishing targets and the environment through the Group’s business activities. In policies suited to its business addition, the Group established the Mitsubishi Estate Group and pursuing them using the Human Rights Policy in April 2018, even more deeply PDCA management cycle. considering the rights of every single party involved in the Group's businesses. Please visit the website for details. http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/pdf/human_rights_policy.pdf Highlight Highlight Revised Issued the Mitsubishi Estate Group the Mitsubishi Estate Guidelines for Conduct April 2018 Green Bond June 2018 Mitsubishi Estate Group is expanding its fields of business in To raise funds for the Tokyo Station Tokiwabashi Project Japan and abroad, a process that comes with increasingly currently under development in front of the Nihonbashi exit sophisticated and globalized social responsibilities. To fulfill of Tokyo Station, Mitsubishi Estate issued the Mitsubishi these responsibilities and increase true corporate value, the Estate Green Bond, the first in Japan from an integrated real Group as a whole needs to work together according to estate company. Green bonds are bonds specifically share a sense of values and standard of conduct. earmarked for use in business projects that help to solve To that end we revised the Guidelines for Conduct that environmental problems. The direct our daily actions while also ensuring that we all project this bond was issued abide by a set of universal goals and values governed by for is designed with several the Code of Conduct, which is features that aim to reduce its designed to lead to the realization burden on the environment. of our Group mission. These include the The revision involved establishment of a large-scale rephrasing the Guidelines in biodiverse public space and a simple, easy-to-follow language plan to obtain DBJ Green and reorganizing them under five Building certification, an core values Compliance, environmental certification Sustainability, Communication, for real estate properties with Human Rights and Diversity, and high environmental and Individual Effort. social awareness. Please visit the website for details. Please visit the website for details. http://www.mec.co.jp/e/company/charter/index.html http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/environment/greenbond/index.html Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 17 Key CSR Theme Urban Development Together with Society Safe and secure community development through both physical and social infrastructure advancement together with the local community Basic Concept The population structure and lifestyles in a city transform with time, so the functions needed change as well. The Otemachi, and Approach Marunouchi and Yurakucho areas have a collection of business institutions with diverse functions that have drawn in a variety of visitors. This is supported by safe, secure urban development. Based on the Mitsubishi Estate Group Basic Mission (see p. 2), the Group’s urban development focuses on both physical and social infrastructure, in order to create communities where people can live, work, and relax in safety and security, as well as places conducive to raising children where the elderly can also live comfortably. Mitsubishi Estate has collected the disaster response knowhow it has cultivated since the Great Kanto earthquake of 1923 into “General Principles for Disaster Response” which covers a range of detailed strategies from everyday precautions to recovery measures. They are used as disaster recovery response guidelines in all the areas. Objectives • We will strive to create communities in which people can live, work and relax in safety and security, with thoughtful consideration of disaster response and barrier-free systems. • We will work to develop communities conducive to raising children and in which the elderly can live comfortably. • We will communicate with the local communities involved in our main businesses, ascertain the impact of our business activities on human rights and the environment, and respond appropriately. Management The Group is engaged in a range of businesses that are relevant to community development. In each of these business System sectors, the company’s departments and Group companies promote dialogue with local communities and various stakeholders. In this process, they seek to incorporate into their businesses initiatives that enable the Group to help solve social issues and ensure it coexists harmoniously with local communities. In the Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho districts, the Group works together with the Council for Area Development and Management of Otemachi, Marunouchi, and Yurakucho to stimulate the region and actively tackle various issues the city needs to respond to such as global environmental problems. The CSR Committee and CSR & Environmental Sustainability Subcommittee, which discuss CSR issues overall, each meet twice a year to discuss and share information on each organization’s initiatives to promote community development together with local communities. Urban Development Enabling People to Live, Work and Relax—Safely and Securely Large-Scale Disaster Response Drills KPI KPI drills included rescue operations using ladder trucks and 11 water-based fire extinguishers, and the assembly of manhole at Kanadenomori in Narashino toilets designed for use by disaster victims. In conjunction Mitsubishi Jisho Community and Mitsubishi Jisho Residence with these drills, lectures by Yoko Yamada, who specializes in implemented the largest-ever disaster response drills at stories about the Great East Japan Earthquake, and Norihito Kanadenomori in Narashino, Chiba Prefecture, on March Sano from Tohoku Fukkou Ouendan were presented. 11, 2018, on the seventh anniversary of the Great East Going forward, we want to cultivate the attitude of Japan Earthquake. self-preparedness regarding disasters and to continue our We have supported disaster response drills in the activities aimed at broadening our mutual assistance Kanadenomori area since March 2015. Our goal has been to framework to encompass the entire city. get the entire community to help each other, and recruiting at condominiums in the area has led us to expand the area and resulted in an increase in participants. The disaster response drills conducted on this occasion, which involved collaboration with local neighborhood associations and the management societies of four condominiums sold by Mitsubishi Jisho Residence, received the participation of about 1,000 residents living in the Kanadenomori area. The The day of the drill (rescue drill using a hook-and-ladder truck) Fiscal 2017 KPI results KPI KPI KPI KPI •Deepen disaster prevention measures 11 •Number of buildings that are to take in stranded commuters*1 or 22 through a system for healthcare serve as tsunami evacuation sites*2 under agreements with local collaboration in the event of a disaster government authorities 20 sites and use of neighborhood disaster prevention groups *1 18 sites in Tokyo *2 Two sites in Osaka 18 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Building a Near-Source Earthquake KPI KPI facilities in the Tokyo metropolitan area related to the 11 Mitsubishi Estate Group, and it rapidly conveys seismic Information Network P-wave data measured at each facility to high-rise buildings Mitsubishi Estate has built Japan’s first independent in the Marunouchi area. The actual arrival time of the tremors near-source earthquake information network as a and the earthquake’s intensity are calculated from this comprehensive developer, with the purpose of conducting P-wave data. This earthquake information is used to control elevator safety shutdowns and preventing lock-in accidents elevators in four high-rise buildings within the Marunouchi whenever an earthquake occurs directly beneath Tokyo. area, including the Shin-Marunouchi Building, and it is useful This system involves the installation of Yuremasu for implementing safety measures that include emergency seismographs developed by Mieruka Bousai, in seven shutdowns of elevators in response to strong swaying. Facilities that have installed Yuremasu or use earthquake data Facilities with Yuremasu installed F Approx. 50-km radius A : Shin-Marunouchi Building around Marunouchi B : Sunshine 60 (Toshima-ku, Tokyo) Fukaya Fault Zone C : Higashikurume Shopping Center Qurune and Ayase River Fault (Kurume, Tokyo) Tachikawa D : Yokohama Landmark Tower Fault Zone (Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture) C E : Shisui Premium Outlets (Inba District, Chiba Prefecture) B E F : Sano Premium Outlets (Sano, Tochigi Prefecture) A G : Gotemba Premium Outlets (Gotemba, Shizuoka Prefecture) Isehara Fault Buildings in Marunouchi that use earthquake data D (Note: All are in Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo.) G Shin-Marunouchi Building Kamogawa-Teichi Marunouchi Building Fault Zone Kozu-Matsuda Fault Marunouchi Kitaguchi Building Miura-Hanto Marunouchi Park Building Fault Group *This earthquake fault data is excerpted from “Anticipated Earthquake Occurrence Locations” on p. 7 of “Damage to Expect from Earthquakes Directly Under Tokyo and Response Measures” (Appendix 4) by the Central Disaster Management Council. Developing Sonaeru Drill, a Disaster KPI KPI disaster response drills and in workshops and other events 11 aimed at elementary school children. Management Tool for Families Mitsubishi Jisho Residence is collaborating with Mitsubishi Jisho Community, our management company, to provide ongoing support for condominium disaster management activities (developing disaster management plans and conducting disaster response drills). As part of that collaboration, we have developed Sonaeru Drill, a disaster management tool for families, and we made it generally available to the public on the Parkhouse Disaster Management Program website in September 2017. Sonaeru Drill is a tool that uses children as a starting point to provide the opportunity for dialogue, and that allows families to create a disaster management plan. It was developed due to the frequency of major natural disaster in recent years. Its format is intended to Sonaeru Drill, a newly developed disaster management tool teach disaster management to children as well as adults, Won the award in the “Design that develop kids’ creativity and futures” division of and its purpose is to enable condominium residents to take the 12th Kids Design Awards in 2018 action. Going forward, we will use it in condominium Won the Good Design Award 2018 KPI KPI •Rate of participation in first aid training (Mitsubishi Estate Group*3) 33 Please visit the website for details. 62 % (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal: 100%) http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/ *3 Three companies: Mitsubishi Estate, Mitsubishi Jisho Property Management, Mitsubishi Jisho philanthropy/index.html Retail Property Management Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 19 Urban Development Together with Society Urban Development Conducive to Child-Rearing and an Aging Population Introducing the Cot-Office, the Working Space Starting a Senile Dementia Supporter Training with a Built-In Daycare Center Initiative using Visiting Lectures In an age where the number of children on nursery school Japan’s dwindling birthrate and aging population are waiting lists is ever increasing, there is an urgent need for recognized problems affecting the whole society, and they companies to support their employees in child-raising to are creating serious problems in individual condominium avoid a loss or shortage of human resources due to childcare communities. Mitsubishi Jisho Community carries out leave extensions or resignation. In response to this social training on senile dementia for all managers at the need, in April 2018 Mitsubishi Jisho Property Management properties it manages. However, with the yearly increase in opened the “Cot-Office Working with your children in the incidents caused by condominium residents with senile office.” The Cot-Office is a childcare area located right next to dementia, the company anticipates that in the future there the working area which provides a safe and secure childcare will be cases that cannot be handled appropriately and in a service staffed by experienced childcare workers with timely fashion by managers alone. At one of the properties facilities on par with licensed daycare centers. managed by the company in Osaka, the property managers expressed a wish to hear more about problems caused by an aging population in condominiums. Thus in January 2018, the company dispatched employees registered with the Senile Dementia Supporter Caravan (under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) as lecturers to hold “Senile Dementia Supporter Training Courses” for condominium residents. This course instructs residents on basic knowledge about senile dementia and ways to handle patients with the condition. It was started in earnest as the first step to self-help and cooperation during large-scale disasters as well as a way to raise awareness about senile dementia. This initiative is one of the ways by which the Mitsubishi The nursery room Estate Group collaborates not only with Group companies but also with town councils and other regional communities to solve social issues as a way to work on its key CSR theme of “Human Resource Development.” The company aims to QoolSoG: the Work style Reform and extend it to other regions in the future. Health Management Solution Service QoolSoG is a service that supports the well-being of workers in the Marunouchi area. It does this by offering “ICT X City X Office” support to business managers and human resource directors of companies and organizations who are working to transform working styles and health management and to individual workers. A year after its launch, since fiscal 2018 it has focused more closely on health issues, rolling out various services and content such as planning interactive events for workers and visitors in the area to take part in and providing information. Senile Dementia Supporter Training Courses Fiscal 2017 KPI results KPI KPI KPI KPI •Number of buildings recognized as barrier-free 44 •Number of participants in seminars and events held 55 under Barrier Free Law by community development groups 13 buildings and projects 18,356 people a year 20 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Cooperating with Local Communities “Experience Nature” Project Brings KPI KPI Social Contribution Activities 66 Together Urban and Rural Communities Guidelines on Social Contribution Activities Starting Two New CSR Activities and Process The Mitsubishi Estate Group works The Mitsubishi Estate Group established our Guidelines on with the NPO Egao Tsunagete Social Contribution Activities in April 2008. Group (which literally means “connecting companies abide by these guidelines when conducting smiles” in Japanese), located in their activities. Hokuto City, Yamanashi Prefecture, on the “Experience Nature” Project Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines on with the goal of making Japan a Social Contribution Activities place where urban and rural 1. Solutions to social issues together with corporate growth communities help to revitalize As a good corporate citizen, we work to resolve social issues one another. with the added benefit of achieving corporate growth through Otemachi, a junmai-shochu, such activities. was jointly developed with a local 2. Development of activities characteristic of the Mitsubishi Estate Group sake brewery to celebrate the We carry out unique social contribution activities, both within project’s 10th anniversary in fiscal and outside its business spheres, which are characteristic of the 2017. This beverage makes Group and utilize its management resources. effective use of sake rice that does 3. Ties with community not meet the standard for We engage in transparent and fair activities in affiliation with various groups, based on equal footing, trust and dialogue. junmai-shu sake, grown in 4. Priority areas abandoned, terraced fields in We prioritize harmony with the local community, support Hokuto City that were reclaimed. It for culture and the arts, environmental conservation and Otemachi junmai-shochu social welfare. is made with natural yeast (Hanakoubo) developed at the Tokyo University of Agriculture. Activities were also launched to restore insufficiently The 16th Kira Kira Art Competition managed mountain forests in Hokuto City to build Mitsubishi Estate established the annual Kira Kira Art “Mitsubishi Estate Group Forest,” which will be used as an Competition in 2002, out of the desire to support the employee training location and also to supply timber to potential of children with disabilities. It received 1,512 the Group. submissions in FY2017, the 16th competition. All submissions are posted on the website, and the ceremony conferring the Award for Excellence was held at the Marunouchi Building Hall on February 16, 2018. The Mitsubishi Estate Shall We Concert Brings Live Music to Children with Disabilities Mitsubishi Estate holds the Mitsubishi Estate Shall We Concert for students at special-needs schools, who have few opportunities to experience live music. Starting in 1996, a total of 81 live concerts have been held for more than 10,000 students in total. The Mitsubishi Estate Shall We Concert was also awarded the Mecenat Grand Prize in the Mecenat Awards 2017 organized by the Association for Corporate Support of the Arts for the most exemplary activities. Activities in forests •Number of participants in KPI KPI •Number of visitors to the KPI KPI “Experience Nature” Projects 66 Mitsubishi Ichigokan 77 Please visit the website for details. Single year: 370 people 367,679 visitors a year Museum, Tokyo http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/ Cumulative: 2,324 people (Fiscal 2017) philanthropy/index.html Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 21 Urban Development Together with Society Communicating with Clients “Five Eyes” to Create Quality Residences Mitsubishi Jisho Residence strives to ensure that all quality of residences from various perspectives. The Five customers continue to feel the same joy in their home as Eyes consist for five areas of focus: Check Eyes, Eco Eyes, long as they live there. To that end, the company uses the Custom Eyes, Life Eyes and Community Eyes. “Five Eyes” quality management standard to ensure the CHECK EYE’S Commitment to solid building quality Mitsubishi Jisho Residence checks quality from the design stage to construction and completion, not only the items stipulated in the Japanese government’s Housing Performance Indication System, but also items under its own standards. Information on this process is disclosed to customers. ECO EYE’S Commitment to supporting affordable, pleasant, environmentally responsible lifestyles The company delivers condominiums built in line with the ideal of a home that is gentle on both the environment and the resident, where people can live in an environmentally friendly way without having to take on any major burdens. CUSTOM EYE’S Commitment to providing homeowners with the pleasure of designing their own living space The company helps with the home’s design after the contract is signed until the home is handed over, aiming to spread the joy of creating a living space that is unique to each resident, giving them the pleasure of selecting and creating their own home. LIFE EYE’S Commitment to safety and security to protect customers’ lifestyles The company implements crime prevention measures to ensure that customers can live in safety and with peace of mind, and takes highly effective disaster preparedness measures. COMMUNITY EYE’S Commitment to prosperous, refined lifestyles throughout the lifespan Mitsubishi Jisho Residence wants to continue to foster customer ties that last for the long term, from the time they begin living in their condominium. The company builds personal relationships with residents and provides extensive support to help them live with peace of mind. Changing Home Layouts without Renovation The Parkhouse Toyocho Residence is a condominium offered by Mitsubishi Jisho Residence that revolutionizes previous concepts of what a condo should look like and aims to provide the kind of living spaces and layouts that clients truly long for. Working around the concept of a transforming house, the condominium offers a plan where clients can change their houses without renovation by selecting the color, height and design of the movable furniture that divides the living room and also select where they will be installed to suit their lifestyles. The Parkhouse Toyocho Residence 22 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Condominium Household Account Books Organizing Events that Facilitate As part of the Eco Eyes initiative, Communication with Local Residents Mitsubishi Jisho Residence and MEC eco LIFE have been Building Closer Ties with Producers at the distributing Condominium Marunouchi Gramme Marché Household Account Books to prospective The Parkhouse Mitsubishi Estate holds the Marunouchi Gramme Marché, condominium buyers. The an event featuring sales by volume, in the Marucube on the account book presents “home first floor of the Marunouchi Building as part of Food fuel consumption,” which Education Marunouchi Initiatives. It features a lineup of shows the electricity charges for seasonal foods from producers all over Japan. What makes air conditioning and heating; Marunouchi Gramme Marché unique is that visitors can buy “lifestyle fuel costs” for the exact amount of the ingredients they need while electricity costs for electrical minimizing waste and buyers and sellers can enjoy appliances such as lighting, water and sewage costs and communicating with each other. gas rates and “other costs,” which covers maintenance costs 12 establishments participated in fiscal 2017, for the condominium. This gives a full picture of the total spearheaded by young producers who are working on costs of living in a condominium. building networks and improving communication to bring This kind of initiative is a first in the industry and has safe products to consumers while also pursuing the true won acclaim for its efforts at stimulating customers’ flavor of produce under the theme, “Fresh Challenge A environmental awareness and creating new standards for New Venture.” selecting condominiums. It was selected for the fiscal 2015 Good Design Best 100, and was chosen for the Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity. Annual utility costs per household Intuitively grasping utility cost W Electricity Energy costs calculations Electricity The Marunouchi Gramme Marché MJ m3 Gas costs Yen Gas The Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho Summer Festival Water ℓ costs Mitsubishi Estate is the presiding company of the Council Water supply for Area Development and Management of Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho. The Council organizes the Easily understand utility cost and Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho Summer Festival key points in using energy-saving devices every year, a popular summer attraction. During the festival, an event called “Uchimizu in Marunouchi” is held. Uchimizu 45,000 yen/year means sprinkling water to cool the ground. It is one of Japan’s traditional lifestyle practices and is aimed at 26,000 yen/year alleviating the heat island phenomenon. Purified recycled ¥/year water made from building wastewater is used for the event, which raises the environmental awareness of employees ¥/year and attendees and also provides a platform for interaction between different companies. ¥/year 40,000 yen/year Uchimizu at the Marunouchi event site Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 23 Key CSR Theme Cutting-Edge Community Development Innovative community development tailored to the era of globalism Basic Concept When it comes to urban development, we believe the key to international competitiveness is creating as much and Approach value as possible. To help keep Japanese cities the world's preferred destination in Asia, the Mitsubishi Estate Group enthusiastically offers business development support to companies overseas that are planning to enter Japan and small and medium-sized Japanese venture companies looking to expand overseas. For that reason, the company strives to create sustainably-developed cities where a diverse group of people will gather. These cities will serve as venues for interaction which support the growth of venture companies and the development of new intellectual value. We want to actively help to create a space for verification tests in the Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho areas and contribute to the pleasant and efficient running of the city. Objectives • We will provide offices, housing and commercial facilities suited to a new work style utilizing information and communications technology. • We will develop a forum for interaction and support venture companies and the creation of a new intellectual property. • We will strengthen the appeal of Tokyo’s Marunouchi area and enhance its competitive strengths compared to cities in Asia in cooperation with national and city governments and Chiyoda-ku. Management The various departments of the Group, along with the Group companies that are engaged in a range of businesses System relevant to community development, work hard to devise and implement diverse mechanisms to develop innovative communities designed to thrive in the era of globalism. The CSR Committee and CSR & Environmental Sustainability Subcommittee, which discuss CSR issues overall, each meet twice a year. They discuss and exchange information on the efforts of organizations within the Group to develop innovative communities. The Globalization of Marunouchi Bringing Marunouchi to the World and KPI KPI 1,2 1,2 the World to Marunouchi— Creating Future Markets by Providing Business Support FINOLAB—Support for Developing Fintech Ventures Fintech, new financial services that use IT, is a sector expected to expand rapidly in the coming years. There are a growing number of fintech companies in New York and London with an accompanying increase in support facilities and other infrastructure. On February 1, 2016, in collaboration with Dentsu and Information Services International-Dentsu (ISID), Mitsubishi Estate opened FINOLAB, the FinTech Center of Tokyo, in Otemachi’s Tokyo Ginko Kyokai Open Lounge: A lounge exclusively for members that can be used for events and Building to serve as a central point for fintech ventures and networking in addition to work support their development. In the first year of its establishment, 35 promising start-up companies (of which five were FINOLAB aims to serve as a hub for fintech venture foreign companies) and three corporate members particicompanies and industry activities. With this in mind, pated in FINOLAB, growing steadily. On February 2, 2017, FINOLAB has event space with capacity for 80 people, one year after it opened, FINOLAB moved to a larger space meeting rooms, and cubicles where individuals can in the Otemachi Building. As of July 2018, it counts 46 concentrate, in addition to regular office space. ISID, which start-up companies (eight foreign) and ten corporate runs the facility management office, and “FINOVATORS*” members as participants. hold events and get-togethers for residents, and also offer 24 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 company matching events and business consulting Global Business Hub Tokyo, a Shared Workspace programs designed to facilitate collaborative projects with Linking Otemachi to the World major companies and encourage the creation of Mitsubishi Estate has put several measures in place to innovative services. position the Marunouchi region as an attractive city on par *General Incorporated Association FINOVATORS, a group established by with the other metropolises of the world. In July 2016, the professionals aspiring to create a business ecosystem that will revolutionize company opened the Global Business Hub Tokyo* as a Japan’s financial sector. business support facility for growing foreign companies and leading-edge domestic venture companies in the Otemachi Financial City Grand Cube, an office building directly connected to the Otemachi Station. Global Business Hub Tokyo has 2,500 m2 of space. It has 51 small furnished offices as well as an event space, conference room and shared lounge. Through an alliance with EGG JAPAN, it also provides high-quality business networking opportunities for tenants. It is a highly convenient facility that provides both social and infrastructural support for business expansion in Otemachi. *Run by the General Incorporated Association Global Business Hub Tokyo and staffed by Mitsubishi Estate Reception (Open Booth): Free space for meetings EGG JAPAN—Helping New Businesses Set Up and Expand Housed in the Shin-Marunouchi Building, Entrepreneur Group for Growing Japan (EGG JAPAN) is run by Mitsubishi Estate to assist growing companies from overseas and innovative Japanese venture companies as they create and expand new businesses. Providing such support helps to keep Marunouchi the world’s business center of choice. EGG JAPAN is made up of the Business Development Office and the Tokyo 21c Club. The Business Development Office provides resident companies with a range of Entrance business support options such as introductions to experts and prospective clients and assistance with organizing events. The Tokyo 21c Club provides a platform for 3X3 Lab Future—An Activity Hub that Cuts Across entrepreneurs, company managers in charge of new Industry and Sector Boundaries business and experts in various fields to build networks Through 3X3 Lab Future, Mitsubishi Estate provides an through events and seminars. activity hub that gathers business workers from all industries and sectors for high-quality interactions with a view to creating new value that will lead to a sustainable society. In November 2017, it worked with startup companies to run the Corporate Accelerator Program business plan contest for the development of new businesses. Six companies were selected for the top award. Lounge area The reception counter and communication lounge Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 25 Cutting-Edge Community Development Sharing Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Urban Development with the World The Mitsubishi Estate Group operates globally. Since Locations of major Mitsubishi Estate Group projects Mitsubishi Estate New York was established in 1972, we have expanded our real estate development and rental Overseas Group companies: 13 business in the U.S., the UK and Asia, making the most of Number of buildings owned: 15 our track record and wide-ranging network. We are engaged in socially and environmentally conscious urban Development projects: 50 (As of March 2018) planning with people in these regions. · United States Enhancing the value of real estate through environmental performance · Europe Acquiring environmental certification when developing new properties · Asia Environmentally sound community planning in growing Asia (Note) Please refer to p. 33 for details Progressive Initiatives in Marunouchi KPI KPI Promoting Urban Development Initiatives 1,2 1,2 performed at an urban event in Japan. The On Site Center was developed by Secom for use as that Use the Latest Technology to Create Safer, a security command station for locations such as events, More Secure and More Liveable Cities international conferences and disaster zones. Its vehicular Mitsubishi Estate actively carries out experimental trials form allows it to provide optimum security, taking involving advanced technology and engineering aimed at advantage of its mobility to situate itself at the most further improving the features of the Marunouchi area. suitable location at all times. Field Testing a Security System with a Vehicle-Based Monitoring Station In November 2017, in collaboration with Secom, a field test of a security system featuring wearable cameras and a mobile monitoring station was carried out at the Marunouchi Fashion Week 2017 organized by Mitsubishi Estate. Images taken by wearable cameras fitted on security officers were studied and analyzed at the On Site Center vehicular mobile monitoring system. Information was collected, situations were checked and directions were handed out on the scene. It was the first such experiment On Site Center Fiscal 2017 KPI results KPI KPI •Number of companies participating in EGG JAPAN KPI KPI •Number of offices of foreign financial companies 11 (Entrepreneur Group for Growing JAPAN), of which the 22 in Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho area number in parentheses indicates foreign companies 71 offices 42 (26) companies (as of July 1, 2018) 26 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Cutting-Edge New Hospitality Services for nearby office buildings. There are also heat supply Mitsubishi Estate, Sohgo Security Services and PKSHA tunnels linking the plant to the buildings. To boost the Technology carried out an experimental trial into new efficiency of the daily inspections of such vital hospitality services using AI and deep learning engines to infrastructure, Mitsubishi Estate carried out a trial inspection analyze footage from cameras placed around the city in using an autonomous flying drone. order to detect people who were lost, feeling unwell or in Although drones normally fly outdoors using GPS any kind of trouble. The information on persons in distress positioning technology, the experiment took place in an is sent to the smartphones of security officers so they can underground location unreachable by GPS signals. It was a provide timely and accurate support. The new service also highly difficult experiment from a technological perspective makes it easier to understand the finer details of a situation since the drone was expected to sense its own location and by supplementing patrols normally done from a security fly autonomously without colliding with any of the officer’s perspective with AI analysis. This initiative will not surrounding pipes even in narrow spaces only 60 cm wide. only increase the level of service provided to customers but Mitsubishi Estate will continue to actively explore the use of will also improve security and help prevent all kinds of cutting-edge technology to improve the quality and accidents in the area. efficiency of inspection work in the future. Test Rides of Self-Driving Buses Mitsubishi Estate has been working hard to make transportation in the Marunouchi area smoother and more comfortable. As part of our efforts, we have been working on the operation of self-driving buses with SB Drive, a member of the Softbank Group. In December 2017, we held test rides where general public were allowed to ride in a Navya Arma, a self-driving vehicle made by French company Navya and owned by SB Drive. Self-driving buses are expected to address some of the issues faced by transport operators such as route maintenance and a shortage of drivers. They will also help Red frame: Target behavior detected. vulnerable road users move around more easily. The Blue frame: Human detected. experiment raised the awareness among both general users and transportation industry professionals. We hope that self-driving buses will make transportation Trial Inspection of Underground Tunnels Using an infrastructure better and more comfortable once they Autonomous Flying Drone are adopted. Marunouchi Oazo is a building complex in front of Tokyo Station. Underneath the ground in the surrounding area is a heat supply plant for providing energy for air conditioning Self-driving bus Autonomous flying drone KPI KPI •Number of buildings connected to optical fiber in 33 Please visit the website for details. Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho area http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/ 62 buildings advanced/index.html Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 27 Key CSR Theme Environment Pursue cutting-edge environmental initiatives to realize a sustainable society through our business activities Basic Concept The Mitsubishi Estate Group has established an environmental management system and strives to protect the and Approach environment by promoting environmental initiatives and reducing environmental impact, while also complying with environmental laws and regulations. The Group also proposes cutting-edge environmental initiatives to ensure that its business activities play a leading role in the development of sustainable communities. (Note) See each theme for details. Objectives • We will efficiently utilize energy, water and raw materials and reduce greenhouses gases in our business activities. • We will strive to create a smart community with efficient transportation and distribution systems as well as electricity and water use. • We will expand the use of renewable energy in buildings and residences. • We will proactively provide buildings and residences certified as being environmentally and socially responsible. Management The Mitsubishi Estate Group has designated the director in charge of the CSR & Environmental Sustainability System Department, Mitsubishi Estate as the person responsible for promoting the Group’s environmental management, and it also designates environmental sustainability managers in each of Mitsubishi Estate’s business groups, corporate staff and Group companies. Moreover, to draw up plans, hold discussions and share information on the promotion of environmental management, the CSR Committee and CSR & Environmental Sustainability Subcommittee and the Environmental Promotion Liaison Committee each meet twice a year to build a structure for the efficient and systematic carrying out of environmental management and control. Long-Term Environmental Vision/Basic Environmental Policy The company conducts its environmental activities guided by the Basic Environmental Policy established in 2004 and Mitsubishi Estate Group Basic Environmental Policy the ideal vision of the company stated in the Long-term The Mitsubishi Estate Group has developed an environmental Environmental Vision for 2050. management system and strives to protect the environment by promoting environmental initiatives and reducing environmental impact, as well as complying with all environmental laws and Mitsubishi Estate Group regulations. Mitsubishi Estate is determined to ensure that its business activities play a leading role in the development of Basic Environmental Policy sustainable communities. The Mitsubishi Estate Group has established the Mitsubishi 1. Building a low-carbon society Estate Group Basic Environmental Policy, which is based on We are proactive about the efficient use of resources and energy, its corporate mission. The entire Group works together to and encourage the use of renewable energy to contribute to the creation of a low-carbon society. implement sound environmental management. 2. Creating a sound material-cycle society We strive to reduce, reuse, and recycle in every stage of our business, including planning, development, design, construction, Mitsubishi Estate Group Long-Term Environmental Vision management and dismantlement, in order to contribute to building a sound material-cycle society. Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Globalization of business Corporate Vision for 2050 3. Fostering harmony between nature and human society We endeavor to foster new cultural values and to practice Four key themes environmental responsibility by demonstrating concern for Contribution Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Building a low-carbon society biodiversity and developing attractive urban spaces that harmonize initiatives for 2020 with the surrounding natural environment, thus helping to build a Performance Creating a sound Overall direction material-cycle society society that lives in harmony with nature. Efficiency Four symbolic initiatives Fostering harmony between 4. Promoting environmental communication 1. Cutting-edge approaches nature and human society We proactively provide information on the environment and in Tokyo's Otemachi, Marunouchi, and Yurakucho area Emphasizing environmental communicate with society on a broad range of issues in our efforts 2. Groundbreaking initiatives in the communication and human to coordinate and cooperate with a wide range of stakeholders. residential business of MEC eco resource development LIFE and other companies 5. Increasing employees’ ecological awareness 3. Promotion of renewable energy In our efforts to increase employees’ awareness of environmental 4. Research and development of conservation issues and ensure highly effective environmental symbiotic technologies to reduce activities, we provide environmental education and awareness environmental impact programs, aiming to develop an ecologically aware workforce. Established on May 1, 2004 Revised on January 1, 2006 and April 1, 2010 2010 2020 2050 28 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Environmental Topics KPI KPI Otemon Tower-JX Building Equipped with Manufacturing Environmentally-friendly, 12 12 Water Purification Facility for Imperial Palace Moat Highly Durable Wall Panels with High Yield Strength In recent years, the quality of the water in the Imperial Mitsubishi Estate Housing Components manufactures Palace moat has deteriorated significantly as a result of a lack highly durable, high yield strength wall panels with of fresh water. The Otemon Tower-JX Building, which was approximately 14 times the strength of conventional completed in November 2015, is the first private-sector panels for use in four-story wooden structures built with project to introduce a rapid water purification facility the 2x4 method. The panels use Shinshu larch for 24 mm capable of purifying up to 500,000 m3 of water a year to thickness structural plywood, which is not normally used improve the water quality in the Imperial Palace moat. for houses. They also use domestic Japanese hinoki Additionally, to prevent cypress and Japanese cedar for laminated wood and water from stagnating as a laminated wall supports. Additionally, 54% of the result of low water levels in building's frame is made from Japan-grown timber, the moat, the facility is also helping revitalize the domestic forestry industry. equipped with a massive Furthermore, the insides of the wall panels are able to water reservoir with secure the equivalent reserves equivalent to about of 68 tons of CO2, six 25 m swimming pools to making them release water into the moat. environmentally-friendly Since the completion of the wooden structures. project, the rapid water purification facility has been slowly but surely helping improve the quality of the Construction using highly durable, water in the moat. Otemon Tower-JX Building high yield strength wall panels Climate Change Strategies management but it also recognizes that ambient Reducing CO2 Emissions and Energy temperatures and the operating conditions of a building Use through Building Management also have an effect so it is working together with tenants in Severe downpours and abnormally high temperatures efforts to reduce greenhouse gasses. mainly caused by climate change have led to increasingly The CO2 emissions and energy consumption of severe personal and material damage every year, which is Mitsubishi Estate’s 24 ISO14001-certified buildings in fiscal having a serious effect on everyday life. 2017 are shown in the graphs on p. 30. In order for the Mitsubishi Estate Group to achieve its Energy consumption per unit of floor space has been Basic Mission (p. 2) the Group realizes the need to prioritize on the decline since the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake environmental issues above its other CSR themes and thus as a result of repairs to facilities to raise energy conservation it is undertaking concrete environmental initiatives. performance (such as replacing lights with LED lighting) To save more energy, the Group is not only showing and other energy-saving activities. consideration in equipment choices by adopting We will continue to strive to streamline energy use in high-efficiency devices in its core business of office building buildings overall in fiscal 2018. Fiscal 2017 KPI results KPI KPI •Waste generated/water used 22 44,967 / •Number of buildings using district heating and KPI KPI t cooling, and their total floor space 44 About 5,648,000 m a year 3 115 buildings/About 7,429,000 m 2 KPI KPI 55 KPI KPI •Solar power output •Rate of annual adoption for heat insulation 77 About 8,497 kW/17 sites functions level 4 •Rate of annual adoption for primary energy KPI KPI 88 100 % consumption level 4 Please visit the website for details. 100 % http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/environment/index.html Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 29 Environment CO2 emissions and CO2 emissions per unit of floor space Collaborating with Tenants to KPI KPI from Mitsubishi Estate’s ISO14001-certified buildings 11 Conserve Energy CO2 emissions Emissions per unit of floor space (1,000 tons-CO2) (kg-CO2/m2) Approximately 80% of the energy used in buildings 600 150 managed by Mitsubishi Estate is used for electricity, the majority of which is used by tenants. To counter this, in 98 2008 the company began organizing regular Global 400 87 94 91 93 89 100 Warming Prevention Councils with the tenants as members 267 in each ISO14001-certified building in the Tokyo area so 224 224 230 200 167 191 50 that the company could engage in energy-saving activities together with the tenants. 0 0 Every year, Councils are convened for an explanation of 1990 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) CO2 emission reduction and energy-saving initiatives based (Note) CO2 emissions are calculated using the emissions coefficients determined on the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security for individual electrical power suppliers. Ordinance and the Energy Saving Act and an update on their The data for 1990 includes buildings prior to renovations (such as the progress. Mitsubishi Estate will continue these initiatives, former Marunouchi Building). providing explanations of concrete reduction targets and energy-saving activities under way in the buildings and Energy consumption and energy consumption introducing tenants to energy-saving methods. per unit of floor space in Mitsubishi Estate’s ISO14001-certified buildings Energy consumption Per-unit consumption Fiscal 2017 energy consumption by use (1,000 GJ) (GJ/m2) (for 24 ISO14001-certified buildings) 10,000 2.2 Fuel oil 2.15 8,000 2.1 0.0% Electricity 2.03 6,000 1.96 1.98 2.0 City gas 75.5% 4,000 4,151 5,764 4,509 4,642 1.9 0.9% 4,484 4,151 Heat 2,000 1.87 1.79 1.8 (district heating and cooling) 0 1.7 1990 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 23.6% (Note) The number of ISO-certified buildings changes each fiscal year due to renovations and sales/purchases. Energy use and CO2 emissions reported under Japan’s Energy Conservation Law (fiscal 2017) Overall Office Commercial Hotels Other buildings facilities Energy use (1,000 kl/year) 272 205 44 14 8 Unit consumption (kl/m² per year) 0.034 0.037 0.045 0.065 0.008 Fiscal 2017 energy consumption by application (for 24 ISO14001-certified buildings) CO2 emissions (1,000 t-CO2/year) 529 399 86 22 22 Unit emissions (t/m² per year) 0.067 0.071 0.087 0.104 0.019 Other Number of target facilities (buildings) 114 66 20 8 20 0.7% General use Floor area (1,000 m²) 7,928 5,617 982 215 1,114 Garage 17.8% (Note) Compiled for Mitsubishi Estate Group main buildings for which 1.5% information on energy-saving measures is reported in compliance with the Energy Conservation Law (excluding buildings with a floor area less than 1,000 m2) Tenant use This table is prepared on the basis of the information submitted by Group companies in compliance with the Energy Conservation Law, with some 41.3% additions, and may differ from the actual figures submitted. Use in air Volume of waste generation reported under Japan’s Energy conditioning Conservation Law (fiscal 2017) (common areas and tenants’ areas) Overall Office Commercial buildings facilities Hotels Other 38.7% Waste generated (1,000 t per year) 45 24 15 2 4 Per unit (t/m² per year) 0.008 0.006 0.017 0.008 0.008 Number of target facilities (buildings) 65 33 18 8 6 Floor area (1,000 m²) 5,302 3,725 901 215 461 (Note) Compiled for Mitsubishi Estate Group main buildings (excluding buildings with a floor area less than 1,000 m2) 30 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Obtaining Low-Carbon Building Certification From fiscal 2017, Mitsubishi Jisho Residence began to offer building while OIKOS Mikunigaoka has installed ENE-FARM certified “low-carbon buildings”* under its “The Parkhouse” type S residential fuel cells. The adoption of these and brand of condominiums. The Parkhouse Futakotamagawa multiple other cutting-edge environmental technologies Midori no Mori in Setagaya-ku, Tokyo, and The Parkhouse are part of the company’s efforts to make a low-carbon OIKOS Mikunigaoka in Sakai, Osaka received certification, society a reality. and the initiative is expanding. All Futakotamagawa Midori * A system of certifications based on Japan’s Law on the Promotion of no Mori buildings are fitted with a central airconditioning Low-Carbon Cities given by government authorities to buildings in their system known as Condominium Aerotech which jurisdiction which take extensive measures to reduce their carbon footprint. maintains a comfortable temperature throughout the The Parkhouse OIKOS Mikunigaoka/CG image of The Parkhouse expected exterior when Futakotamagawa Midori complete no Mori/Photo of exterior Preserving Biodiversity Four Properties Win KPI KPI Improving the Waterfront Environment and ABINC Award in 2017 33 Preserving the Ecosystem of the KPI KPI The real estate business considers ways in which it can help Imperial Palace Moat 66 preserve biodiversity through the appropriate The Mitsubishi Estate Group undertakes a lot of projects management of its land and the formation of green meant to protect biodiversity and improve the networks*. The Mitsubishi Estate Group actively works to environment in the Marunouchi area. One example is the protect biodiversity by creating a Biodiversity Manual building of Hotoria Square, an environmentally symbiotic among other initiatives. green space encompassing about 3,000 m2 in front of the The Parkhouse Wako and three other properties owned Imperial Palace moat. by Mitsubishi Jisho Residence were awarded Association for In May 2018, we started a Moat Project intended to Business Innovation in harmony with Nature and improve the waterfront environment and revive the Community’s ABINC certification (condominium category) for ecosystem in the moat. This 2017 for their creation of green spaces that harmonize with began with collecting and the ecosystems in their neighborhoods. This is their fourth observing the few water plants consecutive year of getting the award since and animals living the water. the system began. This makes Mitsubishi The collected plants and animals Jisho Residence the business with the largest were moved to Hotoria Square number of certified properties at a total of 17. and a rooftop container biotope * Please visit the BIO NET INITIATIVE website for more owned by Mitsubishi Estate information (in Japanese). where they will be monitored https://www.mecsumai.com/bionetinitiative/ with the aim of preserving rare species and restoring the water environment. Hotoria Square Fiscal 2017 KPI results KPI KPI KPI KPI •Energy use/CO2 emissions 11 •Number of projects recognized with CASBEE (new construction 33 design)/Development Bank of Japan (DBJ) Green Building/ About 272,000 kl/ ABINC certifications About 529,000 t a year 9/20/22 buildings and projects •Rate of annual adoption for high-efficiency appliances (hot KPI KPI KPI KPI •Area of green on roofs and walls 66 water heaters/LED equipment/ultra-waterconserving toilets) 10 10 About 33,800 m 2 KPI KPI 100 /100 /100 % a year •Rate of annual adoption for soleco system 99 Please visit the website for details. 58.8 % http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/environment/index.html Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 31 Environment Using Water Resources Efficiently Using Water Resources Efficiently in Buildings use recycled water* by, for example, purifying cooling tower blow water and kitchen wastewater and reusing it as The effects of climate change brought about by global toilet water. warming have led to a greater risk of water shortages * Recycled water: Processed water derived from rainwater, tenant kitchen worldwide. In Japan, there are doubts about the continued wastewater and other sources. Recycled water is also used for watering outdoor stable supply of water from dams due to changing rainfall plants and as toilet water in the Marunouchi Building. patterns in recent years. To mitigate the effect of water Volume of water usage reported under Japan’s Energy shortages on socio-economic activities and ensure the Conservation Law (fiscal 2017) stable use of water, it is important to systematically promote the efficient use of water resources and enact Overall Office Commercial Hotels Other buildings facilities strategies based on supply and demand considerations. In recognition of this pressing issue, the Mitsubishi Water Usage (1,000 m³ per year) 5,648 3,151 1,329 1,046 122 Estate Group is working on improvement measures such as Unit consumption (t/m² per year) 0.954 0.725 1.475 4.859 0.265 adjusting the amount of water used by toilets and Number of target facilities (buildings) 72 40 18 8 6 bathrooms in order to streamline water use in buildings. It Floor area (1,000 m²) 5,923 4,346 901 215 461 is also reducing the use of water resources in buildings that (Note) Compiled for Mitsubishi Estate Group main buildings (excluding buildings with a floor area less than 1,000 m2) Efficient Water Resource Usage Initiatives in Fiscal 2017 KPI KPI 22 The Public and Private Sector Team Up to Mitigate Using Recycled Water Continuously the Heat Island Phenomenon In fiscal 2017, Sunshine City was able to recover 343,608 m3 Sprinkling Recycled Water from the Marunouchi of its precious water resources out of the 582,781 m3 of tap Building on Gyoko Street water that was used in the building that year. The recycled Mitsubishi Estate has been working with the Tokyo water was used to flush toilets. Metropolitan Government Bureau of Construction since The treatment system for this wastewater is called the 2010 to sprinkle recycled water from the Marunouchi “recycled wastewater system” and is in the middle of the Building on Gyoko Street, which extends from the Tokyo water and sewage works. It was installed 40 years ago when Station Marunouchi Exit to Hibiya Street. Sprinkling water Sunshine City was first built. It was the first recycled suppresses the road surface temperature and helps wastewater system installed in Japan for a single building. mitigate the heat island phenomenon. The initiative The treatment plant is located in the 3rd floor basement of continued through fiscal 2017 as well. When the sprinkled the Sunshine 60 building. In a single day it purifies up to recycled water evaporates due to a rise in atmospheric 1,200 tons of wastewater from toilet sinks, kitchen temperature, it absorbs heat from the surrounding area, wastewater from the building and drain water from the reducing the road surface temperature by up to 10 (based Hotel bathrooms. The treated recycled water is used to on measurements from summer 2010). flush toilets inside the building. To make this project possible, the Tokyo Metropolitan (Note) Excludes water for flushing bidet toilets. Government Bureau of Construction constructed a “water-retaining road surface” containing water-absorbing materials capable of saving up water within the road surface in Gyoko Street. Mitsubishi Estate installed the equipment needed to sprinkle the recycled water from Marunouchi Building onto the street. Wastewater Recycled water (raw water) Aerated Precipitated (treated water) How recycled water (reclaimed water) is made Fiscal 2017 KPI results KPI KPI Please visit the website KPI KPI •Smalland medium-sized building 11 •Rate of annual use of 12 for details. renovations/condominium renovations 11 Japan-grown timber 12 15 buildings/634 units 50 % a year http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/ environment/index.html 32 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Initiatives Overseas Promoting the Acquisition of Environmental Certification through “Projects Earning Certification” United States 1221 Avenue of the Americas, New York Flushing Commons, New York Silver This building was completed in 1972 This is a large-scale development in Manhattan. Although it was LEED consisting of residences, offices, certified in 2009, it was awarded a commercial facilities, a public Silver LEED rating in 2014 for square, parking lots and a YMCA. improvements made to use water This development has two phases, more efficiently. the first of which was completed in June 2017. The project aims to earn a Silver LEED rating for building and land use measures taken in consideration of energy conservation and the environment. Europe Central St. Giles, London 8 Finsbury Circus, London Excellent Excellent A joint redevelopment project with This project is a redevelopment Legal & General, a major UK life of an office building located in insurance company, this complex the City of London, completed in covers a total floor area of 66,000 m2 April 2016. It achieved a BREEAM and comprises offices, retail shops “Excellent” rating, the highest and residences. Construction was possible at the time of application. completed in April 2010. The project earned a BREEAM “Excellent” rating, which was the highest possible at the time of application. Asia Sky Vue, Singapore Sky Habitat, Singapore Gold plus Gold plus Sky Vue is a built-for-sale Sky Habitat is a built-for-sale condominium complex jointly condominium complex jointly developed by Mitsubishi Estate Asia developed by Mitsubishi Estate and CapitaLand Group. The Asia, CapitaLand Group and complex earned Green Mark Gold Shimizu Corporation. It also earned Plus certification. Green Mark Gold Plus certification. Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 33 Key CSR Theme Human Resource Development Support for human resource development and active careers for the creation of communities of the future and support for work styles tailored to individual lifestyles Basic Concept As globalization progresses in the modern age, there is an increasing diversification in workers and other stakeholders as well and Approach as in working styles. In this environment, the Mitsubishi Estate Group believes it is highly important to consider the human rights of all persons involved in its businesses. To that end, the Mitsubishi Estate Group Human Rights Policy was formulated in April 2018 to clearly set out the basic human rights that must be protected. At the same time the Group became a signatory to the UN Global Compact, which means an even greater commitment to initiatives aimed at respecting human rights along with the rest of the international community going forward. When it comes to human resource development, which forms the foundation of a sustainable corporation and society, the Mitsubishi Estate Group places great emphasis on developing employees and supporting employee activities which will help the Group achieve its vision for creating the communities of the future. The Group selects and hires employees equitably and provides opportunities for appropriate education and training. The Group also supports flexible work styles tailored to individual lifestyles. Accordingly, it provides equal opportunities and promotes diversity so that diverse employees with their various backgrounds can thrive, regardless of gender, age, or disability. Objectives • We will select and hire employees equitably, provide appropriate education and training opportunities for the employees responsible for future community development, and will support flexible work styles tailored to individual lifestyles. • We will offer equitable opportunities so that a diverse workforce can succeed in its jobs, regardless of gender, age and/or disability. Management The Mitsubishi Estate Group works with the Mitsubishi Estate’s Human Resource Department and MEC Human Resources, which System provides human-resource related services for the Group, to strive to provide a range of human resource development programs and to create a workplace in which human rights and diversity are respected. The CSR Committee and the CSR & Environmental Sustainability Subcommittee, which cover CSR issues in general, each meet twice a year, and they discuss and share information about human resource development and efforts to provide a workplace that is respectful of human rights and diversity. In addition to this, to encourage human rights-related efforts, the Human Rights Awareness and Diversity Promotion Committee meets once a year to review reports on human rights initiatives and exchange opinions on possible improvements. Human Resource Development Human Resource Development Programs Voice of a Manager Mitsubishi Estate Group believes that human resources are Building a company where a very important management asset and recognizes that individual employees can employee growth is essential to the Group’s continued freely display their talents growth. Accordingly, it started upgraded human resource development programs in 2017. Kohei Mukunoki Mitsubishi Estate has defined the ideal traits it seeks in Human Resource Department its human resources: visionary, professional, with integrity, Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. team-building skills, and a passion for challenges and innovation. Mitsubishi Estate develops its employees’ skills For Mitsubishi Estate to adapt to the unprecedented using multiple approaches, combining training programs speed of social change, survive as a competitive with job rotations and coordinated programs at the company and continue to grow, each employee needs workplace level. to embrace challenges with fresh ideas and perspectives, without being limited by conventional ideas and past approaches and successes. The whole Visionary organization will need to support them in these efforts. Our company trains human resources With a passion for systematically, offering both on-the-job and off-the-job challenges and innovation Professional training in various fields to employees in a variety of roles to bring out their individual capabilities. With teambuilding skills With integrity I believe human beings have incredible potential that they are not even aware of. It would be amazing if we could become a company that empowered each The Five Traits employee to take their vision and passion for innovation and maximize their abilities to the greatest extent possible. 34 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Offering a Wide Range of HR KPI KPI Mitsubishi Estate’s total annual hours of human resource 33 development training (fiscal 2017) Development and Training Programs The Mitsubishi Estate Group carries out a wide range of Total training hours per year 18,687 hours training programs to develop employees’ capabilities and (Note) This does not include the time for overseas dispatch, English language raise their awareness about compliance and human rights. training, correspondence courses, and other self-development programs In addition to skill development programs aimed at freely chosen by employees. raising basic skills, Mitsubishi Estate has established elective self-development support programs that give employees the opportunity to choose their own classes. Promoting Diversity historically been the victim of severe discrimination and Basic Approach to Human Rights ostracism in Japan. Professor Okuda spoke at length on the As a member of society, the Mitsubishi Estate Group is background of the law, the state of human rights in Japan keenly aware of the importance of respect for human and abroad, the current state of discrimination against rights. To fulfill our responsibility to respect the basic buraku people and the kinds of initiatives companies are human rights of all stakeholders, not only those involved in expected to undertake to eliminate buraku discrimination. Group businesses, we set up the Mitsubishi Estate Group Moreover, the Group provided new hire joint training to Human Rights Policy on April 1, 2018. Respect for human 333 new hires from 22 Group companies. Mitsubishi Estate rights is part of the Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines for and some Group companies also organized training for the Conduct, which all employees are expected to follow on a managers in charge of the helpline and harassment daily basis. These Guidelines stress the importance of consultation service as well as lectures for managers and respect for human rights and diversity, which means that executives on topics such as social integration and employees show concern for human rights and the regulations on the prevention of sexual harassment. Training environment in the course of their business activities. The was also provided on themes such as buraku issues for Human Rights Policy is intended to ensure that we, as a Mitsubishi Estate and some Group companies. These training good corporation, understand that internationally sessions all sought to cultivate a greater sense of human mandated human rights are a bare minimum that we must rights by raising participants’ awareness of discrimination. go beyond, that we reaffirm the importance of supporting, protecting and respecting human rights and that we work Total hours of annual human rights training at Mitsubishi Estate to respect the fundamental human rights of every single (fiscal 2017) person involved in the Group’s businesses. Training hours per session 105 minutes (1.75 hours) KPI KPI Ongoing Human Rights Programs 33 The Mitsubishi Estate Group provides training on human Mitsubishi Estate’s human rights training (fiscal 2017) rights as part of its training for new employees on an Themes: ongoing Group-wide basis. • Power harassment In addition to training for management career track • Sexual harassment (including LGBT issues) positions, Mitsubishi Estate also carries out group training • Social integration on the prevention of workplace harassment. Human rights • Issues faced by people with disabilities lectures are also given every year to executives such as the Total number of participants: 894 people company’s president, directors and department managers, as well as Group company presidents. In fiscal 2017, Mitsubishi Estate Group’s human rights training results Professor Hitoshi Okuda of the Kinki University Human (fiscal 2017) Rights Issues Research Center delivered a lecture on the 544 participants from 34 companies received human rights training for a theme, “The challenges and significance of the Law on the total of 185,025 minutes (3,083 hours) Promotion of the Elimination of Discrimination against (Note) Including external human rights training sessions offered via Mitsubishi Buraku.” Buraku refers to a group of outcasts that has Estate liaison to Group company employees Fiscal 2017 KPI results KPI KPI •Training time/cost per employee (Mitsubishi Estate Group*) 33 Please visit the website Average for the three companies: 11.92 hours/74,275 yen a year (Note) Reason for change from previous fiscal year's results (7.4 hours/135,541 yen a year): for details. http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/ The expansion of KPI targets from FY2018 onwards and the use of weighted averages. employees/index.html * Three companies: Mitsubishi Estate, Mitsubishi Jisho Residence and Mitsubishi Jisho Property Management Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 35 Human Resource Development The Human Rights Education & Establishment of Action Plan to KPI KPI 55 Diversity Promotion Committee Meets Promote Women’s Success Mitsubishi Estate holds an annual meeting of its Human Mitsubishi Estate has established and published an action Rights Education & Diversity Promotion Committee (chaired plan in accordance with Japan’s Act on Promotion of by the director in charge of human resources) to review the Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. status of its human rights initiatives, exchange views on ways As the number of women hired and their years of to improve programs, review that fiscal year’s activity plan continuous employment increase, the number of female and share knowledge on recent human rights conditions. candidates for managerial positions has risen and the ratio The Mitsubishi Estate Group has joined the Tokyo of female managers has also improved. Mitsubishi Estate Industrial Federation for Human Rights and the Corporate believes that creating an environment conducive to the Federation for Dowa and Human Rights Issues, Osaka. In performance of both male and female employees will help addition to participating in training on issues facing buraku raise the ratio of female managers. The company will people and other human rights issues, the Group is continue to promote diversity, including the success of committed to addressing human rights issues and women in the workplace. participates in activities such as information collection to expand this training to Group companies. Ratio of female managers to all managers at Mitsubishi Estate April 2014 April 2015 April 2016 April 2017 Calling for Human Rights Education Slogans 3.8% 4.2% 4.4% 5.1% The Mitsubishi Estate Group solicits suggestions for human rights education slogans every Overview of Action Plan (Mitsubishi Estate) year. In fiscal 2017, it received 804 entries from employees and their Objectives (from April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017) families. The winning entry will be 1. Raise the percentage of female employees at the published in mec’s, the Group’s level of section head, who are candidates for communication magazine, management, to about 20% by fiscal 2020, with the providing an opportunity for aim of bringing the percentage of female employees readers to reflect on human rights. who are managers to more than 10% by 2030. 2. By fiscal 2020 or before, mec’s, the Group’s (1) encourage men to take childcare leave and raise communication magazine the percentage of men taking childcare leave to 13% or more, (2) encourage employees to actively take paid leave KPI KPI to raise the rate of those taking leave to 60% or Hiring of Persons with Disabilities 66 more, and (3) Although annual overtime hours are on the Mitsubishi Estate actively seeks to hire persons with decline, the company believes that further disabilities in response to social demands to provide reductions are essential to promote work-life employment opportunities for persons with disabilities. As of balance. As such, the company aims for a 5% the end of fiscal 2017, Mitsubishi Estate’s employment rate of reduction in the average monthly overtime persons with disabilities was 2.22%, higher than the legally compared to fiscal 2014. recommended rate of 2.0%. Mitsubishi Estate strives to Initiatives create a workplace in which all employees can demonstrate 1. Reinforce mid-career hire of female employees at their unique skills without regard to their disability, while the section head level who can be candidates for providing the environment they need for success. managerial positions 2. Aim to further augment support for balancing childcare and work 3. Carry out initiatives to encourage employees to take paid leave 4. Continue to take measures to cut overtime 36 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Voice of a Female Manager Creating a workplace with a look up to as they draw up career plans. Everyone has a future vision based on different life plan, but I am convinced that the true way to diverse role models encourage women to succeed is to provide them with role models working hard in a variety of positions so they can Yasuko Kitazawa imagine their future selves in those roles. Head of the Residence Care Moreover, women are confronted with several Promotion Office, complicated issues that they need to navigate before they Mitsubishi Jisho Residence Co., Ltd. can succeed, ranging from the peculiarities of their jobs to In April 2018 I was appointed the head of the newly created their individual lifestyles and family circumstances. In order Residence Care Promotion Office. I have been working with to realize “female success,” I believe it is not enough merely my team members to tackle our new duties in the months for companies to put systems in place. Society as a whole since then. I rose to a management position without needs to change. As a prerequisite, there needs to be a experiencing much job rotation earlier in my career, so I thought reform and a shift towards an individually was somewhat hesitant to make important decisions at first. productive work style. However two things helped me determine to take up the At the same time, now that the world has begun to challenge. The first was the support and encouragement of change into one with a large number of successful those around me. The second was my own sense of women, it is also important for women to remain grateful responsibility towards young female employees in the for the support they receive from their families and company today. I want to become a role model they can colleagues as they work. Creating a Vibrant and Pleasant Workplace Please read Sustainability Highlights (p. 14) for information on the relocation of the company’s headquarters. Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Hito-Machi Award Opening a Workplace Childcare Center at the Gotemba Premium Outlet The Group established the Hito-Machi Award (literally, “People and the City Award”) in 2011 to recognize the The Gotemba Premium Outlet has over 200 tenants, each various efforts by employees at Group companies to of which has many employees. However there are no enhance the Group’s corporate brand. This award is childcare facilities nearby because it is located far from an intended to encourage the shared sense throughout the urban area. There was the need to create an environment Group that building a strong corporate brand is not a where parents could work with peace of mind while raising special activity, but rather an integral part of everyone’s their children. daily work. In 2016, its sixth year, the award attracted 165 Tenants complained that a lack of childcare made entries from a record-high 28 Group companies. A total of returning to work after childcare leave difficult. To resolve 29 groups of winners were selected for the Sincerity and their concerns, Mitsubishi Estate-Simon, the operating Trust Award, Customer-Oriented Award, Value Creation company, opened an internal childcare center in Award, and Challenge Award. Moreover, one Grand Prix September 2017. Anyone working in the facility can use the and four Runner-up laureates were selected by the center regardless of their form of employment. It is also president. One other group was chosen for the Special available to everyone in the community. Award based on the results of a vote by Group employees. Reaction from users was positive, with comments like “I The Group plans to continue using the Hito-Machi can work harder when my children are close by,” and “I chose Award to share best practices throughout the Mitsubishi to work at the Outlet because they had a daycare center.” Estate Group and help to improve employee motivation. The center both improved the work-life balance of the This will also help to earn more trust form customers and workers and helped the tenants secure human resources. enhance the Group’s overall reputation. Fiscal 2017 KPI results KPI KPI KPI KPI •Number/ratio of female managers 55 •Employment rate for persons with 66 Please visit the website (Mitsubishi Estate Group*1) disabilities (Mitsubishi Estate Group*1) for details. Average for the 78 people/6.55% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal: over 10%* ) 2 three companies: (Fiscal 2020 ongoing goal: 2.2%) 2.20 % http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/ employees/index.html *1 Three companies: Mitsubishi Estate, Mitsubishi Jisho Residence and Mitsubishi Jisho Property Management *2 Target for Mitsubishi Estate alone Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 37 Human Resource Development Establishment of Work Reform Number of people taking childcare leave of absence, nursing care leave of absence and shortened work hours for childcare Promotion Committee (Mitsubishi Estate) On April 1, 2017, Mitsubishi Estate upgraded its efforts to Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal reform the corporate culture, streamline work processes 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 from the top down and create new value by increasing Men 0 0 0 7 10 Childcare productivity by establishing the Work Style Reform leave Women 22 23 13 11 20 Promotion Committee, which is chaired by and reports Total 22 23 13 18 30 directly to the president. Men 0 0 0 0 0 Nursing care This committee is transforming programs and leave Women 0 0 0 0 0 reforming the office environment company-wide and Total 0 0 0 0 0 across departments. It also supports voluntary efforts by Shortened Men 1 0 0 0 0 employees to improve the efficiency of their work. work hours Women 29 32 33 11 7 for childcare Total 30 32 33 11 7 KPI KPI Programs to Foster Work-Life Balance 1,4 1,4 Mitsubishi Estate respects its employees’ individuality and Voice of the Manager in Charge of values, and believes that it is important to ensure a balance Work-Style Reform between work and home life in order to provide a workplace in which each individual employee can perform Reforming work styles to to potential. Mitsubishi Estate has established a range of achieve zero normal programs for childcare and nursing care, such as leave of working hours absence, shortened work hours, flex-time schedule, and Hiroyuki Takahashi hourly paid vacation programs, so that they can select from Secretary of the Human Resources diverse work styles. The company began telecommuting Planning Department and trials for all employees in 2017. Work-style Reform Office, Employees can take childcare leave until March 31 after Mitsubishi Jisho Property Management Co., Ltd. the child turns three, and can work shorter or flexible hours for childcare activities until March 31 of the year the child Mitsubishi Estate is undergoing work reforms to expand completes the third grade of elementary school. Mitsubishi the company and develop employees while reducing Estate also implements other measures to support childcare overtime with a target value of zero normal overtime such as temporary daycare services using contracted hours by fiscal 2022. daycare centers, and subsidies for the cost of babysitting. Work style reforms do not happen overnight, as The company also opened a center that helps employees since all employees work under different conditions, find daycare centers for their children. Mitsubishi Estate has creating an environment that is ideal for everyone is still established a general action plan compliant with the a work in progress. However under this initiative, which Japanese law called the “Act on Advancement of Measures began in fiscal 2016, certain teams were selected as to Support Raising Next-Generation Children” so that monitoring units and they began quick-turnaround employees can balance work and childcare. It has also meetings (“kaeru kaigi”) where individuals reviewed their created a pregnancy, childbirth and childcare information work for greater efficiency and trials of work optimization site on its intranet to provide information and explain policies are carried out. The plan is for effective policies to childcare-related programs. be spread by deploying them throughout the company. In light of Japan’s changing social structure, the company By adopting various methods to change the mindsets of enables employees to take nursing care leave for three years, employees such as flex time for the whole company and and they can now work shorter hours while nursing family the work style challenge award system, the whole members. In addition, a nursing guidebook is issued and company gradually became aware of the impulse to internal seminars are held to offer information on caring for transform the working culture. As a result, certain family members. In January 2013, the company established a accomplishments were achieved such as the reduction new program to enable employees who had to leave the in overtime hours by fiscal 2017 and a greater rate of use company due to their spouse’s work transfer or other reason of paid vacation time. Although there is a greater social who meet certain conditions to apply for reemployment. “work style reform” movement under way, Mitsubishi In fiscal 2017, 100% of employees returned to work after Estate will not be content with temporary measures but taking childcare leave. The retention rate after the return to will constantly undertake new policies so that employees work was also 100%. will work together in full understanding and cultivate stronger teamwork in order to achieve sustainable growth for employees and for the company as a whole. Fiscal 2017 KPI results KPI KPI KPI KPI •Number of people taking childcare leave of absence, 11 •Number of hours of overtime on average per month 22 nursing care leave of absence and shortened work hours (Mitsubishi Estate Group*) (Mitsubishi Estate Group*) Total for the Average for the three companies: 71/1/82 people a year three companies: 17.21 hours 38 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Dialogue with Employees Mitsubishi Estate supports the right to group negotiation changes, such as employee cuts and changes to labor and also emphasizes problem-solving together with labor conditions resulting from a contraction and consolidation unions. About 70%, or 615, of the 858 employees, excluding of the company’s business, that would have a major impact employees in managerial positions, are members of the on the employee are discussed in advance and that policies Mitsubishi Estate Labor Union (as of April 1, 2018). The and standards are clarified. company forms labor agreements and discusses issues that Moreover, the Group and labor union work together to need to be resolved and the right course of development set internal management standards based on for the company to take on the basis of trust, in order to labor-management consultations to avoid excessive build positive relationships. working hours for employees. Under the stipulations of the labor agreement, any Work Health and Safety KPI KPI Promotion of Health Management 22 part of the company’s efforts to create a comfortable working environment. Mitsubishi Estate issued the Health Management * This program enables employees to use points allotted to them to choose Declaration in October 2016 to systematize the initiatives programs from a menu set by the company (sports activities, checkups not and plans that the company and the health insurance union covered by health insurance, etc.). had carried out thus far, make clear top management’s commitment, and ensure further improvements in maintaining and improving employee health. The company Managing Employee Health through also makes commitments to safety and hygiene in its labor agreements, and strives to protect employee health and Medical Examinations safety through health checkups and safety education. Mitsubishi Estate carries out a scheduled medical The company has introduced a work management examination once a year for all employees to help them system that is linked with computer log-on/off time so that maintain and improve their health. In 2016, the company supervisors can follow employees’ work conditions. added electrocardiographs and stomach ultrasounds (for Supervisors also meet one-on-one with their subordinates persons 35 and older) to further improve detection of lifestyle to discuss workload and task difficulty so they can diseases. We also take the time to provide follow-up understand conditions that may impact their health. Any examinations, urgent examinations and meetings with employee who works more than 90 hours of overtime in a occupational physicians depending on the results of the month is encouraged to have a checkup with an medical examinations. To improve the screening rate, occupational physician. As such, Mitsubishi Estate is individual notices with information about medical dedicated to taking measures that help employees manage examinations are sent to people who miss their examinations. their health. Moreover, beginning in fiscal 2017 a subsidy (fiscal 2017 medical examination rate: 97.95%) program was set up for health-promoting programs (sports activities, checkups not covered by health insurance, etc.) Rate of personnel undergoing medical examinations for employees with the “Cafeteria Plan.”* Under the plan, (Mitsubishi Estate) the company provides a free breakfast to prevent missed (%) 97.90 98.90 97.95 100 94.77 97.30 meals and holds in-house exercise events along with other measures aimed at improving employee health. 80 In order to promote work-life balance, the company 60 adopted a flex-time schedule for all employees in fiscal 40 2016, and implemented initiatives such as the “positive off movement” to help employees make plans to take 20 days off and encourage them to take paid leave. In fiscal 0 2017, an hourly paid vacation program was introduced as 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) KPI KPI Please visit the website •Rate of reinstatement to work after maternity/childcare leave 44 (Mitsubishi Estate Group*) for details. Average for the 97.7% http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/ three companies: (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal: 100%) employees/index.html * Three companies: Mitsubishi Estate, Mitsubishi Jisho Residence and Mitsubishi Jisho Property Management Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 39 Key CSR Theme Compliance Promotion of compliance meeting the expectations of clients and society Basic Concept The Mitsubishi Estate Group believes that compliance does not simply involve legal compliance, but is also defined and Approach as adherence to internal rules and corporate ethics. After Mitsubishi Estate was found to have violated some stipulations of the Commercial Code of Japan in 1997, the Mitsubishi Estate Group Basic Mission and Mitsubishi Estate Group Code of Corporate Conduct were formulated to reflect the company’s resolve to never repeat the same mistakes. The Code of Conduct and Basic Mission were revised in 2006 as part of a serious and humble response to the discovery of soil and groundwater contamination problems at Osaka Amenity Park (OAP) in 2005. The company regards compliance as one of its most pressing issues to address. Moreover, as the company continues to expand its businesses domestically and internationally, its social responsibilities increase in sophistication and global scale. This has led to a greater need for the whole group to share a sense of values and a standard of conduct. Therefore the Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines for Conduct were revised in April 2018 with the hope that they will increase true corporate value by being applied to the daily actions of individual employees and executive officers. The Mitsubishi Estate Group aspires to build trusting relationships with its stakeholders through a highly transparent management system and reinforced compliance. Not only does the Group comply with laws and regulations but it also works hard to meet all the expectations of clients and society as it strives to achieve its basic mission of contributing to society through urban development. The Group also identifies and responds appropriately to various business risks. Objectives • We will respond appropriately to prevent bribery, violation of the anti-monopoly law and inappropriate political donations. • In addition to complying with laws and regulations, we will strive to meet the expectations of clients and society, as well as understand and respond appropriately to various business risks. Management The Mitsubishi Estate Group designates the corporate officer in charge of compliance appointed by decision of the System Board of Directors as the person responsible for overall compliance, designates all department head in Mitsubishi Estate as compliance promotion officers and also selects compliance officers at each Group company to create a structure for promoting and monitoring compliance. The Group has also established a Risk Management & Compliance Committee and a Risk Management & Compliance Subcommittee as councils which formulate plans discuss issues concerning Group compliance and risk management. (Note) A detailed structure chart is available online Compliance in Practice The Mitsubishi Estate Group works hard to build trusting participants from 21 companies in April 2018). relationships with its stakeholders by employing a highly Moreover, Mitsubishi Estate provides compliance transparent management system and continually education during training for newly appointed managers strengthening compliance. and level 2 professional career hires, and also trains all officers and employees in compliance via e-learning. Revising and Publishing the Compliance Guidebook To accompany the revision of the Mitsubishi Estate Group Holding Risk Management and Compliance Lectures Guidelines for Conduct in April 2018, the Compliance Mitsubishi Estate holds risk management and compliance Guidebook was revised and published as a training tool. The lectures for managers and executives, including those at Guidebook uses illustrations and a Q&A format to explain Group companies. the Mitsubishi Estate Group’s five most important values in The lecture topic is chosen from genres related to risk an easy-to-follow format. It was distributed to all Group management and compliance, in light of social conditions officers and employees and helps to increase knowledge in that particular year. In July 2017, Professor Iwao Taka of and understanding of what compliance involves. the School of Economics and Business Administration at KPI KPI Reitaku University (and also a Mitsubishi Estate outside Providing Compliance Training 11 director) spoke on the topic: “Foreign Corrupt Practices as a The Mitsubishi Estate Group uses opportunities such as Global Risk.” training sessions for new hires and new managers to KPI KPI provide compliance training to raise compliance awareness Compliance Surveys 22 among all executives and employees. Mitsubishi Estate Group gives compliance surveys every In particular, new hires from major Group companies two years to its approximately 16,000 executive officers and participate in joint training together to learn about the employees (including temporary employees) to ascertain Code of Conduct and basic compliance issues (336 the extent to which they are aware of compliance issues. 40 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 The Group uses the results, after analyzing them to identify Rigorous Information Management overall trends and characteristics of each business group The Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines for Conduct include and company, to plan activities to improve compliance. stipulations on information management. As such the company is committed to obtaining information Augmenting the Help Line appropriately, managing it strictly and protecting personal The Mitsubishi Estate Group has established a compliance information to the greatest extent of its capabilities. In April help line to receive inquiries and consultations on 2018 the Group’s internal regulations on information compliance issues. In January 2018 the Mitsubishi Estate management were completely revised. In addition to Group help line consultation window was changed and appointing an officer with maximum authority over unified with external organizations to make it possible for information management for the whole group, a chief it to receive calls on weekday evenings and weekends information system management officer was also appointed and holidays as well. The help line has both internal and and the Group strengthened its information security across external contact points and can be used by Group board. To support this revision in regulations, the Group’s employees, temporary employees and executive officers were trained in information employees, part-time employees management in order to ensure the proper handling of and various other part-time staff, information. Mitsubishi Estate works to improve information and even the business partners of handling by conducting Information Management e-learning Group companies. To ensure that training for all employees and officers and reexamining the employees know about the help way information is handled in all departments. line, information is provided in The Mitsubishi Estate Group Basic Policy on the Compliance Newsletter and Personal Information Protection is available on the on posters. company’s website (in Japanese). There were 64 consultations http://www.mec.co.jp/j/specific/index.html and reports via the Mitsubishi Estate Group help line in fiscal Preventing Corruption 2017. Depending on the The Mitsubishi Estate Group has declared that it will carry out substance of the inquiries, they are equitable, transparent corporate activities with a primary studied and the situation is emphasis on earning trust. The Group’s Code of Conduct forbids confirmed so that an appropriate not just actions that could be construed as collusion with Leaflet on help line response can be made. A help line exclusively for business government officials or other actions considered illegal, but also exclusively for business partners partners entertainment and gift-giving to politicians and government has also been set up. employees that could be deemed ethically inappropriate for going beyond the bounds of social convention. Risk Management Moreover, the Mitsubishi Estate Group Basic Regulations The Mitsubishi Estate Group has established the Mitsubishi on the Prevention of Corruption were established as a system Estate Group Risk Management Rules and has set up and to prevent corruption throughout the organization. The risk of operates a risk management system to manage risk in all its corruption is assessed for each contract and due diligence is business activities. mandated in the case of parties considered high risk. This due The Group systematically carries out risk management diligence is accompanied by monitoring in the course of programs, focusing on the following two types of activities. operations. The Group also drew up and published the Mitsubishi Estate Group Anti-Corruption Guideline in July 2018. 1 Individual risk management activities It also conducted training for Group officers and employees Individual Group companies and business groups identify involved in its international businesses to ensure their full risks of focus based on a risk analysis, and carry out activities understanding of the company’s anti-corruption regulations. throughout the year to reduce the risks identified. The Group was not subject to any fines or penalties for 2 Group-wide priority risk management activities corruption in fiscal 2018. The Group identifies priority risks that require new countermeasures from the entire Group, taking into account Measures Against Organized Criminal Elements the risks of focus identified by individual Group companies The Mitsubishi Estate Group clearly stipulates its refusal to as described above and social trends, and carries out countenance any relationship whatsoever with organized activities throughout the year to reduce these risks. criminal elements in its Guidelines for Conduct. Mitsubishi Estate’s Legal & Compliance Department serves as a special department to take resolute measures for the Group, in cooperation with the police, in the event of any contact from criminal elements. Fiscal 2017 KPI results KPI KPI KPI KPI •Compliance training such as training by level and CSR lectures 11 •Compliance survey “Extent to which Code of 22 Conduct is achieved” •Rate of participation in compliance e-training KPI KPI (Mitsubishi Estate Group*) 33 88 % 99 % (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal: 100%) Please visit the website for details. * Four companies: Mitsubishi Estate, Mitsubishi Jisho Property Management, Mitsubishi Jisho Residence and Mitsubishi Real Estate Services http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/compliance/index.html Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 41 Corporate Governance The Mitsubishi Estate Group aims to earn stakeholders’ trust through highly transparent management. Basic Approach accountability for the benefit of shareholders and other Mitsubishi Estate’s basic mission is to contribute to society through stakeholders. The remuneration for directors (excluding directors urban development, based on which we selected “A Love for who concurrently serve as corporate executive officers) comprises, People. A Love for the City” as our brand slogan. We believe that we in principle, only basic remuneration in the form of money, whereas must achieve a high-level balance between corporate growth and the remuneration for corporate executive officers, in principle, benefit to diverse stakeholders, which will result in a rise in true comprises basic remuneration and variable remuneration. The corporate value. A vital management task that will help us realize variable remuneration comprises monetary compensation that is this ambition is the establishment and implementation of a paid based on short-term performance and stock compensation corporate governance structure. that is paid based on evaluation of medium-to-long-term performance, etc. Corporate Governance Structure Information on remuneration paid to directors, auditors and Mitsubishi Estate has adopted a “Company with Nominating corporate executive officers is available online. Committee, etc.,” organizational structure in accordance with the http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/governance/index.html Companies Law of Japan. The Board of Directors performs a management oversight function and, where possible, individual Reinforcing Internal Controls management decisions are carried out under the administrative Mitsubishi Estate’s Board of Directors adopted the Basic Policy on powers of executive officers. This is intended to accelerate Establishment of Internal Control Systems, as required by Japan’s decision-making and clarify the authority and responsibilities for Companies Act, regularly confirms that operations are consistent executing operations. It also further clarifies the roles and strengthens with the policy, and makes improvements whenever necessary. The the functions of executives and directors. Furthermore, the Group also upgraded, administered and evaluated its internal Nominating Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration control system in line with the internal controls over financial Committee, each with a majority of members made up of outside reporting which were adopted by listed companies in April 2008 as directors, handle the nomination of director candidates, determine mandated by Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. The their remuneration and review the performance of executive officers, Internal Control Report concluding that the Group’s internal controls which is intended to increase the speed and transparency of over financial reporting were effective as of March 31, 2018 was decision-making processes. The Board of Directors is made up of 15 submitted to the Kanto Local Finance Bureau of the Ministry of directors, of which seven are outside directors, and the chairman is a Finance on June 28. An internal control audit was performed by an director who is not a managing director. The term of office for independent auditing firm to ascertain that this report was directors, including members of the Audit Committee, is one year. The presented fairly. basic approach and framework behind Mitsubishi Estate’s corporate The three Group companies* that handle financial instruments government structure are explained in the “Mitsubishi Estate have established and continue to operate their own systems. Corporate Governance Guidelines” on the company’s webpage. Relevant divisions in Mitsubishi Estate also strengthened their The Mitsubishi Estate Group Corporate Government internal control systems to address compliance problems related to Organizational Chart is available online. this law. http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/governance/index.html * Mitsubishi Jisho Investment Advisors (real estate investment and management), Japan Real Estate Asset Management (real estate investment and management), Managerial Decision-Making Process Mitsubishi Real Estate Services (real estate consulting and solutions, brokerage, The Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Strategic Planning Committee, which sales and leasing) consists of the president, the executive vice presidents, and other persons designated by the president, meets regularly to discuss the Management Oversight Structure Group’s management strategies. The Group also has an Executive Mitsubishi Estate’s Board of Directors decides on basic policies for Committee which takes decisions on important matters pertaining management and also supervises the execution of operations by to the execution of business. It consists of the president, the directors and officers. The Audit Committee supervises the business representative executive officer, the managing executives of the line execution of directors and officers through the attendance of staff and corporate staff in each business group, full-time members standing statutory auditors at important meetings such as the of the Audit Committee and other persons designated by the Executive Committee, oversight of the status of business execution president. It usually meets once a week. To enable the Executive at each division or Group company, and receiving reports from Committee to discuss and make management decisions at a more auditors and from departments directly concerned with internal sophisticated level, the Asset Management Committee was controls. In addition, an Audit Committee Office has been established as a sub-committee to discuss business strategy and established to support the Audit Committee’s audits. monitor progress. The Strategic Investment Committee was also In April 2018, an internal reporting system that goes through the established as a subordinate body to the Executive Committee to Audit Committee members was established to facilitate the reporting discuss important investment proposals and summarize the points of major wrongdoings by the company’s officers to auditors. at issue before Executive Committee meetings. The Internal Audit Office has been set up to reinforce the internal audit function and reports directly to the president. This Policy for Determining Remuneration for Directors and serves to emphasize its objectivity and independence from any Corporate Executive Officers business group. Internal audits are conducted in accordance with At Mitsubishi Estate, the details of remuneration paid to directors the audit plan (which also covers Group companies) established on and corporate executive officers are decided upon by a resolution of a risk basis to confirm that internal controls are set up and the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by an outside administered appropriately. All audit results are reported to the director and has a majority of outside directors. The company makes president, and are then shared with the standing statutory auditors, it a policy that its remuneration system shall enable: ongoing with an overview provided to the Executive Committee, Audit improvement of corporate value and sharing of value with Committee and other relevant parties. The company also shareholders; provision of incentives to management executives emphasizes follow-up after audits, confirming that problems who take up challenges and appropriate risk taking; and high indicated in internal audit results have been improved. 42 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Cooperating with Business Partners The Mitsubishi Estate Group aims to grow side-by-side with its business partners and is committed to building an equitable, trusting relationship with every business partner. Mitsubishi Estate Group Order Action Guideline The Mitsubishi Estate Group applies the same approach as in In accordance with the Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Mission and Code the Mitsubishi Estate Group Code of Conduct to its suppliers in of Conduct, Mitsubishi Estate has established the Order Action regards to environmental problems, labor problems, corruption and Guideline, which all executive officers and employees placing orders other issues. with business partners must follow, to ensure that orders and At Mitsubishi Estate, when orders are placed with construction contracts are administered with transparency and impartiality. The companies, the business organization and ordering organization are Guideline is intended to ensure objectivity and economic rationality, clearly separated. Appropriate orders and contracts are ensured by but it also includes rules on environmental conservation, requiring that employees use a check sheet to self-verify information management and avoidance of any involvement with compliance, after which Mitsubishi Estate’s Legal & Compliance organized criminal elements. This Order Action Guideline is shared Department provides objective confirmation. The Orders by the entire Group, and order and contract processes are Surveillance Committee, chaired by the president, meets when established and administered to suit the businesses of individual orders for large projects are placed and holds discussions companies based on it. concerning compliance. It met eight times in fiscal 2017. The Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Procurement Guidelines Establishment of CSR Procurement Guidelines The Mitsubishi Estate Group is committed to its mission of contributing to society The Mitsubishi Estate Group believes that, in order for it to through urban development and works to achieve it by putting into practice the contribute to the creation of a truly meaningful society through its Mitsubishi Estate Group Code of Conduct and Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines for Conduct. In order for the Group to Contribute to the creation of a truly meaningful business activities, it is crucial that it consider CSR not only for itself society through its business activities, we consider it essential that the Group work but also in cooperation with business partners across the entire with its business partners to promote socially responsible procurement at all stages of the supply chain. With this recognition, the Group has established the CSR supply chain. Based on this idea, in April 2016, it established the Procurement Guidelines, a set of guidelines to promote CSR procurement activities. Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. The Mitsubishi Estate Group requests all business partners to read these guidelines to gain an understanding of both their spirit and content so that the Group and its business partners are able to act according to the guidelines at all Ensuring Familiarity with Guidelines within and outside Group stages of the supply chain. To ensure familiarity with the CSR Procurement Guidelines both CSR Procurement Standards within and outside the Group, Mitsubishi Estate makes the 1. Comply with Legal and Social Norms guidelines available on the company web site. Moreover, the • We comply with both local laws and regulations in the countries and regions in which we do business, as well as with international agreements and social norms. company works with its Group companies to make notifications to 2. Respect Human Rights the Group’s major business partners to ensure that they are familiar • We respect the human rights of our employees; maintain appropriate working with the guidelines. In fiscal 2016, notification was made to 3,326 hours; allow sufficient holidays and vacation time; and make every effort to create healthy and safe working environments for employees. partners. Notification was made to a further 721 companies in fiscal • We respect human dignity and diversity; strictly prohibit any behavior or 2017 and the company will endeavor to ensure familiarity discriminatory language that violates human rights and/or causes emotional or physical suffering, including discrimination with regard to gender, ethnicity, throughout the supply chain going forward. nationality, age, religion, disability, marital status, physical appearance, or sexual orientation; and have zero tolerance for harassment of any kind. • We strictly prohibit unfair labor practices of any kind, including child and forced labor. Evaluations of Business Partners in Each Business 3. Practice Corporate Ethics • We engage only in fair and equitable business activities. We do not engage in Business Social and environmental assessment practices that interfere with free competition or in inappropriate competition practices. Building Mitsubishi Estate has adopted an evaluation system for • We establish a framework for internal reporting to prevent problems from arising Business subcontractors that assesses from multiple perspectives the quality, and to ensure that potential problems are detected early on. At the same time, we safety and hygiene, and environmental initiatives of construction protect the anonymity of those filing internal reports and assure employees that companies engaged in subcontracted work in its Building Business. they will not suffer retaliation or any other type of punishment for reporting The subcontractors are given feedback on the results of the problems. assessment, and asked to make improvements if necessary. • We uphold Japan’s Anti-Organized Crime Law and eschew all contact with organized criminal elements. • We make every effort to disclose corporate information in a timely and appropriate Condominium Mitsubishi Jisho Residence utilizes a Contractor Interview Sheet fashion. Business when selecting new subcontractors with which to partner, and • We make every effort to prevent any form of corruption, including bribery and confirms the subcontractors’ conditions, including the headquarter other such practices. organization’s on-site support system. In addition, in order to enhance the quality of construction and ensure safety and hygiene 4. Ensure and Improve Product Quality on-site, the company asks the subcontractors to submit work • In delivering products and services, we establish appropriate quality control and assurance systems and ensure that we deliver the level of quality that customers schedules and construction plans to ensure in advance and places demand, while continuously working to improve the quality of our products. orders with an appropriate construction schedule. The company also • We make every effort to deliver products that perform to higher safety standards strives to make improvements by ensuring good communication than socially required or expected. We also make public the results of our product with subcontractors, such as holding start meetings and regular safety surveys as needed. meetings during construction, meeting with the head of the • We make every effort to deliver products and services at an appropriate, construction site before the start of work at each site and evaluating competitive market price and meet construction deadlines with appropriate the contractor when the work is completed. management of our work process. 5. Protect the Environment and Reduce Environmental Impact Custom-Built Mitsubishi Estate Home has established guidelines for its initiatives • We make every effort with all of our products, services, designs, and construction Housing Business with business partners that take into account the unique work to uphold the Mitsubishi Estate Group Green Procurement Guidelines. characteristics of its business. The basic order unit price that will • At every stage of our production and construction work, we exclude the use of serve as the benchmark is set in agreement with the supplier as we raw materials produced by illegal means; actively seek materials for use that are strive to ensure equitability for the supplier. certified or otherwise traceable; and make every effort to engage in sustainable Business partners in the architecture, facility and electronics production and procurement. industries are evaluated comprehensively and fairly on the basis of a 6. Guarantee Information Security questionnaire given to the employees who are their point of • We establish and enforce management systems to ensure that information assets contact, and also taking into account the number of customer (confidential information, personal information, intellectual property, etc.) either referrals, workmanship and credit conditions. The number of entrusted to us by business partners or other third parties or belonging to the buildings with which they will be entrusted is decided based on this Group are appropriately managed and protected. We take every precaution to evaluation along with the fixed unit price. prevent inappropriate disclosure of information, including taking measures to In addition, clearly separating the manufacturer’s product costs and protect against threats to our computer networks, to ensure that these the distribution costs until the product reaches the final delivery information assets are not leaked or used in an unfair or inappropriate manner. destination raises the transparency of product costs and distribution 7. Establish Disaster Risk Management Systems costs, enabling a fair evaluation of the material supplier and the • We actively prepare for disaster by incorporating disaster risks into our business manufacturer. When deciding on construction amounts, the costs of continuity plans (BCP). construction and operating expenses are accounted for separately, In effect as of April 1, 2016 and efforts are made to prevent simple price competition. Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 43 Serving Shareholders and Investors The Mitsubishi Estate Group maintains good communication with shareholders, investors and all other stakeholders by proactively disclosing corporate information in a timely manner. Committed to Prompt, Accurate and Impartial Disclosure External Evaluation Following its own Disclosure Regulations, Mitsubishi Estate Mitsubishi Estate for selected for inclusion in the following Indexes publishes information that the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Security in fiscal 2018. Listing Regulations mandates for timely release through TDnet •FTSE4Good Global Index 17th consecutive year (Timely Disclosure Network), a system operated by the exchange, as •FTSE Blossom Japan Index 2nd consecutive year well as via other channels. Mitsubishi Estate is committed to the •MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index 2nd consecutive year prompt, accurate and impartial disclosure of information to all of its •SNAM Sustainability Index shareholders and investors. •GRESB Public Disclosure 2nd consecutive year Company Executives Give Briefings for Shareholders, Socially responsible investing is an approach to investing in Investors and Analysts companies that takes into consideration their environmental and The IR Office, set up within Mitsubishi Estate’s Corporate social initiatives and corporate governance as well as economic Communications Department, is a dedicated organization with the aspects. We will continue to integrate our business with CSR as we mission of disclosing appropriate information in a timely manner, pursue sustainable corporate management. publicizing management strategies, and providing feedback to the company drawn from views expressed in the capital markets. The IR Office provides accurate and impartial information to customers and the mass media, as well as to all shareholders, investors and analysts. The IR Office’s main IR activities consist of updating the Investor Relations page on Mitsubishi Estate’s website, holding financial results briefings twice a year, holding small meetings with institutional investors, giving facility tours, and actively meeting with institutional investors in and outside Japan (about 420 such meetings were held in fiscal 2016). In fiscal 2017, the Group published a new medium-term management plan for fiscal 2017–2019. Company executives and general managers participate in briefings on financial results and the Group’s longand medium-term management plans and in small meetings with institutional investors. These opportunities for direct dialogue with shareholders and investors help to ensure that their views are incorporated into the management of the company. The company also proactively participates in seminars organized by the stock exchange and securities companies to provide briefings for individual investors to enhance information disclosure and make it more broadly accessible to the investor community. Stock details (as of March 31, 2018) Mitsubishi Estate will continue its efforts to increase Number of authorized shares 1,980,000,000 dissemination of IR information in English and augment its Integrated Report, IR explanatory material and Fact Book to improve Number of shares issued and 1,390,908,105 communication with overseas investors. outstanding (Of which treasury stock: 2,897,424) IR Information for Mitsubishi Estate Number of shareholders 67,881 Japanese: http://www.mec.co.jp/j/investor/index.html English: http://www.mec.co.jp/e/investor/index.html Stock composition (shareholding percentage) (as of March 31, 2018) Financial institutions 36.06% Financial instrument business operators Operating and 1.82% other companies 11.27% Foreign individuals and companies 43.91% Individuals and other Briefing session for institutional investors (May 2018) 6.94% 44 Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 Financial and Non-Financial Information Contents The Spirit of Mitsubishi: The Three Principles/The Mission of 2 Key Environment Mitsubishi from Revenue Group/The Mitsubishi Estate Group EstateOperations Code of Income & EBITDA Operating CSR Number of Employees Conduct/Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines for Conduct Theme Pursue cutting-edge environmental initiatives to realize Operating Income EBITDA a sustainable society through our business activities Contents/Editorial Policy Trillions of yen Billions of yen 3 Message 1.2 from the President 300 4 Long-Term Environmental Vision/ 10,000 28 Basic Environmental Policy CSR Strategy at the Mitsubishi Estate Group Environmental Topics 8,000 29 0.8 Message from the Director Responsible for CSR 200 7 Climate Change Strategies 6,000 29 The Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Process to Provide Value to Society 8 Preserving Biodiversity 31 Key 0.4 CSR Themes and the KPI/Operational Framework 100for CSR 10 4,000 Using Water Resources Efficiently 32 Communicating with Stakeholders 12 Initiatives Overseas 2,000 33 Sustainability 0 Highlights 0 14 0 Key Human Resource Development 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 CSR 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Urban Development Together with Society Support for human resource development and active Key Theme careers for the creation of communities of the future and CSR Safe and secure community development through support for work styles tailored to individual lifestyles Theme both physical and social infrastructure advancement Profit Attributable together with to Owners the localof Parent & community Total Assets & EBITDA/Total Assets* Cost of Social Contribution Activities ROE Human Resource Development 34 Urban Development Enabling People Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent to Live, ROE Total Assets 18 Promoting Diversity EBITDA/Total Assets 35 Work and Relax—Safely and Securely Billions of yen % Trillions of yen Creating a Vibrant % and Pleasant Workplace Millions of yen 37 Urban Development Conducive to Child-Rearing 120 8 and 6 20 Work Health and Safety 6 2,000 39 an Aging Population 90 Cooperating with Local Communities 6 21 Key Compliance 1,500 4 4 Communicating with Clients 22 CSR Promotion of compliance meeting the expectations of 60 4 Theme 1,000 clients and society Key Cutting-Edge Community Development 2 2 30 CSR 2 Compliance in Practice 500 40 Theme Innovative community development tailored to the era of globalism Corporate Governance 42 0 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 The Globalization 2015 2016 2017 (FY) of Marunouchi 2013 242014 2015 Cooperating 2016 2017 with (FY)Business Partners 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 43 (FY) Sharing Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Urban Development 26 * EBITDA/Total Assets is calculated based Shareholders Serving on the and Investors 44 with the World average total assets from the beginning to the end of the period. Financial and Non-Financial Information 45 Progressive Initiatives in Marunouchi 26 Interest-Bearing Debt & Unrealized Gain on Rental Properties Number of Female Managers Net Interest-Bearing Debt/EBITDA Editorial Policy (Mitsubishi Estate) Interest-Bearing Debt The Mitsubishi Estate Group began publishing its Environmental Report in Scope Net Interest-Bearing Debt/EBITDA fiscal 2000. Since fiscal 2005, the Group has published the CSR Report, The organizations covered in the 2018 CSR Report are Mitsubishi Estate Trillions of yen Times Trillions of yen expanding the coverage of the report to include corporate social responsibility. and 52 Group companies (46 in Japan and 6 overseas) that share the 10 2.5 In fiscal 2014, in order to identify the key CSR themes 4.0 the Mitsubishi that Mitsubishi Estate Group Code 50 of Conduct. Estate Group should address over the medium to long term, the Group 2.0 solicited 8 opinions from various stakeholders, held thorough See the website for 40 a list of organizations covered 3.0internal discussions, and ultimately decided upon five key CSR themes. Next, an 1.5 implementation framework was established and key 6 performance indicators Period 30 (KPIs) were defined under each of the five themes. In fiscal2.0 2017, the Group This report covers fiscal 2017 (April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018), but also 1.0 endeavored to expand KPI target values and the scope 4 of disclosure. 20 includes information pertaining to other fiscal years. Additionally, since three years had passed since the establishment 1.0 of the key 0.5 themes, a working group across all businesses in CSR 2 the Group was Reference Guidelines 10 constituted and they have undertaken a revision of the key CSR themes from Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards an0SDGs perspective. 0 0 Environmental Reporting0 Guidelines (2012 edition), Ministry of the 2013that2014 We hope all stakeholders 2015 2016will read 2017this report (FY) and share their 2013 2014 2015 Environment, 2017 Japan 2016 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) opinions and impressions with us without hesitation. ISO 26000 Reporting Structure See the website for the GRI Guideline Sheet The Cashand Freevolume Flowthe thoroughness of the information includedEarnings CSR Share in the per See the website for Number a list of organizations Directors of Outsidecovered in the report Report increases every year. Thus the company publishes the print edition as a (Mitsubishi Estate) digest version for general readers that mainly explains the company’s Billions of yen Yen initiatives concerning material issues in an easy-to-read format while the Publication date: December 27, 2018 300 homepage version is a complete edition that covers all content 100 that needs to 8 be reported including all kinds of technical data. Detailed information on Next issue: 200 80 corporate overviews and results are also provided on the homepage. The next issue is scheduled for publication in November 2019. 6 Production overseen by: 100 60 CSR & Environmental Sustainability Department, Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. Websites 4 Contact address: 0 40 Otemachi Park Building, 1-1, Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Information on CSR: http://www.mec.co.jp/e/csr/index.html Investor relations: http://www.mec.co.jp/e/investor/index.html Tokyo 100-8133, Japan 2 -100 20 Corporate information: http://www.mec.co.jp/e/about/index.html Tel: +81-3-3287-5780 -200 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) (Note) Unless otherwise noted, graphs show consolidated data for the Mitsubishi Estate Group. Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Report 2018 45 3 ＼ゞト い感 r` ‘ ヽ ミ＼冬 A Love for People. A Love for the City. 1 �MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO., LTD. 鴫 >、 About the cover design The back cover shows the award-winning works of art from the fiscal 2017 16th Kira Kira Art Competition held by Mitsubishi Estate for children with disabilities. Otemachi Park Building, 1-1, Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8133,」apan http://www.mec.co.Jp/index_e.html ＊＊ 置疇 er-:> ［リサイクル遍性® ] � GREEN PRINTING JFPI P-B10138 この印刷物は、印刷用の紙へ リサイクルできます。 丁his report is printed on FSC• certified paper made of tree fibers sourced from properly managed forests, using eco-friendly vegetable oil ink and waterless printing to eliminate hazardous wastewater. Its cutting and binding processes are also in conformance with the environmental standards established by the」apan Federation of Printing Industries Published December 2018
