Message We will display our Group’s total strengths to facilitate the sustainable well-being of people, society and our planet Earth, and we will aim to achieve further reforms and growth Representative Corporate Executive Officer, President and CEO The sustainable well-being of people, society and our planet Earth Today, many countries are facing a range of social issues, problems, and we are working to steadily execute our action — we call it KAITEKI. including climate change, water shortages, resource and energy plan in a bid to meet the targets set out in the APTSIS 20 issues, and soaring medical costs associated with the aging of medium-term management plan, which runs from FY2016 to Through our core values of Sustainability, Health and Comfort, the population. Meanwhile, in the domains of information and FY2020. we create innovative solutions globally realizing KAITEKI. communication technology (ICT), artificial intelligence (AI), With the key message of “achieving further reforms and growth,” robotics, mobility, medical and healthcare, science and KAITEKI REPORT 2018 presents our activities from diverse Creating KAITEKI Value today technologies are developing at an accelerating pace. They have perspectives, including the results of business activities in the potential to bring about significant innovations. accordance with APTSIS 20 and our medium-and long-term we ensure a bright future for tomorrow. In this environment, the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) vision, to make clear our firm determination to realize KAITEKI. We are THE KAITEKI COMPANY. Group understands that it is our mission to bring together the We hope that this report will help you better understand our innovation capabilities of our domestic and overseas group Group’s value creation and we thank you for your continued companies to continuously offer solutions to these social support and cooperation. 03 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 04 Numeric data for the MCHC Group State of MCHC in 2017 As of the end of March 2018 Optical films Determine the addition of a polyester film-processed product manufacturing facility in China Measures INPUT OUTPUT for achieving Performance Products domain (Investment amount: ¥1.5 billion; manufacturing to start in April 2019) growth Complete the addition of OPL Film production facilities at Ogaki factory (Annual production of 18 million m2; start of operation in December 2017) Carbon fibers Capitalize on C.P.C. SRL, a company that manufactures and sells car parts made of carbon fiber and aluminum composite materials in Italy (acquire 44% of its stocks in October 2017) Total assets Revenue Determine the addition of a new manufacturing facility of DIAMIRON in Thailand Food packaging films (Commercial manufacturing to start in April 2020) 4,700.6 billion yen 3,724.4 billion yen Performance polymers Separator and aqua Acquire Dutch Filaments B.V., a filament manufacturer for 3D printers in the Netherlands (March 2018) Form a business partnership with ICM, Inc. (U.S.) to market zeolite films for North America, as well chemicals as with Mitsui & Co., Ltd. for Europe and Asia Lithium-ion battery Establish a company that runs an electrolyte business in China (50/50 joint ownership with Ube materials Industries, Ltd. with 159 million RMB in capital in January 2018) Number of countries/ Industrial Materials MMA (acrylic resins) Complete the construction of an MMA monomer/PMMA plant in Saudi Arabia (April 2017; annual regions of Group sites Core operating income production of MMA monomer: 250 thousand tons; annual production of PMMA: 40 thousand tons) domain 39 380.5 billion yen Health Care Industrial gases Pharmaceuticals Enhance the electronic material gas production capacity in China (Commercial manufacturing to start in January 2019) Start sales of Radicava, a medicine for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) domain (August 2017) Acquire NeuroDerm Ltd. in Israel (October 2017; price of acquired stocks: approximately ¥124.1 billion) Regenerative medicine Start an exploratory clinical trial of Muse-cell products and determine establishment of cell and other products processing center in Japan (Operation to start in January 2019) Number of employees ROE Measures for Performance IT and electronics Determine the termination of the fractured toner business (consolidated) (Return on equity) materials Products domain (planned to stop production at the end of March 2019) implementing 69,230 17.8 % innovation Environment & living solutions ABS resins Transfer stocks of Nitto Kako Co., Ltd. (March 2018) Establish a new joint venture by integrating the ABS resin business (April 2018) Industrial Materials Polyolefin Determine the addition of a new polypropylene manufacturing facility at Goi plant as part of structural domain reform (Annual production: 150 thousand tons; commercial operation to start in October 2019) Achievement ratio of target for Health Care new product proportion Pharmaceuticals Transfer the generic pharmaceutical business (October 2017) domain Amount of capital expenditures (MOT Index) Overall Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation was established by integrating three chemical operating companies 225.2 billion yen 109 % Management (April 2017) Reinforce the function as a holding company (promote the separation of execution and supervision) and deepen KPI-based portfolio management Strengthen Corporate Strategy Division and utilize ICT and AI (Establish four strategy offices and Emerging Technology and Business Development Office) Contribution to achieving healthy and hygienic lives Fully promote KAITEKI health and productivity management through products and services (MOS Index) R&D expenses Further promotion of KAITEKI Management and 138.8 billion yen Up 72.9 % (compared to the previous fiscal year) improvement of the assessment of corporate value to create a virtuous cycle Assessment results of corporate value including ESG Dow Jones RobecoSAM CDP Water 2017 Sustainability Indices Sustainability Award 2018 A LIST Bronze Class Contribution to reduction of GHG emissions through products MSCI Japan ESG MSCI FTSE Blossom Japan Empowering Energy consumption (MOS Index) Select Leaders Index *1 Women Index*1 Japan Index 41.0 TWh 77.6 million t-CO2e FTSE4Good Index Morningstar Socially Responsible NIKKEI Smart Work Management Survey Investment Index*2 *1. The inclusion of Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation in any MSCI Index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names on this page do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation by MSCI or any its affiliates. The MSCI Indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. *2. As of July 2018 05 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 06 Contents History of the MCHC Group KAITEKI REPORT 2018 “Achieve Further Reforms and Growth” Value Creation Mitsubishi Kasei Mitsubishi Tanabe Seiyaku Petrochemical 03-16 Toward Realizing KAITEKI 1946 Spin-off 1994 Merger Tokyo Tanabe Yoshitomi Pharmaceutical Industries Green Cross 03 Numeric data for the MCHC Group 09 Value Creation Approach 1998 Merger 04 State of MCHC in 2017 11 The MCHC Group’s Material Issues and Mitsubishi Chemical 06 History of the MCHC Group Selection Process of “Focus Markets” 2000 Corporate name change 1999 Spin-off and merger 07 Transition of Portfolio Transformation 13 Expanding KAITEKI Value Welfide Strategy Mitsubishi Chemical 2001 Merger functional products Mitsubishi-Tokyo 17-32 Aiming to achieve substantial growth through reinforcement of business base and exploration of future growth areas business Mitsubishi Chemical Functional Products Pharmaceuticals Mitsubishi Pharma* Mitsubishi Polyester Film 17 Update on APTSIS 20 30 Message from the CIO Mitsubishi Chemical MKV 2007 Merger 19 Message from the President 31 Message from the CSO 23 Dialog between the President and Investor 32 Mitsubishi Chemical Top Message 2008 Business 27 Message from the CFO integration Management October 2005 33-38 Mitsubishi Transforming into Management Structure that Enhances Sustained Growth Chemical* 33 Management Structure 35 Directors 2017 34 Message from the Chairperson 37 Dialog between the Director and Outside Directors Integration April 2017 October 2007 Performance Business April 2008 Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Mitsubishi 39-62 39 41 Financial Summary Financial Highlights 47 Overview of Business Domains 47 Summary 55 Industrial Materials Domain Plastics Chemical Tanabe Pharma 43 Non-Financial Highlights 49 FY2017 Results by Segment 59 Health Care Domain 51 Performance Products Domain 45 Shareholder Information Performance Innovation & ESG March 2010 63-83 63 Innovation 67 Sustainability 81 Risk Management 83 Compliance Mitsubishi Rayon October 2005 77 Corporate Governance Mitsubishi Chemical Financial Information Holdings* 84-163 84 Financial Information 84 Consolidated Financial Summary 96 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 86 Segment Information 97 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 88 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 99 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 92 Business Risks 101 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows April 2014 November 2014 95 Consolidated Statement of Income 103 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Life Science Taiyo Nippon Corporate Information Institute Sanso 164-167 164 Corporate Data 165 Main Subsidiaries and Affiliates 166 Main Businesses 167 Global Network Mitsubishi Plastics Industries Mitsubishi Rayon 1962 1952 Editorial Policy Corporate Corporate 2004 Merger name change name change The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) Group publishes the KAITEKI Report, which summarizes financial and non-financial information of the past, present and projected future, as a value-creation story, based on what, among our progress and outlook of corporate activities aimed at the realization of KAITEKI*, we determine to be highly pertinent to our criteria for decision making and results of materiality assessments for corporate activities. In preparing this report, Nagahama Plastics Nippon Sanso Taiyo Toyo Sanso Shinko Rayon we referred to the International Integrated Reporting Framework promoted by the International Integrated Reporting Council. This report can be perused in conjunction with more detailed information available on MCHC’s website. Industries For detailed financial information, please refer to our securities reports filed with the Financial Services Agency. For detailed governance information, please refer to our corporate governance report to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 1958 Securities Reports Corporate Reporting Period FY2017 (April 2017 – March 2018), including some information from FY2018 http://www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/ir/library/stock_securities_report.html name change 1995 Merger Reporting This report covers information relating to MCHC and the MCHC Group. For matters with a Boundary Corporate Governance Reports Nagahama Rubber Taiyo Sanso Toyo Sanso different reporting scope, we clearly specify the covered reporting scope. http://www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/english/pdf/governance.pdf Industries Accounting MCHC has adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), effective from Standards the first quarter of FY2016, the financial year ended March 31, 2017. In this report, data * KAITEKI means the sustainable well-being of people, society and our planet in and after FY2016 are based on IFRS, while other figures are based on J-GAAP unless Earth . It is a concept of MCHC that proposes a way of realizing shared value otherwise noted. for sustainable society and business. * Mitsubishi Chemical and Mitsubishi Pharma established a joint holding company. 07 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 08 Transition of Portfolio Transformation We promote a value creation Aim to become a corporate group cycle in pursuit of sustainable with a high growth and high profitable business growth -realizing KAITEKI-, taking Pursuit of business scale through M&As and integrations, structure through the Performance Products, into account social trends and restructuring of unprofitable businesses Industrial Materials and Health Care domains stakeholders’ requirements Revenue Billions of yen Promoting steady portfolio Operating Income (Core) Billions of yen 5,000 transformation 4,500.0 500 3,930.0 4,000 3,724.4 400 Revenue (left axis) (Core) Operating Income (right axis) 380.0 280.0 355.0 (IFRS) 380.5 (IFRS) 3,000 (IFRS) 300 307.5 226.4 (IFRS) 2,000 200 133.6 128.5 125.0 130.5 110.4 165.6 90.2 1,000 100 8.1 66.3 0 0 Change in Operating 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2030 J-GAAP up to FY2015 Income by Domain (Mid-term IFRS in and after FY2016 (Forecasts) plan targets) (pie chart) Performance Industrial Materials Health Care Performance Industrial Materials Health Care Performance Industrial Materials Health Care Performance Industrial Materials Health Care Performance Industrial Materials Health Care Products Domain Domain Domain Products Domain Domain Domain Products Domain Domain Domain Products Domain Domain Domain Products Domain Domain Domain 52% 23% 25% 16% 47% 37% 19% 0% 83% * Other -2% 25% 54% 21% 33% 34% 33% Stable revenue due to healthy market conditions in Industrial Accelerating portfolio Industrial Materials Domain stabilized Sustainable growth, well-balanced across Establishment of MCHC Materials Domain and stronger due to structural reforms and linking transformation of Industrial Gases three business domains Health Care Domain Raised the ratio of the Strengthened the Health Care Stabilized profitability of the Industrial pharmaceutical business and Strengthened Expanded domain by concentrating Materials domain from conversion strengthened earnings less the pharmaceutical the Performance Products Shifted to a high addedhealthcare businesses of an industrial gas company into a Accelerated growth of performance affected by economic fluctuations business value business portfolio excluding pharmaceuticals consolidated subsidiary product groups through integrations domain October 2005 October 2007 April 2008 March 2010 April 2014 November 2014 April 2017 Establishment of MCHC Establishment of MTPC Integrated MPI, MCC’s Conversion of MRC into a Establishment of LSII Conversion of TNSC into a Establishment of the MCC and Mitsubishi Pharma Tanabe Seiyaku and functional products business, consolidated subsidiary consolidated subsidiary new-Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Corporation (current MTPC) Mitsubishi Pharma merged and three affiliate companies Integration of the three chemical operating established jointly a holding company through a stock-for-stock exchange May Conversion of Quadrant AG May Withdrawal from Nylon chain March Production optimization of April Formed a joint venture to operate the companies (MCC, MPI and MRC) 2009 (Switzerland) in the high2010 business 2014 polyolefin (March 2015) 2016 Mizushima naphtha cracker performance engineering MCHC: Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation March Withdrawal from PVC chain business May Retain a single naphtha July Decided on the equity interest transfer plastic business into a New-MCC: Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (Apr. 2017-) 2011 Withdrawal from SM chain business cracker at the Kashima of the terephthalic acid business in TNSC: Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation consolidated subsidiary LSII: Life Science Institute, Inc. March Conversion of Qualicaps Co., Ltd. in the Plant (closed one cracker) India and China MCC: Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (current MCC) 2013 business of manufacturing capsules MPI: Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. (current MCC) and pharmaceutical equipment into a MRC: Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. (current MCC) consolidated subsidiary 09 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 10 Value Creation Approach THE KAITEKI COMPANY to be a driving force to realize KAITEKI The MCHC Group’s Contributing to achievement of the Contribution to circular and sustainable society Value Creation Approach Putting KAITEKI Management into Practice SDGs through corporate activities based on innovation and global well-being Sustainable Development Goals We promote a value creation cycle in pursuit of sustainable growth -realizing KAITEKI-, taking into account social trends and stakeholders’ requirements. 2 Vision for 2020 Establish the foundations for “THE KAITEKI COMPANY” through improved profitability, pursuit of innovation and contributions to sustainability. Greetings P01 Message from the President P19 Leadership in creating a recycling, Dialog between the President and Investor P23 circulative-oriented optimal system Message from the CIO P30 Message from the CSO P31 aimed at sustainable use of diverse Message from the Chairperson P34 energy and resources, and a scheme 1 Dialog between the Director and Outside Directors P37 to enable the sustainable well-being of people, society and our planet Earth. Materiality Assessment Identify material issues to realize KAITEKI The MCHC Group’s Material Issues and 2 Establishing the foundations for THE KAITEKI Selection Process of “Focus Markets” P11 1 Overview of Business Segments P51 P55 P59 Materiality Assessment P67 Corporate Governance P77 COMPANY Sustainability P68 Management’s Discussion KAITEKI Value and Analysis P88 MOS Axis 2020 2030 3 Management of Sustainability (MOS) MOT Axis Management of Technology (MOT) The Six Focus Markets and Businesses MOE Axis APTSIS 20 Corporate Philosophy Management of Economics (MOE) 5 5 Automobiles, Aircraft (Mobility) Lightweight composites 3 Environment-friendly materials We create innovative solutions globally based Review on our core values of Sustainability, Health and IT, Electronics, Displays Message from the President P19 Mission including 3D Printing and Robotics Comfort, striving for the well-being of people, 4 Overview of Business Domains Flat panel display materials society and our planet Earth. – Results by Domain P47 P49 Semiconductor-related materials Medium-term Corporate Governance P77 Medical, Food, Bio Products Management Plan Food ingredients APTSIS 20 medium-term management plan for FY2016 to FY2020 Realizing KAITEKI Pharmaceutical materials, medical-related products 4 Formulate and implement management Vision KAITEKI: The sustainable well-being of people, society Healthcare Execute KAITEKI Management plans to realize what we aspire to be Pharmaceuticals Shared Values and our planet Earth. Update on APTSIS 20 P17 Healthcare solutions Share the values of three axes and realize Message from the President P19 sustainable growth with stakeholders Environment, Energy Message from the CFO P27 Battery materials Overview of Business Domains P47 Innovation P63 Overview of Business Segments: Water treatment systems and devices Sustainability P67 Financial Information P84 Growth Strategies P53 P57 P61 Packaging, Labels, Films Value Sustainability, Health, Comfort Food packaging films Industrial films Fundamental Materials Petrochemicals Carbon Products MMA 11 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 12 The MCHC Group’s Material Issues and Selection Process of “Focus Markets” Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC) began fully as the acceleration of IT use and the rise of emerging implementing KAITEKI Management from the previous mediumeconomies, and medical and health issues (see page 67). term management plan, APTSIS 15 (FY2011 to FY2015). Setting To address those issues considered to be the most important, Sustainability, Health, and Comfort as our core values, the MCHC selected “Focus Markets” as markets in which the Focus Markets Better contributions to the SDGs below Group considers the provision of solutions to the issues facing MCHC Group would focus its efforts on providing solutions, people, society and our planet Earth through its business with the aim of helping solve social issues through its business activities to be its management priority. activities while at the same time achieving corporate growth. Under the current medium-term management plan APTSIS 20 Moreover, through initiatives to address the material Automobiles, Aircraft (Mobility) Healthcare covering the period of FY2016 to FY2020, MCHC identified management issues of the MCHC Group, the Group will priorities for KAITEKI Management through materiality steadily develop the businesses to contribute to the 17 Contribute to the efficient use of resources and Contribute to people’s lives and health by energy and the mitigation of climate change developing ethical pharmaceuticals and assessment based on global macro-trends, including Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted at the United by reducing the weight of automobiles and regenerative medicines to meet unmet medical environmental and energy issues such as climate change and Nations in 2015. aircraft, promoting electric vehicles, and offering needs and by offering health management-related Take urgent action to environmentally friendly products (switching to services. combat climate change the depletion of resources, industrial and economic trends such renewable raw materials and materials). and its impacts Extraction of risks Identification of material Selection of Analysis of macro-trends and opportunities for management issues of “Focus Markets” the Group the MCHC Group Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Macro-trends Pollution and shortage of water Advancing globalization and Increasing climate change resources development of emerging economies IT, Electronics, Displays Environment, Energy Expansion of regional Digitization, modularization, ICT Increasing global population Contribute to a smart society and more comfortable Contribute to energy conservation, the effective use economic zones introduction in the industries lifestyles by providing high performance materials of water resources, improvement of productivity for liquid crystal displays and OLED and in the agricultural, fishery, and livestock industries Ensure healthy lives Progress of regenerative medicine semiconductor materials, etc. and adaptation to climate change by providing and promote well-being Ageing population Increasing medical costs and personalized medicine lithium-ion battery materials, water treatment-related for all at all ages products, plant factories and disaster prevention and mitigation products, etc. Risks Opportunities Material Issues Related to Global Environment and Social Systems Transformation and diversification of Depletion of fossil resources and resources and energy supply sources Ensure sustainable other natural resources such as rare Practical application of renewable energy Energy and resources consumption and metals production patterns and accelerated technological development Increasing risk of extreme weather events and natural disasters associated with climate change Expansion of products and businesses to Formation of international consensus adapt to and mitigate climate change Climate change and effectiveness of measures to prevent global warming Medical, Food, Bio Products Packaging, Labels, Films Expanding water stress due to higher Build resilient demand, climate change and other factors Expansion of businesses such as water Contribute to solving medical issues and promoting Contribute to the safe storage and distribution infrastructure, promote Increasing health risk due to shortages purification and recycling Water health maintenance by providing high performance of food and the reduction of food loss, etc. by inclusive and sustainable medical-related products, pharmaceutical materials providing high gas barrier films for food and industrialization and of hygienic water and functional food ingredients, etc. medical packaging that prolong shelf life and foster innovation enable long-term storage. Increasing incidence rate for adultonset diseases and rising mortality Expansion of health information service Increasing risk of health insurance market (shift from treatment to prevention) Health and wellness system failure Growing forays into the medical and Manifestation of unmet medical needs healthcare fields from other industries Advancing digitization of data on medical Medical care Strengthen the means (intensification of competition) treatment and health information through ICT of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Worsening food issues due to Development population growth and increasing Increasing shift to factory-produced foods Food and agriculture urban lifestyles 13 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 14 Expanding KAITEKI Value Prevention of global warming and Greenhouse gas recovery service creation of a circular society E x p a n d i n g SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride), which is used in various applications as an insulation material for electric-related equipment, is produced in Japan at a rate of about 2,000 tons a year. However, SF6 has a long life of 3,200 years in the atmosphere, and as its global warming V a l u e potential is also 23,900 times that of CO2, which is high, it has been designated as a greenhouse gas and is required not to be discharged into the atmosphere. In response to this issue, the MCHC Group, as “The Gas Professionals,” is endeavoring We are expanding solutions to improve to promote zero emissions of SF6 by developing an SF6 gas recovery service that integrates the recovery, reuse, and treatment for rendering SF6 harmless. both social and economic value Based on our highly reliable recovery operations that make use of our self-developed Circular technology, the cumulative amount of SF6 gas recovered since 2006 has reached Society which help to realize KAITEKI 441.7 tons (as of March 2018), which amounts to a CO2 equivalent of 10,557 thousand tons-CO2. We will continue to contribute to the prevention of global SF6 gas recovery unit warming and the creation of a circular society. Expectation for the development of a circular society which Cumulative Recovery Volume of SF6 Gas and Cumulative Emissions in Japan* represents itself as a characteristic solution for various (Thousand tons-CO2) 30,000 issues concerning climate change, resources and energy. SF6 gas cumulative recovery volume (FY2006-FY2017) SF6 gas cumulative emissions in Japan (2006-2016) * The MCHC Group has positioned KAITEKI as the responsive 20,000 approach, and we work to realize it in concert with all stakeholders. 10,000 10,557 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 * Compiled from Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI)’s “Estimated Emission Volume of HFC, etc. in 1995-2016” Creation of technology that contributes Bioethanol dehydration Creating a resource-saving and to energy saving and CO2 reduction carbon recycling-based society Plant-derived sustainable materials using zeolite membrane The use of bioethanol made from biomass such as corn and sugarcane is DURABIO, which the MCHC Group has developed, is an engineering plastic that penetrating the market as a fuel that leads to the reduction of CO2 emissions in Example of application: uses isosorbide, a raw material derived from plants. Car instrument panels various countries, especially in the United States and Brazil. However, it is necessary As it is derived from plants, unlike general petroleum-derived engineering plastics, it to dehydrate it to above specified concentration so that it can be used as a fuel. has advantages in that the CO2 generated at the time of combustion is incorporated Zeolite has micro pores and we have technology to control the size and structure into plants again and the petroleum used is also reduced by about 60%. of these pores. The ZEBREX zeolite membrane developed by the MCHC Group In addition, it contributes to human-friendly car manufacturing in the following way: has pores of a size that allows only water and smaller molecules to pass, so it is whereas resins that are generally used in interior components of vehicles are painted possible to perform dehydration efficiently by removing only the water contained after they have been molded, DURABIO has good color properties, is not easily in the bioethanol. damaged and is resistant to change in color, which means that the painting process Using a zeolite membrane in the bioethanol dehydration process reduces the can be omitted. Consequently, the use of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) can be amount of energy consumption compared to conventional technology and substantially reduced in the vehicle interior. contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions (see the bottom-right graph). Owing to such beneficial features, besides being used in the interior and exterior The bioethanol factory In the case of a bioethanol factory in Hungary that has decided to adopt zeolite (Hungary) that has components of vehicles, DURABIO is also becoming more widely adopted in decided to adopt membranes, the zeolite membrane plant is currently under construction and is zeolite membranes applications that are familiar to us such as optical films used in displays, scheduled to start operation in spring 2019. It is expected to be able to reduce transparent construction materials that can also be used outdoors and cosmetics CO2 emissions by a maximum of 9,000 tons a year. containers. VOC Discharge Volume Carbon Cycle of DURABIO Example of Dehydration of Aqueous Ethanol Solution Comparison of Annual CO2 Emissions at Bioethanol DURABIO Example of application: (mg/m3) Factory in Hungary (Estimates) Cosmetics containers 100 Dehydrated ethanol Ethanol/water ol Plants an 10 Eth membrane Ethanol molecule With zeolite 8.9 % membrane 91,300 1 Isosorbide Water Conventional technology 100,200 0.1 Carbon cycle Plants Permeation DURABIO of water Zeolite membrane molecules 0.01 1nm The pores allow only 60,000 75,000 90,000 105,000 CO2/H2O Zeolite membrane Micro-pore water and smaller When painted DURABIO, molecules to pass (tons/year) Porous ceramic support on general which does not materials need painting Combustion Water and ethanol are separated by the zeolite membrane * Measured by MCHC according to JASO (Japan Automobile Standards Organization) measurement method 15 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 16 Expanding KAITEKI Value E x p a n d i n g V a l u e Contributing to Global Well-being with cutting-edge regenerative medicine As a specific way to contribute to Developing regenerative medicine by using Muse In addition to the previously mentioned properties, Muse cells have desirable characteristics as regeneration medicine. It has cells, which are pluripotent stem cells Global Well-being, the MCHC Group is Muse cells are pluripotent stem cells that exist in the human become clear that Muse cells, after intravenous administration to animals, accumulate at the disease site themselves and repair Global involved in regenerative medicine body and were discovered by the team led by Professor Mari the tissue by spontaneously differentiating into lost cells. As Well-being Dezawa of Tohoku University in 2010. These cells exist in Muse cells also have the property of avoidance of immunological mesenchymal tissues such as bone marrow of the body and can rejection, allogenic transplantation is possible. Regenerative medicine is one of innovative therapies that differentiate into various cells of the ectoderm (such as nerves An outline of treatment using Muse cells is shown in the aims to restore tissue or organ functions lost due to damage and skin), mesoderm (muscles, etc.), and endoderm (internal diagrams below. Muse cells administered intravenously migrate or birth defects by replacement of lost cells. It is expected organs, etc.). As they originally exist in the human body, they also towards signals released by injured cells and accumulate, and as a promising therapy for intractable diseases where have the advantage of being cells with few concerns about then they differentiate into cells compatible with target tissues therapeutic effects are insufficient in conventional therapy. safety such as tumorigenicity. Because of these properties, it is and repair them. The cell product is kept as a frozen formulation likely that Muse cells can be used as regenerative medical and used after being thawed when necessary. Through this initiative the MCHC Group will contribute to an products for various intractable diseases. improvement in people’s quality of life. Pluripotency of Muse Cells No tumor Tumor generation Muse cells Clinical Application of Regenerative medicine Incidence of Death or Heart Failure after Myocardial Infarction in treatment of myocardial infarction (%) 25 24.9% In January 2018, the MCHC Group has conducted exploratory clinical trials in patients with Ectoderm Endoderm Mesoderm Cell therapy Accumulates at injured site acute myocardial infarction by using Muse cell* product at Gifu University Hospital. 1 20 Myocardial infarction is defined as myocardial necrosis in a clinical setting consistent with Hepatic lobule Islets of Langerhans occlusion of coronary arteries (blood vessels supplying oxygen and nutrient to the 15 Kupffer cell 13.9% Liver cell Beta cells myocardium). About 70,000 patients a year are hospitalized due to myocardial infarction. Bile duct epithelial cell Nerve cell Moreover, heart disease is the second leading cause of death in Japan, about 20% of 10 Heart and lungs which is due to myocardial infarction. As approximately 25% of patients with myocardial infarction suffering from death or development of heart failure within five years in spite of 6.0% Bone 5 Osteoblast conventional therapy, a novel therapeutic regimen is required. Injured cells Therefore, the use of a Muse cell product as a breakthrough treatment is expected to have 0 Cartilage cell Epidermis the effect of restoring myocardium of patients with a history of myocardial infarction. After 30 days After 1 year After 5 years Blood vessel *1 Multilineage-differentiating Stress Enduring cell * Extracted from CREDO-KYOTO AMI registry Repair Treatment with Muse cell product Endothelial cell After the onset of myocardial infarction, the conventional therapy Kidney Cross-section can not repair the infarcted site in the heart, and the left ventricle Podocyte dilates due to extension or thinning of that part, which may cause Melanocyte cardiac function to deteriorate. As a result, the incidence of Right ventricle Left ventricle Keratinocyte Renal tubular cardiovascular events (cardiac death, myocardial infarction epithelial cells recurrence and heart failure) increases. Muse cells accumulate at the site of infarction, differentiate into cardiomyocytes and vascular-lineage cells and repair the heart Myocardial Extension and Left ventricle We will continue the clinical trial of acute myocardial infarction with Muse cells and aim to obtain Infarct site thinning of dilation infarction infarct site tissue itself. Muse cells restore cardiac function post myocardial approval as a regenerative medical product by the end of FY2021. infarction, which cannot be improved with conventional therapy, As the effectiveness of Muse cells on diseases such as cerebral infarction and kidney disease has been Cardiac and as a result, it is likely that cardiovascular events after dysfunction reported in animal models in basic research, their use is expected to be expanded to various diseases. myocardial infarction will be reduced. Repair of myocardium by Muse cells Recovery of cardiac function Decrease in cardiovascular event rate 17 Strategy KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 18 Update on APTSIS 20 Resource Allocation APTSIS 20 Investment and loans and R&D investment increased from the initial plan Medium-Term Management Plan Basic Policy Investment and loans + Capital expenditure R&D investment (FY2016-FY2020) ¥1.5 trillion ¥1.7 trillion ¥700.0 billion ¥725.0 billion (Increase of ¥200.0 billion, consisting mainly of investment (Increase of ¥25.0 billion, consisting mainly of investment in and loans for Performance Products) Performance Products and Health Care) Aiming to remain a high growth/high profit-model company Performance Products Chemicals Industrial gas Health Care Others through businesses in the Performance Products, Industrial Investment and loans Capital expenditure R&D investment Materials and Health Care domains (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 Strengthening Growth Efficiency Foundations 800 800 800 700 725 Promotion of integration and synergies in the Realize a highly productive corporate structure MCHC Group through cost-cutting and other measures 600 600 600 Accelerate overseas business development and Strengthen the financial position advancing well-integrated management Strengthen portfolio management with awareness Thorough safety and compliance measures of earnings 400 400 400 200 200 200 Numerical Targets Attain ROE of more than 10% to improve capital efficiency 0 0 0 2016-2017 2016-2020 (FY) 2016-2017 2016-2020 (FY) 2016-2017 2016-2020 (FY) Progress 5-year Plan Progress 5-year Plan Progress 5-year Plan In FY2017 some numerical targets were achieved earlier than planned Core Operating Income APTSIS 20 FY2017 Results Key Measures FY2020 Targets (Billions of yen) 400 380.5 380.0 Relevant Relevant Reinforcement and expansion of Early realization of synergies from 01 02 Pages Pages Core operating income* ¥ 380.0 billion ¥380.5 billion 320 307.5 81.2 Health Care profit base by strengthening portfolio management P28-P29 the integration of the three chemical operating companies P24-P25 8.0 % ROS Positioning each operating company and subsidiary based Established the new-Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation in 10.2% on the indices by business domain April 2017 and consolidated operations into 10 business (Core operating income) 240 98.4 Optimizing the business portfolio and resource allocations domains with regular monitoring Selected focus markets aiming to achieve synergies of 180.0 billion Net income attributable to Selection and focus of growth businesses and priority the integration of ¥50.0 billion by FY2020 (growth through ¥211.8 billion 205.3 Industrial owners of the parent ¥ Materials allocation of resources collaboration: ¥35.0 billion + rationalizaition: ¥15.0 billion) 160 Consideration and acceleration of reconstructing businesses 114.7 equivalent to total sales revenue of ¥300 billion ROE 12.0 % 17.8% 80 Relevant Relevant Pages Pages Net D/E ratio 0.8 0.89 94.2 94.0 Performance Products 03 Early Commercialization of Seeds of Next-generation Businesses P30/P65 04 Acceleration of global expansion P25/P32 0 2016 2017 2020 (FY) Established Emerging Technology & Business Development Overseas net sales ratio FY2017 result: 41.6% FY2020 * Core operating income is calculated as operating income (loss) excluding certain gains and expenses Result Result Target Office to promote open innovation target: 50% attributable to non-recurring factors (losses incurred by business withdrawal and contraction, etc.). We disclose core operating income as our unique gains/losses incurred by staged gains/losses, Create new value through the use of AI and IoT (digital MCC established regional headquarters (2017) considering the comparability with the operating income of J-GAAP. transformation) 19 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 20 Message from the President Long-Term Management with an Eye to 30 Years into the Future Striving for the Well-Being of the Whole World Hitoshi Ochi Representative Corporate Executive Officer, President and CEO Hitoshi Ochi, the president, here. Our accelerating development of technology responsibilities at MCHC. I was well feel like I am one step closer to the ideal showed reasonable growth, and we saw the MCHC consolidated those efforts FY2017 performance was an all-time and that can achieve sustainable growth aware of my tasks as president of MCHC in terms of increasing the corporate an increase in core operating income and decided on the overall direction. We high of 380.5 billion yen in core operating despite slow global economic growth, on the one hand, thinking about how to value of the Group as a whole. from about 130 billion yen in FY2005 to will change this to a properly income (24% increase from the previous we have plenty of challenges to increase corporate value for the Group What we are aiming for is a strong about 380 billion yen in FY2017. In April implemented system where the MCHC period), 17.8% in ROE, and increase in overcome and so a record income as a whole over the medium to long holding company. In general, I think the 2017, we merged three chemical decides on the direction of the Group as dividends from 20 yen in FY2016 to 32 should not make us complacent. Without terms, and as the president of an role of a holding company is limited to operating companies and founded MCC, a whole with an eye to developments yen. This is in part due to more slowing down, we will be doing our very operating company on the other, creating suitable business portfolios, IR, laying the groundwork for the coming 10–15 years in the future, creating a favourable market conditions, but best to achieve the income level of 430 managing day-to-day business. Yet with financial affairs, corporate governance, reforms. In this way, the company’s basic strategic framework that becomes personally I am convinced that we would billion yen in core operating income, MCC running smoothly now, I decided it and so forth. When MCHC was founded business stage changed, and I think it the basis of the operating companies’ not have been able to accomplish the which we have put up for March 2021. was time to put that job aside and focus in 2005, we were not able to work out a was a time of many changes in the strategies for the next 3–7 years. It was goal of 380 billion yen, which we put up on strengthening the functions of MCHC strong strategic policy as a holding respective roles of the holding company for this reason that we founded the Becoming a Stronger Holding for FY2020 in the medium-term as a holding company. company. Then, up until 2017, we and the operating companies, which Emerging Technology and Business Company by Increasing management plan, so early if not for the In fact, even though it has only been a implemented a variety of reforms to happened against a background of Development Office (ETBDO) in 2017, to Corporate Value in the Mid-toclosing down of underperforming few months, my time management has strengthen our profile as a holding accelerating digital technological and operate like a think-tank and innovator Long Term businesses and M&A structural reforms changed drastically. Previously, I had to company, such as selling and closing chemical technological development for corporate strategy. that we have been undertaking since the It has been four years since I became spend time overseeing daily operations down businesses worth about 600 billion around the world. founding of the Mitsubishi Chemical president of MCHC, and this April, I as the president of an operating yen and bringing in businesses on a 1.45 Specifically, we had previously divided Holdings Corporation (MCHC) in 2005. stepped down from my concurrent post company, but right now my time is spent trillion yen scale. Our businesses in the up responsibilities so that operating At the same time, in order to become a as president of Mitsubishi Chemical on thinking about corporate strategy and fields of chemistry, industrial gases, companies focused on their own company that does not miss out on the Corporation (MCC) to focus solely on my measures for the medium to long terms. I pharmaceuticals, and life science strategies for the next 3–7 years while 21 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 22 Message from the President Realizing that we were at a stage where we must think seriously about the connections between our corporate activities and the SDGs*, we decided to really rethink KAITEKI. We redefined KAITEKI, which is our goal, as “the sustainable well-being of people, society and our planet Earth.” It contains our wish to realize good health and well-being not only in our company or society, for all humanity and all over the world. *Sustainable Development Goals And now we have reached the third the strategic functions of the MCHC, for material manufacturer as well as a growth accounts, but I am confident that On to the Third Phase of Committed to Increasing phase. With the UN’s announcement of example by establishing the ETBDO, we opportunity to create mechanisms for a developing human resources by energizing KAITEKI Management Corporate Value in the Mid-tothe SDGs in 2015, the scope of issues could create a framework in which the more substantial recycling society. communication, improving health, and Long Term KAITEKI Management aims for requiring solutions by society was TKI looks 20–30 years into future, the sharing experiences is something that Promoting Organizational sustainable growth and has now expanded from the climate, water, and MCHC thinks about ways to innovate in definitely will bear fruit. The first time I became involved in IR and Individual “Health reached its third phase. The starting food to areas including poverty, the next 5–20 years, and the operating activities was in 2008. I was in the Management” Safety and Compliance Are the point of KAITEKI Management, its first discrimination, education, and so forth. companies make plans for the next 3–7 Corporate Strategy Office and assisted Foundation of Everything in phase, was Project 10/20 that started in We had previously been performing years. An important policy that forms part of the the then President Yoshimitsu Kobayashi the Company 2006. As part of that project, we kept materiality assessments to get an When it comes to the digital KAITEKI Management is health as he called on international investors. I asking ourselves what role we can play overview of stakeholders and company transformation (see page 66), we invited management (see page 73). We are Safety and compliance are the received many questions about the low in the world as a chemical company, priorities in a matrix format, but realizing a CDO (Chief Digital Officer) from outside making major improvements to our ability foundation of everything in the company. profitability of petrochemical and other thinking about where we should be in 10 that we were at a stage where we must and started thinking broadly about what to generate income by linking operational Overlooking those aspects will threaten industries as well as about the years and what the world will be like in think seriously about the connections the MCHC Group needs. The team effectivization and increased productivity the company’s very survival. In the area incomprehensibility of the “integrated” 20 years. We also identified seven between our corporate activities and the consists of inside and outside members, to health assistance and work-style of safety, we will definitely not let past chemical industry. Nowadays, I get more businesses that contribute to sustainable SDGs, we decided to really rethink and will be working on how to apply reforms, as well as by enhancing our ability experiences go to waste, including the substantial questions about how we can development. KAITEKI. We redefined KAITEKI, which is digital shift from a diverse range of to innovate and compete in business. lessons from the 2007 accident at the survive in this age and how we can The second phase started around the time our goal, as “the sustainable well-being perspectives. We have 70–80 themes, We have been implementing employee MCC Kashima Plant. We are working to generate growth organically under the of the 2008 financial crisis. Back then, we of people, society and our planet Earth.” but will start by developing and awareness surveys in the last few years, prevent accidents involving old current Medium-Term Management Plan. thought that “CSR is about realizing It contains our wish to realize good implementing about 10 trial projects. which has taught us that promoting health equipment by making suitable Investors appreciate the structural sustainable development through the core health and well-being not only in our Through the sharing and implementation and improving workplace communication maintenance investments and reforms that we have conducted as well as businesses.” The Japanese word “kaiteki” company or society, for all humanity and of digital innovation knowledge centering can increase individual ability and introducing new technologies. the stability and improvements we have means “comfortable” in English, but we all over the world. on younger employees, we are also satisfaction as well as vitalize the In the area of compliance, we are achieved in terms of income, but I also decided to stylize it as “KAITEKI” as a way bringing up new human resources. organization and boost creativity. Workconstantly monitoring and adapting to the feel that they are developing a keener Preparing for the Future to broaden our perception of the values Circular economy is another theme that style reforms across the world tend to rapid changes taking place across the interest in ESG and the SDGs. The shared by our company and society (CSV : Our management is long-term oriented. is important to the MCHC Group. In focus on overtime work. We monitor world, including personal information dialogs we have with all our stakeholders Creating Shared Value). Moreover, we Looking ahead 20–30 years, we founded recent years, we have seen the spread of working times as well of course, but we protection rules in Europe and will continue to be a priority, and it is our proposed that KAITEKI Management the KAITEKI Institute, Inc. (TKI) in 2009 ocean pollution from microplastics and also use original KPI, such as indicators for environmental regulations in China. It is ambition to repay your trust by should be implemented along three axes to think about what our theme is for the other causes, a problem that is energy, health, and work style. not enough for us to think and act by implementing measures for (MOE: Management of Economics, MOT: next generation (see page 64). We were especially serious along the shores of We are also investing in office ourselves. We must work to understand enhancement of mediumto long-term Management of Technology, MOS: faced with the task of how to utilize the developing countries that lack systems environments and welfare facilities to train the needs of the times and uphold a corporate value and facilitate corporate Management of Sustainability) to spread long-term perspective of the TKI for our for collecting garbage. Recycling and human resources and improve global standard. We also cannot stop at growth. I hope to have your continued awareness about how the company is short-to-medium term business reuse activities are not a new thing in the communication. Investments in human simply upholding it, but must engage with support in this. creating value. strategies, but as we were strengthening industry, but it is our responsibility as a resources count as expenses in the it creatively. 23 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 24 Dialogue between the President and An Investor Hitoshi Ochi Masanobu Itani Representative Corporate Executive Officer, President and CEO Senior Vice President and Portfolio Manager, Total Return Equities Asia Pacific Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation GIC Pte Ltd Aiming for continuous portfolio domain, which includes films, highhow do you deal with the risk of market 2. Measures to achieve targets performance engineering plastics and deterioration going forward? in the current medium-term composites, among other products, we Ochi: In our previous petrochemical transformation and the establishment of enhanced profitability by actively facilitating globalization and shifting to business, we attached importance to the capacity and efficiency of production at management plan (FY2020) Itani: If you keep restructuring by new business models to achieve sustainable high value-added products to respond to market needs. the upstream stage. What is important today, though, is how we should create shrinking capacities, upside potential cannot be fully captured if the market growth We feel that changes in market needs are working positively in terms of profitability. value-added products at the downstream stage. The maintenance of the production starts to pick up. However, it appears you have been able to enhance the New social needs are being created capacity of materials such as ethylene, earnings through a good mix of because it is possible to store and analyze propylene and butadiene at the upstream restructuring and growth investments. a large amount of information as a result of stage depends on the competitiveness of Given the excellent performance, you Responding to broadly diversifying marketing needs through rapid decision-making and scientific and technological progress in a products made from the respective have increased the target of core the formulation/implementation of strategies. variety of areas. We are in an era in which materials at the downstream stage. operating income in the medium-term, markets for different products, rather than a We had already consolidated naphtha which was ¥380 billion, by ¥50 billion to worked in our favor in a synergistic fashion. undertaking. In particular, the MMA market for a particular product, grow cracking facilities during the period of the ¥430 billion. What measures are you 1. Results of FY2017 The MCHC Group has been implementing business, in which the MCHC Group has a simultaneously. previous medium-term management plan. going to take to achieve this target? Itani: You have achieved the goals for portfolio transformation for many years to 40% market share worldwide, had We consider that this situation is a good Accordingly, we do not expect profitability Ochi: For one thing, we expect that the FY2020 ahead of schedule (see pages 17 build foundations for growth. As a matter of previously been operated by each of opportunity for the Group, which, as a to fluctuate as significantly as it did before, existing businesses will achieve organic and 19), granting that the core operating fact, our management condition has multiple Group companies. Today, we have general chemical manufacturer, supplies even if market prices decline. We believe growth more strongly than they did income of ¥380.5 billion for FY2017 was changed since FY2015 (the final year of established a system in which optimization materials to diverse markets including that MMA is well positioned to cope with previously thanks to the effects of the attributable to strong market conditions. In the previous medium-term is achieved in the implementation of those related to mobility and electronics, market fluctuations because it has a 40% integration of the three chemical hindsight, what do you think the management plan). marketing strategies and the operation of creating a business environment in which market share and we have a highly cost operating companies. Specifically, we contributing factors were? Concretely speaking, in the Industrial facilities as one business on a global scale. we can leverage our strengths. competitive proprietary production method believe that profitability will be enhanced Ochi: Our understanding is that three main Materials domain, we increased profitability As a result, the MMA business increased its Itani: The petrochemical business, called the New Ethylene Method used in through a faster decision-making factors, namely business structure/ thanks to improved and stabilized global profitability significantly in FY2017 on the especially MMA, has seen strong growth in the new plant in Saudi Arabia. process resulting from the consolidation organizational reforms, improved market market conditions, as well as the separation back of favorable market conditions as well. profit, and made a remarkable impact on of business units and the optimization of conditions and changes in market needs of low-profit businesses that we have been In addition, in the Performance Products the Group’s profitability. That said, however, existing products/services. To facilitate 25 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 26 Dialogue between the President and An Investor In addition to facilitating growth acceleration through M&As, we will make growth investments for the utilization of digital technologies and collaboration with start-ups, among other objectives, with an eye on the development of next-generation businesses and the improvement of the efficiency in core business such as manufacturing technologies, research and development, and human resource development. orchestration between the companies we have almost completed the process of business (acquisition price: 5.0 billion euro/ high-performance engineering plastics for We continued to achieve favorable affiliated with MCHC, we have classifying businesses into core or nonapprox. ¥643.8 billion, stock transfer artificial joints, among other items. financial results in FY2016 and 2017. established a system in which the core businesses. ROIC targets have been scheduled for November 2018) by the Itani: On the other hand, you are working However, we must calmly ascertain the Industrial Gas and Performance Products established in each domain, and they are Industrial Gas business (Taiyo Nippon to achieve growth investment through extent to which profitability increased as domains can be operated collaboratively being monitored. In addition, the operating Sanso Corporation), which was announced measures such as the utilization of digital a result of the actual growth of to capture business opportunities in as companies are in the process of reducing on July 5, 2018, was a project that technologies and alliances with start-up businesses because such results were many areas as possible for when the the number of affiliate companies by 25%, exceeded the initially expected limit. Even companies. How do you leverage these partly due to the impacts from a market for semiconductor businesses is from the original 750 to 760. so, by acquiring a highly profitable business approaches? temporary decline in tax expenses, as vitalized in, for example, China, among that enjoys a certain market share in Ochi: This area is led by the newly well as the market prices of certain 3. Domains for which other countries. Europe, an untapped market for our established Emerging Technology and products including MMA that remained investments are made for Meanwhile, with respect to the industrial gas business, we will move Business Development Office, which has at such high levels that we had not seen growth and research and development of overseas businesses, we forward with the efforts to globalize our two main missions: playing the role as an over the past years. Taking these factors development aim to cultivate markets on an area-byindustrial gas business and increase accelerator for the development of nextcomprehensively into account, we have area basis. Itani: In terms of your investment plan for profitability through the expansion of generation businesses and streamlining decided to increase the dividend per This involves the establishment of the period of the medium-term marketing functions, among other corporate platforms for production share for FY2017 by ¥12, to ¥32. In regional headquarters (RHQ) and the management plan, you have increased measures. technologies, research and development addition, we carried out the acquisition of implementation of M&As as important the upper limits for investments and We also expect that synergies will be and human resources development. The treasury stock amounting to ¥20 billion. measures. Our RHQ, or organizations in loans and capital expenditures by ¥200 created through acquisitions in other utilization of digital technologies is actually a Through measures such as these, we are which marketing and human resources billion compared to the initial plan, to ¥1.7 businesses of MCHC besides the industrial step that will lead to health management. striving to enhance shareholder returns. functions are integrated to address the trillion, while at the same time increasing gas business, such as initiatives for We will be able to secure the safety of needs of the respective markets such as research and development expenses by increasing sales of semiconductor-related workers on the factory floor, reduce routine Europe, the United States and Asia, are ¥25 billion from the initially planned ¥700 products in the Performance Products work such as monthly analyses, and functioning effectively to make decisions billion. How do you allocate growth domain by utilizing the sales channels of improve workers’ productivity. From the and implement strategies rapidly and investments going forward? For example, special gases and other resources. aspect of human resources development, also apply such strategies to one another as shown in the term “orchestration” that Itani: In conjunction with the healthcare we are considering the establishment of among markets. In addition, from the you have been using so far, you are business, globally speaking, more chemical communication systems and knowledgeperspective of responses to diversifying successfully developing new business companies appear to be separating their sharing systems. We consider these market needs that I touched on at the domains by connecting different product pharmaceutical businesses. Considering measures to be investments for the future, beginning, it is becoming more important lines appropriately. From this perspective, these trends, I think you are taking a rather ensuring that the MCHC Group can strategically to ensure that different how do you make the most of M&As unique approach because you are medical fronts, individuals and the establish new business models to sustain businesses, for example, those for going forward? developing a healthcare business centered organizations in which they work. growth with society under the KAITEKI high-performance engineering plastics Ochi: We aim to accelerate growth around the pharmaceutical business. Itani: So, based on this concept, you have vision from a long-term perspective. and carbon fibers, are connected to each investments mainly in the Performance Ochi: The MCHC Group’s pharmaceutical positioned healthcare solutions as a next4. Shareholder returns other to address customer needs. Products domain. When Mitsubishi business will address unmet medical needs generation business. We have heard that Moreover, we implement measures for Chemical Corporation was established in with a focus on the central nervous and you recently commenced an exploratory Itani: Lastly, I would like to ask you about streamlining operation and improving 2017, we integrated the business units autoimmune systems, which are, in a clinical test for Muse cells that are used in shareholder returns. Could you tell us production efficiency to achieve cost into 10 through restructuring. Still, we sense, special disease areas. These areas regenerative medicine. about the future outlook for shareholder savings of around ¥15 billion each year. think it is difficult to achieve growth solely will continue to be important from a Ochi: Regenerative medicine is an area in returns, including the purpose of the We are aiming to hit the new target of with the existing businesses. Accordingly, business perspective going forward. which we will facilitate research and acquisition of treasury stock of ¥430 billion through these measures. we will adopt M&As actively to acquire Moreover, considering a range of healthdevelopment going forward. At this point in approximately ¥20 billion that you Itani: You expect to achieve your new markets and technologies. In the related challenges including employees’ time, we aim to launch Muse cells, on which implemented in May and June 2018? additional medium-term management Healthcare domain, M&As can be used workstyles, in addition to those related to the Life Science Institute is working, onto Ochi: In conjunction with returns to target of ¥50 billion through the as means of adding new functions from the aging population and social welfare, we the market in 2021 (see pages 15 and 16). shareholders, our basic stance is to pay orchestration, growth and streamlining of the perspective of developing the should enhance services for the prevention In addition, with respect to the Performance dividends stably while aiming for a the three chemical operating companies. healthcare business as a whole, not to of diseases and the maintenance of health Products domain, materials used in medical consolidated payout ratio of 30% on a What is the progress of these measures? mention the pharmaceutical business in as well as those associated with the fronts fall under the category of future medium-term basis, factoring in an Ochi: Of ¥50 billion, approximately ¥20 which we have been accumulating treatment of any diseases that develop. In growth areas. We will promote medical appropriate balance between investment billion is within reach in monetary terms. expertise. the long term, we hope to create a health materials such as capsules for for growth and efforts to improve the With regard to portfolio transformation, Incidentally, the acquisition of the European system that connects pharmaceuticals, pharmaceuticals, transfusion bags and financial position. 27 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 28 Message from the CFO Progress of financial strategies in APTSIS 20 We are expecting that financial indicators will be affected Driving growth investments Moving into the accomplishment stage of a stable and robust financial base temporarily due to this investment. That said, we will continue to achieve further growth and improve profitability while seeking to by continuously transforming In the APTSIS 20 medium-term management plan for the period create a stable and robust financial base and work to achieve the from FY2016 to FY2020, we have established ROE of 12%, core goals as soon as possible. portfolios and improving operating income of ¥380.0 billion and net profit attributable to Strengthening portfolio management owners of the parent of ¥180.0 billion as the main goals in capital efficiency FY2020. Even so, we are seeking to achieve ROE of at least 10% continuously in the fiscal years before FY2020 as well. To implement the medium-term management plan effectively, we have clarified the business relationship between MCHC and the Not only by investing in and developing the Performance Products operating companies by defining the role of the former as Hidefumi Date and Health Care domains, both of which contribute high growth and management and the latter as execution, respectively, and have Managing Corporate Executive Officer and profitability, but also by demonstrating business synergies through delegated a large amount of authority to the operating companies Chief Financial Officer the integration of three chemical operating companies and so that management is undertaken more rapidly. improving operational efficiency by means of workstyle reforms, we MCHC is responsible for the preparation and management of will raise profitability and meet the goals laid out in APTSIS 20, while business strategies and mediumto long-term plans, and based on Progress of the Medium-Term Management Plan, APTSIS 20 at the same time taking into account the possibility of achieving the them, it decides how resources should best be allocated. To (results of FY2017 and forecasts of FY2018) core operating income of ¥430.0 billion. We will use cash earned allocate resources as appropriately as possible, we are seeking to of ¥71.3 billion in real terms, thereby keeping net interest-bearing from operations to make investments for sustainable growth going strengthen portfolio management by reclassifying operating and FY2017 results debt at almost the same level as the previous year. forward, improve the financial base and pay appropriate and stable affiliated companies into four types: next-generation businesses, In FY2017, sales continued to increase overall, especially in the shareholder returns in a well-balanced fashion. growth businesses, cash-generating businesses and businesses to FY2018 forecasts Performance Products domain, while market prices remained Under APTSIS 20, we are in a position to generate cash that is be restructured on the four-quadrant matrix, based on domainstrong in general for petrochemicals such as MMA in the As we announced at the beginning of this period, for FY2018, expected to exceed the initial plan by more than ¥200 billion as a specific indicators, with a focus on management indicators that Industrial Materials domain. In this largely favorable business revenue, core operating income and net profit attributable to result of improved performance and financial structure reforms such match the respective business domains such as growth rate, ROS environment, revenue increased by ¥348.3 billion year on year, to owners of the parent are expected to be ¥3,930.0 billion, or up as the improvement of asset efficiency. Factoring in improved cash and ROIC. Any low-profit business, not to mention unprofitable ¥3,724.4 billion, and core operating income rose by ¥73.0 billion ¥205.6 billion year on year, ¥355.0 billion, or down ¥25.5 billion generating ability, we have decided to inject ¥200 billion in addition business, is obviously subject to review if its ROIC falls below the year on year, to ¥380.5 billion, surpassing the previous record year on year, and ¥184.0 billion, or down ¥27.8 billion year on year, to the initially projected amount for capital expenditure and M&Aweighted average capital cost (WACC). We conduct reviews highs. ROS came to 10.2%. Net profit attributable to owners of the respectively. Margins are expected to decline in the Industrial based growth investments, mainly with respect to performance constantly, taking into consideration not only numerical aspects but parent rose significantly by ¥55.5 billion year on year, to ¥211.8 Materials and Performance Products domains due to rising prices products, and spend approximately ¥1,700 billion in five years. also our technological advantages and verify business model as billion, reflecting decreased tax expenses attributable mainly to the of raw materials for some products, while the Health Care domain Furthermore, with regard to investments in research and well. So far, total revenue stands at approximately ¥300 billion for reversal of deferred tax liabilities resulting from the reduction of the faces the impact of NHI drug price revisions and an increase in development, we have decided to inject approximately ¥25 billion in businesses to be restructured that are under review, factoring in a U.S. federal corporate tax rate. research and development expenses. Accordingly, we will addition to the initially expected amount, mainly into performance and range of possibilities ranging from alliances with other companies to With respect to the key performance indicators of APTSIS 20, ROE continue to work on measures to expand sales and reduce health care products, and accelerate their growth. On the other hand, withdrawal. stood at 17.8%, up 2.7% year on year, the net D/E ratio was 0.89 costs. In addition, by controlling working capital, we will ensure we have managed to meet the initially established goals of 30% for the We perform numerical checks and evaluations biannually with times, or improved 0.17 year on year, and the ratio of equity that net cash provided by operating activities remains at the ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent and 0.8 times for the regard to the progress of action and investment plans under the attributable to owners of the parent came to 27.4%, or up 2.9% same level as FY2017. net D/E ratio, which are the specific goals for the improvement of medium-term management plan, as well as management year on year, all showing improvements compared to the previous In terms of key performance indicators for FY2018, our initial financial position. indicators. Any unachieved targets will result in a review of the year. On the cash flow side, despite capital expenditures amounting expectations are ROS of 9.0%, ROE of 13.5% and net D/E ratio of That being said, the acquisition of the European industrial gas portfolio and resource allocation after holding discussions on the to ¥228.3 billion, which surpassed depreciation by ¥49.4 billion, and slightly less than 0.8 times, all surpassing the goals set out in the business announced in July 2018 (share transfer is expected to necessity of concrete measures including structural reforms. investments amounting to ¥150.2 billion, we secured free cash flow Medium-Term Management Plan. take effect in November 2018) has turned out to be an investment As a result of these initiatives, the domain-specific ROIC for FY2017 that has exceeded the initially projected level. stood at 8.5% for the Performance Products domain, 9.7% for Changes in Consolidated Performance Net sales/Revenue (Left axis) Operating Income/Core Operating Income*1 (Right axis) (Billions of yen) Net Income (loss) Attributable to Owners of the Parent/ (Billions of yen) Changes in Consolidated Financial Indicators Goal for the end of FY2020 4,000 Net Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent (Right axis) 3,930.0 400 380.5 (%) Ratio of Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent (Left axis) (times) 3,823.1 Ratio of Equity 30.0 Net D/E Ratio (Right axis) ROE (Left axis) 3.0 30% 3,656.3 3,724.4 355.0 307.5 Attributable to 3,500 3,498.8 3,543.4 300 27.4 25.8 Owners of the Parent 3,376.1 24.5 (end of FY2017: 280.0 300.4 22.6 22.9 23.0 (as of the end of 27.4%) 20.0 2.0 FY2020) 3,000 211.8 200 17.8 * Shareholders’ Equity 15.1 Ratio by the Japanese 165.7 184.0 accounting standard. 1.25 1.17 110.5 156.3 1.11 1.10 1.06 2,500 100 10.0 0.89 1.0 J-GAAP 32.2 60.9 46.4 51.4 IFRS 3.7 6.4 4.8 5.2 Net D/E Ratio (as of the end of 0.8 Times (end of FY2017: J-GAAP IFRS 2,000 0 FY2020) 0.89 times) 0 0 2013 2014 2015* 2 2016* 3 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecasts) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) *1. To obtain a clear picture of ordinarily generated operating income/loss, “core operating income” is presented by excluding expenses associated with structural reforms and income/loss attributable to losses from extraordinary factors such as disasters. Core operating income is used as an indicator for external explanations and business management. *2, 3. Figures pertaining to non-continuing businesses are excluded in IFRS-based FY2015 results and FY2016. 29 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 30 Message from the CFO Message from the CIO the Industrial Materials domain and 9.8% for the Health Care improve efficiency through globally centralized management in the domain, exceeding the established capital efficiency indicators of four regions including Asia and further strengthen the governance 8%, 5% and 8% for the Performance Products domain, Industrial of the Group including overseas subsidiaries, utilizing the CMS. Creating new innovation platforms with a global perspective to expand MCHC Materials domain and Health Care domain, respectively. In addition, we are working to reduce Cash Conversion Cycles (CCC) with the goal of a 10% reduction, or from approximately 99 beyond the trajectory of our current businesses Improving capital efficiency not only in Japan but also days to approximately 89 days compared to FY2016, by the final on a global basis year of the medium-term management plan. In FY2017, we were Larry Meixner We established a tri-polar system including Japan and the United able to improve the cycle by 1.5% on a year-on-year comparison, Managing Corporate Executive Officer States by introducing the Cash Management System (CMS) in excluding the impacts of periodic turn around and the increased Chief Innovation Officer Europe. The system contributed to the improvement of cash costs of raw materials and products. We are also working to sell efficiency by ¥12.6 billion during the two-year period that ended in off assets with less necessity of holding by periodically examining Emerging Technology and Business Development Office FY2017. Moving into FY2018, we have already launched the CMS the rationale for such holdings, and striving to further improve New Growth Platforms for the U.S. dollar in Asia. By FY2020, we will establish a system in capital efficiency. which multiple Asian currencies are centrally managed, and aim to Strengthening Portfolio Management CIO Chief Innovation Officer Positioning our business and affiliated companies based on domain-specific metrics indicators Accelerating resource allocation and portfolio optimization through periodical monitoring CDO Digital Transformation Chief Digital Officer Actual figures for Actions Indicators FY2017 Corporate Venture Activity Implementation of the PDCA cycle through periodical monitoring CTO Group-wide Innovation Growth Potential Chief Technology Officer Resource allocation plans Strategy (Sales growth rate) Portfolio decisions Emerging Business (including the reduction, withdrawal and sale of a business) ≥4%/year 12.3% CMO Ecosystems Chief Marketing Officer (Projected global economic (Year-on-year New Business Models growth rate: 3.5%*1) comparison) Next-generation Growth businesses businesses Profitability R&D (ROS) Growth R&D strategies Orchestration Performance Products ≥8% 8.2% Current Businesses and Capabilities Open innovations M&A Industrial Materials ≥5% 11.3% Health Care ≥14% 14.6% Capital Efficiency One year ago, the Emerging Technology and Business subsidiary, Diamond Edge Ventures, Inc. Our new U.S. office Businesses to be Cash-generating (ROIC) Withdrawal restructured businesses Development Office (ETBDO) was established to expand the and experienced Silicon Valley-based team will drive Sale Performance Products ≥8% 8.5% innovation strength of MCHC Group. Recognizing that each collaboration with and investment in select startup companies. Establishment of Growth Orchestration Industrial Materials ≥5% 9.7% a joint venture Restructuring Operating Company must focus on its own growth, we add This will provide an essential element of business strategy to strategies M&A Health Care ≥8%*2 9.8% value to the overall Group portfolio in three main ways. First, complement our existing R&D and M&A activities. We aim *1. Average annual growth forecast from 2016 to 2020 by IMF *2. Calculated by excluding cash and deposits we develop new opportunities for expansion beyond the primarily to exploit disruptive innovation to create new growth trajectory of our current businesses. Second, we introduce pillars for MCHC Group, but the insights gained will also Basic policy on shareholder returns new platform capabilities that enhance growth across multiple support the efforts of our Group Companies to expand their Shareholder Returns We aim to improve shareholder value by enhancing corporate value. In business units. Third, we ensure MCHC Group maintains a business. With the autonomy and agility to move “at startup Aiming to improve shareholder value by enhancing corporate value conjunction with shareholder returns, we aim to achieve a A dividend policy in consideration of maintaining a balance between global focus by promoting new technologies, business models, speed”, we are creating a new platform capability for MCHC consolidated dividend payout ratio of 30% as the medium-term level, growth investments and efforts to improve the financial structure Aiming for a consolidated dividend payout ratio of 30% on a medium-term basis and methods from beyond Japan. Group. while at the same time maintaining an appropriate balance between Implementation of stable dividend payments Our digital transformation strategy rests on two key elements. We are also taking a market-focused approach, probing new investments in growth businesses and efforts to strengthen the EPS (Left axis) Cash dividends per share (Right axis) Initial efforts focus on improving operational excellence across ecosystems that emerge from societal and technological (Yen) (Yen) financial position. We also implement dividend payments in 150 34 35 MCHC Group, deploying advanced digital technologies to shifts. All our efforts reflect strong collaborations with business 147.14 consideration of stability. With respect to dividends per share for 32 leverage the wealth of data resident in our Operating planning, R&D, and operating teams throughout MCHC Group. FY2017, we paid an interim dividend of ¥15 and a year-end dividend of 127.83 Companies. We are already generating positive results in Beyond MCHC Group, I am honored to serve as the first-ever 120 28 ¥17, or a full-year dividend of ¥32 (up ¥12 year on year). For FY2018, diverse areas, including knowledge inheritance, prediction of foreign Executive Committee Member of the Council on 106.73 we plan to pay ¥17 for the interim and year-end dividends per share, process anomalies, and quality control. Building on these initial Competitiveness Nippon (COCN). I also direct MCHC’s 90 20 21 respectively, which comes to ¥34 for the full year (up ¥2 year on year), successes, we will develop new business models to transform participation as an early-stage partner of the World Economic although we expect a decrease in profit year on year. 15 our current businesses for the digital age. Forum Center for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Through 60 13 14 As we announced on May 10, 2018, we acquired treasury stock 12 To increase our exposure to the global flow of ideas, we such interactions, we continually broaden our horizons and amounting to ¥20 billion in total during the acquisition period that 41.40 launched a new Corporate Venture Capital fund and U.S. drive innovation across MCHC Group. ended on June 1 to implement flexible capital policies in response to 30 31.70 7 changes in the business environment. While we consider dividend 21.89 payments to be the basic concept of shareholder returns, we 0 0 implemented shareholder returns by taking advantage of the 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (Forecasts) temporary decline in tax expenses in both FY2016 and FY2017. 31 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 32 Message from the CSO Mitsubishi Chemical Top Message Priority initiatives to enhance With a focus on pursuit of sustainability, we will maximize corporate value KAITEKI value and aim for sustainable corporate growth Safe and stable operations 1 Mechanization of dangerous work and reduction of workload through the utilization of AI, IoT, robotics, etc. Yoshihiro Ikegawa Managing Corporate Executive Officer Enhanced profitability Chief Sustainability Officer 2 Insistence of every single employee on profitability as source of corporate vitality The MCHC Group’s value creation approach structure Aims of Establishment Aiming for a truly global company MCHC of Mitsubishi 3 Promotion of two-way globalization to strengthen the MCC Group's unity Board of Directors Reporting Chemical and Effects Sales reforms Corporate Executive Officers Committee Corporate Executive Officer, President and CEO of Integration 4 Centralization of sales information from across business departments and building multi-faceted relationships with Proposal of priority customers encompassing all levels including Consultation Reporting management matters for deliberation*1 KAITEKI Promotion Committee Masayuki Waga Representative Director, income to revenue) and ROIC (return on President and CEO, invested capital) as performance Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Enhancement of Enhancement of indicators. However, in my view, the corporate value from a corporate value from a financial perspective non-financial perspective important question is whether the world Bottom line ESG*2 considers our products necessary and Capital efficiency Innovation*3 Portfolio management Health management whether we deliver a level of craftsmanship only we can deliver. We will, therefore, judge continuity of businesses based not Each division (each office)/operating company only on economic viability but also on its *1 Where necessary *2 Governance issues are mainly addressed by committees such as contribution to the world and technology. the Nominating Committee. *3 Determination of the direction of technologies, etc. I believe that this approach is in keeping Environmental and social issues have been widely recognized in work with our business partners to solve various issues (see Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (MCC) research and development. Meanwhile, in with the KAITEKI Management practiced recent years. With developments of such as the adoption of the pages 69 to 72). was formed in April 2017 through the its overseas operations, MCC established by the MCHC Group to which MCC UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the entry into In addition, the MCHC Group considers “people” to be both the integration of the former Mitsubishi regional headquarters in the United belongs and is also along the same lines force of the Paris Agreement, the goal to solve global agendas driving force for sustainable growth of society and companies Chemical, Mitsubishi Plastics and States, Europe, China, and the Asia as the SDGs and ESG activities companies together cohesively in the entire earth has come to be shared, and one of its most important management resources, and we Mitsubishi Rayon. The decision to integrate Pacific and focused on strengthening its are currently required to undertake. On top and there has been growing demand for corporate stance and have launched KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management the companies was based on the overseas business base, including its of this, true globalization is also a must. corporate activities to address these issues. Since 2007, the (see pages 73 and 74). judgment that, with new science and marketing capabilities in each region. Many Japanese companies have aimed to MCHC Group has adopted the concept of KAITEKI and defined In FY2017, we were highly recognized for our efforts, including technology such as AI, IoT, robotics and I intend to make full use of the wide range become global companies in the past, but its corporate value (KAITEKI value) as to continue to provide being selected as a member of the global Dow Jones regenerative medicine developing at a of technologies, business partners, market it seems to me that this has been nothing solutions for the issues of future society. Furthermore, the group Sustainability World Index and as one of the excellent companies dizzying pace, and with society undergoing information and other resources gained more than a one-way process whereby aims to realize the sustainable well-being of people, society, and in the Nikkei Smart Work Management Survey. I believe these dramatic changes, it is necessary to build through the integration of the three Japanese companies or Japanese people our planet Earth through its corporate activities. This forwardevaluations reflect public understanding of the fact that our a framework to maximize the three companies and to ensure that MCC learn about foreign languages, cultures looking approach is consistent with the movement of the initiatives over the past 10 years and the fruits of our efforts are companies’ management resources and achieves sustainable growth as an and business. In addition to this aspect of international communities as described above and we are indispensable to a society which is facing a myriad of issues. quickly adapt to these changes. I became integrated chemical company which globalization, I would like to give the MCC committed to further developing Management of Sustainability The MCHC Group recently reorganized its philosophy system the president in April 2018, as MCC provides materials to meet customers’ Group employees who work overseas the (MOS) to maximize KAITEKI value. including its mission to further strengthen the KAITEKI approach entered its second year, and when I reflect diverse needs. It goes without saying that opportunity to learn Japanese and The MCHC Group has established MOS Indices to steadily both in Japan and on a global level (see page 10). We also began on the newly formed MCC, I feel that, as a we will focus first and foremost on safe and experience life in Japan, thereby promoting promote initiatives aimed at improving sustainability. For example, examining formulating a medium-to long-term vision for 2050, with result of the integration of the three stable operations, and it is also essential to two-way globalization and strengthening we have adopted goals such as the reduction of environmental contribution to the sustainability for people, society and our planet companies with their diverse human strengthen our sales capabilities. Based on the MCC Group's unity. impact, promotion of energy conservation, promotion of Earth as the central theme. This mediumto long-term vision will resources, technologies and business the notion that “customers have answers,” The MCHC Group consists of operating renewable energy use, and expansion of product lines clarify our 2030 sustainability targets and indices, and we plan to flows, the range of options we are now we will deal strategically with our companies that operate in diverse fields contributing to reduction of GHG emissions as MOS Indices to reflect these in our next medium-term management plan and able to offer to customers is much broader. customers, building multi-faceted ranging from industrial gas to address environmental issues, and we will continue to work on subsequent medium-term management plans. At the same time, the removal of corporate relationships encompassing all levels pharmaceuticals and life sciences. MCC achieving these goals. Meanwhile, we will tackle issues related to Moving forward, we will continue orchestrating with our barriers has made it possible for different including management and sharing sales will also actively focus on creating the company and its organizational structure to earn greater trust stakeholders to accelerate the cycle for enhancing corporate departments to share information about information across business departments. synergies through orchestration with these from society. We will maintain stable production and stable value (see pages 9 and 10, The MCHC Group's Value Creation interconnected business partners and As a company, it is only natural for us to Group companies and contribute to supply by preventing accidents and injuries, and we will also Approach) and make steady progress towards the realization of markets, while it has also been beneficial in endeavor to improve profitability and we enhancing the corporate value of the strengthen engagement through communication, enabling us to KAITEKI. terms of assessing the direction for have set ROS (ratio of core operating MCHC Group. 33 Management KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 34 Management Structure Message from the Chairperson MCHC has chosen to be a company with a nominating committee, etc., as a means to enhance management transparency and openness, to strengthen supervisory functions, and to improve management agility through prompter decision-making. 1. Review of FY2017 Accordingly, the Board of Directors and the three committees—the Nominating Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation For the last three years since 2015, when MCHC transitioned to a company Committee—primarily undertake management supervision while corporate executive officers make business decisions and are in charge of business execution. with a nominating committee, etc., we have been taking steps to improve the Working toward effectiveness of the Board of Directors by defining its roles to be the formulation The Board of Directors format body comprising corporate executive officers. By of basic management policies and supervision of all aspects of corporate the realization of a segregating duties among each corporate executive officer management, while introducing independent and diverse viewpoints of Outside The Board of Directors determines basic management policies and by clearly defining the decision-making authority of each Directors. The Board of Directors met 10 times in FY2017, holding rigorous sustainable society and such as medium-term management strategies and annual budgets and supervises the execution of business by the corporate executive officer in charge of specific areas, we have established a system under which decisions are made in an discussions on monitoring of progress in the medium-term management plan and investment in future growth, among other topics. the enhancement of corporate executive officers, who are in principle delegated the appropriate and efficient manner. 2. Seeking Further Improvement corporate value responsibility to decide about business execution based on Corporate Executive Officers Committee these basic policies, with the exception of matters that must be The business environment surrounding the MCHC Group has been changing legally resolved by the Board of Directors. The Corporate Executive Officers Committee consists of all rapidly in recent years, reflecting increasing globalization and evolving innovative corporate executive officers. In addition to deliberating and science and technology. This in turn has been aggravating environmental and Corporate executive officers resolving important matters concerning the management of social problems and compounding management issues. For the MCHC Group Corporate executive officers make decisions regarding MCHC and the MCHC Group, the committee monitors MCHC to achieve sustained growth in these circumstances, it is essential to make business execution and take responsibility for business Group’s businesses in accordance with the basic accurate management judgments about the future and put in place a system operations in accordance with the basic management policies management policies. capable of adapting to changes in the management environment and risks. The determined by the Board of Directors. Important matters Board of Directors will be required to support appropriate risk-taking by the concerning the management of the MCHC Group are resolved Related management execution side and institute highly effective supervision. Corporate Governance (see pages 77 to 80) Articles at the Corporate Executive Officers Committee, a councilIn FY2017, the Board of Directors pursued initiatives such as requiring important issues that are reported to the Corporate Executive Officers Committee for deliberation to be reported to the Board of Directors, based on Management and Execution Structure the theme of reducing information asymmetry between Directors and Outside Directors. In addition, we invited an attorney specializing in corporate General Meeting of KAITEKI Promotion Office Shareholders governance to provide Board members with an opportunity to discuss the best Health & Productivity form of the Company’s Board of Directors and roles of Outside Directors. Management Project Board of Directors Moving forward, we will work to improve materials for Board meetings and Corporate Planning Office Nominating President & Chief Corporate Strategy explanation methods so as to better facilitate meaningful discussions among Committee Executive Officer Division M&A Office the diverse members of the Board. Moreover, we will encourage lively Compensation Performance Products Strategy Office discussions on mediumto long-term strategies, group governance and other Corporate Executive Committee Officers Committee themes through the use of the Outside Director Liaison Committee. Industrial Materials Strategy Office Audit Committee KAITEKI 3. Aiming for Realizing of KAITEKI Promotion Committee Industrial Gases Strategy Office Office of The MCHC Group has heralded the vision “Realizing of KAITEKI”; namely the Healthcare Strategy Office Audit Committee contribution to the establishment of a sustainable society by resolving environmental and social problems. Placing the pursuit of economic and *For roles of each committee, see page 79. Emerging Technology & Business Development Office capital efficiency, pursuit of innovation, and improvement of sustainability at the core of the Group’s management and believing that our corporate value Information Systems Office is the total sum of the value generated through corporate activities in line with Production Technology Office these three axes, we promote KAITEKI management to further improve our corporate value since April 2011. Corporate Management Office Meanwhile, attention is increasingly focused on the elements of ESG Public Policy & Relation Office (environment, social and governance), which is non-financial information, as Establishment of M&A Office factors for measuring corporate value, in addition to financial information. On To enable the MCHC Group to select and focus on businesses and Public Relations & accelerate growth under its mediumto long-term management plans, the Investor Relations Office the corporate side, there is a growing move toward incorporating SDGs M&A Office has been established in the Corporate Strategy Division, with an eye to bolstering the functions related to M&A, business alliances, disposal (Sustainable Development Goals advocated by the United Nation) in their of business and other areas and to improving competitiveness through the Legal Office management strategies to use them as business opportunities. provision of support to M&A-related tasks throughout the MCHC Group. Administration & What the MCHC Group has sought to deliver is in sync with what society is Human Resources Office demanding, and in response, we will need to increase our power of information Establishment of Production Technology Office The Production Technology Office has been established to undertake the transmission to promote greater understanding of KAITEKI management. The role of promoting environmental and safety activities, quality control and formulating group policies for strengthening of production technology Internal Control Office Board of Directors will continue to hold proactive discussions with President Yoshimitsu Kobayashi capabilities, as these are important elements in the management of the Internal Audit Office Ochi and others on the management execution side, and will support KAITEKI Chairperson MCHC Group. management to further enhance corporate value. 35 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 36 Directors Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Directors Director of the Board, Chairperson Yoshimitsu Kobayashi Representative Corporate Executive Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Managing Corporate Executive Officer Ken Fujiwara (As of June 26, 2018) Hitoshi Ochi Kenkichi Kosakai Dec. 1974 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited Apr. 1977 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited Apr. 1976 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited Apr. 1984 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited Chairperson of the Nominating Committee Jun. 2003 Executive Officer, MCC Jun. 2007 Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2008 Executive Officer, MTPC Apr. 2015 Executive Officer, MCHC Member of the Nominating Committee Apr. 2005 Managing Executive Officer, MCC Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2010) Jun. 2010 Director of the Board, Apr. 2017 Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2018) Chairperson of the Audit Committee Jun. 2006 Director of the Board, MCHC Apr. 2009 Director of the Board, MPI (until Mar. 2011) Managing Executive Officer, MTPC Apr. 2018 Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC (current) Feb. 2007 Director of the Board, Jun. 2009 Director of the Board, Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2014 Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2018 Director of the Board, Managing Corporate Executive Officer, Member of the Audit Committee Managing Executive Officer, MCC Jun. 2010 Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Director of the Board, MTPC (until Jun. 2015) MCHC (current) Chairperson of the Compensation Committee Apr. 2007 Director of the Board, Director of the Board, MRC (until Jun. 2011) Apr. 2015 Senior Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Member of the Compensation Committee President and Chief Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2011 Director of the Board, MCHC (until Jun. 2011) Director of the Board, MRC (until Mar. 2017) Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCC Jun. 2015 Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Senior President and Chief Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2012) Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2012 Director of the Board, Chairperson, MCC Apr. 2012 Director of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Jun. 2016 Director of the Board, MPI (until Mar. 2017) (until Mar. 2017) MRC (until Mar. 2018) Apr. 2017 Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Apr. 2015 Director of the Board, Chairperson, MCHC (current) Jun. 2012 Director of the Board, MCHC Deputy Chief Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2015 Director of the Board, Jun. 2017 Director of the Board, Representative Corporate President and Chief Executive Officer, MCHC Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Jun. 2015 Director of the Board, Representative Corporate Executive MCHC (current) Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer, MCHC (current) Apr. 2018 Director of the Board, MCC (current) Jun. 2018 Director of the Board, TNSC (current) Director of the Board Director of the Board Director of the Board Glenn H. Fredrickson Yoshihiro Umeha Hisao Urata Jan. 1990 Associate Professor, Departments of Chemical Apr. 1977 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited Jan. 1991 Joined Mitsubishi Kasei Corporation Engineering and Materials, University of California, Jun. 2008 Executive Officer, MCC Jun. 2011 Executive Officer, MCHC Santa Barbara (UCSB) Apr. 2012 Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCC Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2014) Jul. 1991 Professor, Departments of Chemical Engineering (until Mar. 2015) Apr. 2015 Managing Executive Officer, MCHC and Materials, UCSB (current) Jun. 2015 Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Jun. 2015 Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC (until Mar. 2016) May 1998 Chairperson, Department of Chemical Engineering, Corporate Auditor, MCC (until Mar. 2017) Jun. 2016 Director of the Board, MCHC (current) UCSB (until Jul. 2001) Corporate Auditor, MRC (currently MCC) (current) Corporate Auditor, MPI (until Mar. 2017) Mar. 2001 Director of Mitsubishi Chemical Center for Advanced Jun. 2016 Corporate Auditor, LSII (until Mar. 2017) Apr. 2017 Corporate Auditor, LSII (current) Materials at UCSB (current) Apr. 2014 Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2014 Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2015 Director of the Board, Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2017 Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Takeo Kikkawa Taigi Ito Kazuhiro Watanabe Hideko Kunii Takayuki Hashimoto Apr. 1987 Associate Professor, School of Business, Jan. 1970 Joined Tsuji Audit Corporation Apr. 1974 Appointed as a Prosecutor May 1982 Joined Ricoh Company, Ltd. Apr. 1978 Joined IBM Japan, Ltd. Aoyama Gakuin University May 1973 Registered as a Certified Public Accountant Jul. 1998 Assistant Vice-Minister of Justice, Ministry of Justice Jun. 2005 Corporate Senior Deputy CEO, Ricoh Company, Ltd. Apr. 2000 Director of the Board, IBM Japan, Ltd. Oct. 1993 Associate Professor, Institute of Social Science, Feb. 1989 Representative Partner, MISUZU Audit Corporation Apr. 2001 Prosecutor, The Supreme Public Prosecutors Office (until Mar. 2008) Apr. 2003 Managing Executive Officer, IBM Japan, Ltd. The University of Tokyo Jul. 2004 Deputy Chairperson, The Japanese Institute of Certified Jan. 2002 Chief Prosecutor, The Nara District Public Apr. 2008 Chairperson, Ricoh Software Co., Ltd. Jan. 2007 Senior Managing Executive Officer, IBM Japan, Ltd. Apr. 1996 Professor, Institute of Social Science, Public Accountants (JICPA) (until Jun. 2007) Prosecutors Office (currently Ricoh IT Solutions Co., Ltd.) Apr. 2008 Director of the Board, Senior Managing Officer, The University of Tokyo May 2006 Executive Board Member, MISUZU Audit Corporation Sep. 2004 Chief Prosecutor, The Maebashi District Public Apr. 2009 Associate Director, Ricoh Company, Ltd. IBM Japan, Ltd. Apr. 2007 Professor, Graduate School of Commerce and (until Jul. 2007) Prosecutors Office (until Mar. 2013) Jan. 2009 Director of the Board, President, IBM Japan, Ltd. Management, Hitotsubashi University Apr. 2009 Professor, The Graduate School of Accounting, Waseda Sep. 2005 Chief Prosecutor, The Nagoya District Public Jul. 2009 Chairperson, Ricoh IT Solutions Co., Ltd. May 2012 Director of the Board, Chairman, IBM Japan, Ltd. Jun. 2013 Outside Director of the Board, MCHC (current) University (until Mar. 2013) Prosecutors Office (until Mar. 2013) Apr. 2014 Chairperson, IBM Japan, Ltd. Apr. 2015 Professor, Graduate School of Innovation Studies Jan. 2012 Chairperson, Disciplinary Committee of JICPA (until Aug. 2016) Jun. 2007 Chief Prosecutor, The Yokohama District Public Apr. 2012 Professor, Graduate School of Engineering Jan. 2015 Vice Chairperson, IBM Japan, Ltd. (currently Graduate School of Management), Tokyo Jun. 2014 Outside Corporate Auditor, MCHC Prosecutors Office Management, Shibaura Institute of Technology (current) Jun. 2016 Outside Director of the Board, MCHC (current) University of Science (current) Corporate Auditor, MCC (until Mar. 2017) Jul. 2008 Superintending Prosecutor, The Sapporo High Public Apr. 2013 Deputy President, Shibaura Institute of Technology May 2017 Honorary Executive Advisor, IBM Japan, Ltd. Jun. 2015 Outside Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Prosecutors Office (Retired in Jul. 2009) (until Mar. 2018) (current) Sep. 2009 Registered as a lawyer Oct. 2013 Director, Center for Promotion of Educational Professor, The Law School of Tokai University Innovation Gender Equality Promotion Office, Shibaura (until Mar. 2017) Institute of Technology (until Mar. 2018) Jun. 2010 Corporate Auditor, MPI (until Mar. 2017) Jun. 2015 Outside Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Jan. 2011 Lawyer, Counselor, Higashimachi LPC (current) Apr. 2018 Visiting Professor, Graduate School of Engineering Jun. 2014 Outside Corporate Auditor, MCHC Management, Shibaura Institute of Technology (current) Jun. 2015 Outside Director of the Board, MCHC (current) 37 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 38 Dialog between the Director and Outside Directors For a company to grow sustainably and enhance its corporate value in the mediumto long-term, not only firm decision-making by the management, but the development of a Roles of the Audit Committee for realizing KAITEKI supportive risk management system is required. In this dialog, Chairperson of the Audit Committee Umeha listened extensively to Outside Directors Ito and Watanabe, who are also Audit Committee members, about the roles of the Audit Committee, risk management and compliance. Director Yoshihiro Umeha Is the concept of KAITEKI reflected and realized in the course of business execution? Director Outside Director (Chairperson of the Audit Committee) (Audit Committee Member) Confirming this is one of the goals of the audits by the Audit Committee. Yoshihiro Umeha Taigi Ito Umeha I would like to start by focusing on the roles of audits by the that each Audit Committee member and corporate auditor will have a other hand, the independent point of view of the outside Audit Audit Committee for the MCHC Group, which has set the realizing correct understanding of the concept of KAITEKI, as well as their Committee members is crucial to fulfill an appropriate audit KAITEKI as its vision. The concept of KAITEKI is the foundation of our required roles under the Companies Act and the Financial Instruments (monitoring) function for the execution of business. You took on the business execution and I think we always need to consider it while and Exchange Act, and recognize that they are fulfilling an important role of an outside corporate auditor of Mitsubishi Chemical after taking measures to improve the quality of our audits. function to support the realizing KAITEKI in the entire Group. engaging in accounting audits for many years as a certified public Ito With respect to the audits by the Audit Committee, audits on Ito The role of outside Audit Committee members is to maintain accountant. Based on such experience, how do you see the business execution, excluding accounting audits, usually aim to verify their independence and conduct fair and objective audits. It is important effectiveness of the Audit Committee? compliance with laws, regulations and in-house rules as well as the for them to understand the mechanism and contents of the Company’s Ito The outside Audit Committee members receive the required Outside Director appropriateness and efficiency of business execution. Recently, we are operations in detail, as well as its philosophy and visions to fulfill the role company information during their audits, including an overview of the Taigi Ito required to proactively meet the expectations of stakeholders from a appropriately. Moreover, to respond to recent social trends requiring Corporate Executive Officers Committee meetings and the reports on broader perspective. Because the MCHC Group has set the realizing increasingly higher standards for audits year after year, it is very cooperation with the Accounting Auditor, in addition to monthly activity KAITEKI as its vision, we have also made it an audit goal to see whether important to facilitate communication between the internal Audit reports about standing internal Audit Committee members, the Internal business is executed in consideration of KAITEKI, in order to realize it at Committee members and outside Audit Committee members regarding Audit Office and the Internal Control Office. I feel that information each operating site, in addition to the aforementioned audit goals. information about the business environment surrounding the Company. inside the Group and the knowledge thereof are shared in a timely and Therefore, we conduct audits by confirming that specific actions are Umeha I think that the internal Audit Committee members with appropriate manner. Thus, collaboration is strong on trilateral audits taken to realize KAITEKI on the front lines, remaining aware of consistency seasoned knowledge of the Company’s operations have an advantage (audits by the Audit Committee, accounting audits and internal audits) with the vision. I think one of the roles of the Audit Committee is to point in risk prevention. Misconduct is similar to issues at plants. For rational and has resulted in a situation where the determination of the out our findings and encourage improvements as needed. business operation, it is important to learn how to prevent an appropriateness and adequacy and identification of problems is Umeha In the MCHC Group, there are approximately 80 Audit unexpected issue. Similarly in compliance cases, it is important to facilitated. In addition, the outside Audit Committee members Committee members and corporate auditors (hereinafter collectively learn how to prevent misconduct, not to mention correcting participate in audit planning and spend sufficient time discussing referred to as the “Audit Committee Members, Etc.”). We provide newly misconduct if it has already occurred. Those who are familiar with the them. In that sense, I think we are able to conduct advanced and appointed Audit Committee Members, Etc. with training every year so business contents have their own distinctive audit perspective. On the well-balanced audits as Audit Committee members. We are required to attentively identify changing social attitudes Director Outside Director (Chairperson of the Audit Committee) (Audit Committee Member) toward compliance and accurately respond to them. Yoshihiro Umeha Kazuhiro Watanabe Umeha Based on the recognition that appropriate corporate and norms over time. In the future, compliance must be attentive to communication in mind. The effectiveness and efficiency of governance is essential for sustainable growth, MCHC has been these changes and accurately respond to them. I suppose what management and supervision will only be achieved if both top-down working to strengthen its corporate governance to comply beyond the makes this possible is a sense of values and ethics of each employee, and bottom-up communications are made. In terms of relationships scope of laws and regulations. Please describe your opinion about including management, although it is somewhat spiritual. Also, it is with overseas bases and overseas Group companies, while it is what will be required in the future for MCHC to promote KAITEKI important for the employees to mutually share the sense of values and important to solidly transmit the viewpoints of MCHC, I suppose that Management based on your experience as a prosecutor and lawyer. ethics as an organization. there are many cases in which more effective and efficient audits will Watanabe It is no exaggeration to say that the philosophy of KAITEKI Umeha You said that for the systems of an organization to improve, be possible if you have secured persons with a detailed knowledge Management is a pioneer of management—or it anticipates the awareness of each employee is important, right? I believe that to of the regional legal systems, institutions, culture and languages, and management—that is conscious of ESG, in which great importance secure the effectiveness of corporate governance as a system, it is utilize them as audit personnel, given the differences and has been attached in recent years. Compliance is an important important that the development of rules and their monitoring will geographical distances. You must have these persons in local areas. Outside Director foundation for KAITEKI Management. If an issue with compliance operate harmoniously, similar to two wheels on a cart. A current It is also important to try to enhance the management and Kazuhiro Watanabe occurs, the philosophy of KAITEKI Management itself will be impaired. challenge for the MCHC Group is to develop a mechanism to efficiently supervisory systems in local areas. I think it is important to always keep this perspective in mind. As you and functionally monitor compliance at more than 700 Group Umeha You mean we should build a system through which we are pointed out, recently a growing emphasis has been placed on what is companies. Because overseas Group companies in many countries able to respond to the circumstances and situation of each region, known as code (norms) in Japan and overseas. It is said that the do not yet have a corporate auditor system, we are trying to strengthen while properly transmitting MCHC’s policies, right? Finally, what scope of compliance has expanded to the realm of social norms and the checking system through internal audits and internal control, which expectations do you have for the MCHC Group? common sense, not to mention compliance with laws and regulations, are functions on the execution side. What do you think is necessary to Watanabe As I mentioned earlier, the MCHC Group has been working which also includes a sincere response to stakeholders. As described, efficiently practice management and supervision? on ESG management, which other companies have also begun to social attitudes toward compliance are changing over time. The longer Watanabe I think that there are no wrong measures being taken for. address in recent years, as KAITEKI Management. I think this vision a company’s history, the more customs and practices it tends to have First, you need to comprehensively prepare rules as well as was edgy not only as an internal norm, but also as a commitment to established in-house, and the more it may be inclined to think that all it management and supervisory systems as MCHC. With respect to stakeholders. I want the MCHC Group to evolve KAITEKI has to do is to conform to these customs and practices. However, it is their effectiveness, you should work to share awareness about issues Management in the future by recognizing diverse problems from a necessary to always consider the possibility that these customs and and compliance with local areas and those on the front lines that are global perspective, with officers and employees working together practices will lose their strength or deviate from society’s awareness actually handling practical work through two-way dialogs, keeping and considering an urgent response to them. 39 Performance Business KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 40 Financial Summary J-GAAP (FY2007 – FY2015) International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS FY2015 – FY2017) Increase or 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 2017 decrease 2017 (%) Thousands of For the Year Millions of yen For the Year Millions of yen U.S. dollars Net sales 2,929,810 2,909,030 2,515,079 3,166,771 3,208,168 3,088,577 3,498,834 3,656,278 3,823,098 Revenue 3,543,352 3,376,057 3,724,406 10.3% 33,644,137 Operating income 125,046 8,178 66,342 226,493 130,579 90,241 110,460 165,681 280,026 Core operating income 300,410 307,522 380,489 23.7% 3,437,118 Income (loss) before income taxes and 217,791 (44,002) 43,311 169,552 127,474 82,900 116,594 165,621 198,248 minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries Profit before tax 252,791 258,343 344,077 33.2% 3,108,193 Net income (loss) attributable to owners of 164,064 (67,178) 12,833 83,581 35,486 18,596 32,248 60,859 46,444 the parent Net profit attributable to owners of the parent 51,358 156,259 211,788 35.5% 1,913,171 Total comprehensive income — — 37,513 86,742 64,199 94,900 134,016 173,692 7,695 Comprehensive income 34,302 226,493 297,476 31.3% 2,687,227 Capital expenditures 170,051 139,011 119,025 117,806 116,145 132,221 133,339 165,057 176,508 Capital expenditures 213,134 206,482 225,189 9.1% 2,034,228 Depreciation and amortization 102,172 119,230 129,574 148,697 145,695 129,549 131,571 151,253 180,374 Depreciation and amortization 182,656 174,040 178,895 2.8% 1,616,034 R&D expenses 112,064 127,802 136,863 130,825 138,545 134,723 134,260 132,217 138,364 R&D expenses 126,782 126,290 138,833 9.9% 1,254,137 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 156,173 76,149 116,073 288,853 217,954 206,504 177,027 329,776 388,663 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 299,612 396,643 397,940 — 3,594,761 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (177,985) (189,233) (327,006) (101,064) (63,404) (169,758) (159,789) (277,223) (202,796) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (234,078) (289,056) (335,933) — (3,034,625) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 70,871 179,526 94,437 (149,493) (164,146) (26,250) (8,307) (2,061) (156,957) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (40,945) 1,411 (150,592) — (1,360,361) At Year-end At Year-end Total assets 2,765,837 2,740,876 3,355,097 3,294,014 3,173,970 3,307,758 3,479,359 4,323,038 4,061,572 Total assets 4,223,774 4,463,547 4,700,592 5.3% 42,462,439 Property, plant and equipment 852,806 834,046 1,167,073 1,088,369 1,032,738 1,061,551 1,118,050 1,498,146 1,390,727 Property, plant and equipment 1,403,437 1,431,681 1,433,509 0.1% 12,949,494 Short-term and long-term debt 822,520 1,033,239 1,454,126 1,304,589 1,164,128 1,198,799 1,258,186 1,603,595 1,465,752 Interest-bearing debt 1,579,575 1,693,742 1,606,123 (5.2%) 14,508,790 Total net assets 1,095,927 940,114 1,032,865 1,114,003 1,144,954 1,203,316 1,314,870 1,588,601 1,554,528 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 972,197 1,091,398 1,285,750 17.8% 11,614,724 Per Share Yen Per Share Yen U.S. Dollars Net income (loss)—basic 119.51 (48.81) 9.32 58.72 24.06 12.61 21.89 41.40 31.70 Basic earnings 35.06 106.73 147.14 37.9% 1.3 Net assets 601.45 486.09 490.99 514.30 522.77 553.54 611.95 669.77 636.43 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 663.71 758.30 893.26 17.8% 8.1 Cash dividends 16.00 12.00 8.00 10.00 10.00 12.00 12.00 13.00 15.00 Cash Dividends 15.00 20.00 32.00 60.0% 0.3 Major Index Major Index Return on assets (ROA) (%) 8.5 (1.5) 1.4 5.1 3.9 2.6 3.4 4.2 4.7 Return on assets (ROA) (%) 5.9 5.9 7.5 27.1% — Return on equity (ROE) (%) 21.3 (8.9) 1.9 11.6 4.6 2.3 3.7 6.4 4.8 Return on equity (ROE) (%) 5.2 15.1 17.8 17.9% — Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) 29.9 24.4 20.0 23.0 24.2 24.6 25.8 22.6 22.9 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent (%) 23.0 24.5 27.4 11.8% — Other Other Number of employees 39,305 41,480 53,907 53,882 53,979 55,131 56,031 68,263 68,988 Number of employees 68,988 69,291 69,230 (0.1%) — (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) 4,000,000 3,823,098 3,724,406 400,000 Left axis Net sales 3,498,834 3,656,278 Left axis Revenue 3,543,352 3,376,057 Right axis 3,166,771 3,208,168 3,088,577 Right axis 3,000,000 Operating income 2,929,810 2,909,030 Core operating income 300,000 280,026 2,515,079 300,410 307,522 380,489 226,493 2,000,000 165,681 200,000 125,046 110,460 1,000,000 90,241 100,000 66,342 130,579 8,178 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Medium-term KAKUSHIN Plan: management plan 2005–2007 Phase 2 2008–2010 APTSIS 10 2011– 2012 Step 1 2013 – 2015 Step 2 APTSIS 15 2016– 2020 APTSIS 20 transition (Notes) 1. In this report, the fiscal year refers to the period beginning April 1 and ending March 31 of the following year. FY2017 refers to the year ended March 31, 2018. (Notes) 4. Return on equity (ROE) (%) is calculated by dividing net profit attributable to owners of the parent by the average of the beginning and ending balances of equity attributable to owners of the parent. 2. U.S. dollar amounts are converted from yen at the rate of ¥110.7 = U.S. $1.00. 5. When non-recurring depreciation on non-current assets is recorded, the amount is included in depreciation and amortization. 3. Return on assets (ROA) (%) is calculated by dividing profit before tax by the average of the beginning and ending balances of total assets. 41 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 42 Financial Highlights Financial Index Total assets and ROA Free cash flow With the start of the medium-term management plan APTSIS 20, we have adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) beginning in FY2016. (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) Total assets (Left axis) ROA (Right axis) Core operating income is calculated as operating income (loss) excluding certain gains and expenses attributable to non-recurring factors (gains and losses incurred by business withdrawal and 5,000 8 200 contraction, etc). We disclose core operating income as our unique gains/losses incurred by staged gains/losses, considering the comparability with the operating income of J-GAAP. 4,700.6 185.8 4,463.5 4,323.0 4,223.8 4,061.5 7.5 3,750 6 150 Net income and ROS/ROE 3,479.3 (Billions of yen) (%) 4.7 5.9 5.9 400 20 107.5 2,500 4 100 380.5 4.2 Left axis (Core) Operating Income Net profit attributable to owners of the parent 17.8 3.4 65.5 62.0 1,250 2 50 52.5 Right axis ROE ROS 300.4 307.5 17.2 300 15 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 0 0 0 280.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 15.1 Total assets were ¥4,700.6 billion, rising ¥237.1 billion from a year earlier, In cash flows from investing activities, outflows increased due to investments primarily because of the increase in inventories and trade receivables. ROA and loans associated with M&A, mainly in the Health Care domain. As a result, improved by 1.6% y/y to 7.5% due to the increase in income. FCF decreased by ¥45.5 billion y/y to ¥62.0 billion. 211.8 200 9.1 10 165.6 8.5 156.3 10.2 6.4 7.3 110.4 3.7 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent Net interest-bearing debt and net D/E ratio 100 5.2 5 (%) (Billions of yen) (Times) 4.8 Net interest-bearing debt (Left axis) Net D/E ratio (Right axis) 4.5 40 1,600 1.6 60.8 46.4 51.4 3.1 32.2 30 1,200 1.11 1,228.2 1.10 1,134.4 1,155.9 1,139.5 1.2 27.4 1.25 25.8 1.06 0 0 24.5 998.0 1.17 22.6 22.9 23.0 1,024.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 20 800 0.89 0.8 J-GAAP (IFRS) International Financial Reporting Standards 10 400 0.4 As a result of the business portfolio reforms along with the previous medium-term management plan APTSIS 15 for the period from FY2011 to FY2015, we posted record operating income in FY2015 based on the Japanese standards. Following the current mediumJ-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 0 0 0 term management plan APTSIS 20, which started in FY2016, we have increased our income further thanks to the growing sales 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) volume, mainly in the Performance Products domain. In FY2017, because of the generally strong market conditions in the Industrial As a result of the increase in income, equity attributable to owners of the parent Net interest-bearing debt stood at ¥1,139.5 billion, down by ¥16.4 billion y/y. Partly Materials domain, both core operating income and net profit attributable to owners of the parent reached record high. We increased increased by ¥194.4 billion from the previous fiscal year, to ¥1,285.8 billion. because of the increase in equity attributable to owners of the parent due to the core operating income by ¥73.0 billion (+23.7% y/y) to ¥380.5 billion and improved ROS by 1.1% y/y to 10.2%. Net profit attributable Consequently, the ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent was 27.4%, increase in income, the net D/E ratio was 0.89 times, improving by 0.17 y/y. We up 2.9% from the previous fiscal year. We will continuously aim to achieve 30%, will continue our efforts to reinforce our financial position. to owners of the parent increased by ¥55.5 billion (+35.5% y/y) to ¥211.8 billion, partly due to decreased tax expenses associated with the target set in the medium-term management plan APTSIS 20. the reduced U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. ROE improved by 2.7% y/y to 17.8%. Revenue and ratio of overseas revenue Overseas revenue by region Basic earnings per share and cash dividends per share R&D expenses and capital expenditures (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) Asia Pacific North America Europe Others (Yen) Basic earnings per share Cash dividends per share (Billions of yen) R&D expenses Capital expenditures Revenue (Left axis) Ratio of overseas revenue (Right axis) 4,000 60 2,000 160 240 3,823.0 3,656.2 3,724.4 147.14 225.2 3,498.8 3,543.4 213.1 3,376.1 1,659.0 206.5 3,000 45 1,500 1,519.0 1,547.0 120 180 1,467.2 176.5 1,430.0 1,333.6 106.73 165.0 41.6 43.4 41.5 40.4 134.2 133.3 138.3 138.8 39.5 132.2 126.8 126.3 2,000 39.5* 30 1,000 80 120 1,000 15 500 40 41.40 60 31.70 35.06 32.00 21.89 20.00 12.00 13.00 15.00 15.00 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 0 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Revenue increased by ¥348.3 billion (+10.3% y/y) because sales prices rose Overseas revenue increased from a year earlier due to the increased sales Basic earnings per share was ¥147.14, primarily because of income growth. Cash R&D expenses increased by ¥12.5 billion y/y to ¥138.8 billion, mainly focusing due to higher raw material prices and because the trend of market conditions volume in the Performance Products domain, mainly in Europe and the U.S., as dividends per share were ¥32 per year, up ¥12 y/y, based on a comprehensive on the Health Care domain, and we continued to work on improving our current remained strong in the Industrial Materials domain, including MMA and other well as acquisitions in the industrial gases business and rising prices of MMA. evaluation of our financial situation, future business development and improving technologies and developing new technologies. Capital expenditures increased petrochemical products. The ratio of overseas revenue increased to 41.6% shareholder returns. by ¥18.7 billion y/y to ¥225.2 billion, mainly reflecting the construction of (+2.1% y/y). manufacturing facilities in the industrial gases business. * The influence of ¥145.6 billion due to the unification of the accounting period is excluded. 43 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 44 Non-Financial Highlights Non-Financial Index Energy consumption Water withdrawal (GWh) Japan Outside Japan (Million m3) Japan Outside Japan 50,000 200 181 23 22 174 171 171 37,500 9,164 150 166 GHG emissions 34,935 8,707 32,164 30,277 31,813 30,243 (1,000 t-CO2e) (t-CO2e/100 millions of yen) 25,000 100 20,000 Left axis Japan Outside Japan Right axis Per unit of revenue 500 12,500 50 398 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 15,000 375 Since FY2016, we have tracked global energy consumption and have it assured Since FY2016, we have tracked the global water withdrawal (excluding seawater) by a third party. Accordingly, overseas data are described as additional values and have it assured by a third party. Accordingly, overseas data are described (Outside Japan) in FY2016 and 2017. In FY2017, energy consumption increased as additional values (Outside Japan) in FY2016 and 2017. In FY2017, we used 3,989 3,826 due to strong production. To further accelerate our efforts for the reduction in 193 million m 3 of water, an increase of 4 million m 3 from the previous fiscal year energy consumption, we will expand our activities for the effective use of energy, due to strong production. We will make progress with efforts to effectively utilize such as the stable operation of processes and energy conservation efforts. water resources and reduce usage and continue to contribute to the improved 10,000 250 sustainability of water resources. Increase rate of number of clinical testing and medical checkups/health information Lost-time injuries frequency rate (LTIFR) 13,006 13,324 13,141 Increase rate of number of clinical testing 12,238 12,054 10,826 Comparison to base year (%) 5,000 10,443 125 160 Increase rate of number of medical checkups/ 1.00 heath information 146 154 120 0.75 110 97 100 102 99 100 101 80 92 0.50 0.48 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 0.32 0.32 0.30 40 0.25 0.26 GHG emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) in FY2017 were 14,815 thousand t-CO2e and the emissions per unit of revenue were 398 t-CO2e/100 0 0 millions of yen. The absolute emissions increased by 4% from the previous fiscal year due to the Group’s full operations worldwide under 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) (FY) a solid recovery of the global economy, despite the implementation of GHG emission reduction measures including energy conservation The number of clinical testing and health checkups or health information Lost-time injuries frequency rate (LTIFR) reached 0.26 points, improving by 0.04 efforts. Toward achieving the 2030 reduction targets set in alignment with the Paris Agreement, we have devised and promoted measures provided was 99% and 154% respectively for each MOS index compared with points from the previous fiscal year. By thoroughly enforcing measures to ensure to reduce GHG emissions. Additionally, in FY2016, the calculation method was revised to respond to global standards (see page 75). We will the benchmark year (FY2014). We will appropriately respond to the rising interest basic actions and operations for safety and risk assessments, we will strive to in health and trends, such as increased self-medication, and aim to achieve the prevent occupational accidents. continue to improve the completeness and reliability of the calculation method so all the Group companies can strive to achieve the mediumFY2020 targets set as the MOS Indices. term reduction targets. Number of R&D personnel and Percentage of female employees/ R&D expenses per R&D personnel Number of directors and outside directors Percentage of female managers Employee satisfaction (Persons) Number of R&D personnel (Millions of yen) (Persons) Directors (executive) Directors (non-executive) Independent (outside) directors (%) Percentage of female managers Percentage of female employees 6,000 R&D expenses per R&D personnel 40 16 Corporate auditors Outside corporate auditors 16 4.00 5,040 5,130 5,040 4,883 15.1 15.1 15.3 4,843 14.7 14.4 4,500 30 12 13 3.75 3.74 3 3 5 3.66 4 3.64 28.7 5 26.6 27.4 5 3.63 25.8 25.9 2 2 3.62 3,000 20 8 10 3.50 1 1 3 3 4 8.0 4 7.4 7.7 1,500 10 4 7 3.25 7 7 7.1 6 6 4 6.1 3 0 0 0 4 3.00 2013 2014 2015 2016* 2017* (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) The number of R&D personnel in FY2017 was 4,843, a reduction of 40 from MCHC transitioned to a company with a nominating committee, etc. in June 2015. The percentages of female employees and female managers were 15.3%, an Employee satisfaction was 3.64 points, a 0.02 point rise compared to the previous the previous fiscal year. R&D expenses per personnel were ¥28.7 million, an increase of 0.2%, and 8.0%, an increase of 0.3% respectively, compared to the fiscal year. Since FY2011, employee satisfaction has remained at a largely increase of ¥2.8 million. previous fiscal year. We have continued to promote a range of measures aimed favorable level. We will seek further improvement by actively promoting related * IFRS basis at female empowerment. measures including health and productivity management and workstyle reform. 45 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 46 Shareholder Information Basic Policy on Shareholder Returns Stock Information (As of March 31, 2018) Major Shareholders Aim to improve shareholder value by enhancing corporate value Stock listing Tokyo Stock Exchange Name Number of Shares Percentage (Thousands) (%) In dividend policy, consider the balance between growth Securities code 4188 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust account) 96,148 6.7 investment and improving financial position Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 75,626 5.3 Shares per unit 100 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 64,389 4.5 Targeting a medium-term consolidated payout ratio of 30%/Paying stable dividends Nippon Life Insurance Company 42,509 3.0 Authorized shares 6,000,000,000 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 4) 36,803 2.6 EPS/Cash dividends per share State Street Bank West Client-Treaty 505234 28,941 2.0 EPS (Left axis) Cash dividends per share (Right axis) Outstanding shares 1,506,288,107 (Yen) (Yen) Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 5) 26,808 1.9 150 147.14 34 35 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 7) 22,462 1.6 Number of shareholders 175,537 Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. 20,774 1.4 127.83 General meeting of 120 32 28 Annually in June The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 20,553 1.4 shareholders 106.73 (Notes) 1. In addition, MCHC holds 66,902 thousand shares of treasury stock, which are excluded in the Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and calculation of the percentage above. Transfer agent Banking Corporation 2. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. changed its company name to MUFG Bank Ltd. on April 1, 2018. 90 21 20 15 Governments and Local Governments 0.0% 60 13 14 Composition of Shareholders Securities Corporations 0.8% Japanese Individuals and Others* 12 Japanese Financial Institutions Other Japanese Corporations Foreign Shareholders 41.40 30 31.70 7 FY2009 43.5% 10.4% 17.3% 27.7% 21.89 As of March 31, 2010 0 0 FY2013 40.6% 9.3% 24.9% 23.5% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) As of March 31, 2014 (Forecast) 1.3% 0.0% J-GAAP (IFRS) International Financial Reporting Standards FY2017 41.2% 31.4% 20.5% As of March 31, 2018 Stock Price/Stock Trading Volume 2.1% 4.8% 0.0% FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 * Shares held by the Company as treasury stock are included in “Japanese Individuals and Others.” Stock price ¥429 Stock price ¥698.6 Stock price ¥587.5 Stock price ¥861.4 Stock price ¥1,030.5 PER 19.5 times PER 16.8 times PER 18.5 times PER 8.1 times PER 7.0 times FY2017 IR Report (Yen) PBR 0.7 times PBR 1.0 times PBR 0.9 times PBR 1.1 times PBR 1.2 times (Yen) 60,000 MCHC has an active and constructive dialog with shareholders, customers and other stakeholders through various opportunities and aims to cooperate 1,500 for realization of KAITEKI by sharing issues and goals. In dialog with shareholders and investors, we will ensure appropriate disclosure so as to gain the trust of our shareholders and encourage long-term holding of our shares. We also intend to engage in active dialog with shareholders and reflect it in our corporate activities. 1,000 40,000 Activities Description MCHC stock price (Left axis) 1 General Meeting Held on June 26, 2018, Attendance: 1,826 persons (for reference: 1,535 attended in 2017) 500 20,000 of Shareholders IR briefings 2 sessions, May: IR Day, Nov: Business briefing Nikkei stock average <closing price> (Right axis) 0 0 Top management’s dialog Jun, Dec: Small meetings, Visits to 14 investors with investors (Thousand shares) 2 300,000 For domestic Conference call, following the 4 sessions (following the quarterly financial results announcement), institutional financial results announcement Audio data available on the website Stock trading volume investors and analysts 200,000 Visit to operating sites 2 tours, Sep: Nagahama district, Mar: Toyohashi and Otake Plants Individual meetings following the financial results announcement and Other IR activities small meetings on specific subjects 100,000 3 12 sessions for 2,026 attendees For individual IR briefings (including those in the online sessions and in briefings by the CEO and CFO) investors 0 Overseas road show by the CEO, 2013 Apr. 2014 Apr. 2015 Apr. 2016 Apr. 2017 Apr. 2018 Apr. 5 sessions in eight countries in North America, Europe and Asia 4 CFO and other executives J-GAAP (IFRS) International Financial Reporting Standards For overseas investors Participation in conferences 8 conferences (four in Japan and four overseas) organized by securities firms * Stock price: As of March 31 PER: Share price as of March 31/Basic earnings per share (Net income (loss)-basic per share until FY2015) PBR: Share price as of March 31/Equity attributable to owners of the parent per share (Net assets per share until FY2015) 47 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 48 Overview of Business Domains | Summary * Figures for FY2016 do not include discontinued operations. * Figures for FY2013 to 2016 of reporting segments prior to the change are presented for reference purposes only. For details about the change in segments, see page 49. * Revenue Growth Rate and ROA figures for FY2016 in the New Segments section are presented for reference purposes only. * ROA = (Core) Operating Income / Total Assets (Annual Average) Performance Capital Expenditures/ R&D expenses/ Revenue/Revenue Growth Rate (Core) Operating Income/(Core) Operating Margin Total Assets/ROA Depreciation and Amortization Ratio of R&D expenses to Revenue Products Domain Revenue (Left axis) (Core) Operating income (Left axis) Total assets (Left axis) Capital expenditures (Left axis) R&D expenses (Left axis) Percentage of Revenue growth rate (Right axis) (Core) Operating margin (Right axis) ROA (Right axis) Depreciation and amortization (Right axis) Ratio of R&D expenses to revenue (Right axis) Revenue by Domain (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) 30.8% 2,200 New Segments 20 250.0 New Segments 20 2,500 New Segments 10.0 160 New Segments 120 100 New Segments 20 14.4 8.1 8.0 7.9 1,650 10 187.5 15 1,875 7.5 120 90 75 15 6.8 4.1 0.6 1,072.6 1,145.9 0 5.7 ¥1,145.9 billion 1,100 125.0 10 1,250 1,215.1 5.0 80 60 50 10 8.8 1,140.4 54.9 924.5 930.1 968.2 911.4 8.6 8.2 4.6 54.4 Revenue 7.7 961.1 46.3 48.3 47.2 930.4 954.8 937.5 44.2 94.2 94.0 31.6 29.5 29.0 29.6 -5.9 5.7 28.2 27.6 57.9 59.6 54.8 56.1 62.8 68.3 30 8.5% 550 -10 62.5 4.4 78.6 5 625 2.5 40 25 5 74.7 ROIC 53.3 3.1 2.8 40.9 3.4 3.2 3.0 2.4 0 -20 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 (FY) J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS Industrial Materials Domain Revenue (Left axis) (Core) Operating income (Left axis) Total assets (Left axis) Capital expenditures (Left axis) R&D expenses (Left axis) Percentage of Revenue growth rate (Right axis) (Core) Operating margin (Right axis) ROA (Right axis) Depreciation and amortization (Right axis) Ratio of R&D expenses to revenue (Right axis) Revenue by Domain (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) 48.8% 2,200 New Segments 20 250.0 New Segments 20 2,500 New Segments 10.0 160 New Segments 120 100 New Segments 20 2,094.7 1,816.0 2,306.3 1,813.5 1,974.0 16.5 2,237.2 2,246.8 111.2 104.3 9.4 99.4 14.8 205.3 2,040.6 2,070.4 97.1 1,731.4 1,650 10 187.5 15 1,875 7.5 120 117.2 123.5 90 75 15 1,558.7 84.4 110.6 8.8 6.1 95.4 1,470.5 6.0 130.8 66.4 ¥1,816.0 billion 1,100 0 125.0 10 1,250 5.0 80 60 50 10 114.7 74.9 Revenue 100.5 11.3 4.7 7.6 51.0 7.4 9.7% 550 -10 62.5 5 625 2.5 40 30 25 5 4.8 17.5 16.9 18.1 16.8 ROIC 35.9 1.9 15.4 13.0 -17.3 3.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.0 1.0 0 -20 0 0.2 1.8 0 0 0.2 0 0 0 0 0.7 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 (FY) J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS Health Care Domain Revenue (Left axis) (Core) Operating income (Left axis) Total assets (Left axis) Capital expenditures (Left axis) R&D expenses (Left axis) Percentage of Revenue growth rate (Right axis) (Core) Operating margin (Right axis) ROA (Right axis) Depreciation and amortization (Right axis) Ratio of R&D expenses to revenue (Right axis) Revenue by Domain (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) 14.9% 2,200 20 250.0 20 2,500 9.8 10.0 160 120 100 20 18.7 92.1 18.0 9.0 86.3 80.4 80.5 77.0 1,650 10 187.5 14.5 15 1,875 7.5 120 90 75 16.6 15 12.8 14.6 7.4 15.1 15.1 15.6 7.2 14.1 4.2 6.8 3.3 1.7 0.1 ¥556.6 billion 1,100 0 125.0 10 1,250 5.0 80 60 50 10 1,166.8 Revenue -1.3 103.4 98.4 1,028.6 1,050.9 1,059.0 1,101.5 77.0 81.2 531.2 531.9 554.0 547.0 556.6 68.2 9.8% 550 -10 62.5 5 625 2.5 40 30 25 5 16.0 15.7 16.2 17.9 27.5 ROIC 19.1 0 -20 0 0 0 0 0 20.3 24.6 21.3 28.5 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 49 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 50 Overview of Business Domains | FY2017 Results by Segment * Other differences include impacts from inventory valuation gain/loss and differenses of equity income, etc. Change in reporting segments MCHC integrated three consolidated subsidiaries into one company, and established the new MCC on April 1, 2017. This was executed in consideration of the need to establish an organizational structure that can take full advantage of each company’s resources and strengths to address a rapidly changing business Performance Products Domain Performance Products climate and drive the expansion of their business toward accomplishing the goals of APTSIS 20, which began in FY2016. Taking this opportunity, MCHC, the holding company of the four operating companies — the new MCC, MTPC, LSII, and TNSC — stepped up its efforts to plan medium-term strategies for each of four business segments (performance products, chemicals, industrial gases, and health care) in which four operating Performance Products Segment Contributing factors to core operating income companies are mainly engaged, enhance monitoring of APTSIS 20, and shift to a management system that accelerate growth strategies for these four This segment posted a revenue hike and an income decline. Revenue rose ¥73.3 billion Performance Products business segments. year on year to ¥1,145.9 billion, while core operating income declined ¥0.2 billion year on (Billions of yen) Buying Volume Cost Other Based on the above factors, from FY2017, the current business segments were reviewed and reclassified into “Performance Products,” “Chemicals,” and selling difference reduction differences* “Industrial gases,” and “Health Care.” year to ¥94.0 billion. 110 difference 9.9 In functional products, sales remained steady in films for displays in electronics and 100 Old/New Domain Segment Segment Domain displays, in addition to advanced moldings and composites including high-performance 94.2 13.3 94.0 90 Segments -9.3 Comparison Old New engineering plastics, alumina fibers, and other products. 80 Chart 1 In performance chemicals, sales volumes increased, reflecting rising sales of battery -14.1 70 Electronics Applications 2 Functional materials for automobiles in the new energy business, continued firmness in market 2016 2017 Products (FY) prices for phenol-polycarbonate chain in advanced polymers, and the resolution of Performance Performance Performance issues related to scheduled plant maintenance and repairs completed during the Products Functional Products Products Products Designed previous period. Materials Performance 3 Chemicals Core operating income remained unchanged, due primarily to a rise in raw material Performance Chemicals 4 costs for some products, despite higher sales volumes as a whole. Petrochemicals MMA Industrial Materials Domain Industrial Materials Chemicals Carbon Industrial Gases Petrochemicals Chemicals Chemicals Segment Contributing factors to core operating income Industrial Industrial This segment recorded a hike in both revenue and income. Revenue surged ¥193.2 Chemicals Materials 5 Carbon Materials Polyolefins and Advanced Polymers Products billion year on year, to ¥1,177.3 billion, while core operating income rose ¥85.3 billion, to (Billions of yen) Buying 6 and selling Volume Cost Other difference reduction differences* Polymers ¥147.9 billion. 160 difference 147.9 7 5.0 5.7 MMA Monomers and Industrial Gases In MMA, MMA monomer market prices rose in line with continuing firm demand. 130 64.6 10.0 Polymers 8 In petrochemicals, sales volumes increased in the midst of continued firm supply-demand 100 Pharmaceuticals situation, reflecting rising sales prices brought on by higher raw material prices and a 70 62.6 Health Health Care Health Care Diagnostics, Health Care Care smaller impact from ethylene production facility scheduled maintenance and repairs, 40 Clinical Testing and API which were less than in the previous period. 2016 2017 (FY) Others In carbon, sale prices rose, accompanying a rise in coking coal prices. Others*1 Core operating income increased due primarily to a broadening in the price differential Industrial Gases Corporate between raw materials and products in MMA and carbon products including coke and (Billions of yen) Buying and selling Volume Cost Other difference reduction differences* 1 Display materials, OPC drums and toners, recording media, etc. 5 Phenol, polycarbonate, performance polymers, etc. *1 Others include certain overseas 61 difference 2 LED materials, gallium nitride, etc. 6 Polyolefins sales companies reclassified needle coke in the continued firm demand and the lower impact of the smaller scheduled 3 7 from the former sub-segment of 57 1.6 0.2 57.5 Coating materials, battery materials, inorganic chemicals, food ingredients, etc. ABS resins Functional Products. maintenance and repairs at petrochemical production facilities. 4.5 4 PVOH*2 OPL Film, etc. 8 MMA/PMMA 53 52.1 New Segments Industrial Gases Segment 49 -0.9 Domain Segment Segment Details This segment recorded growth in revenue and income. Revenue stood at ¥638.7 billion, 45 Major Businesses and Products up ¥64.1 billion year on year, while core operating income was ¥57.5 billion, up ¥5.4 2016 2017 Performance Performance Functional Information, Electronics & billion year on year. (FY) Optical films, e.g. polyester films, and optical PVOH* films/Color resist/Precision cleaning 2 Products Products Products Displays In industrial gases, sales revenue and core operating income increased, reflecting High-performance films Food packaging materials/Industrial-use films/Medical and sanitary films continued firmness in the domestic and overseas electronics material gases and the Environment & living solutions Aqua solutions/Separation materials/Separator and aqua chemicals/Agricultural solutions/Infrastructure solutions inclusion of results of businesses acquired in the U.S. and Australia in the previous period. Advanced moldings & High-performance engineering plastics/Carbon fiber and composite materials/Alumina fibers/Functional moldings and composites composites/Fibers and textiles Performance Health Care Domain Health Care Advanced polymers Performance polymers/Phenol and polycarbonate/Polybutylene terephthalate/Sustainable polymers Chemicals High-performance Coating materials/Epoxy resins/Resin additives/Food ingredients chemicals Health Care Segment Contributing factors to core operating income New energy Lithium-ion battery materials/LED materials/Scintillator This segment posted increased revenue and decreased income. Revenue totaled Health Care ¥556.6 billion, with an increase of ¥9.6 billion year on year, while core operating income (Billions of yen) Buying Industrial Volume Cost Other Chemicals MMA MMA MMA and PMMA and selling difference reduction differences* Materials was ¥81.2 billion, down ¥17.2 billion year on year. 110 difference 4.0 2.5 Petrochemicals Petrochemicals Basic petrochemicals and Basic chemical derivatives/Polyolefins Pharmaceuticals recorded higher sales revenue, due mainly to higher sales volumes of 100 98.4 Carbon Products Carbon Products Coke/Carbon materials/Carbon black/Synthetic rubber priority ethical pharmaceutical products including Simponi, a treatment for rheumatoid 90 -0.2 Industrial Industrial Gases Industrial gases Industrial Gases/Industrial Gas-related equipment and facilities arthritis and significant sales growth of Radicava, a treatment for amyotrophic lateral 80 81.2 Gases sclerosis (ALS) in the U.S., despite a lower sales brought on by a generic drug business 70 -23.5 Health Care Health Care Health Care Pharmaceuticals Ethical Pharmaceuticals transfer and other factors. 2016 2017 Clinical testing/Diagnostic reagents and instruments/Capsules and pharmaceutical processing equipment/Active (FY) Life Science pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates Core operating income decreased due primarily to increased business development *2 PVOH refers to polyvinyl alcohol. costs in the U.S., in addition to R&D expenses. 51 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 52 Overview of Business Segments | Performance Products Domain SWOT Analysis S Strengths W Weaknesses Optical films O Opportunities T Threats Increase in sophisticated market Strong market position and ability Ability to adapt to short-term Shrinkage of existing market needs (greater demand for highto deliver solutions for various demand changes that fluctuated due to destructive technological performance and high-precision optical applications beyond expectation innovation products) High-performance films Technologies to add functions Business development with focus Roll-out of high-performance Medium-term decrease in including gas barrier, porous on the domestic market products to overseas businesses domestic demand control and multiple layers High-performance engineering plastics Widespread and direct impacts Global network across business Expanded demand in industrial Shrinkage of existing market from social/economic/foreign groups from materials to forming use (aircraft, semiconductors) and due to dissemination of new exchange risks in different regions processing field medical use technologies such as 3D printer around the world Carbon fiber and composite materials Business development through Expanded demand in industrial vertically-integrated value chain Intensified competition due to Exchange rate impacts due to the use (automobiles, wind power which covers from carbon fibers to quality improvement of products of high ratio of overseas sales generation, pressure vessels CFRP intermediate base material/ developing countries and others) composites Performance Products Performance Products Domain In performance products, we focus on five growing markets and seek to orchestrate the Group’s Focus Markets (Domains) Major Business Automobiles, Aircraft (Mobility) Lightweight composites, Environment-friendly materials Advanced polymers/ High-performance Packaging, Labels, Films Food packaging films, Industrial films Advanced polymers/ IT, Electronics, Displays Flat panel display materials, Semiconductor-related materials Information, Electronics Environment, Energy Battery materials, Water treatment Food ingredients, Pharmaceutical formulation systems and devices Environment & living Medical, Food, Bio Products materials, Medical-related products Advanced polymers/Highperformance films/Advanced wide range of products and technologies while pursuing differentiation and improved performance. chemicals/ High-performance films & Display/Advanced solutions/New energy moldings &composites/ Domains Advanced moldings & moldings & composites High-performance chemicals/ In this way, we will offer diverse solutions to each market. composites Environment & living solutions Major Businesses and Products ¥782.1 ¥58.0 ¥363.8 ¥36.0 FY2017 FY2017 FY2017 FY2017 Functional Products Revenue billion Core Operating billion Performance Chemicals Revenue billion Core Operating billion Income Income Information, electronics & display Environment & living solutions Advanced polymers New energy Optical films Aqua solutions Performance polymers Lithium-ion battery materials We swiftly respond to markets expanding globally Through offerings such as water treatment With a broad product range centered around Targeting the increasingly sophisticated needs and increasingly sophisticated needs, such as chemicals, filtration membranes and ionthermoplastic elastomers, performance of customers, we are developing electrolytes polyester films and optical clear adhesive sheets, exchange resins, we cover the total water polyolefins and PVC compounds, we contribute to and anode materials primarily for the batteries and support the advancement of displays. treatment process from drinking water to customers’ innovation in areas from medical care equipped in electric vehicles based on wastewater, aiming to provide solutions to any and industry to daily consumer goods. comprehensive high levels of technology and Information and Electronics Materials and all water-related issues on a worldwide basis. a global supply system covering from material We focus on developing and selling products and Phenol and polycarbonate development to safety evaluation. Optical films/Optical PVOH services that create new value consistent with Aqua solutions/Separation Agricultural solutions Performance polymers/ Integrating our proprietary manufacturing process Lithium-ion battery materials/ film/Precision cleaning/Color customers’ needs, including various materials for materials/Separator and We offer agricultural materials such as high Phenol and polycarbonate/ technologies with polymer design technologies Phosphors/Scintillators/GaN Phosphors, Scintillators, and GaN Substrates resist FPD(Flat Panel Display) and precision cleaning for aqua chemicals/Agricultural performance films with superior durability for Polybutylene terephthalate/ and compound technologies, we have expanded substrates We are providing phosphors for fluorescent semiconductors. solutions/Infrastructure greenhouses, and plant factories for cultivating Sustainable polymers our business globally with one of the largest backlights and LED lighting and scintillators for solutions security and medical diagnostic devices such high-quality vegetables stably throughout the year. market shares in Asia. as CT. We are also developing gallium nitride High-performance films Advanced moldings & composites High-performance chemicals (GaN) substrates used in lasers and other highperformance devices. High-performance films High-performance engineering plastics Coating materials Through the optimal combination of technologies As a leading global manufacturer, we develop We provide added value under strong including polymer material design, forming business in a wide range of fields, such as consciousness of sustainability with polymers for processing, surface treatment and composition, industrial machinery, automobiles, aircrafts, and paints, inks, adhesives, hair care materials, and we offer products with added “functionalities” medical use. resist materials for semiconductors based on such as gas barrier property, weather resistance, advanced technologies of synthesis, formulation, moisture permeability, easy-opening, applied Carbon fiber and composite materials and evaluation. in different markets for food, industrial, and We have realized one of the most integrated High-performance films High-performance engineering product chains in the world, covering from Coating materials/Epoxy Food ingredients healthcare, etc. (Food packaging materials, plastics/Carbon fiber and PAN-based and pitch-based carbon fibers to resins/Resin additives/ We have expanded our business to a wide Industrial-use films, Medical composite materials/Alumina intermediates and composite products using Food ingredients/Inorganic range of fields from food to pharmaceuticals and and sanitary films) fibers/Functional moldings and fibers as base materials. chemicals cosmetics in product groups such as emulsifiers— composites/Fibers and textiles represented by our sugar ester which has the leading global market share —and vitamin E. 53 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 54 Overview of Business Segments | Performance Products Domain Performance Products Growth Strategy APTSIS 20 Policies Planned Figures (APTSIS 20 Original planned figures) Accelerate growth through orchestration and Core Operating Income Flexibly adapt our products to diverse needs in medical care (billions of yen) integration, and supply high-performance products/ 150 Investment solutions globally to growth markets Key Strategies 100 ¥125.0 billion amount (Five-year plan, total) ¥390.0 billion* 2 ¥94.0 billion As the aging population continues to grow in developed Biocompatible high-perfomance engineering plastic 50 countries and the population increase will accelerate in Expand high-performance, high-value-added R&D ¥170.0 products and the solutions business investment developing countries, the global medical market is billion* 2 (Five-year Accelerate global development 0 plan, total) expected to continue to grow significantly. The MCHC Strengthen innovation by integration of the Group focuses on the growing medical market and three chemical operating companies 2017 Results *1 2020 Plan (FY) develops products that are flexibly adapted to diverse Achieve profitability of new energy businesses *1 Since FY2017, changes have been made to some product segments. at an early stage *2 In November 2017, MCHC announced that it would increase investments and loans by 200 needs in medical care. billion yen and R&D investments by 25 billion yen on a company-wide basis. For example, in the high-performance engineering Growth Strategies of Information, Electronics & Display plastics business, ultra-high molecular weight Hip joint Knee joint polyethylene (Chirulen) has been employed globally by By sharing optical-related material information used for display purposes, Surface Optical Clear Adhesive Sheet Example configuration protection film CLEARFIT artificial joint manufacturers for many years, and related information in the IT and electronic devices field, and customer of a smartphone Cover glass Global market for orthopedic implants information, we are strengthening market access and accelerating efforts to Inter-layer filling Optical biaxial oriented biocompatible engineering plastics are widely used for polyester films sheet (Trillion yen) supply and develop products that satisfy customer needs while collaborating DIAFOIL medical devices and surgical tools as substitutes for 5 to 10% growth of the market with other business domains. Specifically, we will add a facility in China, where Touch panel (Protection film, release film, 8.0 is expected annually. Inter-layer filling diffusion film) metal parts because of their lightweight and radiolucent integration in the display industry is in progress, to increase our production sheet capacity of polyether film-processed products. In Japan, to correspond to PVOH film for polarizing plate characteristics. 6.0 Polarizing plate OPL Film liquid crystal displays which have been becoming larger year by year, we are For MCHC overall, our target is to increase sales in the Liquid crystal 4.0 working to increase production lines for wider OPL Film used in polarizing panel Our other products medical market from 55 billion yen in 2017 to 100 billion plate, a part of liquid crystal displays. In addition, we will expand our business Color resist Polarizing plate Used for liquid crystal panels yen in 2020. We will combine our broad array of 2.0 by providing further solutions such as development of products for organic EL. Light guide panel, technology and experience, while continuing to pursue For LCD materials, we will consider the addition of a new series of optical Reflective sheet 0 film for large-sized TVs and add a facility for high-performance coated Backlight Used for liquid crystal display growth. backlights 2015 2020 2025 (Year) polyester film in China. For organic EL panel materials, we will expand the The above chart was prepared with reference to Technology Roadmap for 2016-2025: Medical, sales of bank materials, strengthen the development of new products and Healthcare, Food and Agriculture industries published in 2015 by Nikkei Business Publication, Inc. commercialize them. In this way, we will pursue continued expansion. Growth Strategies of High-performance Films While strengthening our product development capabilities and proposal abilities by Solutions for Environmental and Social Issues accelerating orchestration with other business domains and promoting the evolution electrolytes and anode materials are widely used for LIBs of a seamless technology platform, we will accelerate the global expansion of Provide innovative products and solutions high value-added products and realize our growth strategies by utilizing resources for vehicles as high-performance products that can that contribute to the efficient use of energy in of overseas affiliates. In particular, we have started the construction of a local improve performance in a variety of ways, including production facility in Thailand for a multilayer co-extruded film (DIAMIRON) that pursuit of a more KAITEKI society. product life, output, and charging property of LIBs. is widely used in food and medical packaging to expand business in the ASEAN In recent years, with increasing awareness of resource We will continue to satisfy the performance requirements market, which is expected to continue to experience significant growth. We will also globally expand the business of DIAMIRON and other barrier films through overseas constraints and environmental issues, the electric vehicle of customers with our high technologies while M&A and enhance the technological development of next-generation products such market is expanding. The MCHC Group is manufacturing simultaneously strengthening our global supply system as smart packaging to focus on social contributions, including solving the food-loss and selling electrolytes and anode materials for lithiumby increasing capacity at each site, aiming to realize a issue (longer shelf life). Example of use of DIAMIRON ion batteries (LIB) equipped in electric vehicles. Our KAITEKI society. Growth Strategies of High-performance Chemicals Projection of demand in large size LIB List of production sites We pursue growth by organic growth, cooperation with other business domains, Expansion through Organic Growth, Cooperation with Other (MWh) Aircrafts, vessels ESS Vehicles Stockton-On-Tees, U.K. utilizing external resources through M&A, and expanding our business by exploring Divisions, M&A, and Exploring New Areas 400 Lucite Factory segments. Business scale Exploring new areas One specific example of the organic growth is the case for Emulsifier business, Business expansion through Yokkaichi 300 Changshu City, Jiangsu, China exploring new areas represented by Sugar Ester which we have the leading global market share. Qingdao City, Shandong, China Sakaide M&A Sugar Ester will be expanded by applying technologies and schemes which Utilization of external 200 Memphis, Tennessee, U.S. Lucite Factory have been established through our long experience in Japan, and especially by resources through M&A satisfying demand mainly in China/ASEAN where the market for processed food is Cooperation with other divisions 100 sugar ester expanding. Cooperation with other For cooperation with other business domains, combination with Carbon fiber business domains by utilizing strengths combined 0 Electrolyte composites materials shall be an example. Combining with matrix resins and other by the integration of three 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2025 (FY) Anode material companies additives provided from our Domain, various functions such as high toughness, Organic growth Reference data: IHS, Fuji Keizai, B3 and ID Tech curing control, and adhesion to other materials, will be added. Thus, we persistently Enhancement of existing offer distinctive composite products to the growing markets. businesses Present 2025 55 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 56 Overview of Business Segments | Industrial Materials Domain SWOT Analysis S Strengths W Weaknesses MMA O Opportunities T Threats Possesses three major Fluctuating revenue due to Business network positioned to manufacturing methods. Holds overseas market conditions and respond to global expansion of Competition with other materials a strong market position with the raw material trends demand world’s top market share Petrochemicals Product chains ranging U.S. shale-based products and Susceptible to price fluctuation Knowledge business (technology from crackers to derivatives Chinese coal-based products impacts of commodities such as license, catalysts) in overseas and accumulation of own flowing into the Japanese market crude oil growth regions technologies in greater quantities than expected Carbon Products Coking coal blending technologies Expanding production of crude Integration of blast furnace along Fluctuating revenue due to volatile and Coke quality management steel and demands for coke in with the restructuring of steel coking coal prices technologies developing countries such as India companies Industrial Gases Greater opportunity to invest Oligopolization in overseas Holds a strong market position with Relatively expensive domestic cost in North America, Asia and markets by major European and the domestic top market share structure (electricity rates) Oceania. Expanding demand for North American gas producers electronics and medical uses Industrial Materials Industrial Materials Domain MCHC will continue to advance the diversification of raw materials, including renewable resources, provide products and technologies through a framework that reflects the needs of the time, and support growing markets. Major Businesses and Products MMA FY2017 Revenue ¥385.9 billion Petrochemicals FY2017 Revenue ¥538.0 billion Carbon Products FY2017 Revenue ¥253.4 billion Industrial Gases FY2017 Revenue ¥638.7 billion ¥109.6 ¥25.9 ¥12.4 ¥57.5 FY2017 FY2017 FY2017 FY2017 Core Operating Core Operating Core Operating Core Operating Income billion Income billion Income billion Income billion MMA, PMMA Basic petrochemicals, Basic chemical derivatives, Polyolefins Coke, Carbon material, Carbon black, Synthetic rubber Industrial Gases, Industrial Gas-related equipment and facilities MMA Basic petrochemicals and basic chemical derivatives Coke Industrial gases We possess three main manufacturing methods* that use different raw materials Our ethylene plants are located in Kashima and Mizushima* in Japan. We provide Coke supports the global steel industries, and various products are also produced We have a leading 40% share of the domestic market for industrial gases, mainly and maintain a leading 40% global market share. We aim to realize the most olefins such as ethylene and propylene, and aromatics such as benzene and from the tar created by the coke manufacturing process. Each year we import coals oxygen, nitrogen and argon. We are expanding our business areas overseas while advanced and sophisticated operations with an established global supply chain toluene. We also deal in various ethylene, propylene and C4 derivatives, terephthalic from countries around the world and produce coke of different qualities by blending focusing on North America, Asia and Oceania as key markets. that takes advantage of raw material availability for each plant as well as cost acid, and more. around 60-70 types of raw materials in various combinations. competitiveness. * The Mizushima ethylene plant is owned by Asahi Kasei Mitsubishi Chemical Ethylene, * Acetone cyanohydrin (ACH) method, C4 direct oxidation process, and new ethylene which is jointly owned by Asahi Kasei and Mitsubishi Chemical. process (Alpha Technology) Polyolefins Carbon black Industrial gas-related equipment and facilities PMMA Our polyolefin (polyethylene and polypropylene) business offers high quality and Carbon black is a material used for products found in daily life, such as tires, printing Besides our domestic production of Japan’s first air separation plant, we have PMMA (acrylic resin) has various excellent characteristics such as superior high performance product lineups in a wide range of fields including automobiles, ink, and colored resins. We manufacture carbon black under consistent quality earned a stellar reputation as a world’s top-class plant manufacturer through the transparency, strong weatherability and formability. We operate business with a electrical wires, medical devices and food packaging based on proprietary catalyst control throughout the process beginning from raw material processing to the final production of space-simulation chambers and liquid helium-related equipment. variety of PMMA products including acrylic sheets for signs, display shelves and and process technologies. We are also expanding its business outside Japan as a products. aquarium tanks, molding materials for automotive products, optical components global supplier of high performance materials while developing the growing global and home electronic parts, and plastic optical fibers. markets including the automobile industry. 57 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 58 Overview of Business Segments | Industrial Materials Domain Performance Products APTSIS 20 Growth Strategy Policies Planned Figures (APTSIS 20 Original planned figures) Stabilization of earnings by strengthening of costcompetitiveness Core Operating Income (billions of yen) MMA Establish a Strong Global Supply Network 210 ¥205.3 billion Investment Acceleration of growth and strengthening of presence in the global market amount (Five-year plan, total) ¥580.0 billion* 2 140 ¥130.0 billion With its global production sites and sales networks, ethylene process (Alpha Technology), which is the Group’s Key Strategies R&D Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (MCC) has established a unique technology that produces MMA monomers from ¥80.0 70 investment Strengthening of cost-competitiveness (Five-year billion* 2 strong business model with high cost-competitiveness and ethylene. plan, total) Acceleration of global development 0 a wide range of value chains, from MMA monomers to In the U.S., we are also performing investigations on business (MMA, industrial gases) 2017 Results *1 2020 Plan (FY) polymers and processed products, as well as from multidevelopment regarding the construction of another MMA *1 Since FY2017, changes have been made to some product segments. purpose products to high-performance products, as the monomer production facility that has a production capability of *2 In November 2017, MCHC announced that it would increase investments and loans by 200 billion yen and R&D investments by 25 billion yen on a company-wide basis. world's leading supplier of MMA, boasting approximately a 250 thousand tons based on the new ethylene process, using 40% share of the global production capacity. shale gas-based ethylene as a raw material. Strategic Approach to Strengthening Competitiveness of Petrochemicals In April 2018, the plant with the world’s largest production To maintain our overwhelming competitive advantage as having the Up to 2016, we had specific aims for large-scale structural capacity of MMA monomers (250 thousand tons/year), world's leading share of MMA business, we will continue to build APTSIS 10 APTSIS 15 APTSIS 20 After APTSIS 20 reforms, including the consolidation of ethylene cracker and which was established as a joint venture with Saudi Basic optimal production systems for plants located all over the world. Cracker structural reforms withdrawal from unprofitable businesses. Looking ahead, we will Preparations for a raw material revolution Industries Corporation in Saudi Arabia, has commenced Unification of Naphtha Refinery alliances continue to strengthen competitiveness by further reinforcing the Basic crackers at Kashima Preparation for raw material diversification commercial operations. This plant makes maximum use Petrochemicals Unification of naphtha crackers at Mizushima foundations of production sites and optimizing production while of the highly cost-competitive gas raw materials, utilities, Improving the value of all unutilized fraction seeking to maximize earnings. Fuel Conversion Complex alliances Utility Alliances (Wide-area, Other Companies) and infrastructures in Saudi Arabia based on the new As for the optimization of polyolefin production, in 2017, we Production optimization (Reorganization of production lines) MMA World Market Share Trend stopped the system in the production facility using the slurry Polyolefin (Thousand tons/year) (%) technique at Japan Polypropylene Corporation Goi Plant as part 5,000 World's production capacity The Group’s production capacity 100 Estimated share U.S. PJ (under feasibility study) of the scrap-and-build plan. We have decided to construct a PE/PP: Optimization of production system new system in the polypropylene production facility using the Withdrawal from Enhancing derivatives business (chain) 4,000 80 unprofitable derivatives Coordination with other business divisions Basic gas-phase process (our unique HORIZONE method), which can Setting up EO center chemical Increased EC production capacity 3,000 60 realize high-quality and high-efficiency production, at the same derivatives Downsizing of TPA business Restructuring of Electrolysis and VCM plant, aiming for start of operation in October 2019. Withdrawal from PTMG business (China) 2,000 40 We will continue to maximize earnings through improved added Strengthening plants value by targeting the unutilized fraction between cracker and Common 1,000 20 issues derivatives, the development of high-performance polyethylene and Development of high-value-added products, technology licensing 0 0 high-performance polypropylene, and the expansion of technology MMA monomer plant with the world's top-class production 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 …Measures including establishment of new facilities …Restructuring, downsizing and suspension capacity that has started operation (Saudi Arabia) licenses through the refinement of possessed technologies. Growth Strategies of Industrial Gases Solutions for Environmental and Social Issues Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation (TNSC), which has a leading 40% share of the domestic market for industrial gases, will work to Regional our needle coke have superior characteristics, such as lower Holding Shanghai Growth Strategies Needle Coke promote expansion by setting structural reform, innovation, companies Singapore thermal expansion coefficients and electric resistibility, East Asia (China) globalization and M&A as the pillars of our growth strategy, aiming Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (MCC) has succeeded in the compared to conventional petroleum-based needle coke and Total Electronics function to improve global competitiveness and secure a firm footing in the established production of the world's first coal-based needle coke using extremely low power consumption of the electrodes Investments in facility to industrial gas market where oligopolization by restructuring is produce material gases for semiconductors coal tar, which is generated when coal is distilled (steamed and themselves. taking place. roasted) as a raw material. Demand for needle coke is rapidly We are contributing to reducing the environmental impact by Domestically, by maximizing the power of the Group through the increasing, mainly as a raw material for graphite electrodes in providing needle coke as a raw material for graphite expansion of gas and gas-related businesses, including electronics Oceania electric furnace steel and for anode materials for lithium-ion electrodes in electric furnace steel, which generate lower Reinforcing material gases and the medical business, as well as the equipment manufacturing secondary batteries. Behind the rapid increase in demand is CO2 emissions than South Asia / position for business and strengthening of coordination among the sales Middle East industrial gases the rapid recovery of electric furnace operations due to the blast furnaces, and M&A (local gas manufacturers) divisions at Group companies, we will further reinforce our industryMaking investments in prohibition of illegally produced steel mill products in China and anode materials for ASUs, CO2, H2 and helium leading position while continuously growing. Overseas, we will equipment North America the global expansion of the electric vehicle market. lithium-ion secondary aggressively promote capital investment and M&A activities mainly Southeast Asia Capital investments in ASUs and There are only two companies in the world (excluding China) batteries, which are used M&A (Taking the first-mover advantage in the new market) CO2 equipment in North America, Asia, and Oceania, where further growth is ASU, H2, CO2, and investment in specialty gases M&A (acquisition of distributors) that produce needle coke from coal. The electrodes that use for electric vehicles. expected, while considering expansion into new business areas. (Source: Materials from TNSC’s Ortus Stage 2 medium-term management plan) *ASU: Air Separation Unit * In July 2018, MCHC announced the conclusion of the share purchase agreement to acquire a part of European businesses of U.S. company Praxair, Inc., for 5,000 million euro. The share transfer is planned for November 2018. 59 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 60 Overview of Business Segments | Health Care Domain SWOT Analysis S Strengths W Weaknesses Pharmaceuticals O Opportunities T Threats Capabilities for drug Global business expansion (in Diversification of medical needs Declining success rate for discovery and IKUYAKU (drug North America in particular) Expanding demand in the health new drug development and fostering and evolution) in the has been in progress care domain due to global aging increasing R&D costs due to pharmaceutical business stricter drug approval process Presence in focus areas Various measures to control including autoimmune diseases medical expenditures by governments Life Science Broad business foundation Various products and services Upward trend in the use of Lack of economic incentives in covering from sick care to that meet customers’ needs big data through health and the healthcare business healthcare and life care are insufficient medical ICT Strong market position in the Government incentives to capsule business maintain health, to prevent Provide total solutions in clinical serious disease cases and to testing area restrain medical expenditure Enhancing health awareness such as self-medication Health Care Health Care Domain Going beyond the treatment of disease, MCHC will develop the health care business for the realization of society in which all people live long, healthy lives Major Businesses and Products ¥556.6 ¥81.2 FY2017 FY2017 Health Care Revenue Core Operating billion Income billion Pharmaceuticals Life Science Remicade Simponi Imusera Lexapro Radicut Clinical testing/diagnostic reagents and instruments/capsule business/active Muse cell pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates Autoimmune diseases area Central nervous system diseases area Drug discovery solutions Next-generation healthcare In the autoimmune diseases area, our company has strong sales foundation based In the central nervous system diseases area, the antidepressant Lexapro was We offer clinical trial services that support the pharmaceutical development process We are promoting next-generation medical business such as regenerative on a trust relationship with medical professionals, which has been established additionally approved for the treatment of social anxiety disorder in November 2015. and the manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates. medicine. In January 2018, we began exploratory clinical trials of a Muse cell-based through one of our main products, Remicade (indication: inflammatory autoimmune Centering on its effect on anxiety, we will further promote this drug, reinforcing the We also provide high-quality, high-performance hard capsules such as HPMC formulation for patients with acute myocardial infarction. The formulation uses Muse diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis). We will continue to maintain the largest sales base in this area for the launch of new drugs in the future. capsules, the world's first HPMC capsules made of plant-derived materials, and cells which were discovered by a team led by Professor Mari Dezawa of Tohoku market share in this area by maximizing the advantages of both Remicade and pharmaceutical machinery using our knowhow of manufacturing technology. University. For the commercialization of the Muse cell-based formulation, we plan Simponi (indication: rheumatoid arthritis, and others). to start operations the LSII Regenerative Medicine Center (tentative name), a cell processing facility, in January 2019 (see pages 15 and 16). * The LSII Regenerative Medicine Center (tentative name), cell processing facility Tenelia Canaglu Canalia Influenza vaccine Tetrabik Varicella vaccine Jibun Karada Club Diabetes and kidney diseases area Vaccines Health and medical ICT In the diabetes and kidney diseases area, we aim to obtain evidence and expand MCHC and the Research Foundation for Microbial Diseases of Osaka University Through the provision of clinical testing services, the sale of diagnostic reagents and sales channels for Tenelia Tablets and Canaglu Tablets, the Japan's first treatment founded BIKEN Co., Ltd., a joint venture for the production of vaccines, which diagnostic instruments, and the provision of self-health check service, Jibun Karada for type 2 diabetes mellitus discovered by Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, and for started operation in September 2017. We plan to double or triple production of Club, we offer solutions not only to “cure disease” but also to “prevent disease.” CANALIA Combination Tablets*, a combination of Tenelia Tablets and Canaglu varicella vaccine and to increase total vaccine production by 20-30% by 2019. We Tablets, and we plan to establish our presence in this area. will also enhance the production platform for vaccines that are in greater demand * Approved July 2017, launched in September 2017 and help further stabilize the supply of vaccines. 61 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 62 Overview of Business Segments | Health Care Domain Health APTSISCare Growth Strategy 20 Policies Planned Figures (APTSIS 20 Original planned figures) Worldwide growth in pharmaceutical business Core Operating Income Step 2 (MT-2271) of U.S. business development: Virus-like Particle (VLP)-based vaccine (billions of yen) Establish and improve the health and medical business 150 Investment utilizing ICT and the regenerative medicine products Key Strategies ¥125.0 billion amount (Five-year plan, total) ¥560.0 billion* 100 ¥81.2 billion What is a VLP-based vaccine? Promote the development of overseas pharmaceutical business mainly in the U.S. R&D A VLP is similar to a wild-type virus and is expected to be ¥440.0 50 investment Strengthen capabilities for drug discovery (Five-year billion* highly immunogenic (effective). Medicago Inc., a subsidiary of plan, total) Maximize values of new drugs and priority products by 0 Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma based in Quebec, Canada, uses strengthening capabilities of IKUYAKU (drug fostering and evolution) and marketing 2017 Results 2020 Plan (FY) recombinant DNA techniques to produce vaccines and, Expand the healthcare and medical business utilizing ICT * In November 2017, MCHC announced that it would increase investments and loans by 200 billion yen therefore, all that is needed to start vaccine production is and R&D investments by 25 billion yen on a company-wide basis. Expand the regenerative medicine business information on the genetic makeup of epidemic strain. Since Improve profitability and global expansion of the capsule Medicago also has a transient expression manufacturing business platform, it can produce vaccines much more quickly than Growth Strategies in Pharmaceutical Business traditional egg-based influenza vaccine production. VLP Influenza virus Medicago is a biopharmaceutical company which is at the As the health care company in the MCHC Group, Mitsubishi Tanabe Roadmap for accelerating U.S. business development forefront of the research and development of new vaccines using Pharma has set the target revenue of ¥500.0 billion and core Features and advantages of VLP-based We launched Radicava for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) infiltrated leaf tissue with virus-like particles (VLPs*). Medicago vaccine production operating income of ¥100.0 billion for FY2020 under its mediumin August 2017 and made NeuroDerm Ltd. into a wholly owned subsidiary in has proprietary technologies for the production, the efficient October, thus acquiring product candidates such as ND0612 for Parkinson’s term management plan “Open Up the Future” and has also set out Vaccines in 5-6 weeks 10M doses in one month Disease. In addition to such business development in the nervous system extraction and purification of those VLPs. In September 2017, four strategic priorities for achieving the following objectives. diseases area, we are in the process of developing MT-2271, a new seasonal Clinical-grade influenza In 2012, Medicago Medicago began a phase III clinical study for seasonal influenza influenza vaccine made using novel technology (see page 62) and aim to obtain vaccines ready in 5-6 weeks demonstrated the ability to Four strategic vaccine with its plant-derived VLP-based in seven countries priorities FY2020 objectives FY2017 results approval during the period of the medium-term management plan. after strain identification. produce 10 million doses of a Late-stage drug candidate Progress of 5 products including Canada, the U.S., Europe and Asia. The U.S. plant-based H1N1 influenza objective: 10 candidates Maximizing R&D investment: ¥400.0 billion seasonable influenza vaccine market is worth around ¥240.0 vaccine in one month. pipeline value (over medium-term management plan period) billion and Medicago aims to obtain approval during FY2019. Continued growth of U.S. business Strengthening IKUYAKU (drug Domestic revenue objective: ¥300.0 billion ¥309.3 billion Step 3 Nervous system Vaccines Application to new fostering and New drug and priority product 63% diseases diseases evolution) and marketing sales ratio: 75% Transient Plant-Based Expression System U.S. revenue objective: ¥80.0 Expansion of U.S. business Radicava ¥12.3 billion (U.S. strategic investment: more than ¥200.0 billion) Accelerating U.S. business billion U.S. strategic investment: more (launched in August 2017) Step 2 1 2 3 4 5 Acquisition of NeuroDerm MT-2271 ND0612 development than ¥200.0 billion (over medium(around ¥120.0 billion) term management plan period) Starting material Infiltration Incubation Extraction Purification Cost reduction objective: ¥20.0 ¥14.0 billion First step for U.S business Reforming (compared to FY2015) billion (compared to FY2015) operational Number of employees in Japan: Step 1 Launch of RADICAVA Infiltrated plant Releasing the productivity 5,158 employees Gene(s) of interest Getting the vector cells producing Getting highly pure 5,000 employees recombinant products Plants into the leaf tissue & accumulating product into solution recombinant products Growth Strategies in Life Science Business Drug discovery solutions We will consolidate the pharmaceutical business (active Wellness Solution Medical Solution Solutions for Environmental and Social Issues pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates, capsules, etc.) and the drug discovery support business (non-clinical trials, clinical trials) and we will also provide high added value one-stop solutions to Technology supporting the 2020 Tokyo Olympic and pharmaceutical companies through alliances with other organizations. Paralympic Games Health and medical ICT The drug discovery business of Life Science Institute, Inc. was Provision of solutions to promote health and We will create a growing business by using ICT to organically prevent aggravation certified as a doping test organization by the International Olympic link diverse products and services ranging from clinical testing to Provision of unique products and services for diagnostic reagents, diagnostic instruments, health check-ups and Committee (IOC) in 1985 and since then it has conducted doping test. pharmaceutical development the Jibun Karada Club blood test kit. Provision of solutions to meet UMN* The Life Science Institute is the only laboratory in Japan certified by Next-generation health care the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). At the 2020 Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games, we will apply advanced technologies to meet We aim to address unmet medical needs by providing nextNextgeneration medical care including regenerative medicine to patients generation Health and Drug discovery WADA requirements which have become even stricter since the with diseases that are difficult to cure with currently available medical ICT solutions health care detection of organized doping. technologies. In FY2017, we began clinical trials of a Muse cell-based formulation for patients with acute myocardial infarction. We plan to start clinical trials for another indication during FY2018. * Unmet Medical Needs 63 Performance Innovation & ESG KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 64 Innovation Innovation The MCHC Group embraces various approaches to Research and Development Management Example MOT Indices and Results in FY2017 At the MCHC Group, we consider environmental and social issues along with market needs in leveraging our core strengthen our core technologies, including internal R&D, Success technologies to create new value chains and innovative lifestyles. We provide and realize comprehensive solutions. external R&D, venture investments, open shared business MOT Index Ratio Our efforts extend beyond component and material research and development of technologies. We pursue (OSB*) and M&A activities. Moreover, by developing systems innovation in manufacturing processes and distribution channels, and find new uses for existing solutions. In this to promote information sharing between operating companies Elevated stage success ratio pursuit, we create value for our customers and our business partners throughout the value chain, in all regions in and reduce the risk of information leaks, MCHC accelerates R&D Index (development stage to launch stage) 137% which the MCHC Group is active. synergy among its core technologies and engages in R&D management that tracks the progress using Management of Technology (MOT) Indices. The twelve MOT Indices were selected to quantify the following: efficiency of research and Intellectual Overseas patent applications ratio ∙ Business Opportunities development (R&D Index), technological superiority Property (percentage of overseas applications out of 104% ∙ Corporate Brand Environmental ∙ Solutions Index total number of applications) ∙ Evaluation and Reputation and Social Issues ∙ Business, Products and Services (Intellectual Property Index), and compatibility with social ∙ Governance needs (Market Index). The indices were introduced on a trial basis in FY2013 and reviewed during the formulation of APTSIS 20. The new indices have been in use since FY2016. New product ratio (The table on the right shows achievement percentage of Market Index (percentage of new products and services 109% out of total revenue) MOS representative indices in FY2017 against target values) ∙ Impacts on Society * Open Shared Business (OSB): OSB is MCHC’s original framework in which MCHC works with Management organizations outside the Group to advance collaboration in both R&D and business while ∙ Enhancement of Aimed at developing a distinctive value chain. Social Capital Improved “OSB”: MCHC registered trade mark No. 5585432 Sustainability ∙ Fulfillment of Social ∙ Environmental Responsibility and Social Issues (Needs) MOE MOT Management Prioritizing Management to Early Commercialization of Next-Generation Businesses Improved Capital Enable Innovation Efficiency To secure our growth during FY2020–FY2025, we promote commercialization of next generation businesses, reflecting Core trends in our focus markets. Profitability Automobiles, Aircraft Technologies (Mobility) ∙ Product/Technology Competitiveness ∙ Solutions Multi-materials MOE (Management of Economics) Next-generation MOS (Management of Sustainability) sensor materials MOT (Management of Technology) Next-generation Power semiconductor ∙ Business Model and Business Processes battery materials related materials ∙ Allocation of Research Resources Environment, Energy IT, Electronics, Displays Core Technologies Molecular Design Functional Design Environmental impact reduction Next-generation display Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) materials Technologies Technologies perspective (recycling) Core Technologies Renewable energy Organic molecules Fiber spinning/Film New biodegradable polymer The MCHC Group maintains a wide range of unique Inorganic molecules technologies and expertise—our core technologies—which are Molding Polymers Composite materials for High-performance barrier films the source of tens of thousands of products and services from Coating/Surface 3D printing (medical etc.) (medical, food) Catalysts treatment materials to consumer goods. Moreover, we continually strive to Regenerative medicine New types of drugs Composite/Formulation and diagnostics Organic sensing films strengthen our foundation and create new technologies to Biotechnologies peripheral materials ICT and AI in address rapidly changing market needs and offer solutions to medical systems social issues. Enhanced prevention of diseases (micro biome) Synthesis Analyses, materials properties analytics and simulation Product evaluation Mechanical design and control technologies engineering Medical, Food, Bio Products Healthcare Packaging, Labels, Films 65 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 66 Innovation Message from the CDO Actions toward digital transformation To realize the vision of digital transformation, we carry out Vision activities base on five pillars as illustrated on the right. Creating new waves for the company, the industry and society with digital Specifically, the MCHC Group’s operating companies, technology and its philosophy to reform MCHC’s business and culture business divisions and plants are working together to carry Creating new waves for the company, out Digital Projects aimed at resolving business issues using New Digital digital technologies and its philosophy. In the FY2017, we Operational New Digital the industry and society with digital engaged in dozens of projects focusing on Operational Excellence Business Model Paradigm Introduction and Optimization of every The creation of technology and its philosophy to transform Excellence and produced the results mentioned below. single operation new services and business models that utilization of innovative technologies From data to induce changes and MCHC’s business and culture knowledge and intelligence transformation in supply chains Reconstruction of organizations, systems and mechanisms Kazuo Iwano Company-wide common infrastructure platform, MCHC method Executive Officer (cross-departmental exploitation) Chief Digital Officer Talent development, organizational and cultural transformation toward digital native organization 1 2 Inheritance of knowledge utilizing text mining Detecting signs of errors in processes at plants We live in an era of global change help create new value by taking by ourselves. In addition, in the The value of information is long sustained in the MCHC Group. Defects in a large chemical plant have such a huge impact on that is becoming increasingly advantage of this sensitivity. domains of Cyber Physical However, the information and data are either scattered or business activities that they lead to losses of business complex at an accelerating pace, The MCHC Group has four Systems (CPS) and IoT, the possessed by individuals and we were facing a risk of losing opportunities. It has been difficult to detect through chemical driven by Information Technology assets which are very significant physical world and cyberspace knowledge and expertise with the retirement of skilled engineering alone for a long time. Data from sensors installed such as cloud computing, big data, to the digital transformation. will be fused and be full filled employees. This was an issue in the situations such as in a plant are analyzed using statistical and machine learning Internet of Things (IoT), and First, a huge volume of longwith opportunities to create responding to inquiries on products from customers, so we methods to achieve the practical and predictive detection of artificial intelligence (AI). accumulated data. Second, value. In this respect, innovative used text mining technology to turn documents, including abnormalities. We predict that this situation will actual real business fields. Third, changes will occur in the textbooks on the products concerned and past responses, into Sensor correlation diagram have significant impact not only on the will for digital transformation business to business (B2B) area a knowledge base that was visualized and searchable. As a consumer business but also on the of our leaders. Fourth, various with a higher regard and will result, we have improved the response quality and speed. heavy and large-scale chemicals businesses and associated have a massive impact on Scope of application for text mining and materials industries. In April professionals. society and industries. It is time Data Processing 2017, the MCHC Group launched Considerable time has passed for us to be a leader in this Statistical the new post of Chief Digital Officer since we first heard about the challenging transformation. Language processing Analysis processing and machine (CDO) to which I was appointed. era of big data and artificial In this rare opportunity, the learning Internet Daily reports Working for many years in the IT intelligence. Until now, MCHC Group with its valuable Morphological Intension Trend analysis analysis analysis Correlation industry, I have always been discussions and the utilization of assets mentioned above must Syntactic Feature analysis analysis extraction Time series thinking about the essence of the these have been confined to the essentially incorporate Semantic Dialog analysis Blogs Patents Reputation analysis creation technology and concept on which business to consumer (B2C) innovations based on digital analysis today’s digital technology is based area. Around 2017, some started technologies and its philosophy Statistics We have established the methodology in the solution process and its implications for business remaking, “data is creating a and bring about business and Dictionary Learning acquired through a digital project as the MCHC method and Office Document model and society. In this way, I have new economy” and “data is the cultural reforms. I believe that documents databases we are broadly introducing it together with the common tried to sharpen my sense. I feel new oil of this century; data these activities will have a infrastructure platform to Group companies. We are also fulfilled and strongly responsible mining to turn data to value by profound meaning and working to advance technologies by developing working-level Examples of solutions when serving the MCHC Group to ourselves can really produce the pioneering role in society. engineers and other personnel through hands-on training, create products and services that greatest profit.” The day has Error detection Response to exchange and flexible introduction of outside knowledge. and prediction questions Patent analysis support economic and social come when we, as holders of As a company at the upstream part of the supply chain, we will Knowledge activities around the world and to data and real fields, create value Intelligent search succession work hard to establish a new business model in collaboration with our downstream partners. 67 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 68 Sustainability Material Issues Recognized Opportunities and Risks MCHC Group Management Related SDGs Sustainability Transformation and diversification of resources and energy supply sources Material Issues Related to the Global Environment Practical application of renewable energy and accelerated technological development Address the depletion of natural resources and energy saving by switching to renewable raw materials, curbing the use of rare metals, reducing raw fuel consumption and promoting 3R and Based on our unique approach, Management of Sustainability (MOS), the MCHC Group drives corporate activities including Energy and resources Depletion of rare metals and other natural resources zero-emission. development technologies, provision of products and services and improvement of manufacturing technologies to contribute to Increasing risk of extreme weather events and natural disasters Reduce GHG emissions, promote LCA and utilize low-carbon associated with climate change resources and energy, while striving to create and expand sustainability for people, society and our planet Earth. Formation of international consensus and effectiveness of business opportunities that mitigate or adapt to climate measures to prevent global warming Climate change Expand products and businesses to adapt and mitigate climate change change. Expanding water stress due to higher demand, climate change Work to use water resources efficiently and clean wastewater while contributing in finding solutions to water resource issues Materiality Assessment and other factors Increasing health risk due to shortages of hygienic water by providing safe and clean water through our products and Water Expanding businesses such as water purification and recycling services. MCHC has identified the important issues in the medium-term this materiality assessment are used as a compass for our Material Issues Related to Social Systems management plan APTSIS 20, and has prioritized these issues corporate activities. Increasing incidence rate for adult-onset diseases and rising Promote the use of health information and disease prevention mortality based on their impact on corporate and other factors. Results of Increasing risk of failing health insurance systems by improving lifestyle habits through self-medication and Expanding health information service market (shift from treatment expanding healthcare products and services, and contribute to Health and wellness to prevention) the advancement of people’s health. Improve patient QOL and help people’s lives and health by Material Issues Related to the Material Issues Related to Social Material Issues Related to the Manifestation of unmet medical needs Advancing digitization of data on medical treatment and health developing pharmaceuticals that respond to unmet medical needs Global Environment Systems Company and Its Organizational information through ICT Growing forays into the medical and healthcare fields from other and contributing to the sophistication of medical care through Key management issues that the MCHC Key management issues that the MCHC Structure Medical care industries regenerative medicine and remote medicine technologies. Group should address through its corporate Group should address through its corporate Key management issues that the MCHC Contribute solutions to food and agricultural issues by preserving activities, innovation, and provision of activities, innovation, and provision of Group should address in its internal Population growth and increasing urban lifestyles food resources, resolving maldistribution, and providing products products and services in the aim of achieving products and services in the aim of creating Increasing shift to factory-produced foods operations and external relations as a Food and agriculture and services that improve agricultural productivity. the sustainable well-being of our planet Earth. the sustainable well-being of society. corporate group aiming to realize KAITEKI. Material Issues Related to the Company and Its Organizational Structure Growing interest in the quality, safety and environmental To ensure that customers can use products and services in relief, performance of products and services pursue initiatives to ensure the quality and safety of products Most Important Key Management Issues Related Compliance, Process Safety, Reducing the use of chemicals and harmful substances, and PROCESS Set issues to be researched throughout lifecycle and minimize the adverse effect on the 1 and analyzed to the MCHC Group’s Existence: Corporate Governance Product responsibility demands for information disclosure environment. As a starting point, ordered corporate Developing the capabilities of human resources based on Seek to offer equal opportunity in hiring, placement, activities under APTSIS 20 by medium-term human resource development policies advancement and skill development, while pursuing the analyzing macro trends. Reviewed Enhancing the return on investment from human resource acquiring and development of human resources based on a material issues identified in the Human development and training development previous assessment and added new Energy and resources mediumto long-term perspective. Extremely High issues. Implement safety management in accordance with national Ensure the health and safety of employees, while improving and regional laws and regulations and develop safe workplace Water Climate change productivity and ensuring business continuity by preventing accidents environments while maintaining and advancing the physical and PROCESS Assess issues from the Occupational health and safety mental health of employees. Human development and 2 viewpoint of stakeholders Food and agriculture training Ordered and quantitatively assessed Rising concerns over human rights violations through corporate Respect the dignity and rights of all people in corporate activities the importance of the issues based Occupational health and Diversity and inclusion activities and require that business partners refrain from violating human on public sustainability data, safety Emerging risks to human rights in the supply chain Human rights awareness rights or engaging in inappropriate discrimination. questionnaires, and interviews with experts. Product responsibility Digitizing all manner of information including corporate information Recognize the importance and responsibilities associated and personal information with protecting information assets and manage information Increasing information security risks due to the widespread adequately to prevent the confidential information of customers, Importance for Stakeholders Information security and privacy adoption of IT/IoT business partners, MCHC or other parties from being leaked. PROCESS Identify and prioritize material Health and wellness Incorporate a diverse range of human resources and views 3 issues the MCHC Group needs to address Retain and cultivate talented employees based on a human resource strategy that respects diversity without regard to their nationality, age or belief, and promote diversity and inclusion through our corporate activities in Very High MCHC management identified material Medical care Diversity and inclusion enhancing corporate value. Contribution to issues accounting for management CSR in supply chain strategies and policies and activities communities Human rights awareness Building relationships of trust by actively engaging in exchanges Broadly contribute to society through business activities under APTSIS 20 and prioritized them with and contributing to communities in areas where we conduct while deepening understanding of various communities and (three issues of highest priority related to the business continually responding to their requests and expectations. MCHC Group’s existence and 21 material Information security and Contribution to communities issues to be addressed). privacy PROCESS Create the materiality matrix Relevance between Processes: MOS and SDGs 4 Created the matrix along the two axes of importance (the magnitude of effect) for stakeholders and Step 1 The MCHC Group’s sustainability promotion activities are importance for the MCHC Group. Biodiversity We believe that initiatives taken by Step 1 presented in comparison with the five steps of SDG Compass, Understanding the SDGs a guide for business actions on the SDGs. the MCHC Group to realize Collection and analysis of Smart society Fulfilled living external information Social infrastructure KAITEKI largely contribute to Internal awareness-raising activities Step 2 Step 3 Stakeholder engagement Initiative and leadership achieving the sustainable Step 3 Step 2 Setting goals PROCESS Company approval procedures Information and development goals (SDGs). We Defining priorities Use of the MOS Indices 5 Discussed and approved the process of materiality assessment and the materiality matrix in the MCHC High communication technology will promote and develop MOS with awareness of the relevance Framing the issues in terms of their relationship to our materiality Analysis of business opportunities and risks (Setting quantitative goals) Growth strategy Management Committee (currently High Very High Extremely High the Corporate Executive Officers between the 17 SDGs and our Committee) and the Board of Importance for the MCHC Group Step 5 Directors. material issues to contribute to Step 5 Step 4 Step 4 Reporting and Integrating achieving SDGs and solving the communicating Embedding goals in the KAITEKI Report value creation process and material issues. Website KAITEKI Management Sustainability assessment Cited/edited from SDG Compass* * Developed by GRI, the UN Global Compact and the World Buisiness Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 69 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 70 Sustainability APTSIS 20 Progress of the MOS Indices APTSIS 20 MOS Indices Performance Evaluation List Begun in FY2011, the MCHC Group’s the MOS Indices are Assessment Criteria FY2017 FY2017 FY2020 Annual SelfPoint Related Outline of C Indices MOS Indices (Units) Plan Result Target Assessment allocation materiality theme management benchmarks for visualizing the degree of contribution to “Sustainability for people, society and our planet Earth.” The In terms of preventing accidents and injuries (C-1-2), we Index that need to be achieved Achieve zero occurrences of serious accidents and compliance violations MCHC Group has selected and systemized quantifiable initiatives surpassed our targets concerning the reduction rate of safety Reduce burden on Per-unit impact on the environment S-1-1 646.2 554.0 548.7 10 where we can have a large impact on solving environmental and incidents, but fell far short of the reduction rate of environmental the atmospheric environment (LIME / ¥100 million) social issues that will emerge in the future. incidents and lost-time injuries frequency index. We achieved Contribute to reducing Reduce burden on Per-unit impact on the environment S-1-2 6.9 6.1 6.1 8 environmental impact the water environment (LIME / ¥100 million) For the MOS Indices incorporated into the current medium-term steady progress in terms of improving awareness of compliance management plan APTSIS 20, we have made improvements (C-1-1) and promoting communication with business partners S-1-3 Reduce burden on the soil Per-unit impact on the environment 6.9 5.2 5.1 10 environment (LIME / ¥100 million) including selection of index items that reflect material issues, (C-2-1). However, we did not achieve notable progress and failed Promote activities to Energy-saving effects upgrading of indices related to products that contribute to to meet our targets in terms of customer satisfaction index and S-2-1 (equivalent tons of heavy oil) 36,430 51,699 66,000 13 conserve energy KAITEKI, and expansion to monitored Group companies inside improvement rate in the number of complaints (C-1-3). We largely Reduction of resource volume (equivalent tons of heavy oil) 2,984 2,194 12,000 and outside Japan. In FY2017, the second year of the mediumachieved steady progress in the employee wellness index (C-2-3), Efficient use of Convert to resource-saving S resources and energy S-2-2 and reusable materials 13 term management plan, our activities resulted in an annual in which we have adopted eight measurement items: the Growth rate in provision 19.8 30.1 28 of resource recycling services (%) target achievement rate of 108%, earning 152 points. (See the employee satisfaction, the proportion of long-time workers, the graph on the lower right.) paid leave utilization rate, the rate of days of work absences due S-2-3 Promote use of renewable energy Volume of renewable energy 43.8 52.6 50.0 13 generated and supplied (MW) to illness and injury, the percentage of female employees Contribution to the reduction of GHG Outline of S Indices S-3-1 Provide products and services that emissions (hundreds of millions of 0.65 0.78 1.5 13 advancing to assistant manager level and above, the percentage contribute to reducing GHG emissions tons-CO2 equivalent) Contribute to the We have achieved good progress in S Indices on the whole. We of female employees among those joining main career track sustainability of the Provide products and services that Volume of reused water supplied environment and S-3-2 3.75 3.34 17 10 help solve water resource problems (hundreds of millions of tons) made progress on reducing environmental impact amid stable positions, the percentage of non-Japanese presidents of key resources through products and services operation and achieved the target for reducing the local subsidiaries and employees’ awareness of orchestration S-3-3 Provide products and services that Growth in sales of related -0.9 7.1 30 10 help solve food problems products and services (%) environmental impact on the atmosphere, water and soil within the Group. We will aim to improve the indices by linking Contribution index for environment (S-1-1 to S-1-3). We also achieved better results them with KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management. H-1-1 Pharmaceuticals provision pharmaceuticals provision (points) 8.82 10.87 15 15 Contribute to medical than the annual targets for promoting activities to conserve treatment Contribution index for providing H-1-2 Provide clinical testing services 3.18 2.20 15 15 energy (S-2-1), promoting use of renewable energy (S-2-3), Prevent accidents and injuries: lost-time clinical testing services (points) providing products and services that contribute to reducing injuries frequency index (C-1-2) Contribute to the H-2-1 Provide vaccines Vaccine provision index (points) 4.39 4.17 14 14 Related Non-financial indicators: (see page 44) GHG emissions (S-3-1), and providing products and services Articles prevention and early detection of Increase frequency of health that help solve food problems (S-3-3). However, we did not Improve awareness of compliance (C-1-1) Provide health management and H diseases H-2-2 health checkup information information provisions 154 154 325 14 FOCUS The MOS Indices: (see page 71) (compared to base year, %) meet the targets on reduction of resource volume in the Improve sales of conversion to resource-saving and reusable materials (S-2-2) H-3-1 Provide products for the health field applicable products (points) 4.21 7.84 14 14 and providing products and services that help solve water Contribute to achieving healthy and hygienic Provide products for the Growth rate in sales of The MOS Indices Annual Trend Diagram 300 lives through products H-3-2 2.6 -2.4 60 14 resource problems (S-3-2). and services sanitation field applicable products (%) The MCHC Group introduced the MOS Indices as Provide products for Growth rate in sales of management benchmarks in FY2011. To coincide H-3-3 the medical field applicable products (%) 25.0 20.3 60 14 with the formulation of APTSIS 20, we undertook Related Promote activities to conserve energy (S-2-1) a revision of the MOS Indices and set updated C-1-1 Improve awareness Compliance awareness 21.0 21.0 21 21 100 of compliance improvement index (points) Articles FOCUS The MOS Indices: (see page 71) targets. In FY2017, we achieved steady progress, earning 152 points. We will continue working Reduction rate of 57.9 57.9 60 towards achieving 300 points as a final year target. safety incidents (%) Reduction rate of Outline of H Indices Endeavor to earn C-1-2 Prevent accidents and injuries environmental incidents (%) 100 -40 100 19 greater recognition S (Sustainability) Indices of corporate trust We made good progress and achieved targets in terms of H (Health) Indices from society Improvement rate of lost-time 17.6 -11.1 50 injuries frequency index (%) providing pharmaceuticals (H-1-1), providing health C (Comfort) Indices 152 100 Customer satisfaction management and health checkup information (H-2-2), and Initiatives to provide products index (points) 47 -4 47 78 providing products for the health field (H-3-1). However, we did C C-1-3 and services 17 31 trusted by society Improvement rate in the 60.0 34.5 50 not achieve notable progress and failed to meet our annual 68 number of complaints (%) targets in terms of providing clinical testing services (H-1-2) and 30 Promote communication Communication improvement C-2-1 index (points) 28.8 43.2 83 7 with business partners products for the sanitation field (H-3-2). 31 Promote 45 communication 33 and work in concert C-2-2 Improve evaluation by stakeholders External evaluation index (points) 11.0 8.6 11 11 18 with stakeholders Provide health management and health 100 Build a dynamic and checkup information (H-2-2) 80 C-2-3 Employee wellness index (points) 9.17 8.43 16 16 cooperative organization Related Non-financial indicators: (see page 44) 51 51 50 Articles Contribute to achieving Provide products and services Pharmaceuticals provision (H-1-1) a more comfortable C-3-1 that contribute to a comfortable Growth rate in the comfort 14.3 14.0 40 9 society and better value provision index (%) FOCUS The MOS Indices: (see page 71) lifestyle society and better lifestyles 2016 2017 2017 2018 2020 (FY) Result Plan Result Plan Plan 71 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 72 Sustainability The MOS Indices Case S Indices S-2-1 Material Issues of MCHC Energy and resources Approx. 90% of CO2 emitted by the MCHC Group through its business activities is from energy. In response, the MCHC Group proactively 01 Providing solutions that contribute to improving the water environment of Myanmar promotes energy conservation activities, which lead to the prevention of global warming, and quantitatively evaluates the reduction effect. Myanmar faces urgent need for improvement of access to water supply and Promote activities Among the energy-saving activities, energy efficiency improvement in the sewage systems and other water-related technologies, including ones for to conserve manufacturing process is highly effective. We also work on the optimization water quality analysis. This is due to the low water-supply system coverage energy of operating conditions, replacement of fuels and well-planned replacement rate and aging waterworks facilities and also rising turbidity and salination of of devices with energy-efficient ones. river water attributed to the prolonged rainy season and dry season, which For example, air separation units, which are used to produce oxygen, are regarded as the effects of climate change. nitrogen and argon from the air, normally require a lot of energy for the air The MCHC Group has established MW Aqua Solutions Co., Ltd. as a solution compression process. Replacement of those units with energy-efficient provider in Myanmar, which supplies safe drinking water by taking advantage ones enables a significant reduction in energy consumption. In FY2017, this of the advanced technologies of Wellthy Corporation that is engaged in the and a variety of other initiatives made progress, resulting in a 148% production of drinking water from groundwater. We will contribute to improvement in energy-saving effects from the previous fiscal year. The improving the water environment of Myanmar by operating a solution business accumulated total amount of energy-saving effects in FY2016 and 2017 that integrates water treatment engineering in conjunction with water quality Energy-efficient, super-large air separation unit was 51,699 tons of heavy oil equivalent. analysis. In addition, we contribute to improving the water quality analysis technologies in the country. For example, we provide technical H The pharmaceuticals provision index consists of two items; the degree of support to the governmental Material Issues of MCHC Indices H-1-1 contribution to treatment of disease and expansion of utility. The degree of Medical care laboratory in the JICA Project for contribution to treatment of disease is calculated based on the treatment Capacity Development in Basic Water satisfaction of diseases for which the products are administered and the Environmental Management and Pharmaceuticals provision number of patients to whom the products were actually administered. We Environment Impact Assessment monitor how much our products contribute to the medical care for hard-toSystem in Myanmar. Training on water quality analysis at the Mandalay River Water Desalination System City Development Committee in Myanmar treat diseases. On the other hand, for the expansion of utility, we evaluate the level of expansion of indications for our products, increase the number of countries where they are marketed and other factors. In FY2017, we released Radicava (product name in Japan: Radicut), the first Case 02 Initiatives to create a future in which anyone can enjoy sports new therapeutic agent in approx. 20 years in the U.S. for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a neurodegenerative disorder of unknown etiology. This product was administered to more than 2,500 ALS patients. Through this and other initiatives, we achieved steady progress, resulting in the contribution The MCHC Group is pursuing a number of initiatives aimed at a future in Radicava (product name in Japan: Radicut), treatment for ALS index for pharmaceuticals provision at 10.87 points, up 92.0% year on year. which anyone can enjoy sports. We will continue to contribute to medical treatment by providing more Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (MCC), one of the operating companies, patients with treatment options through pharmaceuticals. concluded an official partnership agreement with Japanese Para-Sports Association (JPSA) in April 2017. The company will support para-sports under this agreement. C Material Issues of MCHC The MCHC Group regards compliance as one of the most important MCC is also proactive in carrying out activities for promoting Indices C-1-1 Compliance, Process managerial issues in its continued existence as a company that merits understanding of para-sports among its employees, having its Safety, Corporate Governance public trust. We take measures to impart a compliance culture in the Group, employees support the operation of sports competitions hosted by including the provision of training and awareness-raising activities inside JPSA as volunteers (such as working as Internal boccia competition Improve awareness of compliance and outside Japan. receptionists and setting up venues), watch In Japan, we outsource to an external agency surveys of compliance games and cheer for athletes, in addition to awareness among all employees within the MCHC Group. We use the holding internal boccia competitions. responses from four of the survey items, which are highly relevant to awareness We will continue to support para-sports to help of compliance and workplace culture, to measure the MOS Indices. create a society that is physically and mentally In FY2017, annual targets were exceeded in all four items, demonstrating healthy, where everyone enjoys the fun and that our variety of initiatives steadily contribute to spreading and imparting pleasure of playing sports and the individuality compliance. We will continue to promote initiatives for raising the awareness of each person is respected, regardless of their of compliance, aiming to develop a corporate culture that is free from age, gender, abilities and other attributes. injustice and misconduct. 2017 Japan Para Guidelines for the MCHC Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Wheelchair Rugby Championship 73 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 74 Sustainability KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management Initiatives to maximize active KPIs and target values participation of workers In promoting a wide range of activities and measures, we have selected three KPIs (Activeness index, workstyle index and health life index) and set target values to be achieved by FY2020, in The MCHC Group recognizes that “people” are the driving force behind the sustainable growth of society and order to share the direction and vision of achievement. business, and considers human resources as one of its most important management resources. Based on these KPIs, we promote the PDCA of KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management. We are trying to promote initiatives that fully utilize people’s skills and maximize the active participation of workers as KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management*. Descriptions FY2020 targets * “Kenkokeiei,” which means Health and Productivity Management in Japanese, is a registered trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and Employee, an NPO. In terms of using “KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management,” the trademark is authorized to be used by the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and Employee. 1. Activeness index Message from the CHO Since the declaration of Promotion of Health and Productivity Index for employees’ job Increasing positive choices by Management in FY2016, MCHC has been carrying out a variety of satisfaction, enthusiasm, trust and growth +15 15% or more in the health survey* 1 activities from the view points both health support and workstyle reform as two sides on the same coin. The main focus of the previous workstyle reform was the reduction of overtime hours. Under KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management, we have changed the focus to 2. Workstyle index employees’ job satisfaction and sense of personal growth, shift in their awareness of workstyle, life satisfaction, improvements in healthIndex for levels of workstyle Increasing positive choices by at least related items and other factors as Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and promote this reform using ICT and IoT. We lend wearable devices awareness, behavior and initiatives +10 10% or more in the health survey to employees to obtain data on their sleep quality and amount of activity. We have also created My Page, a terminal from which each employee can check the above data, as well as the results of their 3. Health life index health checkup and their workstyle along with health support information. Group companies carry out these and many other Index for health checkup items, Increasing employees who gain the number of +10 distinctive activities, including study sessions held by industrial lifestyle quality and level of life applicable items among the 10 items indicating the physicians and support for smoking cessation. A workplace where diverse human resources work with energy and Director of the Board, satisfaction health standard by 10 points (one item) or more vitality is the foundation of the organization, which bustles with friendly Managing Corporate Executive Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, competition, has an open atmosphere and builds high levels of trust. *1 The health survey is aimed at discovering initiatives taken by each employee for Health and Productivity Management, in addition to matters covered by our conventional Chief Health Officer Ken Fujiwara employee awareness survey. Through this virtuous circle, we will promote “workplace wellness” to become a company with high levels of creativity and productivity. Examples of Activities Enhancement of creativity and Energization of productivity Improvement of Utilization of ICT 01 02 organization satisfaction Compliance Enhancement of Safety Fitness Tests Full-fledged utilization of i2 Healthcare Approach to KAITEKI external evaluation The MCHC Group takes measures against work injuries MCHC has developed i2 Healthcare, an ICT system that Health and Productivity Families’, focusing on human element. MCC takes two core measures provides employees with support related to the health communities’ Workplace Management and society’s Self wellness wellness against injuries in a fall. They are KAITEKI exercises aimed at cycle. We have begun to fully wellness sufficiently strengthening the body not to fall easily, and safety implement this system within We aim to build a basis for high levels fitness tests for assessing employees’ risk of falling. There are the Group. Many employees of creativity and productivity by three safety fitness tests for assessing balance ability, risk of use wearable devices that fostering offices and workplaces where stumbling and weight allow them to monitor their diverse human resources work with Health support Workstyle reform bearing capacity (muscle physical condition, including energy and vitality. strength). Bodily functions their quality of sleep, amount Use of ICT/IoT are assessed through of exercise and heart rate in (Use of i2 Healthcare)* these tests and the results real time. They make use of *See details on “Examples of Activities 02” on the right page. are used to develop this system like enjoying a physical strength to game. prevent falls. 75 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 76 Sustainability Indicators with this icon have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. for FY2017. Environmental Scope of data aggregation: The data for FY2015 covers the three operating companies (MCC, MTPC, and LSII), TNSC and their domestic Data Group companies. The data for FY2016 and 2017 covers these four operating companies and their domestic and overseas Group companies. (Group companies are directly-owned consolidated subsidiaries.) Energy consumption/ Greenhouse gasses (GHG) *1 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) (1,000 t-CO2e) *2 12,054*4 14,269 14,815 Scope1 7,771 7,223 7,470 Scope2 4,283 *4 7,046 7,345 Scope3*5 43,240 54,370 49,640 Energy consumption (GWh) *3 34,935*4 38,950 40,977 *1 Energy used to produce electricity and steam sold externally and the resulting CO2 emissions were excluded from figures for FY2015 and prior years (CO2 emissions were excluded from Scope 2 emissions), but in conformity with the GHG protocol, they are not excluded starting in FY2016. *2 The emission factors specified in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures are used for the calculation of emissions in Japan. GHG emissions that are not subject to reporting under the Act are mostly calculated based on the mass balance of chemical reactions. Overseas Scope 1 emissions are calculated with the emission factors specified in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures or by the IPCC, and overseas Scope 2 emissions are calculated with power company-specific emission factors or country level emission factors for electricity published by the IEA. *3 The unit higher heating values for fuels specified in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy or by the IPCC are used. *4 The FY2015 results include GHG emissions of 1.65 million tons and energy consumption of 1,942 GWh by affiliate companies that are closely associated in terms of energy management, but the FY2016 results and thereafter exclude GHG emissions and energy consumption of these companies. *5 For the calculation method for Scope 3 GHG emissions, see page 3 of the non-financial data sheet on the MCHC website. Environmental impact FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 NOx emissions (1,000 tons) 8.04 8.96 8.12 SOx emissions (1,000 tons) 3.08 4.77 4.42 COD emissions (1,000 tons) *6 1.74 2.00 2.08 Total nitrogen emissions in water discharged (1,000 tons) *6 5.53 6.06 6.04 Total phosphorous emissions (1,000 tons) *6 0.05 0.09 0.07 *6 Total COD emissions, total nitrogen emissions and total phosphorous emissions each show total volume of emissions discharged into rivers, lakes and oceans. Emissions into sewage systems are excluded. Water use FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 water withdrawal (Million m ) (excluding seawater) 3 171 189 193 Social Data Constitution of employees (MCHC Group) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Number of consolidated employees 68,988 69,291 69,230 Number of employees by district In Japan 44,858 44,034 43,406 Outside Japan 24,130 25,257 25,824 Aggregation period: Each fiscal year from April 1 to March 31, or as of March 31 Scope of data aggregation: The figures show those employed by MCC, MTPC, TNSC and LSII (including those seconded to other companies but excluding those seconded from other companies). Diversity / Work-Life Balance / Occupational Safety FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Number of employees 22,508 21,736 21,770 Number of employees by gender Male 19,194 18,459 18,440 Female 3,314 3,277 3,330 Percentage of females (%) 14.7 15.1 15.3 Percentage of female managers (%) *7 7.1 7.7 8.0 Paid leave utilization rate (%) 66.8 67.6 65.4 Lost-time injuries frequency rate (LTIFR) *8,*9 0.48 0.30 0.26 *7 Percentage of female employees out of all employees at assistant manager level and above. *8 Scope of data aggregation: Figures from domestic operations of the four operating companies (MCC, MTPC, LSII and TNSC) and their Group companies with operating divisions active within Japan. *9 The LTIFR is the number of lost-time injuries, illnesses and fatalities per million hours worked. 77 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 78 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Concept of roles and constitution of Board of Directors MCHC aims to contribute to the sustainable development of people, society and the Earth, in addition to solving The Board of Directors determines basic management policies such Directors, a majority of the directors are in non-executive roles. environmental and social issues through corporate activities for the realization of KAITEKI. as medium-term management strategies and annual budgets, and MCHC’s Articles of Incorporation restrict the number of directors With eyes on these objectives, we are focusing efforts on establishing a better corporate governance structure by supervises the execution of business by the corporate executive to 20 or less. As of June 26, 2018, there were 12 directors, improving management transparency through proper disclosure and dialog with stakeholders, while updating systems officers, who are in principle delegated to responsibility to decide about including five outside directors and three directors who also serve for enhancing both the soundness and efficiency of management. business execution based on these basic policies, with the exception as corporate executive officers. The term of each director is one of matters that must be legally resolved by the Board of Directors. year, which helps to clarify management responsibilities and to To reflect diverse opinions in management as well as to strengthen establish a management structure that is able to swiftly respond supervisory functions, MCHC has elected not only internal directors to changes in the business environment. who have an intimate knowledge of the Group’s business domains Constitution of Board of Directors (As of June 26, 2018) Corporate Governance Structure for Sound Management and Greater Efficiency (As of June 26, 2018) along with specialized fields including management strategies, Internal directors 58% Outside directors 42% MCHC is a company with a nominating committee, etc., which management supervision is now undertaken by the Board of finance, compliance and corporate governance, and technology, but separates functions for the supervision and execution of Directors and three committees; the Nominating Committee, also five outside directors with experience in corporate management, Executive directors Non-executive directors 25% 75% business in a bid to enhance management transparency and Audit Committee, and Compensation Committee, corporate expertise in social and economic issues, science and technology, openness, to strengthen supervisory functions, and to improve executive officers make business decisions and are in charge of as well as ICT, and accreditations as certified public accountants Of which, 1 director is management agility through prompter decision-making. While business execution. and attorneys. To strengthen supervisory functions of the Board of non-Japanese and 1 director is female. General Meeting of Shareholders Outline of Evaluation Results on Effectiveness of Board of Directors for FY2017 1. Implementation of evaluation on for training to promote lively discussion at Board meetings, especially by Board of Directors (12 directors of which 5 are outside directors) outside directors, were appropriately provided. effectiveness of the Board of Directors The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporate Governance Guidelines In regard to each committee as well, it was confirmed that the management require MCHC to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors each of each committee and feedback to the Board of Directors had been carried year and disclose an outline of the results. The evaluation method and the out appropriately and, in particular, that the Audit Committee had adequately Delegation of outline of results on the effectiveness of the Board of Directors for FY2017 supervised the business execution of corporate executive officers. Audit Committee decision on Nominating Committee Compensation Committee (5 directors of which 3 our outside directors) Audit business execution (5 directors of which (5 directors of which 3 are as follows. (2) Initiatives aimed at improvements and supervision of 3 are outside directors) are outside directors) business execution 2. Analysis and evaluation method However, we will promote initiatives aimed at further improvements in the issues below that were recognized in the results of the survey and through In FY2017, MCHC commissioned a third-party external consultant to discussion at the Board of Directors. Audit conduct a survey and analyze the results in order to ensure the objectivity MCHC’s execution i) Board of Directors’ documents and explanation methods Committee Chief Compliance Corporate Executive Decisions on important and transparency of evaluation and comprehensively verify MCHC’s overall matters are made at departments In light of the role (the formulation of basic management policy and the supervision Secretariat Officer Officers Committee corporate governance in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code Cooperation Corporate Executive Audit of overall management) of the Board of Directors of MCHC, which is a pure President Officers Committee (including the revised draft). Moreover, in light of the fact that three years holding company, MCHC will improve the following: (1) Board of Directors’ had passed since the transition to a company with a nominating documents: issues of discussion and risks identified in the process of decision committee, etc., we also evaluated the effectiveness of not only the Board making on business execution will also be included for evaluation and the of Directors but also the Nominating Committee, the Compensation Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Officers in charge checking function from a viewpoint that differs from business execution will be of the Internal Control Division Committee and the Audit Committee. The specific process was as follows. Officers strengthened; (2) Prior explanation to outside directors: when resolving large-scale i) An anonymous survey consisting of a 5-scale evaluation with a total of 22 Accounting Internal financing and investment projects, information without exaggeration or omission questions comprising mainly the following items was conducted among all Auditor Financial Audit Office Internal will be provided in advance and an environment will be developed that enables audit audit directors including the Chairperson. In addition to the 5-scale evaluation, the Departments Internal Control Division more appropriate support for decision making on business execution; and (3) Supervision of (Internal Control Office) format was designed to grasp the current situation and extract issues in terms of operational status Method of explaining agenda items: points at issue will be clarified to enable both a quantitative and qualitative evaluation through the creation of a column for substantive discussion from diverse viewpoints. comments on each question (March-April 2018) Management administration, internal controls, auditing, etc. ii) Supervision regarding responses to crises such as natural disasters and cyber security Composition of the Board of Directors The discussion outcomes and report details of the MCHC Risk Management MCHC subsidiaries Discussion at the Board of Directors Investigation Committee, which is chaired by the President and holds meetings once a year, are Training to invigorate discussion reported to the Board of Directors. The Committee enables the Board of Directors Roles and evaluation of individual directors to directly supervise the status of responses to risks that include natural disasters Composition and effectiveness of each committee and cyber security. Constructive dialog with shareholders ii) MCHC’s Board of Directors received a report on the results of the survey from the 4. Measures to address the results of the previous evaluation external consultant and discussed issues and measures to adopt based on the As the evaluation of effectiveness conducted in FY2016 identified the results in May 2018. issues that i) the provision of information to outside directors should be iii) In light of the above, the Chairperson evaluated the effectiveness of MCHC’s History of Strengthened Corporate Governance enhanced and ii) the Board of Directors should be conducted more Board of Directors and each committee and reported the results to the Board of efficiently, we took the following measures in response. Directors in June 2018. Month/Year Initiatives Objective For i), we made important matters discussed and reported at Corporate Executive 3. Outline of evaluation results Officers Committee subject to reporting to the Board of Directors and expanded Introduced stock-based compensation June 2006 To link director’s remuneration to shareholder value (1) Summary the content of information provision utilizing the company’s internal database. (stock option) plans Further, by using the regular information exchange meetings with corporate executive The evaluation concluded that MCHC’s Board of Directors as well as the officers, the departments responsible for managing business strategy in the four Nominating Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Audit June 2013 Appointment and inauguration of an outside director To strengthen the system of management supervision Committee are being managed appropriately and that their effectiveness is business domains provided explanation regarding each business strategy. In addition, we endeavored to enhance the provision of information through inspections of Group being generally maintained, primarily through management supervisory companies and operating sites in Japan and overseas. functions. The results of the survey showed a high proportion of responses June 2014 Appointment and inauguration of a foreign director To improve diversity in directors provided a positive evaluation on most questions about both outside For ii), in order to efficiently manage and supervise the status of business execution by the Board of Directors, we integrated the format of explanations in business execution directors and internal directors. reports provided by corporate executive officers and managed the progress of the To improve diversity in directors In particular, in response to the previous year’s evaluation results, the Appointment and inauguration of a female director provision of information to outside directors was improved by taking the medium-term management plan through new business monitoring methods. June 2015 To enhance management transparency and fairness, Transition to a company with a nominating committee, etc. measures listed in 4 below. Further, it was confirmed that constructive MCHC will continue to enhance the efficiency of the Board of Directors in light to strengthen management supervision functions discussions were held at the Board of Directors, the internal control and of the latest evaluation results of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and risk management systems were appropriately supervised and opportunities each committee and the various opinions presented by each director. June 2016 Increase number of outside directors To improve diversity in directors 79 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 80 Corporate Governance Policies on Deciding Remuneration for Directors Nominating Committee and Corporate Executive Officers Activities of Outside Directors The Nominating Committee nominates candidates for directors Directors Attendance at Meetings of the and corporate executive officers, as well as the presidents of Directors and corporate executive officers have different remuneration Name Activities Board of Directors and Committees schemes, which are decided by the Compensation Committee based on (FY2017) major directly-owned subsidiaries that are not listed subsidiaries: the following policies. MCC and LSII. In consideration of transparency and fairness At Board of Directors meetings, Mr. Kikkawa makes remarks as necessary based Board of Remuneration Basic Remuneration 10 / 10 100% in the process of nominating candidates, an outside director Directors for Directors (Fixed) on his profound insight into company management from the perspective of serves as the chairperson of the committee. Remuneration for directors consists only of basic remuneration (fixed remuneration). Takeo business history and his experience as an expert in theories on the energy industry. Nominating 6 / 6 100% Basic remuneration is based on title and classification such as full-time or part-time. Kikkawa As the chairperson of the Nominating Committee, he takes care of committee Committee The amount of remuneration is determined at a necessary level for procedures and reports the findings to the Board of Directors. As a member of the Compensation securing personnel suitable for carrying out the responsibilities of a Compensation Committee, he expresses his opinion as necessary at meetings. 6 / 6 100% Compensation Committee director of the company with a nominating committee, etc., while also Committee taking into consideration the levels of other companies. Board of The Compensation Committee determines the remuneration At Board of Directors meetings, Mr. Ito comments as necessary, utilizing his 10 / 10 100% * When a director concurrently serves as a corporate executive officer, remuneration as a Directors corporate executive officer is applied. experience and strong perceptions as a certified public accountant. As a member amount of individual director and corporate executive officer. of the Audit Committee, he proposes audit plans, monitors audits in progress It also determines the amount of remuneration for each of the Corporate Executive Officers Taigi Ito Audit Committee 13 / 13 100% and their results, and expresses his opinions as required. As the chairperson of presidents of major directly-owned subsidiaries that are not Basic Remuneration the Compensation Committee, he oversees meeting procedures and reports the Compensation Remuneration for (Fixed) results to the Board of Directors. 6 / 6 100% listed subsidiaries. Moreover, an outside director serves as the Committee Corporate Executive chairperson of the committee to increase transparency and Officers Performance-based Board of Remuneration (Variable) At Board of Directors meetings, Mr. Watanabe makes remarks as needed, utilizing 10 / 10 100% fairness in the decision-making process. Directors * Variable within the range of 0-200%. his experience and profound insight as a prosecutor and lawyer. As a member Kazuhiro Remuneration for corporate executive officers consists of basic remuneration of the Audit Committee, he proposes audit plans, monitors audits in progress Audit Committee 13 / 13 100% (fixed remuneration) and performance-based remuneration (variable remuneration) . Watanabe and their results, and expresses his opinions as required. As a member of the Audit Committee Basic remuneration is based on title and duties such as having the right of Compensation Committee, he expresses his opinion as necessary at meetings. Compensation representation. 6 / 6 100% Committee The Audit Committee audits the execution of duties by The amount of remuneration is determined at a level necessary for securing outstanding personnel and improving MCHC’s competitiveness, Board of corporate executive officers and directors, and reviews the while also taking into consideration the levels of other companies. At Board of Directors meetings, Ms. Kunii makes remarks as necessary, utilizing 9 / 10 90% Directors Performance-based remuneration entails cash bonus and stock options as her extensive experience as a corporate manager and an expert in information Group’s internal control systems, etc. In principle, the committee stock-based remuneration (¥1 per share stock options) to enhance sustainable Hideko processing, as well as her profound insight into diversity promotion. As a member of Nominating meets once a month. The Audit Committee consists of five mediumto long-term corporate value as well as create incentives 6 / 6 100% Kunii the Nominating Committee, she expresses her opinion as necessary at meetings. Committee associated with shareholder value. members, including three outside directors. With two full-time As a member of the Audit Committee, she proposes audit plans, monitors audits in The baseline cash amount/number of shares vary within a range of progress and their results, and expresses her opinions on necessity. Audit Committee 13 / 13 100% members, the Audit Committee collaborates closely with the 0-200% according to the degree of performance achieved and the higher the person’s title, the higher the ratio of performance-based remuneration accounting auditor, the Internal Audit Office which conducts to total remuneration. Utilizing his extensive experience in corporate management and profound insight Board of 10 / 10 100% internal audits, and the Internal Control Office which formulates Takayuki into ICT, Mr. Hashimoto expresses his opinions as required at Board of Directors Directors Basic remuneration Performance-based and promotes policies on maintenance of internal control (fixed) remuneration (variable) Hashimoto meetings. As a member of the Nominating Committee, he also expresses his Nominating 6 / 6 100% Stock-based opinions as needed at Nominating Committee meetings. Committee systems, to reinforce the audit system administered by the Audit Basic remuneration (70%) Cash bonus (15%) remuneration Committee. An internal director who is a full-time member of the (stock options) (15%) * The case of the President Audit Committee serves as the chairperson of the committee Performance-based (variable) remuneration is determined after discussion Message from an Outside Director to ensure the smooth collection of information and sufficient at the Compensation Committee based on the amount and number of shares calculated by means of the formula below. cooperation between departments. By accelerating the globalization of governance and Performance-based Basic amount and number Coefficient linked to company Remuneration (Variable) of shares by title performance evaluation* strengthening our unique regional initiatives, we will pursue * Company performance evaluation is determined after discussion at Corporate Executive Officers Director Remuneration Committee based on the status of achievement of targets for each fiscal year. growth of the Group. Targets for each fiscal year are established based on Indices associated with the pursuit of economic and capital efficiencies (MOE), the pursuit of innovation (MOT) and the enhancement The remuneration for each director and corporate executive of sustainability (MOS). Takayuki Hashimoto, Outside Director -MOE Indices: Indices related to core operating income, ROE, ROIC and free cash flow officer is decided by the Compensation Committee based on -MOT Indices: Indices related to efficiency of R&D, dominance of technology and consistency with social needs -MOS Indices: Indices related to reduction of environmental impact, contribution to health and medical treatment, the following policies. compliance and prevention of accidents and disasters At the end of January 2018, I had an opportunity to visit MCHC exhibitions and joint approaches to specific industries are still in The remuneration standards and the ratio of basic remuneration Group companies in the United States. My visit had three their infancy but I confirmed that they are steadily progressing. and performance-based remuneration are continually Total Amount of Remuneration for Officers (FY2017) objectives: to confirm whether defensive governance was Subsequently, I visited six companies and I heard many people deliberated, and the policies are reviewed at the Compensation functioning appropriately, to comprehend and provide advice welcome the fact that the Group had gained an opportunity to Amount of remuneration paid on the progress status of offensive governance, and to alleviate display synergies. However, as we are lagging behind in regard (millions of yen) Committee as necessary. Category Number of the so-called asymmetry of information by gaining a good to the initiatives of European and American companies that are Persons Basic Performance-based Total remuneration remuneration understanding of business operations by seeing local places of actively engaged in globalization, I believe we need to adopt Directors (internal) 6 250 10 260 business with my own eyes and communicating with people. unique initiatives while increasing the speed of our globalization. Directors (outside) 5 69 69 In regard to defensive governance, I was able to confirm This can only be achieved by transferring authority to local Corporate Executive that since Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings America, Inc. was companies, carrying out decision-making in places that are Officers 5 258 65 323 established in 2010, it had undertaken governance and risk close to markets and providing optimal solutions with global Total 16 577 75 652 management of more than 40 MCHC Group companies in the high added value. I think that our business in the innovative U.S. (Notes) U.S. Moreover, when Mitsubishi Chemical America, Inc. was has great potential and if we further hone our sensitivity and 1. The total amount of remuneration that MCHC and its subsidiaries paid is stated above. 2. Remuneration paid by MCHC comprises ¥284 million for 11 directors (including ¥69 million for five outside established in April 2017, marketing, business development, responsiveness to the market and our intra-regional integration directors) and ¥277 million for five corporate executive officers. brand strategy, human resources strategy, and product and capability, it will make a big contribution. I am convinced that this 3. MCHC pays directors who concurrently serve as corporate executive officers remuneration as corporate executive officers in line with the policy described above. solutions development of MCHC Group companies in the U.S. experience will have a positive impact on the Japan side and lead 4. Performance-based remuneration for directors (internal) was paid as performance-based remuneration for work performed as a corporate executive officer to directors (internal) who served as corporate executive officers in the preceding period. were integrated and globalization was accelerated. At present, the Group to its next stage of growth. 5. Performance-based remuneration for corporate executive officers is remuneration that MCHC paid in the form of stock options. the unification of business cards, collaborative exhibitions at 81 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 82 Risk Management While the word “risk” can be defined in various ways, the MCHC Group defines risks as “potential events that could, Risk Management Process at Each Company during the course of corporate activities, undermine public trust in or the corporate value of the MCHC Group.” We recognize, analyze, and evaluate risks and prevent materialization of significant risks. We take measures to minimize the personal, economic, and social damage arising in case of materialization. 1 Identification of risks 2 Risk assessment and measures 3 Detailed examination of risk measures 4 Auditing All companies in the MCHC Each operating company prioritizes Risk measures are To ensure the proper Group identify risks associated identified risks in order of impact and periodically scrutinized, administration of these with business type, business frequency, and selects countermeasures, and measures risk management characteristics, and other aspects after which the relevant managing for major risks in systems, the Internal Charter of Corporate Behavior Risk Management of the internal environment as departments act to mitigate the risks particular are reported Audit Office periodically well as the country’s political and or take some other measure. As they to each operating conducts audits and The MCHC Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, consisting The MCHC Group is engaged in corporate activities with the social situation and other aspects conduct the businesses and operations company’s Chief Risk reports its findings of thirteen chapters, explicitly declares that we act with objective of raising its corporate value. These activities are of the external environment. under their control, senior managers Management Officer. to the Chief Risk sound ethics and good common sense in every aspect of our related to social conditions, the global environment, and various Moreover, a unified system for likewise identify what risks (major risks) Management Officers. corporate activities. other external environments, and they involve potential risks. each operating company has may have a major impact on Group It also stipulates that we share the fundamental behavioral been established to understand management. The relevant departments principles for sustainable development, our approach to major and address the overall risks then implement appropriate risk Risk Management System within the company. measures as instructed. issues for contributing to the realization of KAITEKI, and the basic ideas on and initiatives for the realization of KAITEKI, with MCHC has in place a risk management system whereby the our business partners and others. MCHC President is responsible for risk management across Compliance Measures Against the entire Group based on the MCHC Group Risk Management In order to entrench compliance within the Group, we have compiled rules and standards, such as the Major Risks Basic Rules. The management of significant risks and risk MCHC Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, published a compliance guidebook, provided education, management policy that affect the entire MCHC Group are The MCHC Group has isolated training and seminars on compliance, performed audits, and opened a compliance hotline. At overseas MCHC Group Charter of Group companies as well, we endeavor to strengthen compliance by compiling rules and codes of Corporate Behavior 07 Environment and Safety deliberated and decided by MCHC’s Risk Management the following categories of risks conduct in accordance with the laws, regulations and social norms of each country. Committee. The contents of those deliberations and decisions as warranting priority measures. 01 Awareness and Responsibility 08 Fair Business Practices are reported to the Board of Directors, as needed. Having identified these risks, Accidents, work injuries, and large-scale natural disasters 02 Accountability and Transparency 09 Customer Satisfaction The Presidents of operating companies are in charge of risk we take measures to avoid Each operating site endeavors to prevent facility-related accidents by ensuring the soundness of management at their respective Group companies, embedding their incidence and minimize facilities and equipment and proper operation of them through their appropriate maintenance as well Legal Compliance and Fairness, as extensive education and training of operators. If an accident occurs, the Group works to avoid 03 Equitability, and Integrity 10 Information Management their Group risk management system locally and overseeing the the resulting damage in case of recurrence by analyzing the cause, taking measures, and verifying their effectiveness through inspections operations through the local Risk Management Committees. materialization. or maintenance patrols. Moreover, the Group works to prevent accidents by applying these measures 04 Valuing Stakeholders 11 Science and Technology Recognizing the importance of fostering risk control awareness laterally to similar facilities and equipment or operations. Learning lessons from past large-scale disasters, MCHC has made further improvements to its business among all executives, managers, and employees, everyone 05 Respecting Human Rights 12 Community Involvement continuity plan (BCP). In the event that it becomes impossible to continue operations at the MCHC head is expected to be involved in risk management from their office (Tokyo), we have plans for transferring head office functions to a temporary backup site with the aim 06 Employment and Labor 13 Shared Standards respective standpoints. of minimizing damage and ensuring business continuity in disaster situations. We are also examining ways to maintain the procurement of raw materials and our responsibility of supplying products by procurement from multiple suppliers, as part of our BCP. Information security MCHC has developed the MCHC Group Information Security Policy in order to protect its information Risk Management systems and assets from internal and external threats, with the aim of maintaining and improving MCHC’s Board of Directors Each operating company’s Board of Directors System Conceptual corporate value. Based on this policy, we established the Information Security Committee and charged it Diagram with reinforcing the maintenance and management of information security at our business sites inside and Reporting Supervising Reporting Supervising outside Japan. We regularly conduct educational and training sessions for all employees, including those MCHC Risk Management Each company’s Each company’s Risk overseas, on our policy to ensure employee awareness of and compliance with it. For example, based on Committee Management Committee the Cyber Security Management Guidelines formulated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry Participating (METI), we are striving to collect the latest information and establish an emergency response system, Risk Management Committee Chairperson: Risk Management Committee Chairperson: in cooperation with outside institutions, so as to prevent problem occurrence as much as possible and President Each company’s President minimize damages in case of an occurrence. We are also working to increase employee awareness about (Chief Risk Management Officer) (Chief Risk Management Operating Officer) information security by drilling them with e-mails made to look like targeted e-mail attacks and arranging Instructing e-learning opportunities. Vice-Chairperson Vice-Chairperson Overseas business development Reporting Becoming more active overseas business, we are taking various initiatives to reduce risks related to the Secretariat (Internal Control Office) Secretariat particular laws, regulations and systems of the country in which we do business. For example, in the business domain of polyolefin used for food packaging materials, if the raw materials did not conform with the regulations of an export destination country, significant risks of not being able to sell or losing trust of customers could Committee members Committee members occur. In order to prevent such a case from occurring, we have adopted rules on confirmation procedures and have made them known in all companies and we thoroughly put them into practice. To prevent lapses in awareness of serious risks, including the above, we created a Global Risk Map collecting publicly available case studies of significant problems and legal violations in each country. This is distributed to Group companies overseas. In addition, we established a communication system for local companies, the head offices of operating companies, and MCHC to use in the event of political turmoil or other disruptions in the relevant country. 83 Financial Information KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 84 Compliance Financial Information The MCHC Group recognizes the word “Compliance” as a broad term covering corporate ethics and general social norms, not only basic legal adherence. We regard compliance as one of the most important managerial issue to achieve continuing existence as a company Consolidated Financial Summary that merits the trust of the public, and we take measures to embed a compliance culture in the entire Group. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 IFRS Millions of yen April 2015 Compliance Promotion Structure Hotline Systems (Transition date) 2016 2017 2018 The Group Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) is appointed by the Hotline systems are managed and operated with the MCHC, For the Year: MCHC Board of Directors. The Internal Control Office supports operating company Internal Control Promotion Departments, Revenue ¥ — ¥3,543,352 ¥3,376,057 ¥ 3,724,406 the CCO, acting as a secretariat dealing with compliance matters. and external lawyers as contact points. In FY2017, 144 cases Profit before tax — 252,791 258,343 344,077 To support Group activities, the secretariat compiles standard were reported via the hotline systems. We respond to the Net profit — 104,858 216,515 276,362 education tools, arranges training courses, and has established reported issues through our investigation teams headed by the Net profit attributable to owners of the parent — 51,358 156,259 211,788 hotline systems for overseas Group companies. It also aims managers of the Internal Control Promotion Departments. In Total comprehensive income — 34,302 226,493 297,476 to ensure compliance in accordance with regional conditions case of any issue, corrective measures are taken promptly in Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent — 253 165,709 233,619 through regional control companies established in the United line with the relevant regulations under the CCO’s direction. Net cash provided by operating activities — 299,612 396,643 397,940 States, Europe, and China. Each operating company has its Net cash used in investing activities — (234,078) (289,056) (335,933) own Compliance Promotion Committee as well as an Internal Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities — (40,945) 1,411 (150,592) Measures and Results in FY2017 Control Promotion Department that serves as secretariat. They Cash and cash equivalent at end of period 252,749 267,148 363,510 277,624 operate hotline systems and implement training courses and In FY2017, we commissioned an external agency to survey seminars, business audits and compliance awareness surveys employee compliance awareness within the MCHC Group At Year-End: based on the MCHC Group Compliance Promotion Rules. in Japan in order to continuously monitor the spread of Equity attributable to owners of the parent 993,011 972,197 1,091,398 1,285,750 In the event of a compliance violation, this must be reported compliance awareness. The results are shared with the Total assets 4,368,998 4,223,774 4,463,547 4,700,592 to and discussed with the relevant company’s Internal Control operating companies as feedback and contributes to raising Yen Promotion Department and the MCHC Internal Control Office, compliance awareness. Per Share: so that corrective actions and recurrence prevention measures Likewise, awareness surveys, trainings, and the operation of Equity attributable to owners of the parent ¥677.98 ¥663.71 ¥758.30 ¥893.26 can be taken. hotlines are conducted overseas as well. We can recognize that our Net profit attributable to owners of the parent —Basic — 35.06 106.73 147.14 employees’ compliance awareness has been growing by the year. Net profit attributable to owners of the parent —Diluted — 35.03 105.95 136.06 Looking ahead, we will continue sharing information between Japan, the United States, Europe, China, and other parts of Asia. Through this network, we aim to further promote Ratios: compliance as a Group. Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent (%) 22.7 23.0 24.5 27.4 Ratio of earnings attributable to owners of the parent (ROE) (%) — 5.2 15.1 17.8 Price earnings ratio (Times) — 16.8 8.1 7.0 Other: Number of employees (People) 68,263 68,988 69,291 69,230 (Temporary employees in parentheses) (People) (6,101) (6,967) (6,878) (7,428) Notes: 1. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in keeping with International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ) since the fiscal year, ended March 31, 2017. 2. Sales revenues do not include consumption taxes. 3. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the Company classified terephthalic acid operations in India and China as discontinued. The Company accordingly presents sales revenue and profit before tax for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, and 2017, as amounts for continuing operations after excluding discontinued operations. Compliance Training In the MCHC Group, we conduct compliance training for all company presidents as well as other business managers once a year, inviting external specialists. Compliance trainings for executives and employees are conducted in many other countries as well. Training at head office Training in Indonesia 1 85 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 86 Financial Information Segment Information Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended/as of March 31 Japan GAAP The Overview of Reporting Segments is detailed in Note 4 (Segment Information). Millions of yen 2014 2015 2016 2017 Revenue Core Operating Income (Loss) Millions of yen Millions of yen For the Year: REPORTING SEGMENT 2017 2018 2017 2018 Net Sales ¥ 3,498,834 ¥3,656,278 ¥3,823,098 ¥3,432,398 Performance Products ¥1,072,640 ¥ 1,145,932 ¥ 94,280 ¥ 93,995 Ordinary income 103,092 163,059 270,616 258,073 Chemicals 983,957 1,177,352 62,520 147,868 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 32,248 60,859 46,444 113,237 Industrial Gases 574,664 638,675 52,056 57,467 Health Care 547,032 556,568 98,389 81,227 Total comprehensive income 134,016 173,692 7,695 205,319 Others 197,764 205,879 7,754 7,119 Net cash provided by operating activities 177,027 329,776 388,663 333,150 Subtotal 3,376,057 3,724,406 314,999 387,676 Net cash used in investing activities (159,789) (277,223) (202,796) (264,566) Elimination and corporate — — (7,477) (7,187) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (8,307) (2,061) (156,957) 40,123 Total ¥3,376,057 ¥3,724,406 ¥307,522 ¥380,489 Cash and cash equivalent at end of period 179,556 243,055 263,770 360,012 * Inter-segment revenue and transfers are not included. Assets Depreciation and Amortization At Year-End: Millions of yen Millions of yen Total net assets 1,314,870 1,588,601 1,554,528 1,608,324 REPORTING SEGMENT 2017 2018 2017 2018 Performance Products ¥1,135,373 ¥ 1,215,112 ¥ 54,399 ¥ 54,861 Total assets 3,479,359 4,323,038 4,061,572 4,295,260 Chemicals 1,031,751 1,290,102 54,573 53,741 Yen Industrial Gases 1,009,085 1,016,171 42,490 45,708 Per Share: Health Care 1,101,469 1,166,776 17,930 19,049 Net assets ¥611.95 ¥669.77 ¥636.43 ¥691.18 Others 940,930 961,554 2,918 3,018 Subtotal 5,218,608 5,649,715 172,310 176,377 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent —Basic 21.89 41.40 31.70 77.35 Adjustments (755,061) (949,123) 1,564 2,518 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent —Diluted 21.45 41.37 31.68 76.78 Total ¥4,463,547 ¥4,700,592 ¥173,874 ¥ 178,895 Ratios: Capital Expenditures R&D Expenditures Millions of yen Millions of yen Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) 25.8 22.6 22.9 23.2 REPORTING SEGMENT 2017 2018 2017 2018 Return on equity (ROE) (%) 3.7 6.4 4.8 11.8 Performance Products ¥ 62,757 ¥ 68,301 ¥ 29,573 ¥ 27,624 Price earnings ratio (Times) 19.5 16.8 18.5 11.1 Chemicals 61,910 12,139 9,989 68,500 Industrial Gases 42,069 61,549 3,323 2,989 Other: Health Care 28,507 27,505 76,969 92,140 Number of employees (People) 56,031 68,263 68,988 69,291 Others 4,266 3,535 51 310 Subtotal 206,099 222,800 122,055 133,052 (Temporary employees in parentheses) (People) (5,208) (6,101) (6,967) (6,878) Adjustments 383 2,389 4,235 5,781 Notes: 1. The consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, are based on Japanese standards, and have not been audited pursuant to ¥225,189 ¥126,290 ¥ 138,833 Total ¥206,482 Paragraph 1 of Article 193-2 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. 2. Sales revenues do not include consumption taxes. Employees Number REPORTING SEGMENT 2017 2018 Performance Products 23,793 23,601 Chemicals 9,063 8,510 Industrial Gases 15,860 16,746 Health Care 12,116 11,894 Others 7,634 7,586 Subtotal 68,466 68,337 Corporate 825 893 Total 69,291 69,230 2 3 87 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 88 Financial Information Management‘s Discussion and Analysis Results of Revenue and Core Operating Income Operations In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the MCHC Group’s overall results were strong, supported by rising sales mainly in the Performance Products domain and a generally favorable trend in the market condition of methyl methacrylate (MMA) and other petrochemical products in the Industrial Materials domain. Net Sales   In this environment, consolidated sales revenue for FY2017 was ¥3,724.4 billion, increasing ¥348.3 billion from the Millions of yen previous fiscal year. Consolidated core operating income for FY2017 was ¥380.5 billion, increasing ¥73 billion year on GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT 2017 2018 year. The ratio of core operating income to revenue was 10.2%, surpassing the year-ago level of 9.1%. Japan ¥ 2,408,535 ¥ 2,589,590 Overseas 967,522 1,134,816 Results by Segment Total ¥ 3,376,057 ¥ 3,724,406 Starting in the first quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the Company reorganized the reporting segments. Core Operating Income (Loss) Performance Products Segment (Functional Products and Performance Chemicals) Millions of yen Segment revenue was up ¥73.3 billion year on year, to ¥1,145.9 billion. Core operating income fell ¥0.2 billion, to ¥94.0 billion. GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT 2017 2018 In the Functional Products subsegment, sales of advanced moldings & composites, including high-performance Japan ¥ 211,456 ¥ 223,165 engineering plastics and alumina fibers, and sales of high-performance films for displays categorized under Electronics & Overseas 96,066 157,324 Display remained generally firm. Total ¥ 307,522 ¥ 380,489 In the Performance Chemicals subsegment, sales volumes increased, reflecting the growing sales volume of automotive batteries, a new energy-related product, and the high-performance polymer market, in particular that for the phenol and polycarbonate chain business, which was boosted further by the absence of the impact of the periodic repairs Millions of yen conducted in the previous fiscal year.   OVERSEAS SALES 2017 2018 The core operating income of this segment was on a par with the level a year ago due to rising raw material costs for Overseas sales ¥1,333,679 ¥1,547,060 certain products, despite a general rise in sales volumes. Overseas sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales 39.5% 41.5% Chemicals Segment (MMA, Petrochemicals and Carbon products) Segment revenue was up ¥193.2 billion year on year, to ¥1,177.3 billion. Core operating income rose ¥85.3 billion, to ¥147.9 billion. In the MMA subsegment, MMA monomer prices rose, supported by steady demand. In the Petrochemicals subsegment, sales volumes increased attributable to the continuously strong supply and demand environment, sales price rises associated with higher raw material prices, and the reduced impact of periodic repairs of ethylene facilities. In the Carbon products subsegment, sales prices climbed due to a rise in process raw coal prices. The core operating income of this segment increased, supported by strong demand for MMA, and coke, needle coke and other carbon products, which in turn widened the price spread between raw materials and products. Other factors for the increase included the reduced impact of periodic repairs of the petrochemical product facilities. Revenue and Ratio of Overseas Revenue Core Operating Income and ROS Net Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent and Basic earnings per share Core Operating Income (Left axis) (Billions Net Profit Attributable to (Billions of yen) Revenue (Left axis) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) Owners of the Parent (Left axis) (Yen) ROS (Right axis) of yen) 4,000 Ratio of overseas revenue (Right axis) 60 400 20 240 Basic earnings per share (Right axis) 160 3,823.0 380.5 3,656.2 3,724.4 147.14 3,498.8 3,543.4 3,376.1 211. 8 3,000 45 300 300.4 307.5 15 180 120 43.4 280.0 106.73 41.6 39.5* 41.5 40.4 39.5 156.3 2,000 30 200 10.2 10 120 80 8.5 165.7 9.1 7.3 110.5 60.8 35.06 1,000 15 100 5 60 41.40 40 46.4 4.5 21.89 32.2 31.70 51.4 3.1 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 0 0 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) * The influence of ¥145.6 billion due to the unification of the accounting period is excluded. 5 4 89 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 90 Financial Information Industrial Gas Segment (Industrial Gases) R&D Expenses Segment revenue was up ¥64.1 billion year on year, to ¥638.7 billion. Core operating income rose ¥5.4 billion, to ¥57.5 billion.  MCHC Group companies maintain independent R&D programs and collaborate closely with each other by sharing Both revenue and core operating income increased in the Industrial Gas segment, reflecting the strong performance technology and market information, conducting joint research, and undertaking and outsourcing R&D. They are also of electronics-related gases in the domestic and overseas markets, as well as the full-year contribution from the results of working proactively with businesses outside the Group to refine and develop technologies. The Group has 4,843 R&D the businesses acquired in the U.S. and Australia in the previous fiscal year. employees and, in fiscal 2017, R&D expenses totaled ¥138.8 billion, up ¥12.5 billion from fiscal 2016. Health Care Segment (Pharmaceuticals and Life Science) Segment revenue was up ¥9.6 billion year on year, to ¥556.6 billion. Core operating income fell ¥17.2 billion, to ¥81.2 billion. Liquidity and Financial Policies Sources of Under the medium-term management plan APTSIS 20, the MCHC Group has set out the basic policy of “Aim to become a Revenue increased in Pharmaceuticals, mainly attributable to growth in key products, including Simponi, a treatment Funds corporate group with a high-growth and high-profit business structure through the Performance Products, Industrial Materials for rheumatoid arthritis, and a sharp increase in sales of Radicava, a treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in and Health Care domains.” It has also set basic management indicators comprising core operating income, ROS (ratio of core the U.S., despite the negative impact mainly from the transfer of the generic businesses. Core operating income decreased, operating income to revenue), net profit attributable to owners of the parent, ROE (ratio of equity attributable to owners of the mainly due to increases in R&D expenses in Pharmaceuticals and business development expenses in the U.S. parent) and net D/E ratio. We seek to improve corporate value while maintaining an appropriate balance between investing in growth businesses, enhancing shareholder returns and strengthening our financial position. Others (Excluding Adjustments) The MCHC Group funds working capital and capital expenditures largely by drawing on internal reserves, loans and bonds. Revenue of the Others segment was up ¥8.1 billion year on year, to ¥205.9 billion. Core operating income fell ¥0.7 billion, The Group deployed a cash management system to employ its funds efficiently and cut financial expenses. Going forward, to ¥7.1 billion. management will pursue Group-wide improvements in capital efficiency by consolidating Group fund procurement and management functions. Non-recurring Items and Operating Income In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, non-recurring items recorded a loss of ¥24.8 billion, representing a decrease in Financial Position loss of ¥14.1 billion compared to the previous fiscal year. The loss was mainly due to an impairment loss of ¥9.7 billion As at March 31, 2018, total assets were ¥4,700.6 billion, up ¥237.1 billion compared to a year ago. This increase was and a loss on sales and retirement of property, plant and equipment of ¥5.6 billion. attributable primarily to an increase in inventories and a rise in trade receivables associated with the closing day falling on As a result of the above factors, operating income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 increased ¥87.1 billion a holiday. year on year, to ¥355.7 billion. At year-end, total liabilities were ¥2,781.1 billion, up ¥15.8 billion from a year earlier. This was mainly due to an increase in trade receivables associated with the closing day falling on a holiday, which more than offset a decline in Financial Income / Costs and Profit Before Tax interest-bearing debt. Financial income in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 increased ¥1.2 billion year on year, to ¥8.4 billion. The increase Total equity was ¥1,919.5 billion, rising ¥221.3 billion from a year earlier. This was mainly attributable to an increase was primarily attributable to increases in interest and dividend income. in retained earnings as a result of the recording of net profit attributable to owners of the parent of ¥211.8 billion. Financial costs in the year rose ¥2.6 billion year on year, to ¥20.0 billion. This was mainly due to an increase in As a result of the above factors, ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent at the end of fiscal 2017 increased exchange loss. 2.9 points from a year earlier, to 27.4%. As a result of the above factors, profit before tax in the year under review climbed ¥85.8 billion from a year ago, to The balance of main account items at March 31, 2018 and details of increases and decreases are as follows. ¥344.1 billion. Trade Receivables Income Tax Expense and Net Profit Trade receivables increased ¥78.6 billion compared to the end of the previous fiscal year, to ¥854.8 billion. The increase Income tax in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 increased ¥23.3 billion compared to a year ago, to ¥67.7 billion, was mainly attributable to the closing day falling on a holiday. despite a reduction in U.S. federal income tax rates. The effective rate after applying tax-effect accounting was 19.7%, whose difference from the statutory rate was 11.1 points. Inventories As a result of the above factors, net profit grew ¥59.9 billion compared to a year ago, to ¥276.4 billion, and net profit Inventories rose ¥69.6 billion from a year earlier, to ¥607.7 billion. The increase was mainly due to higher raw material prices. attributable to owners of the parent increased ¥55.5 billion year on year, to ¥211.8 billion. R&D Expenses Reference Total Assets Total Equity and Equity Attributable to Owners of Net Interest-bearing Debt and Net D/E Ratio the Parent Net D/E Ratio (incld. minority interests) Foreign Exchange (Exchange rate at each fiscal year-end) Domestic Naphtha Average Price of Each Ratio of Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent Fiscal Year (Billions (Billions (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) of yen) Total Equity (Left axis) (%) of yen) Net Interest-bearing Debt (Left axis) (Times) 150 120 (JP¥/US$) 120 80,000 (JP¥/kl) 5,000 2,000 Equity attributable to owners of the parent (Left axis) 40 1,600 Net D/E Ratio (Right axis) 1.6 138.8 112 4,700.6 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the Net D/E Ratio (incld. minority interests) (Right axis) 134.2 132.2 138.3 4,463.5 1,919.5 113 4,323.0 parent (Right axis) 126.8 126.3 67,300 4,223.8 1,596.2 1,698.2 106 63,500 4,000 4,061.5 1,134.4 103 1,588.6 1,554.5 1,228.2 90 60,000 1,500 27.4 30 1,200 1.11 1,024.0 1,155.9 1,139.5 1.2 3,479.3 1.06 100 1,314.8 24.5 1.25 3,000 22.6 23.0 998.0 1.17 25.8 22.9 1,285.8 1.10 42,800 41,900 1,091.4 0.89 60 40,000 1,000 900.8 980.9 932.2 972.2 20 800 0.8 34,700 0.68 2,000 0.76 0.77 0.71 0.59 50 0.66 30 20,000 500 10 400 0.4 1,000 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 6 7 91 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 92 Financial Information Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets increased ¥129.8 billion from a year earlier, to ¥1,788.7 billion. The increase was mainly attributable to the acquisition of NeuroDerm Ltd. by Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, a consolidated subsidiary of the Company. Business Risks The MCHC Group (“the Group”) faces the following key risks, which could adversely affect its operating results and financial position. This section Interest-bearing Debt contains forward-looking statements based on information deemed relevant at March 31, 2018. The business risks presented are not At March 31, 2018, interest-bearing debt was ¥1,606.1 billion, down ¥87.6 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year. all-encompassing. In recognition of exposure to risks such as those detailed below, the Group conducts risk assessments once a year. Based on these assessments, risk management systems are established and revised in consideration of the risks faced by specific businesses. In this Trade Payables manner, the Group is working to prevent the risks from occurring and minimize the impacts of such risks be realized. Trade payables rose ¥50.7 billion from the previous fiscal year-end, to ¥488.6 billion, primarily due to increases thereof associated with the closing day falling on a holiday. Changes Affecting Many of the Group’s products can be impacted by demand and product markets domestically and abroad; pricing Retained Earnings and procurement volumes for crude oil, naphtha, utilities, and other raw materials and supplies; foreign exchange Operating Results Retained earnings increased ¥195.6 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year, to ¥956.9 billion. The increase was rates; and relevant laws and regulations. The principal assumed risks for each business domain are as follows. mainly due to the posting of profit attributable to owners of the parent. (a) Performance Products Domain (Performance Products segment) Cash Flows These products must satisfy high-quality and performance requirements, and the Group must develop and supply Net Cash Provided by (used in) Operating Activities them at the appropriate times to meet market needs. Group business results (“results”) may be adversely affected if Net cash provided by operating activities in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 amounted to ¥397.9 billion, up ¥1.3 billion market needs change far more than the Group envisages, or if the Group is unable to ensure the timely supply of year on year. The increase was mainly attributable to the posting of profit before tax and Depreciation and Amortization, products that meet market needs, including issues with the availability of raw materials. If supply is interrupted for which more than offset the payment of income tax and an increase in working capital associated with increases in trade raw materials that can only be procured from certain areas or specific suppliers, then this could adversely affect receivables and inventories. results. The Group outsources production of most information and electronics-related materials to other Asian Net Cash Provided by (used in) Investing Activities manufacturers, so disasters or other issues with those facilities could disrupt the supply structure, adversely In the year under review, net cash used in investing activities amounted to ¥335.9 billion, up ¥46.8 billion year on year. affecting results. Specifically, film and sheet products rely greatly on demand for liquid crystal display (LCD) panels, This resulted from capital investment expenditure and the acquisition of subsidiaries, which more than offset proceeds so drastic fluctuations in demand for LCD panels could adversely affect results. from sales and the redemption of securities in the management of cash on hand. (b) Industrial Materials Domain (Chemicals segment and Industrial Gases segment) Net Cash Provided by (used in) Financing Activities In this area, MCHC consumes large volumes of naphtha and other raw materials, and uses considerable amounts of Net cash used in financing activities in the year under review came to ¥150.6 billion, up ¥152.0 billion year on year. The electricity and steam in production processes. For those reasons, drastic fluctuations in the costs of naphtha, fuels, increase was mainly due to the payment of dividends and a decrease in borrowings and other interest-bearing debts. and other resources owing to changes in crude oil prices; the demand and supply balance for raw fuels or naphtha; As a result of these factors, free cash flow comprising cash flows from operating and investing activities, was inflow of or the impact of foreign exchange rates could adversely affect results if MCHC is not fully able to adjust its product ¥62.0 billion, down ¥45.5 billion. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of FY2017 were ¥277.6 billion, a decrease of ¥85.9 prices, or if there are delays in such adjustments. MCHC relies on suppliers from certain areas for its raw fuels, and billion. an inability to secure required fuels at the right times could adversely affect results. A worldwide recession or increased production capacity among rivals could adversely affect results if it becomes impossible to maintain the Capital Expenditures product demand and supply balance or MCHC is unable to generate revenues and earnings or reach goals that are Capital expenditures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 were ¥225.2 billion, an increase of ¥18.7 billion from a year commensurate with its capital expenditures. earlier. These expenditures were largely applied to the construction of new facilities or the expansion and renewal of MCHC relies heavily on certain business partners for some products in the Industrial Materials domain. For existing facilities, and rationalization investments in other facilities. example, the coke business depends greatly on specific steelmakers, so if the steel output of those companies New additions of facilities in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 included polyvinyl alcohol film production facilities declines, such as because of dramatic fluctuations in the demand and supply of raw steel, the performances of such at The Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. and polyester film production facilities at Mitsubishi Polyester Film business partners could adversely affect MCHC’s results. Inc. (U.S.) in the Performance Products segment. In the Chemicals segment, MMA monomer and PMMA production facilities were established in The Saudi Methacrylates Company. In the Industrial Gas segment, air separation units were newly established at Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation and Matheson Tri-Gas, Inc. In the Health Care segment, additions (c) Health Care Domain (Health Care segment) were made to capsule production facilities at Qualicaps Co., Ltd. The results of the pharmaceuticals business are subject to the Group being unable to reach revenue and earnings targets by adequately expanding sales volumes of existing treatments or rationalizing operations in response to lower prices from periodic revisions in National Health Insurance prices of pharmaceuticals. Results are also subject Net Cash Provided by (used in) Net Cash Provided by (used in) Investing Depreciation and Amortization Operating Activities Activities and Capital Expenditures to government policies in each country to constrain medical expenditures. In general, lead times for drug research and development are far longer than in other industries, whereas the Net Cash Provided by (used in) investing Activities (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) percentage of drugs receiving approval is not high. It is therefore difficult to produce accurate forecasts for the Capital Expenditures 400 396.6 397.9 300 200 388.6 certainty or timing of commercialization. Results are thus subject to drugs not being commercialized as planned. 213.1 206.5 225.2 180.3 182.6 178.9 Even where drugs are commercialized, results are subject to sales volumes being lower because of intensified 176.5 173.9 329.7 150 133.3 165.0 competition with rival offerings, volumes declining on reports of new side effects when usage of these drugs 300 299.6 150 151.2 becomes broad-based, generic drugs are commercialized after patents expire, or when approval is withdrawn. 131.5 Results are subject to supply disruptions on some raw materials for which the Group relies on external sources 0 and can be influenced by an inability to secure adequate supplies of pharmaceuticals. 200 J-GAAP IFRS 100 In clinical testing and diagnostic reagents and instruments, results can be affected by periodic revisions in 177.0 medical treatment fees and drug price revisions. Results in these businesses are subject to the Group being unable -150 to reach revenue and earnings targets by adequately expanding sales volumes of existing treatments or -159.7 -202.7 rationalizing operations in response to lower fees or prices. In the pharmaceutical intermediates and active 100 50 -300 -234.1 pharmaceutical ingredients business and the capsules for pharmaceutical products, results are subject to lower -277.2 -289.1 sales volumes of customers’ pharmaceuticals following revisions in National Health Insurance prices or patent J-GAAP IFRS -335.9 J-GAAP IFRS expiries on customer products. 0 -450 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 8 9 93 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 94 Financial Information Changes in Foreign The Group endeavors to minimize the short-term impact of fluctuations in foreign currency transactions, primarily for (d) Others Exchange Rates exports and imports, notably by using forward foreign exchange contracts. Changes in exchange rates in the short, The Group includes companies offering engineering and logistics services. Those companies secure some external medium, and long terms may affect results. orders. Significant fluctuations in demand within and outside the Group, or in market conditions worldwide, could The Group engages in production and sales in Asia, Europe, North America, and other locations overseas. It adversely affect results. translates sales, expenses, assets, and other items denominated in foreign currencies in such regions into yen in its consolidated financial statements. Even if the foreign currency valuations of such items remain unchanged, the yen equivalents could change after conversion from other currencies, so foreign exchange rate fluctuations could affect (e) Overall Operations the Group’s results and financial position. The Group aims to grow, innovate, and leap ahead by orchestrating its strengths. It is therefore reinforcing its structure and implementing growth strategies (including to deliver high performance and added value), while cultivating innovative businesses. Changes in the economic or business climates (including social demands relating Laws and The Group’s operations are subject to related laws and regulations in Japan and abroad. Such laws and regulations to climate change measures and other aspects of the environment) that are far greater than projected could Regulations may govern security and safety, the environment and chemical substances, pharmaceutical safety policies, and other areas relating to Group operations. adversely affect results. The Group maintains voluntary rules that are stricter than legal provisions while pursuing thorough compliance The Group’s broad overseas activities include exporting products and manufacturing around the world. Risks in to satisfy laws and regulations in engaging in business activities. Dramatic changes in laws and regulations or countries or regions relating to Group businesses, notably of conflicts, terrorism, civil wars, riots, demonstrations, strengthened legislation could further restrict the Group’s activities or increase its costs. Furthermore, should the deteriorating security, and other international geopolitical problems, unforeseeable issues with regulations, taxation, Group violate laws or regulations, it could be ordered to halt operations at plants, and trust from society could be working conditions, customs, and other country risks, large-scale natural disasters, difficulties hiring and retaining lost. All these factors have the possibility of influencing results. employees, inadequate supplies from utilities or other infrastructural shortfalls, changes in the economic and financial climates, or other risks impacting specific countries or regions could adversely affect results. Product Liability The Group manufactures and sells products that conform with standards as ISO 9001, the international standard for quality management systems. The Group endeavors to prevent product liability problems from arising when Interest-Bearing The Group aims to balance its growth and innovation strategies with efforts to enhance its financial position. launching products or improving quality by previously evaluating such liability risks. The Group cannot guarantee, Debt MCHC’s results could be adversely affected in a situation where interest payments on interest-bearing debt rises, however, that all of its products will be free of defects. It therefore has product liability insurance to cover possible such as because interest-bearing debt increases, interest rates rise, or MCHC’s credit rating declines owing to accidents. Regardless, product defects that could cause major product liability exposure with damages exceeding fluctuating Group performances. Results could also be adversely affected if it becomes essential to procure funds to the range of such insurance could adversely affect results. upgrade facilities and the Group must obtain financing at unfavorable terms. Risks Associated Results could be adversely affected if mergers, acquisitions, or joint ventures created in Japan or abroad to expand Accidents and The Group regularly inspects its plants and otherwise endeavors to prevent accidents at facilities. It cannot, with Acquisitions, scale or overhaul MCHC’s business portfolio fail to deliver anticipated synergies or other benefits, or if the Group’s Disasters however, completely prevent or mitigate accidents at such facilities, nor natural disasters such as earthquakes. Accidents that damage property, cause human suffering or loss of life, or create environmental pollution could Mergers, or financial burden thereby increases or, if after mergers or acquisitions, the Group encounters new debt or other adversely impact production activities and reduce social trust in the Group, thereby adversely affecting results. Restructuring issues that it did not initially envisage. Other factors that could adversely affect results include reorganizations as Natural disasters that damage property, cause human suffering or loss of life, or significantly damage or functionally part of business selection and concentration initiatives, through which MCHC withdraws from unprofitable degrade the social infrastructure and chronically affect the Group’s activities could affect results. businesses or liquidates affiliates. Information The Group strictly manages corporate and personal information in its possession. Problems resulting from leaks of Deferred Tax Assets The Group records deferred tax assets for deductible temporary differences on tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax such information could decrease competitiveness or reduce social trust in the Group, which may adversely affect assets are calculated based on various predictions and assumptions about future taxable income. If results differ Management results. Although the Group has taken various measures to safeguard against cyber attacks, if problems were to from such predictions and assumptions, or if tax rates change in line with changes to the tax system, MCHC would arise with the plant control systems of business sites, it would take steps that include adjusting production volumes need to recalculate deferred tax assets, which could adversely affect results. to maintain safety, which could adversely affect results. Impairment of The Group holds marketable securities, mainly as a non-controlling shareholder in customer companies or financial Research and The Group deems research and development as pivotal to supporting sustainable corporate growth, and has long Securities institutions to maintain long-term relationships with them. Major declines in the market values of such securities Development undertaken solid R&D. It intends to deploy resources in a planned and sustainably stable manner from long-term could adversely affect its financial position. perspectives. Results could be adversely affected, however, if the fruits of R&D are far less than anticipated. Impairment of Fixed Because the Group has applied accounting standards related to fixed asset impairment, it could incur impairment Intellectual Property The Group takes ample precautions to avoid violating the intellectual property of third parties. Nonetheless, Assets losses owing to dramatically deteriorating performances or major declines in property values, which could adversely injunctions or damages claims by third parties on the basis of patent or other infringements could adversely affect affect results. Although the Group conducts impairment tests on goodwill acquired through business integrations, if results. carrying amounts exceed recoverable amounts owing to lower profitability, it could incur impairment losses, which could adversely affect results. Litigation The Group maintains various businesses, as mentioned in Changes Affecting Operating Results. In engaging in business, or in reorganizing or restructuring operations, the Group could face litigation from business partners or Pension and The Group calculates retirement benefit obligations and expenses for current and former employees based on other third parties relating to intellectual property or the Group’s products. It is impossible to predict or assess the Severance Plans actuarial assumptions, investment returns on plan assets, and other factors. A decline in the value of pension results of such lawsuits, which could adversely affect results. assets, fluctuations in the interest rate climate, and changes in retirement benefit obligations and expenses owing to Litigation proceedings to which the Group is currently subject is as follows: changes in the retirement plan and pension systems could adversely affect results and its financial position. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation was a codefendant with the Japanese government in damages lawsuits over blood products tainted with hepatitis C virus. In September 2008, the defendants concluded a basic agreement Impact of Inventory The Group states inventory assets principally at cost based on the weighted average method. Declines in the costs with nationwide plaintiff groups and their attorneys to resolve this case in response to the Act on Special Measures Valuations of naphtha or raw materials during the fiscal period could detract from earnings by affecting relatively expensive concerning the Payment of Benefits to Relieve the Victims of Hepatitis C Infected through Specified Fibrinogen inventories at the start of a term, thereby increasing the cost of sales. Earnings would conversely rise if fuel costs Concentrates and Specified Coagulation Factor XI Concentrates. The plaintiffs began dropping litigation against the rose during the fiscal period. Changes in fuel costs could therefore affect results. Any book value write-down based company, and in April 2009 the company decided to pay costs to the hepatitis C sufferers according to the payment on lower profitability could adversely affect results. apportionment standards of the above act. 10 11 95 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 96 Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Years ended March 31 Millions of yen Millions of yen Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Net profit ¥216,515 ¥276,362 Continuing operations: Revenue (Note 4) ¥ 3,376,057 ¥ 3,724,406 Other comprehensive income: Cost of sales (2,366,658) (2,604,344) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Gross profit 1,009,399 1,120,062 Net gain (loss) on revaluation of financial assets measured at fair value (Note 25) 14,391 9,682 Remeasurements of defined benefit pensions plans Selling, general and administrative expenses (714,715) (764,317) 17,324 22,170 (Note 25) Other operating income (Note 9) 10,695 19,679 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of Other operating expenses (Note 9) (53,722) (46,350) investments accounted for using the equity method (207) — (Note 25) Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity 16,964 26,637 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 31,508 31,852 method (Note 4) Operating income (Note 4) 268,621 355,711 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Financial income (Note 10) 7,155 8,404 (Note 25) (20,405) (13,598) Financial costs (Note 10) (17,433) (20,038) Net gain (loss) on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges (Note 25) 840 2,278 Profit before tax 258,343 344,077 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method (1,965) 582 Income tax expense (Note 11) (44,414) (67,715) (Note 25) Profit from continuing operations 213,929 276,362 Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit (21,530) (10,738) or loss Discontinued operations: Total other comprehensive income (net of tax) 9,978 21,114 Profit from discontinued operations (Note 6) 2,586 — Total comprehensive income ¥226,493 ¥297,476 Net profit ¥ 216,515 ¥ 276,362 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Net profit attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥165,709 ¥233,619 Owners of the parent ¥ 156,259 ¥ 211,788 Non-controlling interests 60,784 63,857 Non-controlling interests 60,256 64,574 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Net profit ¥ 216,515 ¥ 276,362 Earnings per share: Basic (Note 12): (Yen) Continuing operations ¥ 104.97 ¥ 147.14 Discontinued operations 1.76 — Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 106.73 ¥ 147.14 Diluted (Note 12): (Yen) Continuing operations ¥ 104.20 ¥ 136.06 Discontinued operations 1.75 — Diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of the ¥ 105.95 ¥ 136.06 parent The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 12 13 97 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 98 Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Millions of yen Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Millions of yen Liabilities and Equity March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Liabilities Current liabilities: Assets Current assets: Trade payables (Note 34) ¥ 437,914 ¥ 488,592 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 21) ¥ 363,510 ¥ 277,624 Bonds and borrowings 577,737 580,854 (Note 29) Trade receivables (Note 20) 776,191 854,804 Income tax payable 21,287 41,293 Inventories (Note 19) 538,131 607,671 Other financial liabilities (Note 31) 184,909 201,208 Other financial assets (Note 17) 215,446 247,365 Provisions (Note 28) 6,057 7,463 Other current assets (Note 18) 58,184 62,050 Other current liabilities Subtotal 1,951,462 2,049,514 116,691 126,285 (Note 33) Assets held for sale (Note 22) 16,916 2,139 Subtotal 1,344,595 1,445,695 Total current assets 1,968,378 2,051,653 Liabilities directly associated with 5,307 364 assets held for sale (Note 22) Total current liabilities 1,349,902 1,446,059 Non-current liabilities: Bonds and borrowings 1,116,005 1,025,268 (Note 29) Other financial liabilities (Note 31) 27,489 29,174 Retirement benefit liabilities (Note 27) 128,338 110,639 Provisions (Note 28) 25,018 30,712 Other non-current liabilities (Note 33) 38,439 38,014 Deferred tax liabilities 80,159 101,236 (Note 11) Total non-current liabilities 1,415,448 1,335,043 Non-current assets: Total liabilities 2,765,350 2,781,102 Property, plant and equipment (Note 14) 1,431,681 1,433,509 Goodwill (Note 13) 312,950 323,378 Equity Common stock: (Note 23) 50,000 50,000 Intangible assets (Note 13) 227,169 355,151 Additional paid-in capital (Note 23) 321,703 321,111 Investments accounted for using the equity Treasury stock (Note 23) (43,587) (43,569) 136,734 175,905 method (Note 16) Retained earnings (Note 23) 761,364 956,946 Other financial assets (Note 17) 252,921 244,489 Other components of equity (Note 23) 1,918 1,262 Other non-current assets 39,079 36,145 Equity attributable to owners of the (Note 18) 1,091,398 1,285,750 parent Deferred tax assets (Note 11) 94,635 80,362 Non-controlling interests 606,799 633,740 Total non-current assets 2,495,169 2,648,939 Total equity 1,698,197 1,919,490 Total assets (Note 4) ¥4,463,547 ¥4,700,592 Total liabilities and equity ¥4,463,547 ¥ 4,700,592 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 15 14 99 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 100 Financial Information Millions of yen Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Common Additional Retained Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Treasury stock stock paid-in capital earnings Years ended March 31 Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥50,000 ¥ 321,703 ¥ (43,587) ¥761,364 Net profit — — — 211,788 Millions of yen Other comprehensive income (Note 25) — — — — Total comprehensive income — — — 211,788 Common Additional Retained Treasury stock stock paid-in capital earnings Purchase of treasury stock (Note 23) — — (62) — Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥50,000 ¥ 317,544 ¥ (16,240) ¥610,909 Disposal of treasury stock (Note 23) — (77) 80 — Cash dividends (Note 24) — — — (38,861) Net profit — — — 156,259 Share-based payment transactions (Note 26) — 144 — — Other comprehensive income (Note 25) — — — — Share-based payment transactions of Total comprehensive income — — — 156,259 consolidated subsidiaries (Note 26) — — — — Changes in interests in subsidiaries — (659) — — Purchase of treasury stock (Note 23) — — (30,033) — Changes in scope of consolidation — — — 1,242 Disposal of treasury stock (Note 23) — 3,035 2,686 — Transfer from other components of equity to 21,413 Cash dividends (Note 24) — — — (23,437) retained earnings — — — Issue of Convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares — 3,099 — — Transfer from other components of equity to — — — — non-financial assets, etc. Share-based payment transactions (Note 26) — 71 — — Total transactions with owners — (592) 18 (16,206) Changes in interests in subsidiaries — (2,046) — — Changes in scope of consolidation — — — 117 Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥50,000 ¥321,111 ¥(43,569) ¥956,946 Transfer from other components of equity to 17,516 retained earnings — — — Total transactions with owners — 4,159 (27,347) (5,804) Other components of equity Net gain Net gain Equity Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥50,000 ¥321,703 ¥(43,587) ¥761,364 RemeasureExchange (loss) on (loss) on attributable Nonments of differences revaluation derivatives to owners controlling Total equity defined on of financial designated Total of the interests Other components of equity benefit translation assets as cash parent pensions of foreign Net gain Net gain Equity measured flow RemeasureExchange plans operations (loss) on (loss) on attributable Nonat fair value hedges ments of differences revaluation defined on derivatives to owners controlling Total equity Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥46,831 ¥ — ¥(43,886) ¥(1,027) ¥1,918 ¥1,091,398 ¥606,799 ¥1,698,197 of financial designated Total of the interests benefit translation assets pensions of foreign as cash parent Net profit — — — — — 211,788 64,574 276,362 measured flow Other comprehensive plans operations 6,918 19,208 (6,569) 2,274 21,831 21,831 (717) 21,114 at fair value hedges income (Note 25) Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥37,054 ¥ — ¥(25,246) ¥(1,824) ¥9,984 ¥972,197 ¥623,954 ¥1,596,151 Total comprehensive 6,918 19,208 (6,569) 2,274 21,831 233,619 63,857 297,476 income Net profit — — — — — 156,259 60,256 216,515 Other comprehensive Purchase of treasury income (Note 25) 12,538 14,755 (18,640) 797 9,450 9,450 528 9,978 stock (Note 23) — — — — — (62) — (62) Total comprehensive Disposal of treasury income 12,538 14,755 (18,640) 797 9,450 165,709 60,784 226,493 stock (Note 23) — — — — — 3 — 3 Cash dividends (Note Purchase of treasury — — — — — (38,861) (40,946) (79,807) stock (Note 23) — — — — — (30,033) — (30,033) 24) Share-based payment Disposal of treasury — — — — — 144 — 144 stock (Note 23) — — — — — 5,721 — 5,721 transactions (Note 26) Share-based payment Cash dividends (Note 24) — — — — — (23,437) (28,013) (51,450) transactions of — — — — — — 41 41 consolidated subsidiaries Issue of Convertible (Note 26) bond-type bonds with subscription rights to — — — — — 3,099 — 3,099 Changes in interests in subsidiaries — — — — — (659) 3,882 3,223 shares Changes in scope of Share-based payment — — — — — 1,242 107 1,349 transactions (Note 26) — — — — — 71 — 71 consolidation Transfer from other Changes in interests in — — — — — (2,046) (49,533) (51,579) components of equity to (2,205) (19,208) — — (21,413) — — — subsidiaries retained earnings Changes in scope of — — — — — 117 (393) (276) Transfer from other consolidation components of equity to — — — (1,074) (1,074) (1,074) — (1,074) Transfer from other non-financial assets, etc. components of equity to (2,761) (14,755) — — (17,516) — — — Total transactions with (2,205) (19,208) — (1,074) (22,487) (39,267) (36,916) (76,183) retained earnings owners Total transactions with (2,761) (14,755) — — (17,516) (46,508) (77,939) (124,447) owners Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥51,544 ¥ — ¥(50,455) ¥173 ¥ 1,262 ¥1,285,750 ¥633,740 ¥1,919,490 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥46,831 ¥ — ¥(43,886) ¥(1,027) ¥ 1,918 ¥1,091,398 ¥606,799 ¥1,698,197 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 16 17 101 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 102 Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (13,144) 847 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 95,854 (87,738) Millions of yen Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 267,148 363,510 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents resulting from Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 transfer to assets held for sale (247) (6) Cash flows from operating activities: Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents resulting from 728 1,640 Profit before tax ¥258,343 ¥344,077 change in scope of consolidation Profit before taxes from discontinued operations 2,300 — Net increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from merger and 27 218 Depreciation and amortization 174,040 178,895 acquisition Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method (16,964) (26,637) Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (Note 21) ¥363,510 ¥277,624 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Interest and dividend income (6,593) (7,669) Interest expense 16,060 15,652 Impairment loss 16,861 12,062 Loss on sales and retirement of property, plant and equipment 7,457 10,414 Environmental measures costs 6,781 3,672 Provision for loss on litigation — 1,170 Loss on sales of shares of subsidiaries and associates 1,007 26 Gain on sales of non-current assets (1,205) (4,183) Gain on sales of shares of subsidiaries and associates (2,347) (3,747) (Increase) decrease in trade receivables (11,264) (80,607) (Increase) decrease in inventories (9,224) (70,882) Increase (decrease) in trade payables 43,992 51,755 Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit assets and liabilities 761 8,876 Other, net (3,727) 18,158 Subtotal 476,278 451,032 Interest received 2,809 2,699 Dividends received 13,666 16,941 Interest paid (15,741) (15,041) Income taxes (paid) received, net (80,369) (57,691) Net cash provided by operating activities 396,643 397,940 Cash flows from investing activities: Purchase of property, plant and equipment (197,100) (199,871) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 8,905 10,268 Purchase of intangible assets (8,684) (28,390) Purchase of other financial assets (314,982) (401,573) Proceeds from sales/redemption of other financial assets 207,280 441,464 Purchase of investments in subsidiaries (26,276) (122,977) Proceeds from sales of investments in subsidiaries 10,748 12,701 Net (increase) decrease in time deposits 117,294 (55,835) Payments for transfer of business (77,774) (343) Other, net (8,467) 8,623 Net cash used in investing activities (289,056) (335,933) Cash flows from financing activities: Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings (129,692) 25,243 Net increase (decrease) in commercial papers 10,000 (16,000) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 217,446 80,638 Repayment of long-term borrowings (143,867) (148,016) Proceeds from issuance of bonds 220,408 29,828 Redemption of bonds (40,010) (40,000) Net (increase) decrease in treasury stock (30,035) (60) Dividends paid (23,437) (38,861) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (28,453) (40,946) Proceeds from stock issuance to non-controlling interests 2,812 5,473 Payment for acquisition of subsidiaries' interests from non-controlling (48,837) (3,732) interests Other, net (4,924) (4,159) Net cash used in financing activities 1,411 (150,592) 18 19 103 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 104 Financial Information 6. Newly Applied Standards and Interpretations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Main standards and interpretations newly applied by the Group from the year ended March 31, 2018, are as follows. Note 1 Standard and Interpretation Overview of Introduction or Revision Revision to disclosures relating to changes in liabilities IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows Reporting Entity Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (the “Company”) is a corporation domiciled in arising from financing activities Japan, whose shares are listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The Through the above adoption, Note 30 Changes in Liabilities is presented. registered address of its Head Office is presented on its website (http://www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/). The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements 7. Early Application of New Standard for the years ended March 31, 2018 comprise those of the Company, its subsidiaries and The Group applied IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” in its entirety. associates, and interests under joint arrangements (collectively, the “Group”). The Group’s three principal domains are Performance Products, Industrial Materials, and Health Care. Further details are presented in Note 4 Segment Information. 8. New Standards and Interpretations Not Yet Applied Standards and interpretations that have not been applied by the Group as of March 31, 2018 because application was not mandatory among key standards and interpretations issued by Note 2 the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements are as follows. The Company estimates that the impact on the consolidated financial statements of Basis of Presentation 1. Compliance with IFRS adopting IFRS 15 is immaterial. In adopting this standard, the Company employed a retroactive adjustment as a transitional measure to recognize the cumulative effect The accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in retrospectively to the adoption date. The Company is assessing the impact of adopting accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the IFRS 16, and has yet to reach a conclusion. International Accounting Standards Board. The provisions of Article 93 of the Ordinance on Terminology, Forms, and Preparation Methods of Consolidated Financial Statements apply, Mandatory Year of as the Company meets the requirements for a “Specified Company applying Designated Application Standards and Interpretations Application by Overview of Introduction or Revision (Hereafter, International Financial Reporting Standards” prescribed in Article 1-2 of said ordinance. the Group Starting Year) Accounting standards and disclosure 2. Approval of Consolidated Financial Statements methods for revenue recognition have Revenue from been revised. The Group's consolidated financial statements were approved on June 26, 2018, by Hitoshi Year ending IFRS 15 Contracts with January 1, 2018 Specifically, revenue is recognized March 31, 2019 based on the rights expected to be Ochi, Representative Corporate Executive Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer, Customers received in exchange for transferring and Hidefumi Date, Managing Corporate Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. goods or services to customers. Accounting standards and disclosure 3. Basis of Measurement methods for handling leases have been revised. The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis, except for IFRS 16 Leases January 1, 2019 Year ending Specifically, under a single model, the March 31, 2020 financial statements must generally certain financial instruments measured at fair value presented in Note 3 Significant reflect asset usage rights and payment Accounting Policies. obligations for borrower leases exceeding 12 months. 4. Presentation Currency Note 3 The consolidated financial statements are presented in Japanese yen, which is the Significant 1. Basis of Consolidation Company’s functional currency, rounded to the nearest million yen. Accounting Policies (1) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group has control over an entity if it has exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to 5. Use of Judgments, Estimates and Assumptions affect those returns through its influence over the investee. Management has made a number of judgments, estimates and assumptions relating to the In preparing its consolidated financial statements, the Company based the financial statements application of accounting policies, reporting of revenues and expenses and assets and of each Group company prepared as of the same closing date based on common Group accounting liabilities in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with policies. Subsidiaries’ financial statements are adjusted, if necessary, when their accounting policies IFRS. Actual results may differ from these estimates. differ from those of the Group. The Group consolidates entities from the date on which it acquires control until the date on Estimates and underlying assumptions are continually evaluated. The effect of changes which it loses control. to accounting estimates is recognized in the reporting period in which the revision was made All intergroup balances, outstanding receivables and obligations, unrealized gains and losses and in future periods. are eliminated on consolidation. A change in ownership interest of a consolidated subsidiary, without a loss of control, is Information regarding judgments, estimates, and assumptions used in applying accounted for as an equity transaction. Differences between adjusted non-controlling interest accounting policies that could materially affect the Company’s consolidated financial amounts and fair value are recognized directly as equity attributable to owners of the statements is included in the following notes: parent. In the event of a loss of control, the Group measures and recognizes any remaining • Impairment of Non-Financial Assets (Note 13, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Note 14, investments at fair value. Any gain or loss arising from a loss of control is recognized in Property, Plant and Equipment and Note 15, Impairment Losses) profit or loss. • Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets (Note 11, Income Taxes) Non-controlling interests in a subsidiary's net assets are recognized separately from • Measurement of Defined Benefit Obligations (Note 27, Retirement Benefits) those under the Group's control. The comprehensive income of consolidated subsidiaries • Fair Value of Financial Instruments (Note 35, Financial Instruments) is attributed to owners of the parent and non-controlling interests even if this results in the • Contingent Liabilities (Note 39, Contingent Liabilities) non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. 21 20 105 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 106 Financial Information such costs are incurred. (2) Associates When the Group acquires a business, the Group classifies or designates the Associates are entities in which the Group has significant influence over the financial and identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of the contractual terms, operational policies but does not have control or joint control. Normally, the Group is economic conditions and other pertinent conditions as they exist at the acquisition date. In assumed to be able to exercise significant influence when it holds 20% to 50% ownership. principle, the Group generally measures the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities Other factors considered in assessing whether or not the Group can exercise significant assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. influence include sending any of its officers being on the Board of Directors. In such cases, If a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group reassesses the equity of the Group may be considered to be able to exercise significant influence over an associate the acquiree before acquisition of control at fair value on the acquisition date, and even if its investment accounts for less than 20% of voting rights. recognizes the resulting gain or loss in profit or loss. The Group accounts for the equity The Group accounts for investments in associates under the equity method. Such interest of the acquiree booked in other comprehensive income before the acquisition on investments are recognized at cost upon acquisition. After acquisition, the Group's share of the same basis as would be required if the Group had disposed directly of the previously net assets of associates is adjusted and recorded in the consolidated statement of financial held equity interest. position. Goodwill is measured as the difference by which total value recognized as transferred The consolidated financial statements reflect the Group's share of earnings in consideration and non-controlling interests exceeds the net value of identifiable assets associates. If amounts recognized in other comprehensive income of associates change, acquired and liabilities assumed. the Group's share with respect to those changes is also recognized in other If the total amount recognized as transferred consideration and non-controlling comprehensive income. interests is less than net amount of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the The Group's consolidated financial statements have been adjusted to eliminate its Group recognizes the difference as profit or loss. share in unrealized gains and losses arising from transactions between it and associates. After initial recognition, the Group does not amortize goodwill acquired through a Associates prepare their financial statements for the same reporting period as the business combination, but records goodwill at cost less any accumulated impairment loss. Group, adjusting their accounting policies to align with those of the Group. The Group conducts impairment tests annually or when there are signs of impairment. In the event that the Group loses significant control over an associate, it assesses and recognizes the remaining investment at fair value as of the day on which it lost such 3. Foreign Currency Translations influence. Gains and losses arising from the loss of significant influence are recognized in The consolidated financial statements of the Group are presented in Japanese yen, which profit or loss. is the Company's functional currency. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the requirements of local laws and In addition, each company in the Group determines its individual functional currency shareholder agreements made it effectively impossible to match reporting dates of all and measures transactions using these functional currencies. associates to that of the Group. For certain associates for which it was impracticable to Foreign currency denominated transactions are translated into functional currencies at provisionally settle accounts on the Group's reporting date owing to business or other spot exchange rates as of the transaction dates or at similar rates. factors, the Group uses relevant provisional financial statements for the period ending Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into the functional December 31. Significant transactions or events between the reporting dates of those currency using the spot exchange rate on the date of end of the consolidated reporting associates and the consolidated closing date are reflected in the consolidated financial period. Exchange differences arising from translations or settlement are recognized in statements. profit or loss. However, exchange differences arising from financial instruments designated as hedging instruments of net investments in foreign operations (foreign subsidiaries, etc.), (3) Joint Arrangements financial assets measured through other comprehensive income and cash flow hedges are A joint arrangement is an arrangement in which unanimous consensus from the parties recognized in other comprehensive income. that have joint control of decision-making over related activities is required. The Group translates assets and liabilities of foreign operations using the spot A joint venture is a joint agreement through which parties with joint control over an exchange rate at the end of the reporting period, and revenue and expenses using the spot arrangement have rights to the net assets of an arrangement. exchange rate on the transaction date or an approximate rate in Japanese yen, The Group uses the equity method to account for its equity interests in joint ventures. respectively. The Group accounts for any exchange differences arising in such A joint operation is one in which parties with joint control of an arrangement have retranslation in other comprehensive income. rights to assets and obligations for liabilities relating to the joint arrangement. On the disposal of a foreign operation, accumulated exchange differences related to If the Group holds an interest in a joint operation, the Group recognizes assets, the foreign operation are recognized in profit or loss in the corresponding period of liabilities, revenues and expenses generated from joint operating activities only to the disposal. extent of its interest. Inter-company transactions among the Group’s companies as well as receivable and payable balances and unrealized gains and losses arising from such 4. Revenue transactions are eliminated. (1) Recognition of Revenue The principal joint operation is The Saudi Methacrylates Company, in which the Group The Group recognizes revenue when it is probable that future economic benefits will and Saudi Arabia have a 50-50 interest. That company manufactures methyl methacrylate flow to the Group and these benefits can be measured reliably. The Group measures monomer, acrylic resin, and other offerings. revenue at the fair value of a consideration received or receivable after deducting the amount of any trade discounts, volume rebates and value-added taxes. 2. Business Combinations The Group uses the acquisition method to account for business combinations. (2) Sale of Goods If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting The Group recognizes revenue from the sale of goods when it has transferred the period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts and adjusts significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer, it retains neither the amounts in a measurement period that does not exceed one year from the acquisition continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership date. nor effective control over the goods sold, the amount of revenue can be measured The Group measures the cost of an acquisition as the aggregate of the consideration reliably, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will transferred, measured at acquisition-date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling flow to the Group, and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction interest in the acquiree. can be measured reliably. For each business combination, the Group measures components of non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or the amounts of non-controlling interests in the (3) Rendering of Services acquiree's identifiable net assets. When the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering of services can be The Group accounts for acquisition-related costs as expenses in the periods in which estimated, revenue associated with the transaction is recognized according to the 22 23 107 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 108 Financial Information stage of the transaction's completion. In principle, the Group applies the method to substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, estimating tax rates at the time estimate the stage of completion in proportion of the incurred cost at the closing date to assets materialize or liabilities are settled. the estimated total cost. If a milestone is specified at the start of a contract, the Group applies measurements using that milestone. When the stage of completion cannot be 8. Earnings per Share estimated reliably, the Group recognizes costs incurred as an expense in the reporting The Company calculates basic earnings per share by dividing the profit attributable to period and recognizes revenue only to the extent that recognized expenses are ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares, adjusted for recoverable. treasury stock during that period. The Company calculates diluted earnings per share by adjusting the effects of all potentially dilutive shares. (4) Interest and Dividends The Group recognizes interest using the effective interest method and recognizes 9. Cash and Cash Equivalents dividends when shareholder rights to receive payments are established. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, and short-term investments that are readily convertible to cash, which are subject to insignificant risks of (5) Construction Contracts changes in value, and whose maturities are three months or less from the date of If the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue associated acquisition. with the contract is recognized according to the stage of completion of the construction at the end of the reporting period. If the outcome of a construction contract cannot be 10. Inventories estimated reliably, revenue is recognized only to the extent that it is probable contract The cost of inventories comprises all purchase costs, processing costs, and all costs costs incurred will be recoverable. If total contract costs will likely exceed total contract incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. revenue, the expected loss is immediately recognized as an expense. Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition cost and net realizable value. The Company mainly uses the weighted average cost formula to calculate costs. The Company 5. Government Grants calculates net realizable value by deducting the estimated selling price in the ordinary Government grants are recognized at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that course of business from the estimated costs required to make a sale. the Group will comply with grant terms and that the grant will be received. Government grants related to income are recognized as income on a systematic basis 11. Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations over the periods in which the Group recognizes as expenses the related costs for which The Company classifies a non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale if its the grants are intended to compensate. carrying amount is expected to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather Government grants relating to assets are deducted from asset acquisition costs. than through continuing use. This applies only if the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition and a sale is highly probable within one year. 6. Borrowing Costs The Company measures a non-current asset (or disposal group) classified as held for sale The Group capitalizes borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value, less the cost to sell. construction or production of assets that require considerable time before use as intended The Group does not depreciate or amortize property, plant or equipment or intangible or sale as part of the cost of that asset. The Group recognizes all other borrowing costs as assets classified as held for sale. expenses in periods incurred. Discontinued operations include units that have been disposed of or are classified as held for sale. The Group recognizes an operation as discontinued if it is a Group business 7. Income Taxes and is scheduled for disposal. The Group calculates current tax liabilities or assets for the current and prior periods as amounts that it expects to pay to or recover from taxation authorities. The Group uses tax 12. Property, Plant and Equipment rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the end of a reporting period to The Group applies the cost model to measure property, plant and equipment. determine tax amounts. The Group carries property, plant and equipment at acquisition cost less accumulated The Group uses the asset and liability method to record deferred taxes for differences depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. between carrying amounts of assets or liabilities on the accounts at the end of the reporting The acquisition cost includes direct costs of acquisition, estimated costs of period and the tax basis (temporary differences). dismantlement, removal and restoration, and borrowing costs that satisfy capitalization In principle, the Group recognizes deferred tax liabilities for all future taxable temporary criteria. differences. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probably that taxable Except for land, property, plant and equipment, less the residual value at the end of the income will be available against which deductible temporary differences and for tax credits reporting term, is depreciated using the straight-line method. and tax loss carryforwards can be used. Depreciation is computed over the following estimated useful lives for the following As exceptions, however, the Group does not recognize deferred tax assets or deferred major classes of assets: tax liabilities for the following temporary differences: Buildings and structures 3 to 50 years • The initial recognition of goodwill Machinery, equipment and vehicles 2 to 22 years • The initial recognition of assets or liabilities in transactions that are not business combinations and do not affect profits in the accounts at the time of transactions or Tools, furniture and fixtures 2 to 25 years taxable profits or losses. • Deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and 13. Intangible Assets associates, and interests in joint ventures to the extent that it is probable that the timing The Group uses the cost model to measure intangible assets. of the reversal of the temporary difference in the foreseeable future and it is not Intangible assets are stated at acquisition cost less accumulated amortization and probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilized. impairment losses. • Taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates, Separately acquired intangible assets are initially recognized at cost. The acquisition and interests in joint ventures to the extent that the timing of the reversal of the cost of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is measured at fair value at temporary difference is controlled and that it is probable the temporary difference will the acquisition date. not reverse in the foreseeable future. Expenditure on an internally generated intangible asset is recognized as an expense when it is incurred, excluding development expenditures that satisfy the criteria for The Group reviews the carrying amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities (including capitalization. unrecognized deferred tax assets) at the end of each reporting period. The Group The Group amortizes intangible assets with finite useful lives on a straight-line basis calculates deferred tax and liabilities based on tax rates that have been enacted or over their useful lives. It tests intangible assets when there are indications of impairment. 24 25 109 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 110 Financial Information Amortization periods and methods for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed lease is charged as expenses in the period when they are incurred. at year-end. Any changes are applied to the future as changes in accounting estimates. Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance Amortization is over the following estimated useful lives for the following major classes of the arrangement regardless of whether it takes the legal form of a lease. of intangible assets: 16. Provisions A provision is recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) Technology-related intangible assets 4 to 20 years as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount of the obligation can Customer-related intangible assets 5 to 20 years estimated reliability. Software 3 to 5 years Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle obligations. The The Group does not amortize intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, and annually discount rate used in measuring the present value is a pre-tax rate that reflects current conducts impairment tests individually or by cash-generating unit (or groups of market assessments of the time value of money and risks inherent in the liability. cash-generating units) where there are indications of impairment. 17. Retirement Benefits 14. Impairment of Assets The Group operates a defined benefit plan and defined contribution plan as employee (1) Impairment of Non-Financial Assets retirement benefit plans. The Group assesses whether indications of asset impairment exist at the end of each The Group uses the projected unit credit method to determine the present value of its reporting period. If there are such indications and annual impairment testing is necessary, defined benefit obligations and the related current and past service costs for each plan. the Group estimates recoverable amounts, which are the higher amount of fair value less The rate used to discount post-employment benefit obligations is determined by costs of disposal and value in use. If a recoverable amount of an asset cannot be referring to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate bonds. estimated, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit or The fair value of any plan assets is deducted from the present value of the defined group of cash-generating units of the asset class. If the carrying amount of an asset benefit obligation in determining the amount of the net defined benefit liabilities or assets of exceeds its recoverable amount, the Group recognizes an impairment loss and reduces defined benefit plans. the carrying amount of the asset to its recoverable amount. In measuring value in use, the Remeasurements of liabilities and assets associated with defined benefit retirement Group determines the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted by pre-tax plans are recognized in other comprehensive income in the period incurred and rates reflecting current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific immediately reflected in retained earnings. Prior service costs are recognized as expenses to the asset. The Group estimates future cash flows using a business plan for five years or in the periods incurred. less, in principle. Cash flow projections beyond the business plan period use The Group recognizes contributions payable to defined contribution plans as expenses long-term-average growth rates according to individual circumstances. at the time of contribution. The Group uses an appropriate valuation model supported by an available fair value index to measure fair value less costs of disposal. 18. Capital The Group allocates goodwill after acquisition dates to individual or groups of cash (1) Ordinary Shares generating units expected to benefit from corporate combination synergies. The Company allocated the issue price of ordinary shares between common stock and For goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet additional paid-in capital. available for use, the Group tests for impairment annually and when there are indications (2) Treasury Shares of impairment. Acquired treasury stock is recognized at cost and deducted from equity, while the difference between the carrying value of treasury stock and its value at the time of sale (2) Reversal of Impairment Loss is recognized in additional paid-in capital. For assets other than goodwill, at the end of each reporting period the Group evaluates whether assumptions used to measure recoverable amounts have changed for impairment 19. Share-Based Payment losses recognized in prior periods and if there are indications that such losses have The Company and some subsidiaries employ equity-settled share-based compensation decreased or disappeared. plans. If such indications exist, the Group reverses impairment losses if recoverable amounts Under such plans, services received are measured at fair value as of the date capital exceed the Group's carrying amounts of assets or cash-generating units. Any reversal is financial instruments are granted. If granted capital financial instruments are immediately limited to the lower of the estimated recoverable amount or the carrying value that would determined, all services received on the grant date is recognized as expenses, that amount have been determined, net of accumulated depreciation, had no impairment loss been being recognized as an increase in equity. If granted capital financial instruments are recognized in prior periods. determined after a certain period of time, they are recognized as expenses over the vesting Impairment loss reversals are recognized in profit or loss. period from the date granted, that amount being recognized as an increase in equity. Goodwill impairment losses are not reversed. 20. Financial Instruments 15. Leases (1) Financial Assets (Except Derivatives) A lease contract is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and (i) Initial Recognition and Measurement rewards incidental to ownership of a leased asset to the Group. An operating lease is a The Group initially recognizes trade receivables at the date of occurrence. The Group lease other than a finance lease. initially recognizes all other financial assets on the transaction dates on which the Group In finance lease transactions, leased assets and lease obligations are recognized in the becomes a contract party. consolidated statement of financial position at the lower of the fair value of the leased Financial assets are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through property or the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the profit or loss or other comprehensive income and financial assets measured at inception of the lease. Lease payments are apportioned between the financial cost and amortized cost. The Group determines classifications at initial recognition. reduction of lease obligations based on the interest method. Financial costs are Debt financial instruments are classified as financial assets measured at amortized recognized in profit or loss. Leased assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the cost if both of the following conditions are met. useful lives or lease term, whichever is shorter. • Financial assets are based on a business model where the aim is to hold financial In operating lease transactions, lease payments are recognized as an expense in the assets to recover contractual cash flows Consolidated Statement of Income on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Variable • Contractual terms of financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows that 26 27 111 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 112 Financial Information are solely payments of principal and interest on principal amounts outstanding classifications at initial recognition. Debt financial instruments meeting the following conditions and measured at fair Although all financial liabilities are measured at fair value at initial recognition, financial value are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through other liabilities measured at amortized cost are measured at cost after deducting, from the fair comprehensive income. Otherwise, they are classified as financial assets measured at value, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the financial liabilities. fair value through profit or loss. (ii) Subsequent Measurement • Financial assets are based on a business model where the aim is to hold financial After initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured based on classifications as assets to collect contractual cash flows and sell assets follows: • Contractual terms of financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows that (a) Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss are solely payments of principal and interest on principal amounts outstanding Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss are measured at Equity instruments other than those for trading purpose are designated as measured fair value. After initial recognition, portions of changes in fair value and interest cost at fair value through profit or loss or as measured at fair value through other attributed to the change in credit risk of the Group are recognized in other comprehensive income. Such designations are applied subsequently on a consistent comprehensive income, and the balance is recognized in profit or loss. basis. (b) Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortized Cost Except for financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial After initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are instruments are measured at fair value plus transaction costs attributable directly to measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Amortization under them. the effective interest method and gains or losses on derecognition is recognized in (ii) Subsequent Measurements profit or loss. After initial recognition, financial assets are measured based on the following (iii) Derecognition classifications: Financial liabilities are derecognized when the obligation is discharged, canceled or (a) Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost expired, or when they are exchanged with substantially different terms or their terms Financial assets measured at amortized cost are measured at amortized cost using are modified substantially. the effective interest method. (b) Other Financial Assets (3) Complex Financial Instruments Financial assets other than those measured at amortized cost are measured at fair The Group measures and initially recognizes hybrid financial instrument liabilities at the fair value. value of similar liabilities that do not have equity conversion options. Equity is measured Changes in the fair value of financial assets measured at fair value are and initially recognized at fair value after deducting the fair value of the liabilities of recognized in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income. complex financial instruments overall. Direct transaction costs are allocated according to Changes in the fair value of equity instruments designated as measured at fair initial carrying amount ratio of liabilities and equity. After initial recognition, complex value through other comprehensive income are recognized in other comprehensive financial instruments liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest income and the amount in other comprehensive income is transferred to retained method. The Company does not remeasure complex financial instrument equity after initial earnings when equity instruments are derecognized or when the fair value of equity recognition. instruments declines significantly. (iii) Derecognition (4) Offsetting of Financial Instruments The Group derecognizes a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and presented as a net amount in the flows from the financial asset expire or when the Group transfers the financial asset and consolidated statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are set off the recognized amounts and the Group intends either to settle on a net basis or to transferred. realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred asset and retains control of the transferred asset, the Group (5) Derivatives and Hedge Accounting recognizes the residual interest in the transferred asset and the associated liability to be The Group uses derivatives, including forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate payable to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement. swap contracts, to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate risks. These derivatives are (iv) Impairment initially measured at fair value when contracts are entered into and are subsequently At each closing date, the Group assesses whether the credit risk on a financial asset or remeasured at fair value. a financial asset group measured at amortized cost or a financial guarantee contract has Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized in profit or loss, although gains increased significantly since initially recognizing the impairment of a financial asset or or losses on hedging instruments relating to the effective portions of cash flow hedges and financial guarantee contract. hedges of net investments in foreign operations are recognized in other comprehensive If, at the closing date, the credit risk of a financial asset or a financial asset group has income. not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss At the inception of hedging relationships, the Group formally designates and allowance for that financial asset at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit documents relationships to which hedge accounting applies and the objectives and losses. However, the Group recognizes the expected credit losses of trade receivables strategies of risk management for undertaking the hedges. The documentation includes over the remaining period from the initial recognition. identifying hedging instruments, the hedged items or transactions, the nature of the risks If a credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group recognizes being hedged and how the hedging instrument effectiveness (including its analysis of the an expected credit loss over the remaining period as a loss allowance. sources of hedge ineffectiveness and how it determines the hedge ratio) is assessed in The Group assesses whether the credit risk has increased significantly using the offsetting the exposure to changes in hedged item fair value or cash flows attributable to change in the risk of default, and assesses whether the default risk has changed mainly hedged risks. When designating a hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis, the using delinquent (past due information). Group analyses whether a derivative used to a hedge transaction is effective to offset the The Group measures a credit loss using the discounted present value of the change in the fair value or the cash flow of a hedged item. The Group specifically difference between the contractual amount receivable and the estimate amount determines that a hedge is effective when the economic relationship between the hedged receivable based on the past credit loss. item and the hedging instrument is offset. Hedges that meet the requirements for hedge accounting are classified in the following (2) Financial Liabilities (Except Derivatives) categories and accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”. (i) Initial Recognition and Measurement Financial liabilities are classified into financial liabilities measured at fair value through (a) Fair Value Hedges profit or loss and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. The Group determines Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized in profit or loss. For changes in 28 29 113 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 114 Financial Information the fair value of hedged items attributable to the hedged risks, carrying amounts of hedged items are adjusted, with changes recognized in profit or loss. Note 4 (b) Cash Flow Hedges The effective portion of gains or losses on hedging instruments is recognized in other Segment Information 1. Overview of Reporting Segments comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in profit The Group’s reporting segments are the components for which separate financial or loss. information is available, and the Board of Directors regularly assesses this information in Hedging instrument amounts recognized in other comprehensive income are deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate results. No operating segments or reclassified to profit or loss when the transactions of the hedged items affect profit or components have been aggregated in preparing the reporting segment information. loss. Where hedged items result in the recognition of non-financial assets or liabilities, On April 1, 2017, the Company merged subsidiaries Mitsubishi Chemical, Mitsubishi the amounts recognized in other comprehensive income are accounted for as Plastics, and Mitsubishi Rayon into Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation. The move was part of adjustments to the original carrying amount of non-financial assets or liabilities. efforts to optimally employ operational resources to adapt swiftly to changes in the business When forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, any related cumulative climate and fulfill the objectives of APTSIS 20, a five-year medium-term management plan gain or loss that has been recognized in equity as other comprehensive income is launched in April 2016. reclassified to profit or loss. When hedging instruments expire, are sold, terminated or In keeping with these changes, MCHC shifted to a management structure to accelerate exercised without the replacement or rollover of other hedging instruments, or when the growth strategies by formulating medium-term strategies for each business domain and hedge designation is revoked due to change in the risk management objective, stepping up medium-term management plan monitoring. That structure encompasses four accumulated amounts that have been recognized in other comprehensive income business segments (Performance Products, Chemicals, Industrial Gases, and Health Care) continue to be recognized in other comprehensive income until the forecast transactions that are focuses for the four operating companies, which are Mitsubishi Chemical, occur. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, Life Science Institute, and Taiyo Nippon Sanso. (c) Hedges of Net Investments in Foreign Operations We accordingly reviewed our reporting segments in the first quarter of the year under Translation differences resulting from hedges of net investments in foreign operations review and switched from the five segments of Electronics Applications, Designed Materials, are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. The effective portion of gains or losses Health Care, Chemicals, and Polymers, to four segments, which are Performance Products, on hedging instruments is recognized in other comprehensive income. The ineffective Chemicals, Industrial Gases, and Health Care. portion is recognized in profit or loss. At the time of the disposal of the foreign We have prepared segment information for the previous fiscal year based on the new segmentation. operations, any related cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss. The businesses in each reporting segment are as follows: Business Business Segment Details (6) Fair Value of Financial Instruments Domains Segments Businesses The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active financial markets at the fiscal year-end refers to quoted prices or dealer quotations. Performa Performa Information, Functional Optical Films, Information, Electronics & nce nce Electronics & If there is no active market, the fair value of financial instruments is determined referring to Products Displays, and Acetyl Products Products Displays appropriate valuation models or prices presented by related financial institutions. High Performance Packaging and Industrial Films Films Aqua and Separator Solutions, Environment and Infrastructure Solutions, and Agricultural Living Solutions Materials High-Performance Engineering Plastics, Advanced Fibers and Textiles, Carbon Fiber and Moldings and Composite Materials, Functional Moldings Composites and Composites, Alumina Fibers Light and Metal Products Performa Advanced Performance and Engineering Polymers nce Polymers and Sustainable Resources chemicals High Performance Performance Chemicals and Materials and Chemicals Food Ingredients Lithium Ion Battery Materials and Energy New energy Transduction Device Materials Industrial Chemicals MMA MMA MMA Materials Petroche Basic Petrochemicals, Polyolefins, and Petrochemicals micals Basic Chemical Derivatives Carbon Carbon Products Carbon Products Products Industrial Industrial Industrial Gases Industrial Gases Gases gases Health Health Health Ethical Ethical Pharmaceuticals Care Care Care Pharmaceuticals Life Science Life Science Accounting policies for reportable segments are identical to those Group accounting policies stated in Note 3, Significant Accounting Policies. Inter-segment sales and transfers are based mainly on prevailing market prices. 31 30 115 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 116 Financial Information 2. Revenues and Operating Results for the Group's Reporting Segments 3. Segment profit (loss) is Operating profit in accordance with IFRS after excluding earnings from non-recurring factors, such as losses from business withdrawals and downsizings, representing core operating income The Group evaluates results based on segment profits. Year ended March 31, 2017 Adjustments to profit before tax from segment operating results are as follows: Millions of yen REPORTING SEGMENT Others Adjustments Millions of yen Performance Industrial Subtotal Consolidated Chemicals Health Care Total (Note 1) (Note 2) Products Gases Year ended Year ended Revenue March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 External revenue ¥1,072,640 ¥ 983,957 ¥ 574,664 ¥ 547,032 ¥ 3,178,293 ¥ 197,764 ¥ 3,376,057 ¥ — ¥ 3,376,057 Segment operating results ¥307,522 ¥380,489 Inter-segment revenue 64,948 78,161 6,922 2,345 152,376 122,357 274,733 (274,733) — Total ¥1,137,588 ¥1,062,118 ¥ 581,586 ¥ 549,377 ¥ 3,330,669 ¥ 320,121 ¥ 3,650,790 ¥ (274,733) ¥ 3,376,057 Gain on sales of shares of subsidiaries and — 3,683 Segment profit (loss) associates Core operating income (Note ¥ 94,280 ¥ 62,520 ¥ 52,056 ¥ 98,389 ¥ 307,245 ¥ 7,754 ¥ 314,999 ¥ (7,477) ¥ 307,522 862 Gain on sales of non-current assets 3,628 3) Segment assets 1,140,413 1,061,351 1,009,085 1,101,469 4,312,318 940,930 5,253,248 (789,701) 4,463,547 Impairment loss (15,024) (9,662) Other items Loss on sales and retirement of non-current assets (2,865) (5,556) Depreciation and 54,399 54,573 42,490 17,930 169,392 2,918 172,310 1,564 173,874 amortization Prior service cost (775) (4,996) Share of profit of investments Cost related to integration of subsidiaries (1,005) (3,774) accounted for using the 8,248 6,150 4,341 24 18,763 144 18,907 — 18,907 equity method Early retirement program expenses (2,501) (2,408) Investments accounted for 48,257 64,792 22,843 244 136,136 598 136,734 — 136,734 Provision for loss on a litigation — (1,170) using the equity method Capital expenditures 62,757 68,500 42,069 28,507 201,833 4,266 206,099 383 206,482 Environmental measures costs (6,781) (1,001) Notes: Share of loss of investments accounted for (1,943) 1. The Others category consists of businesses not included in reporting segments and mainly includes engineering, transportation, (651) and warehousing operations. using the equity method 2. The segment profit (loss) adjustment of ¥(7,477) million includes corporate costs of ¥(7,314) million not allocated to reporting Loss on sales of shares of subsidiaries and segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥(163) million. Corporate costs include expenditures on basin testing, research, and (1,006) (26) associates other activities not allocated to reporting segments. The segment assets adjustment of ¥(789,701) million includes corporate assets of ¥158,556 million not allocated to reporting Loss during business interruption largely (2,252) — segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥(948,257) million. Corporate assets include financial assets not allocated to stemming from earthquakes in Japan reporting segments. 3. Segment profit (loss) is Operating profit in accordance with IFRS after excluding earnings from non-recurring factors, such as Other (5,611) (2,845) losses from business withdrawals and downsizings, representing core operating income. Operating profit 268,621 355,711 4. In the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company classified purified terephthalic acid businesses in India and China as discontinued operations. Segment information for the year ended March 31, 2017 includes revenues and other operating results Financial income 7,155 8,404 from continuing operations, excluding those of discontinued operations. Details of discontinued operations are described in Note Financial costs (17,433) (20,038) 6, Discontinued Operations. Profit before tax ¥258,343 ¥344,077 Year ended March 31, 2018 3. Geographic Information Millions of yen The breakdown of external revenue and non-current assets is as follows: REPORTING SEGMENT Others Adjustments Performance Chemicals Industrial Health Care Total (Note 1) Subtotal (Note 2) Consolidated External revenue Products Gases Millions of yen Revenue Year ended Year ended External revenue ¥1, 145,932 ¥1, 177,352 ¥ 638,675 ¥ 556,568 ¥ 3,518,527 ¥ 205,879 ¥ 3,724,406 ¥ — ¥ 3,724,406 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Inter-segment revenue 65,280 83,720 7,543 2,214 158,757 129,947 288,704 (288,704) — Total ¥1, 211,212 ¥1, 261,072 ¥ 646,218 ¥ 558,782 ¥ 3,677,284 ¥ 335,826 ¥ 4,013,110 ¥ (288,704) ¥ 3,724,406 Segment profit (loss) Japan ¥2,042,378 ¥2,177,346 Core operating income (Note ¥ 93,995 ¥ 147,868 ¥ 57,467 ¥ 81,227 ¥ 380,557 ¥ 7,119 ¥ 387,676 ¥ (7,187) ¥ 380,489 U.S.A. 348,361 406,730 3) PRC 246,464 289,083 Segment assets 1,215,112 1,290,102 1,016,171 1,166,776 4,688,161 961,554 5,649,715 (949,123) 4,700,592 Other 738,854 851,247 Other items Depreciation and Total ¥3,376,057 ¥3,724,406 54,861 53,741 45,708 19,049 173,359 3,018 176,377 2,518 178,895 amortization Note: Revenue are based on the locations of customers. Share of profit of investments accounted for using the 10,865 12,946 3,488 4 27,303 (15) 27,288 — 27,288 equity method Non-current assets Investments accounted for 61,459 69,327 28,033 16,595 175,414 491 175,905 — 175,905 using the equity method Millions of yen Capital expenditures 68,301 61,910 61,549 27,505 219,265 3,535 222,800 2,389 225,189 As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Notes: 1. The Others category consists of businesses not included in reporting segments and mainly includes engineering, transportation, Japan ¥1,203,583 ¥1,215,479 and warehousing operations. U.S.A. 366,745 357,269 2. The segment profit (loss) adjustment of ¥( 7,187) million includes corporate costs of ¥(7,618) million not allocated to reporting Other 410,653 548,059 segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥431 million. Corporate costs include expenditures on basin testing, research, and other activities not allocated to reporting segments. Total ¥1,980,981 ¥2,120,807 The segment assets adjustment of ¥(949,123) million includes corporate assets of ¥104,279 million not allocated to reporting Note: Non-current assets are based on the locations of the assets and do not include financial instruments, segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥(1,053,402) million. Corporate assets include financial assets not allocated to deferred tax assets and retirement benefit asset. reporting segments. 32 4. Information about Major Customers 33 117 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 118 Financial Information This information has been omitted because no external customers account for more than Notes: 10% of revenue. 1. Property, plant and equipment mainly include machinery and vehicles of ¥23,346 million. Intangible assets include customer-related intangible assets of ¥24,502 million. 2. Goodwill mainly comprises anticipated synergies and excess earnings capabilities arising from acquisition that do not match specific recognition criteria. Goodwill is deductible for a certain period under full taxation. Note 5 (4) Acquisition-related costs Acquisition-related costs for the year ended March 31, 2017 were ¥421 million, and are Business included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement Year ended March 31, 2017 Combinations of Income. 1. Acquisition of Industrial Gas Operations by Matheson Tri-Gas Matheson Tri-Gas, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of consolidated subsidiary Taiyo Nippon (5) Impact on the Group's results Sanso Corporation, purchased part of the American industrial gas operations and related The revenue, and profit or loss subsequent to the acquisition date and pro forma business assets of Air Liquide Industrial U.S. LP and Airgas, Inc. information assuming that the business combination was completed on April 1, 2016 is immaterial. (1) Overview of business combination 1. Name and business description of acquired company Names: Air Liquide Industrial U.S. LP and Airgas, Inc. 2. Acquisition of Supagas Holdings Pty Ltd by TNSC (Australia) Pty Ltd Business description: Gas separation, carbon dioxide, packaged gases and Consolidated subsidiary Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation acquired Supagas Holdings Pty nitrous oxide businesses Ltd, an Australian industrial gases and LPG company, through subsidiary TNSC (Australia) 2. Main reason for business combination Pty Ltd., making Supagas Holdings a consolidated subsidiary. The objective was to become a national supplier by expanding Matheson's gas separation business network in the East and Midwest of the United States, (1) Overview of business combination solidifying its position as a manufacturer, improving its supply stability and 1. Name and business description of acquired company customer trust nationwide, reinforcing production capacity for its carbon dioxide Name: Supagas Holdings Pty Ltd and related properties business, and entering the packaged gas business in Alaska and the nitrous Business description: Sells LPG, industrial gases (including oxygen, nitrogen, oxide business, thereby expanding into new domains and solidifying Matheson's argon, and carbon dioxide), and related equipment foundations and profitability through expansion in the United States, the world's 2. Main reason for business combination largest industrial gas market. Consolidated subsidiary Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation acquired Renegade 3. Acquisition date Gas Pty Ltd. in July 2015 to fully enter the Australian industrial gas market. September 8, 2016 Renegade Gas operates principally in New South Wales, Queensland, and 4. Method for gaining control of acquired company elsewhere on Australia's east coast. Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation planned to Consolidated subsidiary Matheson Tri-Gas acquired part of the American further expand its operations in Australia. In acquiring Supagas Holdings, Taiyo industrial gas operations and related business assets of Air Liquide Industrial Nippon Sanso augmented existing operations, including in Victoria and Western and Airgas. Australia, to complete a nationwide sales network. It was thereby able to reinforce its national account efforts and its user supply structure. In leveraging a (2) Fair value of consideration transferred nationwide sales network, Taiyo Nippon Sanso is positioned to capitalize on Millions of yen infrastructural demand, which should continue to expand solidly, while cultivating new resources and energy-related demand. That company should also Acquisition date (September 8, 2016) materialize synergies with Renegade Gas to boost earnings and undertake Cash ¥77,402 activities to further expand its Australian business. Cost of the acquisition ¥77,402 3. Acquisition date December 16, 2016 4. Method for gaining control of acquired company (3) Goodwill, assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value Consolidated subsidiary TNSC (Australia) acquired all of the shares and related properties of Supagas Holdings by purchasing shares for cash and Millions of yen exchanging shares. Acquisition date 5. Percentage of voting rights acquired (September 8, 2016) 100% Current assets: Inventories ¥ 406 Other 369 (2) Fair value of consideration transferred Non-current assets: Millions of yen Property, plant and equipment (Note 1) 28,911 Acquisition date Intangible assets (Note 1) 24,502 (December 16, 2016) Acquired assets 54,188 Cash ¥20,737 Current liabilities 43 TNSC (Australia) shares 841 Non-current liabilities 3,744 Cost of the acquisition ¥21,578 Liabilities assumed 3,787 Note: In addition, the Group also made a cash loan of ¥7,686 million to the acquired company. This loan, which is Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 50,401 repayable by the acquired company, is classified in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year Goodwill (Note 2) 27,001 ended March 31, 2017 within cash flows from investing activities as “Other, net.” The acquired company is using this loan to fund repayment of its debts. The acquisition cost is allocated to acquired assets and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date based on fair value. In the second quarter, the Company revised provisional (3) Number of shares transferred and method for measuring fair value thereof amounts in line with the completion of the payment consideration allocation. The affect of A total of 9,158,348 shares of common stock were transferred to the former owners of this change is insignificant. 35 34 119 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 120 Financial Information Supagas Holdings Pty Ltd and the fair value, based on the financial position, results, and Under its Medium-Term Management Plan 16–20: Open Up the Future, other numbers for TSNC (Australia), was agreed between the parties. MTPC aims, through direct sales, to rapidly build a foundation for sustained growth in the United States, the world’s largest pharmaceutical market. As a first (4) Goodwill, assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value step in that direction, MTPC launched Radicava, an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Millions of yen treatment, in the U.S. market in August 2017. Additionally, the acquisition of Acquisition date ND0612 through this transaction is intended to enable MTPC to achieve its U.S. (December 16, 2016) Current assets: sales target of 80 billion yen by fiscal 2020, which is part of its Medium-Term Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 717 Management Plan. MTPC will expand its product pipeline in the central nervous Trade receivables 1,566 system disease area and advance its goal of providing patients with innovative Inventories 334 drugs to address unmet medical needs. Other 112 3. Acquisition date Non-current assets: October 18, 2017 Property, plant and equipment 10,229 4. Method for gaining control of acquired company Intangible assets 4,577 Other 125 Acquisition of shares for cash Acquired assets 17,660 5. Percentage of voting rights acquired Current liabilities 1,189 100% Non-current liabilities 8,536 Liabilities assumed 9,725 (2) Fair value of consideration transferred Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 7,935 Goodwill (Note) 13,643 Millions of yen The acquisition cost is allocated to acquired assets and liabilities assumed on the Acquisition date acquisition date based on fair value. In the third quarter, the Company revised provisional (October 18, 2017) amounts in line with the completion of the payment consideration allocation. The affect of Cash ¥124,410 this change is insignificant. Cost of the acquisition ¥124,410 Note: Goodwill mainly comprises anticipated synergies and excess earnings capabilities arising from acquisition that do (3) Goodwill, assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value not match specific recognition criteria. Goodwill is not tax-deductible. Millions of yen Acquisition date (5) Acquisition-related costs (October 18, 2017) Current assets: Acquisition-related costs for the year ended March 31, 2017 were ¥542 million, and are Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 4,686 included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement Other financial assets 8,705 of Income. Other non-financial assets 303 Non-current assets: (6) Impact on the Group's results Intangible assets (Note1) 136,178 Other 217 The revenue, and profit or loss subsequent to the acquisition date and pro forma Acquired assets 150,089 information assuming that the business combination was completed on April 1, 2016 is Current liabilities 3,697 immaterial. Non-current liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities 32,692 Year ended March 31, 2018 Liabilities assumed 36,389 Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 113,700 1. Acquisition of NeuroDerm Ltd. by Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation Goodwill (Note2) 10,710 On October 18, 2017, consolidated subsidiary Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC) acquired all of the outstanding shares (including shares underlying stock options) of The acquisition cost is allocated to acquired assets and liabilities assumed on the NeuroDerm Ltd. The latter thereby became a wholly owned subsidiary of MTPC. acquisition date based on fair value. The initial provisional amount was revised in the fourth quarter. The revised details are as follows. (1) Overview of business combination Following additional analysis of the fair value of NeuroDerm, intangible assets 1. Name and business description of acquired company increased ¥136,178 million, while deferred tax liabilities rose ¥32,692 million. As a result, Name: NeuroDerm Ltd. goodwill decreased by ¥103,486 million. Business description: Research and development of central nervous system As the cost allocation has yet to be completed, the amounts above are provisional fair drugs to treat Parkinson’s Disease and other illnesses values based on best estimates. Amounts may be revised one year after acquisition 2. Main reason for business combination following an assessment of additional information relating to facts and circumstances at the NeuroDerm is a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company that develops novel acquisition date. formulation technology and drug-device combinations for Parkinson’s disease. It is pushing ahead with development, centered on ND0612, which is expected to Notes: launch in fiscal 2019. 1. Intangible assets Given the importance of controlling blood levels of levodopa in the treatment This is technology-related intangible assets of ¥136,178 million. of Parkinson’s disease, ND0612 is expected to be used to treat advanced stage 2. Goodwill mainly comprises anticipated synergies and excess earnings capabilities arising from acquisition that Parkinson’s disease, and will be used in patients for whom oral levodopa is no do not match specific recognition criteria. Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. longer effective in the control of motor complications. NeuroDerm is the first to develop liquid levodopa and carbidopa in the world. ND0612 can be continuously subcutaneously administered over a 24-hour period through a (4) Acquisition-related costs convenient small belt-worn pump. These costs were ¥1,051 million, and are included in selling, general and administrative 36 37 121 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 122 Financial Information expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (5) Impact on the Group’s results Note 7 The revenue, and profit or loss subsequent to the acquisition date and pro forma information assuming that the business combination was completed on April 1, 2017 is Employee Benefit The breakdown of employee benefit expenses is as follows: immaterial. Expenses Millions of yen Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Wages and salaries ¥ 538,417 ¥ 563,269 Retirement benefit costs 29,464 37,196 Total ¥ 567,881 ¥ 600,465 Note 6 Discontinued Note 8 1. Outline of Discontinued Operations Operations On July 27, 2016, the Company announced its decision to transfer its interests in Research and Research and development expenses recognized in the years ended March 31, 2017 and terephthalic acid businesses in India and China, completing the transfer in the period. The Development 2018 were ¥126,290 million and ¥138,833 million, respectively. Company accordingly classified Materials Chemicals and Performance Intermediaries Expenses Private Limited (former MCC PTA India Corp. Private Limited) and earnings related to Ningbo Mitsubishi Chemical Co., Ltd., as discontinued operations in the year ended March 31, 2017, and presents corresponding information on discontinued and continuing Note 9 operations in the consolidated financial statements. Other Operating The breakdown of other operating income is as follows: 2. Profit or Loss from Discontinued Operations Income and Other Operating Expenses Millions of yen Millions of yen Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Profit or Loss from Discontinued Operations: Gain on sales of non-current assets ¥ 1,205 ¥ 4,183 Revenue ¥ 66,794 ¥ — Gain on sales of shares of subsidiaries and associates — 3,747 Cost of sales (63,062) — Rent income 2,583 2,639 Gross profit (loss) 3,732 — Insurance income 1,901 569 Selling, general and administrative expenses (2,588) — Other 5,006 8,541 Other operating income (Note) 2,872 — Total ¥ 10,695 ¥ 19,679 Other operating expenses (436) — Operating profit 3,580 — The breakdown of other operating expenses is as follows: Financial income 58 — Millions of yen Financial costs (1,338) — Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Profit (loss) before tax 2,300 — Impairment loss ¥ 16,822 ¥ 12,062 Income tax expense 286 — Loss on sales and retirement of property, plant Profit (loss) from discontinued operations ¥ 2,586 ¥ — and equipment 7,451 10,414 Net profit (loss) attributable to: Cost related to integration of subsidiaries 991 3,712 Owners of the parent ¥ 2,586 ¥ — Environmental measures costs 6,781 3,672 Non-controlling interests ¥ — ¥ — Early retirement program expenses 2,349 2,408 Earnings (loss) Provision for loss on litigation — 1,170 (Yen) per share: Loss on sales of shares of subsidiaries and Basic ¥ 1.76 ¥ — associates 1,007 26 Diluted ¥ 1.75 ¥ — Loss during business interruption largely stemming from earthquakes in Japan 2,252 — Note: In the year ended March 31, 2017, this included ¥2,347 million from the sale of shares of a subsidiary from the transfer of the terephthalic acid business. Other 16,069 12,886  Total ¥ 53,722 ¥ 46,350 Cash flows from discontinued operations are as follows: Millions of yen Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Cash flows from operating activities ¥ (709) ¥ — Cash flows from investing activities 3,327 — Cash flows from financing activities (60,829) — Total ¥ (58,211) ¥ — 38 39 123 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 124 Financial Information Millions of yen Note 10 Amounts Amounts recognized in March 31, April 1, 2017 recognized in other Other (Note) Financial Income and The breakdown of financial income is as follows: 2018 profit or loss comprehensiv Financial Costs e income Millions of yen Deferred tax assets: Year ended Year ended Tax loss carryforwards ¥ 64,364 ¥ (6,396) ¥ — ¥ (545) ¥ 57,423 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Net defined benefit 38,137 1,808 (8,876) 61 31,130 Financial income liabilities Interest income Property, plant and 17,161 (1,655) — (29) 15,477 Financial assets measured at amortized cost equipment ¥ 2,527 ¥ 3,365 Employees’ bonuses 13,593 1,574 — (29) 15,138 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 63 25 Inventory 4,420 2,589 — (3) 7,006 Employees’ paid leave 6,814 (48) — 121 6,887 Dividend income Other 55,709 (3,488) (969) (271) 50,981 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 3,948 4,279 Total ¥ 200,198 ¥ (5,616) ¥ (9,845) ¥ (695) ¥ 184,042 Deferred tax liabilities: Other 617 735 Valuation of assets (46,197) 1,916 — (37,409) (81,690) Total ¥ 7,155 ¥ 8,404 Property, plant and ¥ (65,407) ¥ 15,617 ¥ — ¥ (280) ¥ (50,070) equipment Securities and other (33,149) (1) (4,231) 1,681 (35,700) The breakdown of financial costs is as follows: investments Millions of yen Other (40,969) (4,849) (451) (8,813) (37,456) Year ended Year ended Total ¥ (185,722) ¥ 12,683 ¥ (4,682) ¥ (27,195) ¥ (204,916) March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Net deferred tax assets ¥ 14,476 ¥ 7,067 ¥ (14,527) ¥ (27,890) ¥ (20,874) Financial costs Interest expenses Note: Other includes exchange differences on translation of foreign operations and changes owing to business Financial liabilities measured at amortized combinations, etc. cost ¥ 15,605 ¥ 15,652 Foreign exchange losses 502 2,960 In recognizing deferred tax assets, the Group considers whether it can use all or part of future Other 1,326 1,426 deductible temporary differences or unused tax loss carryforwards with respect to future Total ¥ 17,433 ¥ 20,038 taxable income. In evaluating the recoverability of deferred tax assets, the Group considers the planned reversal of deferred tax liabilities, expected future taxable income, and tax planning. There is a high probability of collecting recognized deferred tax asset benefits Note 11 based on historical taxable income levels and on future taxable income projections for the period in which it can recognize deferred tax assets. Income Taxes 1. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Future deductible temporary differences not recognized as deferred tax assets as of As of March 31, 2017 and 2018, significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 were ¥151,835 million and ¥125,508 million, are as follows: respectively. The unrecognized deferred tax assets were ¥42,068 million and ¥34,273 million, respectively. Year ended March 31, 2017 Tax loss carryforwards not recognized as deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2017 and Millions of yen Amounts March 31, 2018 amounted to ¥444,675 million (¥174,094 million for carryforwards exceeding Amounts recognized in five years) and ¥447,864 million (¥199,760 million for carryforwards exceeding five years). March 31, April 1, 2016 recognized in other Other (Note) 2017 The unrecognized deferred tax assets were ¥71,595 million and ¥61,412 million, respectively. profit or loss comprehensiv e income Deferred tax assets: As of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018, total temporary differences related to Tax loss carryforwards ¥ 44,077 ¥ 20,416 ¥ — ¥ (129) ¥ 64,364 undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities were not recognized Net defined benefit were ¥908,573 million and ¥1,055,342 million, respectively. 43,628 1,979 (6,775) (695) 38,137 liabilities The Group does not recognize deferred tax liabilities related to temporary differences Property, plant and when it can control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is highly 16,015 1,255 — (109) 17,161 equipment Employees’ bonuses 13,541 62 — (10) 13,593 probable that temporary differences will not be reversed in the foreseeable future. Inventory 5,397 (957) — (20) 4,420 Employees’ paid leave 7,436 (609) — (13) 6,814 2. Income Taxes Other 64,316 (9,615) 568 440 55,709 The breakdown of income taxes is as follows: Total ¥ 194,410 ¥ 12,531 ¥ (6,207) ¥ (536) ¥ 200,198 Millions of yen Deferred tax liabilities: Year ended Year ended Valuation of assets (48,469) 1,925 — 347 (46,197) March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Property, plant and Income taxes ¥ (62,085) ¥ (3,424) ¥ — ¥ 102 ¥ (65,407) ¥55,467 ¥74,782 equipment Securities and other Deferred income taxes (11,053) (7,067) (30,413) 639 (3,561) 186 (33,149) Total ¥44,414 ¥67,715 investments Other (39,322) (618) (662) (367) (40,969) Total ¥ (180,289) ¥ (1,478) ¥ (4,223) ¥ 268 ¥ (185,722) Net deferred tax assets ¥ 14,121 ¥ 11,053 ¥ (10,430) ¥ (268) ¥ 14,476 The President of the United States signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law on December 22, 2017, thereby lowering the federal corporate tax rate after January 1, 2018.Therefore, deferred tax assets and liabilities subsequent to the third quarter of the year ended March Year ended March 31, 2018 40 41 125 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 126 Financial Information 31, 2018, are calculated based on the effective revised tax rate corresponding to the Note 12 consolidated fiscal year in which temporary differences are expected to be resolved. Consequently, income taxes for the year ended March 31, 2018 decreased by ¥12,494 Per Share The bases for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of million. Information the parent were as follows: 3. Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation Schedule 1. Basic Earnings per Share The Company is principally subject to corporate taxes, resident taxes and business taxes. The statutory effective tax rates that are the bases for these taxes were 30.8% for the years Millions of yen ended March 31, 2017 and 2018. For overseas subsidiaries, local corporate income taxes Year ended Year ended March are imposed. March 31, 2017 31, 2018 Profit used to calculate basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent A reconciliation of the statutory tax rates to the effective tax rates for the years ended March Profit from continuing operations attributable to ¥ 153,673 ¥ 211,788 31, 2017 and 2018, was as follows: owners of the parent Profit (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to 2,586 — owners of the parent Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 156,259 ¥ 211,788 Average number of ordinary shares during period Statutory tax rate 30.8% 30.8% 1,464,004 1,439,338 (thousands of shares) Impact of lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate — (3.6) Basic earnings per share (Yen) Difference of statutory tax rate in overseas subsidiaries (1.9) (3.3) Continuing operations ¥104.97 ¥ 147.14 Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity Discontinued operations 1.76 — (2.0) (2.4) method Basic earnings per share ¥106.73 ¥ 147.14 Tax credits for research and development costs (2.1) (2.2) Unrecognized deferred tax assets (7.5) (1.6) 2. Diluted Earnings per Share Permanent differences 0.5 0.6 Millions of yen Foreign taxes Year ended Year ended March 0.3 0.5 March 31, 2017 31, 2018 Other (0.9) 0.9 Profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share Effective tax rate 17.2% 19.7% attributable to owners of the parent Profit from continuing operations used to calculate ¥ 153,673 ¥ 211,788 basic earnings per share Adjustment 1 283 Profit from continuing operations used to calculate 153,674 212,071 diluted earnings per share Profit (loss) from discontinued operations used to calculate 2,586 — diluted earnings per share Profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share attributable to ¥ 156,260 ¥ 212,071 owners of the parent Average number of diluted common shares during period (thousands of shares) Average number of ordinary shares during period 1,464,004 1,439,338 Impact of potentially dilutive ordinary shares Convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to 9,866 118,388 shares Subscription rights to shares 964 955 Average number of diluted ordinary shares 1,474,834 1,558,681 during period Diluted earnings per share (Yen) Continuing operations ¥104.20 ¥ 136.06 Discontinued operations 1.75 — Diluted earnings per share ¥105.95 ¥ 136.06 42 43 127 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 128 Financial Information Note 13 Accumulated amortization, accumulated impairment losses Goodwill and Intangible Assets Millions of yen 1. Schedule of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Intangible assets Technology-related Customer-related The acquisition cost, accumulated amortization, accumulated impairment losses and Goodwill intangible assets intangible assets Software Other Total carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets were as follows: Balance as of ¥— ¥46,199 ¥26,554 ¥49,868 ¥26,686 ¥149,307 Year ended March 31, 2017 April 1, 2017 Amortization — 6,973 7,081 7,512 2,622 24,188 Acquisition cost Impairment — 3,364 — 218 18 3,600 Millions of yen losses Intangible assets Exchange Technology-related Customer-related differences on Goodwill Software Other Total intangible assets intangible assets translation of — (1,087) (414) (584) 5,029 2,944 Balance as of foreign ¥267,850 ¥131,742 ¥83,132 ¥65,525 ¥48,047 ¥328,446 operations April 1, 2016 Acquisitions — 8,005 — 2,359 1,221 11,585 Balance as of Acquisitions March 31, ¥— ¥55,449 ¥33,221 ¥57,014 ¥34,355 ¥180,039 through 2018 44,599 2,535 31,586 296 892 35,309 business combinations Transfers — (39) — 7,882 (168) 7,675 Carrying amount Exchange differences on translation of 501 (3,787) 919 (5,979) 2,308 (6,539) Millions of yen Intangible assets foreign operations Technology-related Customer-related Goodwill Software Other Total intangible assets intangible assets Balance as of March 31, ¥312,950 ¥138,456 ¥115,637 ¥70,083 ¥52,300 ¥376,476 Balance as of ¥312,950 ¥92,257 ¥89,083 ¥20,215 ¥25,614 ¥227,169 2017 April 1, 2017 Balance as of March 31, ¥323,378 ¥227,349 ¥79,621 ¥19,400 ¥28,781 ¥355,151 2018 Accumulated amortization, accumulated impairment losses Millions of yen There were no material internally generated assets in the years ended March 31, 2017 and Intangible assets 2018. Technology-related Customer-related Goodwill Software Other Total intangible assets intangible assets Balance as of ¥— ¥39,621 ¥20,171 ¥47,162 ¥25,956 ¥132,910 The amortization of intangible assets is included in Cost of sales and Selling, general and April 1, 2016 Amortization — 5,816 6,308 7,188 476 19,788 administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Impairment — 42 39 131 65 277 losses Exchange The carrying amounts of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives were ¥48,285 million differences on and ¥183,790 million as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018, respectively. The main items translation of — 720 36 (4,613) 189 (3,668) foreign were in-process research and development expenses recognized when Mitsubishi Tanabe operations Pharma Corporation acquired Medicago Inc. in 2013 and NeuroDerm Ltd. in 2017 (both in the Balance as of Health Care segment), and which were included in Technology-related intangible assets. March 31, ¥— ¥46,199 ¥26,554 ¥49,868 ¥26,686 149,307 2017 Given that the assets are at the research and development stage, have yet to obtain marketing approval from regulatory authorities, and cannot be in use, the period in which they Carrying amount could deliver economic benefits is unforeseeable, so the assets are classified as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Millions of yen Intangible assets Technology-related Customer-related 2. Significant Intangible Assets Goodwill Software Other Total intangible assets intangible assets Significant intangible assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position include Balance as of April 1, 2016 ¥267,850 ¥92,121 ¥62,961 ¥18,363 ¥22,091 ¥195,536 technology-related intangible assets that the Company obtained in acquiring Mitsubishi Balance as of Rayon Co., Ltd. (now Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation), in March 2010. The carrying March 31, ¥312,950 ¥92,257 ¥89,083 ¥20,215 ¥25,614 ¥227,169 amounts of these intangible assets were ¥23,835 million as of March 31, 2017 and ¥20, 891 2017 million as of March 31, 2018. The remaining amortization periods were 7 to 11 years. The carrying amounts of technology-related intangible assets of Medicago Inc., which Year ended March 31, 2018 Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation acquired in September 2013, were ¥26,410 million as Acquisition cost of March 31, 2017 and ¥25,885 million as of March 31, 2018. Impairment tests are conducted Millions of yen every year, as these items are classified as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Intangible assets For customer-related intangible assets of Taiyo Nippon Sanso Co., Ltd., which the Goodwill Technology-related Customer-related Software Other Total Company acquired in November 2014, the carrying amounts were ¥32,395 million as of intangible assets intangible assets Balance as of March 31, 2017, and ¥30,291 million as of March 31, 2018. The remaining amortization ¥312,950 ¥138,456 ¥115,637 ¥70,083 ¥52,300 ¥376,476 April 1, 2017 periods were 10 to 15 years. Acquisitions — 17,792 — 7,013 5,996 30,801 Acquisitions The carrying amounts of technology-related intangible assets of NeuroDerm Ltd. which through 12,484 136,266 — 507 15 136,788 Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation acquired in October 2017, was ¥ 128,338 million as of business combinations March 31, 2018. This item is classified as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Transfers — 103 — 28 6,293 6,424 Exchange differences on 3. Impairment Losses translation of (2,056) (9,819) (2,795) (1,217) (1,468) (15,299) The Company conducts impairment tests at certain times of the year for intangible assets with foreign operations indefinite useful lives, regardless of whether there are signs of impairment. Balance as of In the impairment tests, the recoverable value of intangible assets is measured based on March 31, ¥323,378 ¥282,798 ¥112,842 ¥76,414 ¥63,136 ¥535,190 2018 its value in use. 44 45 129 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 130 Financial Information The Company calculates value in use by using future cash flow estimates based on Carrying amount management-approved business plans. These plans are based on historical experience and Millions of yen external information. Except on justifiable grounds, the plans are, in principle, for up to five years. The Company uses a pretax weighted average cost of capital (discount rate) of 6.1% Tools, Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction to 10.5%. structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total The Group has recognized impairment losses of ¥277 million during the year ended Balance as of ¥340,038 ¥588,103 ¥67,856 ¥286,426 ¥121,014 ¥1,403,437 April 1, 2016 March 31, 2017 and ¥3,600 million during the year ended March 31, 2018, in other operating Balance as of expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. March 31, ¥335,874 ¥605,435 ¥72,755 ¥281,674 ¥135,943 ¥1,431,681 2017 Note 14 Year ended March 31, 2018 Property, Plant and The acquisition cost, accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses and Acquisition cost Equipment carrying amount of property, plant and equipment were as follows: Millions of yen Tools, Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total 1. Schedule of property, plant and equipment Balance as of ¥1,075,780 ¥2,908,122 ¥314,342 ¥286,915 ¥141,216 ¥4,726,375 Year ended March 31, 2017 April 1, 2017 Acquisitions 28,141 122,020 21,145 1,764 38,172 211,242 Acquisition cost Acquisitions through Millions of yen 2,222 1,887 4,752 944 66 9,871 business combinations Tools, Business Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction (26) (190) (396) — (1) (613) divestitures structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total Sale or (21,870) (69,601) (13,907) (8,424) (670) (114,472) Balance as of disposal ¥1,068,618 ¥2,966,286 ¥304,767 ¥291,683 ¥126,078 ¥4,757,432 April 1, 2016 Transfers (1,603) (2,407) (263) (7) (13,894) (18,174) Acquisitions 29,585 118,354 18,172 1,392 29,966 197,469 Exchange Acquisitions differences on through translation of (141) (9,670) (8,405) 2,515 (15,461) (31,162) 5,600 53,185 11,419 2,360 1,242 73,806 foreign business combinations operations Business Balance as of (4,445) (28,152) (1,818) — (1,538) (35,953) March 31, ¥1,082,503 ¥2,950,161 ¥317,268 ¥283,707 ¥149,428 ¥4,783,067 divestitures Sale or 2018 (9,783) (50,662) (12,168) (3,519) (629) (76,761) disposal Transfers (2,353) (4,505) (323) (1,831) (12,589) (21,601) Exchange Accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses differences on translation of (11,442) (146,384) (5,707) (3,170) (1,314) (168,017) Millions of yen foreign operations Tools, Balance as of Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction March 31, ¥1,075,780 ¥2,908,122 ¥314,342 ¥286,915 ¥141,216 ¥4,726,375 structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total 2017 Balance as of ¥739,906 ¥2,302,687 ¥241,587 ¥5,241 ¥5,273 ¥3,294,694 April 1, 2017 Acquisitions Accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses through 1,025 679 3,894 — — 5,598 business combinations Millions of yen Business (23) (79) (333) — — (435) divestitures Tools, Depreciation 24,746 112,686 17,275 — — 154,707 Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction Impairment structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total 2,347 4,271 80 1,546 218 8,462 losses Balance as of Sale or ¥728,580 ¥2,378,183 ¥236,911 ¥5,257 ¥5,064 ¥3,353,995 (19,767) (63,920) (13,113) (1,650) — (98,450) April 1, 2016 disposal Acquisitions Transfers (1,897) (1,524) 23 — — (3,398) through Exchange 2,803 21,929 4,282 — — 29,014 business differences on combinations translation of (368) (4,244) (6,013) 2,754 (3,749) (11,620) Business foreign (4,011) (26,330) (1,747) — — (32,088) divestitures operations Depreciation 25,003 112,193 17,056 — — 154,252 Balance as of Impairment March 31, ¥745,969 ¥2,350,556 ¥243,400 ¥7,891 ¥1,742 ¥3,349,558 6,012 7,372 318 2,346 536 16,584 losses 2018 Sale or (8,534) (46,131) (11,591) — — (66,256) disposal Transfers (1,132) (3,405) (248) (105) — (4,890) Carrying amount Exchange differences on translation of (8,815) (141,124) (3,394) (2,257) (327) (155,917) Millions of yen foreign operations Tools, Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction Balance as of structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total March 31, ¥739,906 ¥2,302,687 ¥241,587 ¥5,241 ¥5,273 ¥3,294,694 Balance as of 2017 ¥335,874 ¥605,435 ¥72,755 ¥281,674 ¥135,943 ¥1,431,681 April 1, 2017 Balance as of March 31, ¥336,534 ¥599,605 ¥73,868 ¥275,816 ¥147,686 ¥1,433,509 2018 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is included in the Cost of sales and Selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 47 46 131 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 132 Financial Information Expenditure on construction work in progress for property, plant and equipment is included in construction in progress. Ltd. (now Ningbo Union King Polyester Material Limited), where it is located. Management therefore decided to halt operations at MCC Advanced Polymers Ningbo and sell its stake in 2. Leased Assets that company, reducing the carrying amount to the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount was measured at fair value after deducting selling costs. Fair value is based on a The carrying amounts of leased assets included in property, plant and equipment were as price negotiated with the buyer and classified as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. follows: Millions of yen • High-performance film production facilities As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 The impairment loss of ¥3,017 million includes ¥1,966 million for machinery and equipment, Buildings and structures ¥1,621 ¥1,583 ¥800 million for buildings and structures, and ¥251 million for others. Machinery and vehicles 3,673 4,101 Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. (now Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation), is restructuring Tools, furniture and fixtures 2,013 3,309 operations because it expects that sales of some high-performance films will decline Total ¥7,307 ¥8,993 substantially amid sluggish sales volumes. The carrying amount of facilities that were unlikely to be of use was reduced to zero value. Note 15 The recoverable amount was based on the value in use, however future cash flows were negative. Accordingly, the discount rate is not presented. Impairment Losses In principle, the Group determines its cash-generating units considering operational, production processes, regions, and other factors based on business units. The Group tests idle assets individually to recognize impairment losses. The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to cash-generating units (groups of Impairment losses recognized in the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 are as follows. cash-generating units) are as follows: Impairment losses are included in Other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement Millions of yen of Income. Cash-Generating Unit Millions of yen Reporting segment (Groups of March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Cash-Generating Units) Year ended Year ended High performance March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 ¥ 20,649 ¥ 21,371 engineering plastics Property, plant and equipment Performance Products Other 26,685 28,069 Buildings and structures ¥ 6,012 ¥ 2,347 Machinery and vehicles 7,333 4,271 Total ¥ 47,334 ¥ 49,440 Tools, furniture and fixtures 318 80 MMA ¥ 36,813 ¥ 36,813 Land 2,346 1,546 Chemicals Other 2,900 2,863 Construction in progress 536 218 Total of property, plant and equipment Total ¥ 39,713 ¥ 39,649 ¥16,545 ¥ 8,462 Intangible assets 277 3,600 Industrial Gases Industrial gases ¥144,276 ¥142,902 Total impairment losses ¥16,822 ¥12,062 Ethical ¥ 47,934 ¥ 57,919 pharmaceuticals The main assets for which impairment losses were recognized are as follows: Pharmaceutical 33,502 33,295 Health Care formulation materials Other 191 173 Year ended March 31, 2017 Total ¥ 81,627 ¥ 91,387 Total ¥312,950 ¥323,378 Reporting Impairment Use Location Category segment loss MCC Advanced Polymers Chemicals ¥3,121 Ningbo Co., Ltd. (now million The recoverable amount of goodwill in cash-generating units and groups of cash generating Polytetramethylene ether Ningbo Union King Polyester Machinery and glycol production facilities Material Limited) equipment, etc. units is measured by the value in use. (Zhejiang Province, China) The value in use is based on a management-approved five-year plan reflecting past experience and external source of information. After considering future uncertainties after the High-performance film Nagahama and Asai plants Performance ¥3,017 production facilities of Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. Machinery and Products million five-year period, the Company assumed a zero growth rate, with value equaling cash flows in (now Mitsubishi Chemical equipment the fifth year. Corporation) Buildings, (Nagahama, Shiga Others The discount rates used for measuring recoverable value are as follows: prefecture) Cash-Generating Unit Composition of Impairment Losses Reporting segment (Groups of March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Cash-Generating Units) High performance • Polytetramethylene ether glycol production facilities Performance Products engineering plastics 7.7% 7.5% The impairment loss of ¥3,121 million includes ¥1,765 million for machinery and equipment, Chemicals MMA 5.4% 6.3% ¥1,005 million for buildings and structures, and ¥351 million for others. With the business climate changing, there was no prospect of an improvement in Industrial Gases Industrial gases 5.4% 6.3% earnings for MCC Advanced Polymers Ningbo Co., Ltd. It would also become necessary to Ethical make new investments for that company to continue operations independently after pharmaceuticals Health Care Pharmaceutical 6.2% 6.1% divestment, as it obtains utility supplies on the premises of Ningbo Mitsubishi Chemical Co., formulation materials 48 49 133 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 134 Financial Information The recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to pharmaceutical formulations could equal the carrying amount if the discount rate increases by 0.8%. Note 17 Other Financial The breakdown of other financial assets is as follows: Assets Millions of yen Note 16 As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2017 Stocks and investments ¥200,835 ¥200,347 Individually The carrying amounts of individually insignificant investments in joint ventures accounted for Certificate of deposits 168,500 98,000 Insignificant using the equity method are as follows: Time deposits 3,852 65,563 Investments Accounts receivable 31,736 41,235 Accounted for Using Bonds 7,150 31,710 Equity Method Structured bonds 1,014 — Other 56,740 57,047 Millions of yen Allowance for doubtful accounts (1,460) (2,048) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Total ¥468,367 ¥491,854 Carrying amounts of investments in joint ventures ¥65,380 ¥89,109 Current assets ¥215,446 ¥247,365 Non-current assets 252,921 244,489 Equity in earnings of joint ventures accounted for using the equity method for current Total ¥468,367 ¥491,854 comprehensive income is as follows: Stocks and investments are classified mainly equity financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Certificate of deposits, accounts receivable, time Millions of yen deposits and bonds are classified financial assets mainly measured at amortized cost. Year ended Year ended March Structured bonds are classified financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. March 31, 2017 31, 2018  Share of profit using equity method ¥ 9,003 ¥17,390 The major issues and fair values of equity financial assets measured at fair value through Share of other comprehensive income using equity method (595) 507 other comprehensive income are as follows: Share of total shareholders' equity in total comprehensive income ¥ 8,408 ¥17,897 Carrying amounts of individually insignificant investments in associates accounted for using As of March 31, 2017 the equity method are as follows: Company name Millions of yen  TOHO HOLDINGS CO., LTD. ¥8,326 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 6,144 Millions of yen SUZUKEN CO., LTD. 5,651 As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 JFE Holdings, Inc. 4,662 Carrying amounts of investments in associates ¥71,354 ¥86,796 Tosoh Corporation 4,354 Alfresa Holdings Corporation 4,294 Equity in earnings of associates accounted for using the equity method for current MEDIPAL HOLDINGS CORPORATION 3,712 comprehensive income is as follows: ONO PHARMACEUTICAL CO.,LTD. 3,655 Daicel Corporation 3,441 Millions of yen Mitsubishi Corporation 3,356 Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Share of profit using equity method ¥7,961 ¥9,247 Share of other comprehensive income using equity method (1,577) 75 As of March 31, 2018 Share of total shareholders' equity in total comprehensive income ¥6,384 ¥9,322 Company name Millions of yen  TOHO HOLDINGS CO., LTD. ¥8,955 SUZUKEN CO., LTD. 6,804 JFE Holdings Corporation 5,515 Alfresa Holdings Corporation 5,271 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 4,997 Tosoh Corporation 4,649 MEDIPAL HOLDINGS CORPORATION 4,634 ONO PHARMACEUTICAL CO.,LTD. 3,617 Azbil Corporation 3,469 KOATSU GAS KOGYO CO., LTD. 2,957 As stocks are held mainly to maintain and strengthen business and collaborative ties and financial transactions, they are designated as equity financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The Company endeavors to enhance the efficiency and effective use of its assets by selling (derecognizing) equity financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Fair values upon sales and cumulative gains or losses on sales are as follows. 51 50 135 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 136 Financial Information Cumulative gains or losses (after tax) recognized in other components of equity are transferred to retained earnings at the time of sale. Note 21 Millions of yen Year ended Year ended March Cash and Cash The breakdown of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: March 31, 2017 31, 2018 Equivalents Fair value ¥11,475 ¥17,801 Millions of yen Cumulative gains or losses 1,275 5,254 As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Cash and deposits ¥236,523 ¥205,934 Dividend income from equity financial assets measured at fair value through other Short-term investments 126,987 71,690 comprehensive income is as follows: Total ¥363,510 ¥277,624 Millions of yen Year ended Year ended March March 31, 2017 31, 2018 Note 22 Derecognized financial assets ¥ 343 ¥ 110 Financial assets held at year-end 3,605 4,169 Assets Held for Sale The breakdowns of assets held for sale and directly related liabilities are as follows: Note 18 Millions of yen Other Assets The breakdown of other assets is as follows: As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Assets held for sale: Millions of yen Trade receivables ¥ 6,535 ¥ 353 As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Inventories 4,879 390 Net defined benefit assets ¥29,898 ¥27,376 Property, plant and equipment 2,443 693 Accrued income tax 20,068 24,821 Other financial assets 2,256 407 Prepaid expenses 25,596 23,564 Other 803 296 Advance payment 7,694 7,207 Total ¥16,916 ¥2,139 Other 14,007 15,227 Liabilities related directly to assets Total ¥97,263 ¥98,195 held for sale: Current assets 58,184 62,050 Trade payables ¥ 2,160 ¥ 292 Non-current assets 39,079 36,145 Bonds and borrowings 1,676 — Total ¥97,263 ¥98,195 Other 1,471 72 Total ¥ 5,307 ¥ 364  Note 19 Assets held for sale as of March 31, 2017 and the directly related liabilities stemmed from Inventory The breakdown of inventory is as follows: Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma concluding a share transfer agreement accompanied by a loss of control in that subsidiary. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma resolved to transfer part of its generic drugs and some of its Millions of yen long-listed products to wholly owned subsidiary Tanabe Seiyaku Hanbai Co., Ltd. (now As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Nipro ES Pharma Co., Ltd.), through an absorption-type split. The move encompasses Finished goods ¥295,903 ¥354,129 manufacturing and marketing approval, manufacturing contracts and related agreements, Raw materials and supplies 169,291 176,985 joint development agreements, inventories, trademark rights, copyrights, and safety Work in process 72,937 76,557 management information. On March 28, 2017, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma also concluded Total ¥538,131 ¥607,671 an agreement to transfer all shares in Tanabe Seiyaku Hanbai. Assets and liabilities subject to the absorption-type split, and all assets and liabilities held by the company, are presented Inventories measured at net realizable value as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 were as assets held for sale and liabilities directly related thereto as of March 31, 2017. This ¥79,989 million and ¥78,463 million, respectively. absorption-type split and share transfer was completed in the fiscal year ended March 31, In the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, write-downs of inventories recognized as 2018. expenses were ¥8,281 million and ¥6,687 million, respectively. Since fair value exceeded carrying amount, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the relevant assets and liabilities were measured at carrying amount. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, Gain on sales of shares of subsidiaries and associates amounting to Note 20 ¥3,564 million was presented within Other operating income. As of March 31, 2017 and 2018, the amount of other components of equity relating to assets Trade Receivables The breakdown of trade receivables is as follows: held for sale was ¥238 million and ¥(264) million, respectively. Millions of yen As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Accounts receivable ¥780,542 ¥859,496 Allowance for doubtful accounts (4,351) (4,665) Total ¥776,191 ¥854,804 Trade receivables are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. 52 53 137 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 138 Financial Information This remeasurement is for differences between actuarial assumptions at the beginning of the Note 23 year and actual experience and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. This amount is recognized in other comprehensive income when it occurs and is immediately transferred Capital 1. Common stock and Treasury Stock from other components of equity to retained earnings. Number of shares authorized and issued is as follows: (Exchange Differences on Translation of Foreign Operations) Thousands of shares These adjustments result from consolidating the financial statements of foreign operations. Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Number of shares authorized 6,000,000 6,000,000 (Effective Portion of Net Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges) Number of shares issued: This is the cumulative amount of effective portions of hedges from gains or losses arising At the beginning of the term 1,506,288 1,506,288 from changes in the fair value of hedging instruments relating to cash flow hedges. Increase (decrease) — — At the end of the term 1,506,288 1,506,288 Note 24 The Company's shares are ordinary shares without par value. The shares issued were fully paid. Dividends Dividends paid to shareholders are as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 Changes in the number of shares of treasury stock during the year are as follows: Amount Amount per Thousands of shares Date of Resolution Type of (Millions of share Entitlement Effective Year ended Year ended approval approved by shares yen) (Yen) date date March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 May 18, Board of Common March 31, June 3, ¥11,718 ¥8 At the beginning of the term 41,485 67,025 2016 Directors stock 2016 2016 November 8, Board of Common September December 2, Increase (note 1) 33,418 57 ¥11,718 ¥8 2016 Directors stock 30, 2016 2016 Decrease (note 2) (7,878) (180) At the end of the term 67,025 66,902 Year ended March 31, 2018 Note: 1. The increase in the number of treasury shares came from the purchase of 48 Amount Amount per thousand shares constituting less than one unit and the acquisition of 33,370 thousand Date of Resolution Type of (Millions of share Entitlement Effective approval approved by shares yen) (Yen) date date shares by the resolution of the Board of Directors in the year ended March 31, 2017. The May 17, Board of Common March 31, June 6, ¥17,271 ¥12 increase in the number of shares of treasury stock stemmed from share purchases 2017 Directors stock 2017 2017 constituting less than one unit. November 2, Board of Common ¥21,590 ¥15 September December 4, 2017 Directors stock 30, 2017 2017 Note: 2. The decrease in the number of such shares was from the sale of 1 thousand shares constituting less than one unit, a payout of 133 thousand shares from the exercise of stock options, and a payout of 7,744 thousand shares from a share exchange in the year ended Dividends with a record date in the year ended March 31, 2018, with an effective date in the March 31, 2017. The decrease in the number of shares of treasury stock was from the sale of following fiscal year are as follows: 1 thousand shares constituting less than one unit and a payout of 179 thousand shares from the exercise of stock options. Year ended March 31, 2018 Amount Amount 2. Additional paid-in capital and Retained Earnings Resolution Type of (Millions Paid per share Entitlement Effective Date of approval approved by shares of yen) from (Yen) date date Additional paid-in capital comprises amounts arising from capital transactions that are not May 16, Board of Common Retained March 31, June 5, ¥24,470 ¥17 included in common stock. The main component is legal capital surplus and other capital 2018 Directors stock earnings 2018 2018 surplus. Retained earnings comprise legal retained earnings and other retained earnings. The Japanese Company Law mandates that at least half of paid-in capital be appropriated as common stock and the rest be appropriated as a legal reserve within the legal capital surplus. Under that law, the legal capital surplus can be incorporated in common stock by resolution at a shareholders’ meeting. Amounts classified as equity elements at the time of issuance of convertible bond type bonds with stock acquisition rights are included in other capital surplus as a capital element of compound financial products. That law requires that 10% of the surplus appropriated for dividends be retained until the total amount of the legal capital surplus and legal retained earnings reaches a quarter of the amount of common stock. The accumulated legal retained earnings can be appropriated for deficit disposition, and legal retained earnings may be available for dividends by resolution at a shareholders' meeting. 3. Other Components of Equity Other components of equity are as follows: (Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income) Unrealized gains on financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. (Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Pension Plans) 54 55 139 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 140 Financial Information Note 25 Other Changes in each item of other comprehensive income during the year are as follows: Comprehensive Income (2) Changes in the Number of Stock Options Millions of yen Year ended Year ended Number of shares March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Year ended Year ended Financial assets measured March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 at fair value through other comprehensive Outstanding at the beginning of the term 915,650 937,100 income: Granted 155,400 162,750 Amounts arising during term ¥ 17,360 ¥ 13,929 Exercised (133,950) (178,550) Tax effects (2,969) (4,247) Forfeited — — Net amount ¥ 14,391 ¥ 9,682 Expired — — Remeasurements of defined benefit pension Outstanding at the end of the term 937,100 921,300 plans: Exercisable stock options outstanding at the Amounts arising during term ¥ 24,739 ¥ 31,452 end of the term 216,100 91,550 Tax effects (7,415) (9,282) Net amount ¥ 17,324 ¥ 22,170 The exercise price for all stock options is ¥1 per share. Exchange differences on translation of foreign The weighted average share prices for exercised stock options were ¥620.0 and operations: ¥1,016.7 in the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. Amounts arising during term ¥ (8,463) ¥ (13,713) The weighted average remaining contractual years of stock options outstanding at Reclassification adjustments (12,198) 166 year-end were 11.4 years and 13.2 years as of March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. Tax effects 256 (51) Net amount ¥ (20,405) ¥(13,598) (3) Fair Value of Stock Options Effective portion of net change in fair value of The weighted average fair value of stock options granted in years ended March 31, 2016 cash flow hedges: and 2017 as of the measurement date were ¥455 and ¥887, respectively. Amounts arising during term ¥ (1,893) ¥ 1,157 The Company employs the Black-Scholes model to calculate the fair value of stock Reclassification adjustments 3,035 2,068 options, using the following assumptions. Tax effects (302) (947) Millions of yen Net amount ¥ 840 ¥ 2,278 Year ended Year ended Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 investments accounted for using equity method: Share price ¥523.7 ¥974.2 Amounts arising during term ¥ (2,172) ¥ 596 Share price volatility (note 1) 33.744% 32.917% Reclassification adjustments — (14) Expected term (note 2) 4.81 years 4.52years Net amount ¥ (2,172) ¥ 582 Expected dividends (note 3) ¥15 per share ¥20 per share Total other comprehensive income ¥ 9,978 ¥ 21,114 Risk-free interest rate (note 4) (0.318)% (0.070)% Notes: 1. Calculated based on the daily share price over the past 4.81 years and 4.52 years for the fiscal years Note 26 ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. 2. Using a period up to the expected average exercise time from the grant date. 3. Based on the latest dividends for each fiscal year. Stock-based 1. Stock Option System Remuneration (1) Details of Equity-Settled Share-Based Compensation System 4. The yield on Japanese government bonds for the expected term. Based on a resolution of the Remuneration Committee, the Company issues share-based compensation stock options as a form of performance-related payment to its corporate (4) Stock-Based Compensation Expenses executive officers and executive officers who will share with shareholders not only the Stock option-related expenses were ¥ 71 million and ¥144 million, respectively, in the years benefits due to a rise in the Company’s stock price but also losses due to a decline in the ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively, and were posted in Selling, general and stock price as an incentive to boost corporate performance and enhance mediumto administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. long-term corporate value taking into consideration the Company’s financial results for each For stock options that do not have vesting conditions, bulk expenses are applied at the fiscal year as well as the status of achieving of business targets by the corporate executive time of grant. officers or executive officers (including those who have the retired) based on their degree of 2. Business Performance-linked Stock-based Remuneration Plan at Mitsubishi contribution, etc. Tanabe Pharma Corporation Until the 10th fiscal period, the Company issued stock-based compensation stock options (1) Details of Stock-based Remuneration to directors (excluding outside directors) and executive officers (including those who retired) Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC), a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, for the same purpose with respect to corporate performance for each fiscal year taking into has introduced a stock-based remuneration plan (hereinafter, “the plan”) from the fiscal year consideration the status of achieving business targets by the directors or the executive ended March 31, 2018, utilizing a trust. The plan clarifies the linkage between remuneration officers based on their degree of contribution, etc. of MTPC’s board directors and executive officers (excluding non-residents of Japan and outside board directors; hereinafter “MTPC directors and executive officers”) and the MTPC All stock options that the Company issues are equity-settled share-based compensation. group’s business performance. The objectives of introducing this plan are to provide There are no vesting terms. The exercise period is principally 20 years from the date of grant, incentives to MTPC directors and executive officers to strive for sustained growth of the and is, in principle, effective for 5 years from the day after the first year after recipients lose MTPC group and enhance mediumto long-term corporate value, as well as raise their status as director, executive officer, executive, or corporate auditor of the Company management team morale. These objectives will be achieved by sharing with shareholders not only the benefits of rises in MTPC’s share price but also the risk of share price decline. and/or its subsidiaries. MTPC has adopted a Board Incentive Plan (BIP) trust as the structure for the plan. 57 56 141 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 142 Financial Information Under the plan, MTPC shares are acquired through the trust using money contributed by MTPC as the source of funds. In accordance with “Rules relating to grant of shares” For defined benefit plans, amounts recognized as expenses in the Consolidated Statement of established by MTPC, from the date of commencement of the plan, points (1 point = 1 Income are as follows: share) are granted to MTPC directors and executive officers each year on the final day of the fiscal year during the period in which the plan applies. Vesting conditions include the requirement that the recipient is a current office holder as an MTPC director or executive Millions of yen officer, and points are granted according to office held and the degree of achievement of Year ended Year ended performance targets. In principle, when MTPC directors and executive officers retire from March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 office, by carrying out the prescribed beneficiary vesting procedures, they are able to Current service cost ¥20,102 ¥ 18,974 receive shares of the Company, with the number of shares corresponding to the number of Prior service cost 891 5,482 points granted. Interest expense 4,782 4,952 The plan is accounted for as equity-settled share-based compensation. Interest income (6,830) (4,254) Total ¥18,945 ¥ 25,154 (2) Number of points granted during the period and weighted average fair value of points The number of points granted during the period and weighted average fair value of points Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: are as follows. The fair value on the day points were granted uses the share price on that day since the share price on the day of grant is a close approximation of fair value. Millions of yen Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Number of points granted Outstanding at the beginning of the term ¥651,053 ¥630,280 － 15,259 during the period Current service cost 20,102 18,974 Weighted average fair value of Interest expense － 2,582 4,782 4,952 points (yen) Remeasurements: (3) Stock-Based Compensation Remuneration Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions (945) (1,396) Stock option-related expenses were ¥41 million in the year ended March 31, 2018. These Actuarial gains and losses arising from expenses were presented within Selling, general and administrative expenses in the 2,193 (2,257) changes in financial assumptions Consolidated Statement of Income Other (71) (605) Benefits paid (39,894) (41,913) Note 27 Prior service cost 891 5,482 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (7,831) (256) Retirement Benefits The Company's consolidated subsidiaries maintain lump-sum retirement and retirement benefit plans. The retirement benefit plans are defined benefit (fundand contract-type) and Outstanding at the end of the term ¥630,280 ¥613,261 defined contribution plans. Some consolidated subsidiaries also maintain welfare pension plans. Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Millions of yen 1. Defined Benefit Plans Year ended Year ended The defined benefit plans of the Company's consolidated subsidiaries are mainly cash March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 balance pension plans. Benefits under these plans are based on such conditions as years of Outstanding at the beginning of the term ¥525,215 ¥531,840 service, points gained from results and contributions during employment. Investment yields Interest income 6,830 4,254 are determined after taking into consideration the yields of 10-year national government Remeasurements: bonds. Return on plan assets 25,916 27,194 Cash balance pension plans are managed by corporate pension funds that are legally Contributions by the employer 14,784 10,380 separated from the consolidated subsidiaries of the Company pursuant to Japan's Defined Benefits paid (31,932) (38,272) Benefit Corporate Pension Plan Act. Consolidated subsidiaries, or pension fund directors, and Exchange differences on translation of foreign (8,973) (5,398) pension investment management institutions are legally required to accord top priority to plan operations participants, and must manage plan assets based on prescribed policies. Outstanding at the end of the term ¥531,840 ¥529,998 Contract-type cash balance plans are run in line with Bureau of Health and  Welfare-approved pension provisions. The management and operation of reserve funds is The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate present values of defined benefit through contracts with trust banks and other entrusted management institutions on the basis obligations are as follows: of duty of care and damages stipulations for trustees. Funded cash balance pension plans are run by corporate pension funds. If fund directors neglect to faithfully discharge their duties concerning reserve management and operations, As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 they assume liability for fund damages. Discount rate 0.56% 0.64% Defined benefit plan amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are as In the event of a 0.5% increase or decrease in the discount rate, the principal actuarial follows: assumption, the impact on the present value of defined benefit obligation as of March 31, 2017 and 2018 would be as follows. This sensitivity analysis assumes that all actuarial Millions of yen assumptions other than that subject to analysis are held constant. As of March 31, As of March 31, 2017 2018 Millions of yen Present value of the defined benefit obligation ¥630,280 ¥ 613,261 As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Fair value of the plan assets (531,840) (529,998) Increase by 0.5% ¥(35,873) ¥(32,970) Net defined benefit liabilities ¥ 98,440 ¥ 83,263 Retirement benefit liabilities ¥128,338 ¥ 110,639 Decrease by 0.5% 31,639 25,902 Retirement benefit assets (29,898) (27,376) Note: The discount rate is determined by referring to yields on high-quality bonds with maturities similar to periods Net defined benefit liabilities ¥ 98,440 ¥ 83,263 in which benefits are anticipated. The sensitivity analysis is therefore based on a minimum reasonable discount rate of 0%. 58 59 143 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 144 Financial Information The fair value of plan assets are as follows: The weighted average durations of defined benefit plan obligations as of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 were12.7 years and 13.1years, respectively. As of March 31, 2017 2. Defined Contribution and Public Plans Millions of yen Amounts recognized as expenses under defined contribution and public plans are as Fair value with Fair value without follows: quoted prices in quoted prices in Total active markets active markets Millions of yen Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 20,469 ¥ — ¥ 20,469 Year ended Year ended Equity instruments March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Domestic equities 57,629 — 57,629 Defined contribution plan cost ¥ 5,874 ¥ 6,662 Foreign equities 30,926 — 30,926 Public plan cost 18,643 20,075 Other — 75,858 75,858 Debt instruments Note 28 Domestic bonds 6,251 — 6,251 Foreign bonds 30,878 — 30,878 Provisions The breakdowns and schedule of provisions are as follows: Other — 163,006 163,006 General accounts of life insurance companies — 95,641 95,641 Year ended March 31, 2017 Other — 51,182 51,182 Total ¥146,153 ¥385,687 ¥531,840 Millions of yen Asset Provision for Provision for As of March 31, 2018 retirement environmental Other Total litigation Millions of yen obligations measures Fair value with Fair value without As of April 1, 2016 ¥10,888 ¥9,216 ¥2,337 ¥4,778 ¥27,219 quoted prices in quoted prices in Total active markets active markets Arising during the year 4,137 415 20 2,304 6,876 Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 25,424 ¥ — ¥ 25,424 Interest cost associated with Equity instruments 409 11 — 68 488 passage of time Domestic equities 42,568 — 42,568 Foreign equities 31,401 — 31,401 Utilized (170) (1,530) (4) (1,287) (2,991) Other — 76,579 76,579 Unused amounts reversed (5) (79) — (1,193) (1,277) Debt instruments Exchange differences on Domestic bonds 9,043 — 9,043 963 (2) 2 (65) 898 translation of foreign Foreign bonds 39,077 — 39,077 operations Other — 167,690 167,690 General accounts of life insurance Other (638) (70) 70 500 (138) companies — 97,564 97,564 Other As of March 31, 2017 ¥15,584 ¥7,961 ¥2,425 ¥5,105 ¥31,075 — 40,652 40,652 Total ¥147,513 ¥382,485 ¥529,998 Current liabilities ¥132 ¥71 ¥2,333 ¥3,503 ¥ 6,039 The Company's consolidated subsidiaries secure the total investment returns required Non-current liabilities 15,452 7,890 92 1,602 25,036 within an acceptable range of risk to sufficiently fund payments of pension benefits and Total ¥15,584 ¥7,961 ¥2,425 ¥5,105 ¥31,075 lump-sum payments, and endeavor to minimize long-term contributions and amass financing for payments of benefits. To achieve targeted rates of return, management sets percentages of policy assets based on mediumto long-term perspectives, reviewing them regularly, and endeavors to maximize returns in keeping with risk assumptions. Standard and special contributions to defined benefit plans cover the expenses necessary to provide benefits. In keeping with laws and regulations, the Company regularly recalculates pension financing to balance pension funding for the future. The recalculations review basal rates (including projected mortality, withdrawal, and interest rates) related to setting contributions, and validating premiums. Scheduled contributions to plan assets for the year ending March 31, 2019 are ¥13,110 million. The Company's consolidated subsidiaries may pay premium benefits to employees on retirement. Some domestic consolidated subsidiaries have established retirement benefits trusts. 60 61 145 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 146 Financial Information Year ended March 31, 2018 The Company records estimated losses to cover future losses from construction and environmental remediation activities. These expenses are expected to be paid after one Millions of yen year or more; however, they may be affected by future business plans. Asset Provision for Provision for retirement environmental Other Total litigation obligations measures Note 29 As of April 1, 2017 ¥15,584 ¥7,961 ¥2,425 ¥5,105 ¥31,075 Arising during the year 1,412 1,401 3,399 7,166 13,378 Bonds and The breakdown of bonds and borrowings is as follows: Interest cost associated with Borrowings 201 12 — — 213 passage of time Millions of yen As of March 31, As of March 31, Utilized (97) (775) (2,309) (911) (4,092) 2017 2018 Unused amounts reversed (205) (28) (45) (1,778) (2,056) Short-term borrowings ¥ 294,547 ¥ 349,641 Exchange differences on Current portion of long-term borrowings 141,024 116,025 (24) — (4) (159) (187) translation of foreign Commercial paper 40,000 24,000 operations Current portion of bonds 40,000 65,000 Other (168) — — 12 (156) Loans due to the transfer of trade receivables 55,150 22,410 Loans due to the transfer of trade receivables of As of March 31, 2018 ¥16,703 ¥8,571 ¥3,466 ¥9,435 ¥38,175 7,016 3,778 subsidiaries Current liabilities ¥137 ¥ — ¥1,207 ¥6,119 ¥ 7,463 Bonds 355,000 320,000 Convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to Non-current liabilities 16,566 8,571 2,259 3,316 30,712 147,652 148,027 shares Total ¥16,703 ¥8,571 ¥3,466 ¥9,435 ¥38,175 Long-term borrowings 613,353 557,241 Total ¥1,693,742 ¥1,606,122 Current liabilities ¥577,737 ¥580,854 Asset retirement obligations Non-current liabilities 1,116,005 1,025,268 The Company covers recovery obligations for the rental real estate of the Group by recording projected payments based on historical amounts. These expenses are expected Total ¥1,693,742 ¥1,606,122 to be paid after one year or more; however, they may be affected by future business plans. Bonds and borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Reserves for Possible Losses in Connection with Litigation Reserves for possible losses in connection with litigation are set aside for payments to settle The average interest rates for shortand long-term borrowings as of March 31, 2017 lawsuits and in preparation for payments that may arise in the future. were 0.881% and 1.182%, respectively. (1) Reserve for Health Management Allowances for HIV Compensation The average interest rates for shortand long-term borrowings as of March 31, 2018 To provide for future payments of health management allowances and settlement payments were 1.001% and 1.493%, respectively. (including attorney fees) in connection with a lawsuit for damages filed by plaintiffs infected Repayment terms for long-term borrowings are from 2018 to 2035. with HIV, the consolidated subsidiary, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC) has set aside an estimated amount for such future payments. Loans due to the transfer of trade receivables are liabilities for transfers that do not meet the In accordance with the finalization of the settlement concluded in March 1996, regarding criteria for derecognition as financial assets. the health management allowances, the present value of the estimated amounts to be paid Borrowings by consolidated subsidiaries from trade receivable transfers are liabilities in the future calculated based on the actual payment record up to the present time for AIDS related to transfers to consolidated subsidiaries. patients who have reached a settlement is recognized. Regarding settlements, the corresponding estimated amounts calculated based on the actual settlements record up to the present time for HIV plaintiffs as of March 31, 2017 and HIV-infected patients due to anti-haemophilia preparations (unheated concentrate) who have not filed lawsuits are recognized. (2) Reserve for Health Management Allowances for Sub-acute Myelo-Optical Neuropathy (SMON) Compensation MTPC has made a provision in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for the estimated future medical treatment payments to be made over the remaining lives of the parties entitled to such payments under the compromise settlement. (3) Reserve for HCV Litigation To provide for losses that may arise in the future from a settlement of lawsuits filed by plaintiffs infected with HCV (hepatitis C virus), MTPC has set aside an estimated amount for payments related to such settlement based on estimates of the number of people receiving relief and the amount of relief payments required under a law which stipulates that relief be provided to people who contacted hepatitis C from specific fibrinogen products or specific coagulation factor IX products. Reserve for environmental measures 62 63 147 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 148 Financial Information The breakdown of bonds is as follows: Collateralized obligations Millions of yen Interest As of March 31, As of March 31, Millions of yen Note Name of bond Term rate 2017 2018 As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 1 2nd unsecured bond 2011-2021 1.204% ¥ 10,000 ¥ 10,000 Trade payables ¥ 435 ¥ 1,732 1 3rd unsecured bond 2012-2017 0.366% 15,000 — 1 4th unsecured bond 2012-2019 0.556% 10,000 10,000 Short-term borrowings 3,219 51 1 5th unsecured bond 2012-2017 0.439% 15,000 — Current portion of long-term borrowings 408 1,857 1 6th unsecured bond 2012-2019 0.665% 10,000 10,000 1 7th unsecured bond 2013-2018 0.615% 20,000 20,000 Long-term borrowings 7,836 5,778 1 8th unsecured bond 2013-2020 0.948% 10,000 10,000 Other 46 104 1 9th unsecured bond 2013-2023 1.226% 10,000 10,000 Total ¥11,944 ¥ 9,522 1 10th unsecured bond 2013-2018 0.319% 10,000 10,000 1 11th unsecured bond 2013-2020 0.604% 15,000 15,000 1 12th unsecured bond 2013-2023 0.918% 15,000 15,000 1 13th unsecured bond 2014-2019 0.319% 25,000 25,000 Note 30 1 14th unsecured bond 2014-2021 0.482% 15,000 15,000 1 15th unsecured bond 2014-2024 0.800% 15,000 15,000 1 16th unsecured bond 2015-2022 0.433% 10,000 10,000 Changes in Changes in liabilities relating to financing activities are as follows: 1 17th unsecured bond 2015-2025 0.755% 10,000 10,000 Liabilities April 1, 2017, to March 31, 2018 1 18th unsecured bond 2015-2020 0.281% 20,000 20,000 Relating to 1 19th unsecured bond 2015-2022 0.476% 10,000 10,000 Financing Activities 1 20th unsecured bond 2015-2025 0.711% 10,000 10,000 1 21st unsecured bond 2016-2021 0.120% 10,000 10,000 Millions of yen 1 22nd unsecured bond 2016-2026 0.320% 10,000 10,000 Long-term 1 23rd unsecured bond 2016-2036 0.850% 20,000 20,000 Short-term Commercial paper borrowings Bonds (Note) 1 24th unsecured bond 2018-2028 0.370% — 15,000 borrowings (Note) 1 25th unsecured bond 2018-2038 0.890% — 15,000 As of April 1, 2017 356,713 40,000 754,377 542,652 2 37th unsecured bond 2008-2018 2.030% 20,000 20,000 Cash flows 25,243 (16,000) (67,378) (10,172) 2 38th unsecured bond 2009-2019 2.020% 10,000 10,000 Increase (decrease) 3 6th unsecured bond 2009-2019 1.940% 5,000 5,000 due to transfer to 4 10th unsecured bond 2012-2017 0.437% 10,000 — liabilities related (199) — (983) — 4 11th unsecured bond 2014-2019 0.319% 15,000 15,000 directly to assets 4 12th unsecured bond 2014-2021 0.558% 10,000 10,000 held for sale 4 13th unsecured bond 2016-2021 0.140% 15,000 15,000 Changes from 4 14th unsecured bond 2016-2026 0.390% 15,000 15,000 acquisition or loss of Subtotal ¥395,000 ¥385,000 control over (1,480) — 5 — Zero coupon convertible subsidiaries or other bond-type bonds with businesses 1 2017-2022 0.196% 74,269 74,415 subscription rights to shares Impact of foreign due 2022 exchange rate (4,448) — (12,755) 547 Zero coupon convertible fluctuations, etc. bond-type bonds with As of March 31, 1 2017-2024 0.312% 73,383 73,612 375,829 24,000 673,266 533,027 subscription rights to shares 2018 due 2024 Note: Including amounts due or scheduled for redemption within one year. Subtotal 147,652 148,027 Total ¥542,652 ¥533,027 Notes: 1. These corporate bonds are issued by the Company. Note 31 2. These corporate bonds are issued by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, a domestic consolidated subsidiary. As of March 28, 2016, the Company began managing the bonds because the company took over them based on the absorption-type company split. Other Financial The breakdown of other financial liabilities is as follows: 3. This corporate bond is issued by Mitsubishi Plastic, Inc. (now Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation), a domestic consolidated subsidiary. As of March 28, 2016, the Company began managing the bond because the company took over it based on the Liabilities absorption-type company split. Millions of yen 4. These corporate bonds are issued by Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation, a domestic consolidated subsidiary. As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Account payable-other ¥ 96,061 ¥ 115,030 Accrued expenses 63,480 64,161 Assets pledged as collateral and collateralized obligations are as follows: Lease obligations 16,930 17,334 Assets pledged as collateral Deposits 10,981 8,169 Millions of yen Other 24,946 25,688 As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Total ¥212,398 ¥230,382 Current liabilities ¥184,909 ¥201,208 Buildings and structures ¥ 7,483 ¥ 6,595 Non-current liabilities 27,489 29,174 Machinery and vehicles 9,836 9,892 Total ¥212,398 ¥230,382 Land 7,824 7,699 Other 1,542 1,402 Other financial liabilities are mainly classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized Total ¥26,685 ¥25,588 cost. 64 65 149 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 150 Financial Information Note 32 Note 35 Lease 1. Finance Leases (Lessee) Financial 1. Capital Management Transactions Future minimum lease payments and the present value of future minimum lease payments Instruments Under the APTSIS 20 medium-term management plan (fiscal 2016 to 2020), which are as follows: commenced from the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group aims to become a fast-growing, Millions of yen highly profitable corporate entity through its business domains in Performance Products, As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Health Care and Industrial Materials. The Company aims to balance efforts to invest in Total Total growth business, bolster shareholder returns, and reinforce its financial position and thereby future Future future Future Present Present enhance enterprise value. Key benchmarks are core operating income, core operating minimum finance minimum finance lease costs value lease costs value income return on sales, net profit attributable to owners of the parent, return on equity, and payments payments the net debt-to-equity ratio. Due within one year ¥ 4,146 ¥ (277) ¥ 3,869 ¥ 3,741 ¥ (205) ¥ 3,536 Due after one year and not later than five years 9,222 (623) 8,599 8,782 (621) 8,161 Later than five years 4,696 (234) 4,462 5,795 (158) 5,637 Total ¥18,064 ¥(1,134) ¥16,930 ¥18,318 ¥ (984) ¥17,334 As of or year As of or year 2. Operating Lease (Lessee) ended ended Future minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating lease contracts are as March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 follows: Return on Equity (ROE) (Note 1) 15.1% 17.8% Net D/E ratio (Note 2) 1.06 0.89 Millions of yen As of March 31, As of March 31, Notes: 2017 2018 1. Net profit attributable to owners of the parent / equity interest attributable to owners of the Due within one year ¥12,339 ¥11,795 parent (averages of beginning and end of fiscal years) Due after one year and not later than five years 19,320 18,788 2. Net interest-bearing debt*1 / equity attributable to owners of the parent (end of fiscal years) Later than five years 7,610 8,526 *1Net interest-bearing debt = Interest-bearing debt (cash and cash equivalents + cash Total ¥39,269 ¥39,109 reserves*2) *2 Cash reserves comprise certificates of deposits, securities, and other instruments other In the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, lease fees recognized as expenses were than cash equivalents that the Group holds to manage surplus funds. ¥19,873 million and ¥18,318 million, respectively. Note 33 2. Financial Risk Management The Group is exposed to financial risks in the course of doing business in an array of fields Other Liabilities The breakdown of other liabilities is as follows: around the world. It manages risks based on certain policies to reduce or avoid such risks. The policy with derivatives transactions is to restrict their use to actual demand. The Group does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. The relevant officers are Millions of yen informed about contract balances, fair value, and other elements of these transactions based As of March 31, As of March 31, on internal regulations for transaction authority and limits. 2017 2018 Employees’ bonuses ¥ 42,233 ¥ 48,778 3. Credit Risk Employees’ paid leave related obligations 30,079 31,753 The Group is exposed to customer credit risk for trade and other receivables acquired in the Advances received 15,582 12,806 course of business. The securities that the Group holds are exposed to the credit risk of Accrued consumption taxes 10,003 15,163 issuers. Derivatives transactions that the Group conducts to hedge financial risks are Deferred income from out-licensing agreements 4,944 4,464 exposed to the credit risks of counterparty financial institutions. Social insurance premiums received 6,053 4,918 In keeping with its credit management rules, the Group regularly monitors the trade Other 46,236 46,417 receivables and long-term loans of major customers, oversees due dates and balances for Total ¥155,130 ¥164,299 each counterparty, and endeavors to swiftly identify and mitigate collections concerns arising Current liabilities ¥116,691 ¥126,285 from deteriorating financial positions. The Group only invests in bonds with high ratings, so Non-current liabilities 38,439 38,014 credit risk is inconsequential. Derivatives transactions are only entered into with financial Total ¥155,130 ¥164,299 institutions with high credit ratings to minimize credit risk from nonperformance by counterparties. The Group prevents excessive concentrations of credit risk through special management procedures. Note 34 At the end of the fiscal year, the Group recognizes impairment losses based on historical rates to the Allowance for doubtful accounts, for significant uncollectible financial assets, and Trade Payables Trade payables are as follows: for insignificant financial assets. The Allowance for doubtful accounts relating to such assets is included in Trade receivables and Other financial assets in the Consolidated Statement of Millions of yen Financial Position. As of March 31, As of March 31, 2017 2018 Changes in the Allowance for doubtful accounts, measured at amounts equivalent to Accounts payable ¥437,914 ¥488,592 projected losses for the entire term, are as follows. There were no significant differences between projected 12-month credit losses on loans Trade payables are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. and the projected credit losses for the entire term. 67 66 151 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 152 Financial Information Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Millions of yen Due after Due after Due after Due after Outstanding at the beginning of the term ¥5,400 ¥5,811 Carrying Contractual Due within one year two years three years four years Due after Addition 1,859 2,277 amount cash flow one year through through through through five years Decrease (intended use) (811) (434) two years three years four years five years Decrease (reversal) (752) (818) Non-derivative Other financial 115 (123) liabilities: Outstanding at the end of the term ¥5,811 ¥6,713 Trade payables ¥488,592 ¥488,592 ¥488,592 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Short-term 375,829 375,829 375,829 — — — — — The maximum exposure to the credit risks of financial assets is the carrying amount after borrowings Commercial impairment presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 24,000 24,000 24,000 — — — — — paper The Group holds real estate, securities, etc. as collateral for receivables against certain Bonds 533,027 535,000 65,000 60,000 55,000 125,000 20,000 210,000 customers. Long-term 673,266 673,523 116,542 174,551 108,564 68,883 54,454 150,529 Maximum exposure on credit risk of financial guarantee contracts is the amount of borrowings guarantee obligations etc. described in Note 39 Contingent Liabilities . Accounts 115,030 115,030 115,030 — — — — — payable-other Accrued 64,161 64,161 64,161 — — — — — expenses Other 50,830 51,557 23,139 4,951 3,222 2,314 1,269 16,662 4. Liquidity Risk Derivative The Group's trade payables obligations and borrowings are exposed to liquidity risk. The liabilities: Group manages this risk by producing cash plan and ensuring liquidity by maintaining Foreign exchange commitment lines with several financial institutions. ¥ 105 ¥ 105 ¥ 105 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — forward contracts Outstanding financial liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) by fiscal year are as Currency 24 24 4 4 4 4 2 6 follows: swaps Interest rate 232 238 153 72 7 — — 6 swaps As of March 31, 2017 Millions of yen For financial guarantee agreements, maximum amounts based on performance requests are Due after Due after Due after Due after the outstanding guaranteed liabilities described in Note 39 Contingent Liabilities. Carrying Contractual Due within one year two years three years four years Due after amount cash flow one year through through through through five years two years three years four years five years Non-derivative financial The total commitment line and borrowing balance is as follows: liabilities: Millions of yen Trade payables ¥437,914 ¥437,914 ¥437,914 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Short-term borrowings 356,713 356,713 356,713 — — — — — Total commitment line ¥121,697 ¥131,162 Commercial Borrowing balance 7,292 7,437 40,000 40,000 40,000 — — — — — paper Unused balance ¥114,405 ¥123,725 Bonds 542,652 542,652 40,000 65,000 60,000 55,000 124,269 198,383 Long-term borrowings 754,377 754,493 141,183 118,222 183,740 106,189 63,605 141,554 We are also diversifying funding, notably by obtaining uncommitment-based overdraft Accounts facilities with several financial institutions and by securing frameworks to issue commercial 96,061 96,061 96,061 — — — — — payable-other paper or register corporate bond issues. Accrued 63,480 63,480 63,480 — — — — — expenses 5. Foreign Exchange Risk Other 51,087 52,228 24,853 4,193 3,762 2,223 1,637 15,560 Foreign currency denominated receivables and payables from the Group's global operations Derivative liabilities: are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuation risk. The Group uses foreign exchange forward Foreign contracts and currency swaps as needed to hedge against the foreign currency risk exchange associated with such receivables and payables. ¥ 970 ¥ 970 ¥ 970 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — forward contracts Foreign Exchange Sensitivity Analysis Currency 3 3 1 1 1 — — — If the yen at the end of the fiscal year was 1% higher against the U.S. dollar and the euro for swaps Interest rate the foreign currency denominated financial instruments that the Group held at the year end, swaps 790 1,254 605 391 211 6 — 41 the impact on profit before tax in the Consolidated Statement of Income would be as follows. Other 7 7 7 — — — — — This analysis is based on multiplying each currency risk exposure by 1%, based on the assumption that other variables (including other foreign exchange rates and interest rates) are held constant. 68 69 153 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 154 Financial Information Millions of yen As of March 31, 2017 Year ended Year ended Millions of yen March 31, 2017 March 31, 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total U.S. dollar (1% appreciation of yen) ¥(380) ¥(100) Euro (1% appreciation of yen) Assets (77) (30) Stocks and ¥121,090 ¥ — ¥79,745 ¥200,835 investments 6. Interest Rate Risk Stocks and Interest rate risk within the Group arises from interest-bearing debt net of cash equivalents. investments held for 869 — 1,116 1,985 The Group raises funds needed to do business and make capital investments through sale borrowings and the issuance of corporate bonds. Borrowings and corporate bonds with Structured notes — — 1,014 1,014 floating rates are exposed to interest rate fluctuation risk. Derivatives — 2,155 — 2,155 The Group uses derivatives transactions (interest rate swaps) to hedge against interest rate Total ¥121,959 ¥2,155 ¥81,875 ¥205,989 fluctuation risk. Liabilities Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Derivatives ¥ — ¥1,770 ¥ — ¥ 1,770 In the event the interest rate on financial instruments that the Group holds at the end of each Total ¥ — ¥1,770 ¥ — ¥ 1,770 fiscal year increases by 100 basis points, the impact on profit before tax in the Consolidated Statement of Income would be as follows: The analysis is for financial instruments affected by interest rate fluctuations and assumes As of March 31, 2018 Millions of yen that other factors, including the impacts of foreign exchange fluctuations, are held constant. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Millions of yen Assets Year ended Year ended Stocks and ¥127,192 ¥ — ¥73,155 ¥200,347 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 investments Profit before tax ¥(2,010) ¥(1,607) Stocks and investments held for 317 — 89 406 sale 7. Market Price Fluctuation Risk Derivatives — 1,618 — 1,618 The Group's securities holdings are exposed to market price fluctuation risk. Total ¥127,509 ¥1,618 ¥73,244 ¥202,371 With respect to securities, the Group regularly reviews the fair value and financial Liabilities positions of issuers (business partners), and constantly reviews holdings by taking into account its relationships with business partners. Derivatives ¥ — ¥ 361 ¥ — ¥ 361 Total ¥ — ¥ 361 ¥ — ¥ 361 8. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial instruments are classified into the following three-level fair value hierarchy: Stocks and investments Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets The fair value of marketable shares classified as Level 1 is based on unadjusted Level 2: Valuations measured by direct or indirect observable inputs other than Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 3: Valuations measured by significant unobservable inputs The fair value of Level 3 unlisted shares and investments for which quoted prices in active markets are unavailable is calculated by using reasonably available inputs through similar company comparisons or other appropriate valuation techniques. Whether any financial instruments are determined to have been transferred between Structured notes levels is considered at year-end. There were no significant transfers between levels in the The fair value of Level 3 structured notes is calculated based on the prices provided by years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018. counterparty financial institutions. Significant unobservable inputs for measuring structured notes include information on parameters based on which counterparty (1) Financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis financial institutions calculate prices, with fluctuations causing the fair value of Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows: structured notes to change. Derivative assets and liabilities The fair value of Level 2 derivative assets and liabilities is based on such observable inputs as prices provided by counterparty financial institutions or exchange and interest rates and such like. The fair value of Level 3 financial instruments is calculated by valuation specialists determining valuation methods for each relevant financial instrument in accordance with valuation policies and procedures that include valuation methods for fair value calculations approved by suitably authorized personnel. 70 71 155 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 156 Financial Information Changes in Level 3 financial instruments are as follows: 9. Transfers of Financial Assets The Group transfers some operating receivables to a business entity comprising third-party financial institutions. The entity operates as part of these institutions and purchases a large Millions of yen amount of assets from customers other than those of the Group, so trade receivables that Year ended Year ended the Group transferred constitute a small proportion of the entity's total assets. The March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Balance at beginning of period relevance of the Group to the assessment of exposure to the risks of this entity is therefore ¥77,791 ¥81,875 low. Other comprehensive income (Note) 4,171 (1,346) Purchases 3,901 1,345 (1) Transfers of financial assets that are not derecognized overall Sales or redemptions (2,221) (4,379) As of March 31, 2017 and 2018, Trade receivables included ¥38,288 million and ¥19,337 Other (1,767) (4,251) million, respectively, of trade receivables that were transferred without satisfying financial Balance at end of period ¥81,875 ¥73,244 asset derecognition requirements. Bonds and borrowings included ¥55,150 million and Note: Included in “Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income” in ¥22,410 million in transfers. These fair values approximate their carrying values. The net the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income positions mainly stem from differences in periods for retained portions relating to sales of trade receivables and deposits of trade receivables and repayments of borrowings. If (2) Financial instruments measured at amortized cost debtors defaulted on these trade receivables, the Group would be deemed to hold most of The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the financial instruments measured at the risks and economic value of ownership of the transferred assets, as payment amortized cost are as follows: obligations would revert to the Group. As of March 31, 2017 (2) Transfers of financial assets that are derecognized overall Millions of yen In the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, expenses arising from transfers of trade Carrying Fair value receivables that were derecognized in their entirety were ¥121 million and ¥156 million, amounts Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total respectively. Assets: Debt securities ¥ 7,150 ¥2,777 ¥ 3,415 ¥1,011 ¥ 7,203 10. Derivative Transactions Total ¥ 7,150 ¥2,777 ¥ 3,415 ¥1,011 ¥ 7,203 Liabilities: (1) Derivative transactions to which hedge accounting is applied Long-term borrowings ¥ 754,377 ¥ — ¥ 755,119 ¥ — ¥ 755,119 The analysis of contract amounts of derivative transactions by due dates is as follows: Bonds 542,652 — 547,702 — 547,702 Total ¥1,297,029 ¥ — ¥1,302,821 ¥ — ¥1,302,821 As of March 31, 2017 Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 Due after Due after Due after Due after two years three Millions of yen Contract Due within one year four years Due after through years Carrying Fair value amount one year through through five years three through amounts Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total two years five years years four years Assets: Cash flow Debt securities ¥ 31,710 ¥ — ¥ 702 ¥30,960 ¥ 31,662 hedges Foreign Total ¥ 31,710 ¥ — ¥ 702 ¥30,960 ¥ 31,662 exchange risk: Liabilities: Foreign Long-term borrowings ¥ 673,266 ¥ — ¥ 672,380 ¥ — ¥ 672,380 exchange ¥ 95,975 ¥95,975 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Bonds 533,027 — 539,649 — 539,649 forward Total ¥1,206,293 ¥ — ¥1,212,029 ¥ — ¥1,212,029 contracts Interest rate risk: The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortized cost, other Interest rate than debt securities, long-term borrowings and bonds presented in the tables above, are 135,760 53,394 18,976 59,813 2,287 287 1,003 swaps approximately the same as the fair values of such financial assets and liabilities. Interest rate currency 14,000 — 14,000 — — — — Debt securities swaps The fair value of Level 1 bonds is based on the market price. Other 213 213 — — — — — The fair value of Level 2 bonds is based on prices provided by counterparty financial institutions. The fair value of Level 3 subordinated and other bonds is calculated with reference to prices provided by counterparty financial institutions.  Long-term borrowings The fair value of Level 2 long-term loans is based on the present value, calculated by discounting the total principal and interest by the interest rate assumed for similar new borrowings. Bonds The fair value of Level 2 corporate bonds is based on the market price. 72 73 157 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 158 Financial Information As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2018 Millions of yen Millions of yen Due after Due after Change in fair value Due after Due after Carrying amount Items in two years three of hedged item used Contract Due within one year four years Due after Contract Consolidated through years as the basis for amount one year through through five years amount Statement of three through Assets Liabilities recognizing hedge two years five years Financial Position years four years ineffectiveness Cash flow Cash flow hedges hedges Foreign exchange risk: Foreign exchange risk: Other financial Foreign Foreign exchange assets ¥ 11,888 ¥ 146 ¥ 99 ¥ 894 exchange forward contracts Other financial ¥11,888 ¥11,849 ¥ 39 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — forward liabilities contracts Interest rate risk: Interest rate risk: Other financial Interest rate assets 81,166 18,509 58,352 2,272 272 272 1,489 Interest rate swaps 81,166 248 232 805 swaps Other financial Interest rate liabilities currency 14,000 14,000 — — — — — swaps Interest rate currency Other financial 14,000 1,180 — (761) Other 221 221 — — — — — swaps assets Other financial Other 221 15 — 22 The principal rates on forward exchange contracts and currency swap transactions and the assets principal rates on payments under interest rate swaps are as follows: Amounts for items designated as hedges are as follows: Millions of yen As of March 31, As of March 31, Millions of yen 2017 2018 As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Cash flow hedges Change in fair Change in fair Foreign exchange risk: value of hedged value of hedged item used as the Cash flow item used as Cash flow Foreign exchange forward contracts basis for hedge the basis for hedge U.S. dollars ¥101.02-116.71 ¥103.36-112.13 recognizing reserve recognizing reserve Euros ¥112.94-127.35 ¥130.41-132.96 hedge hedge ineffectiveness ineffectiveness Interest rate risk Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps Foreign exchange risk: Pay fixed rate, receive floating rate 0.34%-3.19% 0.23%-2.30% Planned to purchase ¥ (538) ¥(542) ¥ 597 ¥ 55 Interest rate currency swaps Foreign-currency-denominated Pay fixed rate, receive floating rate 0.59% 0.59% liabilities and interest 1 — — — Interest rate risk: Amounts for derivatives designated as hedges are as follows: Interest on borrowings 1,329 (508) 595 87 Other 5 23 8 31 As of March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Carrying amount Change in fair value Items in of hedged item used Contract Consolidated as the basis for amount Statement of Assets Liabilities recognizing hedge Financial Position ineffectiveness Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange risk: Other financial Foreign exchange assets ¥ 95,975 ¥ 77 ¥924 ¥ (698) forward contracts Other financial liabilities Interest rate risk: Other financial assets Interest rate swaps 135,760 1 790 1,825 Other financial liabilities Interest rate currency Other financial 14,000 1,941 — 112 swaps assets Other financial Other 213 — 7 (9) liabilities 74 75 159 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 160 Financial Information The breakdown of cash flow hedges is as follows: Note 36 Year ended March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Subsidiaries Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests are as follows: Consolidated Consolidated Statement of Changes in fair Reclassification Statement of Ineffective Income items value of hedges adjustments Income items portions of in which recognized in from cash flow including profit hedges ineffective Percentage of non-controlling interest other hedge reserve from recognized in portions of comprehensive to profit or loss reclassification profit or loss hedges are income included in adjustments Name of subsidiary Location As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 profit or loss Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation Japan, other 43.6% 43.6% Cash flow hedges Foreign TAIYO NIPPON SANSO CORPORATION Japan, other 49.4% 49.4% exchange risk: Foreign exchange forward ¥ (641) ¥— ¥— ¥1,425 Financial cost Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests of relevant subsidiaries and dividends paid contracts to non-controlling interests are as follows: Interest rate risk: Millions of yen Interest rate swaps 1,350 — — 721 Financial cost Interest rate Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 currency swaps 137 — — (52) Financial cost Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Other (6) — — — — Pharma SANSO Pharma SANSO Corporation CORPORATION Corporation CORPORATION Net profit Year ended March 31, 2018 attributable to ¥28,729 ¥17,359 ¥21,335 ¥24,793 Millions of yen non-controlling Consolidated interests Consolidated Dividends paid to Statement of Changes in fair Ineffective Income items Reclassification Statement of non-controlling 11,823 4,539 16,277 5,285 value of hedges adjustments Income items recognized in portions of in which from cash flow including profit interests hedges ineffective other hedge reserve from recognized in portions of comprehensive profit or loss hedges are to profit or loss reclassification Cumulative non-controlling interests of relevant subsidiaries are as follows: income adjustments included in Millions of yen profit or loss As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Cash flow hedges Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Foreign Pharma SANSO Pharma SANSO exchange risk: Corporation CORPORATION Corporation CORPORATION Foreign exchange Cumulative forward ¥ 594 ¥— ¥— ¥611 Financial cost non-controlling ¥351,618 ¥190,167 ¥362,174 ¥ 208,239 contracts interests amounts Currency options 1,033 — — — Summary financial information on relevant subsidiaries is as follows. Summary financial Interest rate risk: information below is calculated based on the amounts before elimination in consolidation, Interest rate swaps 557 — — 433 Financial cost adjusting goodwill and other items recognized at the time of a business combination. Interest rate 65 — — 475 Financial cost currency swaps Summary Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Other 29 — — — — Millions of yen As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 (2) Derivative transactions to which hedge accounting is not applied Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Pharma SANSO Pharma SANSO Amounts relating to items not designated as hedges are as follows: Corporation CORPORATION Corporation CORPORATION Current assets ¥683,759 ¥ 268,132 ¥ 585,525 ¥ 278,302 As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Non-current assets 271,673 746,320 432,849 742,942 Contract Over one Fair value Contract Over one Fair value amount year amount year Total ¥955,432 ¥1,014,452 ¥1,018,374 ¥1,021,244 Foreign exchange Current liabilities 88,407 213,602 97,370 221,087 ¥ 4,122 ¥ — ¥(46) ¥ 5,075 ¥ — ¥ (6) forward contracts Non-current liabilities 25,894 345,558 56,575 308,878 Currency swaps 864 727 133 795 623 5 Total ¥114,301 ¥ 559,160 ¥ 153,945 ¥ 529,965 Currency options 7,702 — — — — — Equity 841,131 455,292 864,429 491,279 Total ¥12,688 ¥727 ¥ 87 ¥ 5,870 ¥623 ¥ (1) Total ¥955,432 ¥1,014,452 ¥1,018,374 ¥1,021,244 76 77 161 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 162 Financial Information Summary Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Statements of Receivables and obligations to major related parties as a result of the above transactions Comprehensive Income are as follows: Millions of yen Millions of yen As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended 31, 2018 Joint venture Associates Joint venture Associates Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Receivables Pharma SANSO Pharma SANSO Accounts receivable ¥15,415 ¥5,219 ¥12,054 ¥8,734 Corporation CORPORATION Corporation CORPORATION Other 1,505 583 2,501 507 Revenue ¥423,977 ¥581,586 ¥433,855 ¥646,218 Total ¥16,920 ¥5,802 ¥14,555 ¥9,241 Net profit 68,922 34,520 53,992 49,062 Obligations Total Accounts payable ¥ 3,320 ¥2,310 ¥ 4,265 ¥4,073 comprehensive 69,309 44,782 56,620 44,908 Other 265 656 7 102 income Total ¥ 3,585 ¥2,966 ¥ 4,272 ¥4,175 Summary Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Compensation for key Group executives is as follows: Millions of yen Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Millions of yen Remuneration and bonuses ¥2,728 ¥2,149 Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Stock-based compensation 35 87 Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Total ¥2,763 ¥2,236 Pharma SANSO Pharma SANSO Corporation CORPORATION Corporation CORPORATION Cash flows from Note 38 operating activities ¥59,785 ¥ 74,596 ¥66,943 ¥ 83,199 Cash flows from (10,566) (147,083) (19,178) (52,088) Commitments Commitments relating to acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible investing activities Cash flows from assets are as follows: financing activities (24,408) 80,777 (32,501) (39,859) Effect of exchange Millions of yen rate changes on As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 cash and cash (507) (5,404) (1,457) 1,841 Acquisitions of property, plant and equivalents ¥195,088 ¥143,540 equipment and intangible assets Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash ¥24,304 ¥ 2,886 ¥13,807 ¥(6,907) equivalents Note 39 Contingent Guarantee Obligations Liabilities Guarantees and similar undertakings for borrowings from joint ventures, associates and Note 37 financial institutions of general business partners are as follows. Related Parties 1. Related Party Transactions Millions of yen Transactions with major related parties are as follows. For sales of goods and services, As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2018 the principal transactions are product sales, while the main transactions for goods Joint ventures ¥11,945 ¥9,400 purchases are purchases of raw materials. The terms for transactions with related parties Associates 560 421 are similar to those of independent third-party transactions. General business partners 1,622 641 Millions of yen Other 1,549 1,445 Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2018 Total ¥15,676 ¥11,907 Joint venture Associates Joint venture Associates Sales of goods ¥61,722 ¥20,509 ¥63,690 ¥27,081 and services Purchases of goods and Note 40 17,531 36,041 22,978 41,068 services Subsequent event Acquisition of treasury stock The Company has resolved at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on May 10, 2018 to acquire treasury stock in accordance with the provisions of Article 459, Paragraph 1 of Japan’s Companies Act and Article 40 of MCHC Articles of Incorporation. 1. Details of Board of Directors Resolution of May 10, 2018 (1) Reason for Acquisition of Treasury Stock To implement flexible capital management policies in response to changes in the business environment. (2) Type of stock and total number of shares to be acquired Up to 20,000 thousand shares of common stock (3) Total acquisition price for shares Up to ¥20,000 million 79 78 163 Corporate Information KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 164 Financial Information Corporate Data Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (As of March 31, 2018) (4) Acquisition period May 11 through June 15, 2018 Address of the head office 1-1 Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8251 (5) Method of Acquisition Establishment October 3, 2005 (i) Purchase through Off-auction own shares repurchase trading system (ToSTNeT-3) The Company will entrust the purchase of its treasury stock at the closing price on May Paid-in capital ¥50.0 billion 10, 2018, through the off-auction own shares repurchase trading system of the Tokyo Revenue (consolidated) ¥3,724.4 billion (FY2017) Stock Exchange (ToSTNeT-3) at 8:45 a.m. on May 11, 2018. (ii) Market purchase after the purchase through ToSTNeT-3 Number of employees (consolidated) 69,230 The Company will continue to acquire treasury stock through market purchase on the basis of discretionary trading pertaining to acquisition of treasury stock up to the total number of shares or total acquisition price obtained by subtracting the total number of shares and total acquisition price acquired through the off-auction own shares Organizational Structure repurchase trading system of the Tokyo Stock Exchange (ToSTNeT-3) from the total number of shares to be acquired and total acquisition price, in case the total number of Holding company shares and total acquisition price through the aforementioned ToSTNeT-3 system did not Formulation of Group strategies, optimal allocation of reach the acquisition limit of either the total number of shares to be acquired or the total management resources, supervision of business management and others acquisition price resolved by the Board of Directors on May 10, 2018. 2. Results of Acquisition MCHC* (1)Total number of shares acquired 19,549 thousand shares (2)Total acquisition price Function-sharing companies ¥20,000 million Investigation into future societal issues and research for (3)Acquisition period 100% proving solutions to those issues May 11 through June 1, 2018 The KAITEKI Institute Overseas administrative representatives in North America, 100% Europe and China Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings America 100% Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (Beijing) 100% Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Europe Common functions for accounting and financial affairs 100% Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporate Staff (Note) On July 1, 2018, Diamond Edge Ventures, Inc. was established to partner with and invest in startup companies. Operating companies Business operations in the three domains of Performance Products, Industrial Materials and Health Care 100% 56.4% 100% 50.6% MCC MTPC* LSII TNSC* Paid-in capital Paid-in capital Paid-in capital Paid-in capital ¥53.229 billion ¥50.0 billion ¥3.0 billion ¥37.344 billion Revenue (consolidated) Revenue (consolidated) Revenue (consolidated) Revenue (consolidated) ¥2,548.1 billion ¥433.9 billion ¥132.4 billion ¥646.2 billion Business lines Business lines Business lines Business lines Performance products, Healthcare and medical Industrial gases, related Pharmaceuticals ICT, drug discovery solutions, industrial materials, and equipment and facilities, and others and next-generation others and others healthcare Business domain Business domain Business domain Business domain Performance Products Health Care Health Care Industrial Materials Industrial Materials Group companies Group companies Group companies Group companies * Listed company 80 165 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 166 Main Subsidiaries and Affiliates Main Businesses (As of March 31, 2018) Direct Investees MCC Group MTPC Group LSII Group TNSC Group Business Unit Main Businesses, Products and Services Main Uses Company Name Principal Businesses Paid-in capital Equity Participation (%) Automobiles, industrial materials, electronics, Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Manufacture and marketing of chemical products ¥53.2 billion 100.0 Performance polymers household goods, foods, medical care Advanced Phenol and polycarbonate Industrial-use chemicals, automobiles, electronics Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation Manufacture and marketing of pharmaceuticals ¥50.0 billion 56.4 Polymers PBT*1 Automobiles, electronics, household goods, industrial Thermoplastic elastomer, Biodegradable polymer, Polycarbonate materials TEFABLOC BioPBS Sustainable polymers Life Science Institute, Inc. Management of the healthcare solutions business ¥3.0 billion 100.0 Coating materials Industrial materials, automobiles, electronics, Epoxy resins Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation Manufacture and marketing of industrial gases ¥37.3 billion 50.6 household goods, industrial-use chemicals, aircraft High-Performance Resin additives Chemicals Inorganic chemicals Automobiles, electronics, Industrial-use chemicals Acrylic resins Epoxy resin, jER Sugar ester Food ingredients Foods (beverages, confectionary, nutrition products, etc.) Indirect Investees Optical films (Polyester film, etc.) Information, Optical PVOH*2 film Electronics Equity Participation Electronics and Company Name Principal Businesses Paid-in capital Display Color resist (%) Optical clear adhesive sheet, Optical PVOH *2 film, Color resist CLEARFIT OPL Film Precision cleaning Electronics, environment Performance Performance Products Segment Products Food packaging materials Foods and household goods Domain The Nippon Synthetic Chemical Manufacture and marketing of polymer processing ¥18.0 billion 100.0 High-Performance Industry Co., Ltd. products Industrial-use films Industrial materials Films Manufacture and marketing of house and building materials and Mitsubishi Chemical Infratec Co., Ltd. ¥0.4 billion 100.0 Food packaging film, Acrylic film, ACRYPLEN Moisture-proof PVC*3 sheet for tablet infrastructure materials DIAMIRON and capsule packaging, VINYFOIL Medical and sanitary films Medical care Mitsubishi-Chemical Foods Manufacture and marketing of food and pharmaceutical Aqua solutions Environment, infrastructure, household goods, ¥0.5 billion 100.0 medical care, foods Corporation ingredients Environment, energy, industrial-use chemicals, Ion-exchange resins Marketing of recording media and computer peripheral Environment and electronics, medical care, foods Mitsubishi Chemical Media Co., Ltd. ¥4.1 billion 100.0 equipment Living Solutions Separator and aqua chemicals Environment, electronics, medical care, foods Manufacture and marketing of electrolytes for lithium-ion Water treatment components, Hydroponic system for leafy FRP *4 and SUS *5 panel Agricultural solutions Agriculture MC Ionic Solutions US, Inc. U.S.$100 100.0 equipment and facilities vegetables, Napperland water tank, HISHITANK batteries Infrastructure solutions Environment, infrastructure, industrial materials Management of subsidiaries that engage in the engineering High-performance engineering plastics Automobiles, electronics, industrial materials, medical care Quadrant AG CHF28 million 100.0 plastic business Advanced Carbon fiber and composite materials Automobiles, aircraft, industrial materials, sporting goods Mitsubishi Chemical Performance Manufacture and marketing of thermoplastic compounds and U.S.$100 100.0 Moldings Alumina fibers Automobiles, industrial materials Polymers, Inc. functional polyolefins and Composites Functional moldings and composites Industrial materials Carbon fiber and Engineering plastics Alumina fibers Mitsubishi Polyester Film Inc. Manufacture and marketing of polyester film U.S.$100 100.0 composite materials Fibers and textiles Household goods, industrial materials Lithium-ion battery materials Automobiles, electronics, energy Industrial Chemicals Segment New Energy LED materials Electronics, automobiles Materials Domain Kansai Coke and Chemicals Co., Ltd. Manufacture and marketing of coke ¥6.0 billion 51.0 Lithium-ion battery Phosphors Scintillator materials Scintillator Medical care, electronics Japan Polyethylene Corporation Manufacture and marketing of polyethylene ¥7.5 billion 58.0 Basic petrochemicals and Industrial-use chemicals basic chemical derivatives Japan Polypropylene Corporation Manufacture and marketing of polypropylene ¥11.8 billion 65.0 Petrochemicals Automobiles, electronics, household goods, Mitsubishi Chemical Lucite Group Polyolefins Management of subsidiaries that engage in the MMA business £246 million 100.0 Ethylene production facility Petrochemical derivatives PE*6 gasoline tank industrial materials, medical care Limited Coke Industrial Gases Segment Industrial materials Carbon materials Manufacture and marketing of stainless steel vacuum flasks, Carbon THERMOS K.K. ¥0.3 billion 100.0 Carbon black thermal cookers, and other houseware Industrial materials, automobiles, household goods Coke Carbon materials Carbon black Synthetic rubber JFE Sanso Center Corporation Manufacture and sale of industrial gases ¥0.09 billion 60.0 NIPPON EKITAN Corporation Manufacture and marketing of industrial gases ¥0.6 billion 84.1 Automobiles, electronics, industrial materials, MMA MMA and PMMA household goods Matheson Tri-Gas, Inc. Manufacture and marketing of industrial gases U.S.$50 100.0 MMA monomers Acrylic molding material, Acrylic sheet products ACRYPET Health Care Health Care Segment Industrial gases Domain Industrial Gases Industrial materials, industrial-use chemicals, Manufacture and marketing of active pharmaceutical ingredients electronics, automobiles, foods, medical care API Corporation ¥4.0 billion 100.0 and intermediates Separate gases Electronics material gases Air separation units Industrial gas-related equipment and facilities (oxygen, nitrogen, argon) Clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic reagents LSI Medience Corporation ¥3.0 billion 100.0 and instruments, and drug discovery solutions Manufacture and marketing of capsules for pharmaceuticals, Ethical Qualicaps Co., Ltd. ¥2.9 billion 100.0 Ethical pharmaceuticals Medical care, health health and nutrition foods, and pharmaceutical equipment Pharmaceuticals Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Factory Treatment agent for Therapeutic agent for amyotrophic Manufacture and marketing of pharmaceuticals ¥1.1 billion 100.0 autoimmune diseases lateral sclerosis, Radicut Vaccine Ltd. Clinical testing Others Mitsubishi Chemical Engineering Diagnostic reagents and instruments Engineering and construction services ¥1.4 billion 100.0 Corporation Capsules and pharmaceutical processing Medical care, health Life Science equipment Mitsubishi Chemical Logistics Active pharmaceutical ingredients and Logistics and warehouse services ¥1.5 billion 100.0 intermediates Corporation Compact immunoanalyzer, Capsules Self-health check service PATHFAST Self-health check service Health *1 Polybutylene terephthalate *2 Polyvinyl alcohol *3 Polyvinyl chloride *4 Fiber reinforced plastic *5 Stainless steel *6 Polyethylene 167 KAITEKI REPORT 2018 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 168 Global Network (As of March 31, 2018) 318 390 Number of Number of Subsidiaries Subsidiaries and and Affiliates Affiliates (Japan): (Outside Japan): Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Europe GmbH Kasteler Strasse 45, 65203 Wiesbaden, Germany TEL: [+49](0)611-962-6923 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 1-1 Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8251, Japan TEL: [+81](0)3-6748-7200 Europe Japan North 91 318 America 72 Africa 1 Asia Pacific Latin 218 America 8 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings America, Inc. 655 Third Avenue, 15th Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA TEL: [+1] 212-672-9400 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Room 710, Beijing Fortune Building, Dong San Huan Bei Lu 5, Chao Yang District, Beijing, 100004, PRC TEL: [+86](0)10-6590-8621 Disclaimer: This report contains forward-looking statements that reflect MCHC’s assumptions and beliefs based on currently available information. Actual results may differ materially from forecasts due to various risk factors and uncertainties. They include, but are not limited to, demand in Japan and overseas, exchange rates, price and procurement volume of crude oil and naphtha, market trends, technological innovation, National Health Insurance drug price revisions, product liabilities, lawsuits, laws and regulations, as the MCHC Group is engaged in a wide range of businesses, including Information, electronics and displays, Advanced moldings and composites, Advanced polymers, MMA, Petrochemicals, Carbon products, Industrial gases and Pharmaceuticals.
