BLUEPRINT OF VALUE HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 with Innovative Textures www.hayleysfabric.com SCAN to access full Integrated Annual Report with Innovative Textures BLUEPRINT OF VALUE At Hayleys Fabric, we have always believed that planning means ‘bringing the future into the present so that you can do something about it, now’. We have been planning ahead for several years now, constantly improving what we do today in order to deliver better value tomorrow. We have worked hard to overcome the challenges of a few difficult years and become who we are today; a vibrant and profitable company fully empowered to choose our goals and future direction. The excellent results recorded in this report clearly reflect the value of our commitment to long-term strategies and sustainable growth. Your company is now a strong and dynamic centre of excellence. Innovation, agility, productivity and passion will remain key factors in our success story as we continue to apply forward thinking to everything we do, continuously evolving our business model into an enduring blueprint of value. CONTENTS 04 50 Management Discussion & Introduction Analysis About the Report ......................................................... 06 Focus on Strategy ....................................................... 52 Awards During the Year ............................................... 07 Statement of Value Added ........................................... 59 About Us ..................................................................... 08 Operating Environment ................................................ 60 Vision, Mission & Values .............................................. 09 The Capitals Report ..................................................... 64 Performance Highlights ............................................... 10 Way Forward ............................................................... 92 Our Commitment to Sustainability................................ 14 Managing Risk ............................................................. 94 Chairman’s Message ................................................... 18 GRI Index .................................................................. 100 Managing Director’s Review ......................................... 22 Independent Assurance Report ................................. 104 Board of Directors ....................................................... 26 Management Team ...................................................... 31 Corporate Governance ................................................ 34 106 Financial & 18 Chairman’s Message Statutory Reports Report of the Audit Committee .................................. 110 Report of the Remuneration Committee..................... 112 Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee ........................................................... 113 Responsibility Statement of Managing Director/CEO and Chief Financial Officer .................................... 114 Annual report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company .............................. 115 22 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Control ...... 120 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Statements ........................................... 121 Managing Director’s Financial Calendar 2018/19 ....................................... 122 Independent Auditors’ Report .................................... 123 Review Financial Statements ................................................. 126 Financial Statements translated into LKR ................... 159 Ten Year Summary .................................................... 161 Glossary of Financial Terminology .............................. 162 Investor Information ................................................... 164 Notice of Meeting ..................................................... 166 Form of Proxy ............................................................ 167 Corporate Information................................................ IBC TARGETS FOR 2020 Increase profitability (PBT) by 20% Innovate over 10 new products Increase employee productivity by 25% Reduce water intensity by 5% 94% 32% 9% 58% Employee Renewable raw Water recycled Training retention material & reused coverage of employees OUR PARTNERS HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 3 Introduction 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC About the Report ......................................................... 06 Awards During the Year ............................................... 07 About Us ..................................................................... 08 Vision, Mission & Values .............................................. 09 Performance Highlights ............................................... 10 Our Commitment to Sustainability................................ 14 Chairman’s Message ................................................... 18 Managing Director’s Review ......................................... 22 Board of Directors ....................................................... 26 Management Team ...................................................... 31 Corporate Governance ................................................ 34 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 5 ABOUT THE REPORT We are pleased to present our fifth Integrated Annual Report which sets out the performance for the financial year ending 31 March 2019. It presents a balanced review of our performance for covering financial, environmental and social performance, our governance framework and how we manage risk. Building on our fourth consecutive integrated Annual Report for the previous financial year ending on 31 March 2018, this year’s report has been further refined to enhance readability. It includes an overview of how we nurtured our capitals to deliver value to our stakeholders. The following standards, frameworks and guidelines were used to prepare the report moving beyond regulatory compliance to incorporate international best practice in to our reporting processes. Regulatory Requirements Voluntary Frameworks • Companies Act No.7 of 2007 • Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance • Continued Listing Requirement of the Colombo Stock • Integrated Reporting Framework Exchange • Sri Lanka Accounting & Auditing Standards Act No.15 • GRI Standards “In Accordance Core” Option of 1995 • Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards Information set out in this report have been sourced from the following sources: Information Source Financial statements including accounting policies and Hayleys Fabric PLC notes to the accounts Operational and sustainability information Hayleys Fabric PLC Information on the Global economy and market trends World Economic Outlook April 2019 published by International Monetary Fund Euro monitor reports Information on the Sri Lankan economy, apparel and Central Bank of Sri Lanka website and Joint Apparel textile sub-sector Association Forum websites This year’s report includes the following features to enhance readability: • Strategic focus of the report is facilitated by linking KPIs and materiality to strategy • Connectivity of information with signposts to key areas through the value creation model and strategy • Clarity and conciseness has been further improved with the incorporation of relevant and material information • Comparable information is provided throughout the report using external sources where available • Reliability of information has been enhanced by assurance on both the financial statements and the sustainability information by the external auditors Ernst & Young For inquiries about this report, please contact: Mr. Ruwan Rohitha Bandara : Director Finance RohithaB@hayleysfabric.com Finance Department, Hayleys Fabric PLC, Narthupana Estate, Neboda, Sri Lanka. 0094 -342297100 www.hayleysfabric.com 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC AWARDS DURING THE YEAR Won the Silver award for the 1st time, after winning bronze awards during the past 3 consecutive years, in the Manufacturing sector above Rs.5 Bn Revenue category at the Annual Report Awarding Ceremony – 2018, organized by CA Sri Lanka and Colombo Stock Exchange Won the Bronze award under the Category of Textile and Textile Processing Industry at Presidential Environment Awards Ceremony 2018, organized by the Central Environment Authority of Sri Lanka Won the certificate of Merit for the third consecutive year in 2018 at the excellence in Integrated Reporting Award Ceremony held in Pune India, organized by SAFA (South Asian Federation of Accountants) HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 7 ABOUT US Hayleys Fabric PLC manufactures innovative high value fabric to quality conscious global fashion brands. A pioneer in the field, we were also the first to develop our own branded range of fabric “Inno”, as we forecast fashion trends to develop fashion forward fabric that capture our clients’ interest. A passion for innovation drives our growth and performance which turned around as we achieved a paradigm shift in our business model to sell fabric that are conceptualized and manufactured by us. A subsidiary of Hayleys Group, we build on a legacy of sound corporate governance and visionary leadership to create value for our stakeholders. A PARADIGM SHIFT Pioneer fabric Pioneer manufacturer of Leading manufacturer of Launch of Inno range manufacturer in polyester fabric in nylon fabric in Sri Lanka in 2014 which now Sri Lanka since 1993 Sri Lanka Since 2000 2016 accounts for 7.7% of GP in current year KEY NUMBERS Revenue Profit Before Tax Total Assets Employees Carbon Footprint USD 69.94 Mn USD 1.85 Mn USD 47.61 Mn 1,249 30,347 tCO2e FINELY HONED CAPABILITIES Circular Fabric Dyeing Fabric Brushing & Product Innovative Knitting of & Finishing Printing Sueding Development Fabric Fabric RELEVANCE TO ECONOMY Value Fabric Purchases from Taxes Value to Created Produced Local Suppliers Paid Employees USD 13.9 Mn 9,004 MT 24% USD 0.38 Mn USD 8 Mn 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC VISION To be the most sought after manufacturer of fabric in South Asia MISSION To attract Premier Clothing Brands in the World, through Innovation, Speed, Reliability, Quality and Service whilst aligning our Business Strategies to satisfy Stakeholder needs VALUES • Integrity : ‘do the right thing’ managing with honesty, efficiency, and reliability always • Service : ‘customer decides’ putting our customer at the center of all our activities • Quality : delivering excellent standards consistently • Innovation : invent in services and technologies to improve on what we do • People : to build our team to create value to stakeholders • Accountability : holding ourselves responsible to deliver what we promise • Good Citizenship : caring for the communities in which we work, and being environmentally responsible in all we do HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 9 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS “OUR BLUEPRINT OF VALUE IS CRAFTED TO DELIVER A STRONG, STABLE AND CONSISTENT PERFORMANCE YEAR ON YEAR.” USD 69.94 Mn The Company was able to record a year on year revenue growth of 21% USD 1.85 Mn 3.4 91% Profit before tax Carbon emission Capacity utilization intensity (tCO2e/MT of production) 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Financial Capital 2019 2018 Revenue USD '000' 69,941 57,687 Results from operating activities USD '000' 2,778 864 Profit/(Loss) before tax USD '000' 1,849 (49) Profit/(Loss) after tax USD '000' 1,058 (680) Basic / Diluted earnings/(loss) per share USD 0.005 (0.003) Cash profit USD '000' 4,459 2,522 Interest cover No. of times 3 1 Return on equity (ROE) % 6% (4%) Pre-tax return on capital employed (ROCE) % 8% 3% Balance Sheet Highlights & Ratios Total assets USD '000' 47,610 46,089 Total debt USD '000' 15,185 16,707 Inventory holding days No. of days 62 66* Debtors' days No. of days 43 48* Total shareholders’ funds USD '000' 17,859 17,037 No. of shares in issue 207,740,888 207,740,888 Net assets per share USD 0.09 0.08 Debt /(Equity+Debt) % 46% 50% Total debt / Total assets % 32% 36% Market / Shareholder Information Market price of share as at 31st March Rs. 8.50 12.50 Market capitalization Rs. Million 1,766 2,597 * Based on the change in basis of calculation, these figures were restated in 2019 Total assets Market capitalization EBITDA USD Mn Rs. Mn USD Mn 50 4,000 5 3,500 40 4 3,000 30 2,500 3 2,000 20 1,500 2 1,000 10 1 500 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 11 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Natural Capital 2019 2018 Total extent of land 54 Acres 54 Acres Extent of land reserved as a green belt 20 Acres 20 Acres Total raw material consumption (MT) 15,127 13,160 Renewable raw material consumption (MT) 4,866 4,856 Renewable raw material as a % of total material consumption 32% 37% Recycled raw materials as a % of total material consumption 2.6% 1.0% Direct energy consumption (GJ) 663,174 613,771* Energy intensity (GJ/ MT of production) 74 81 Indirect energy consumption (GJ) 23,800 19,724 Indirect energy intensity (GJ/MT of production) 2.64 2.60 Water withdrawal (M3) 1,822,231 1,850,871 Water intensity (withdrawal in M3 /MT of production) 202 244 Water recycled and reused (M3) 161,118 180,861 Our Impact on the Environment 2019 2018 Direct greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 (tCO2e) 14,911 13,871 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Scope 2 (tCO2e) 10,317 9,949 Other indirect emissions Scope 3 (tCO2e) 5,119 2,387 Total carbon footprint (tCO2e) 30,347 26,207 Carbon emissions intensity (tCO2e/MT of production) 3.37 3.46 3 Water discharged to the river (M ) 1,573,566 1,602,648 Waste generated and disposed according to CEA requirements(MT) 1,905 1,951 Waste recycled / reused through third party contractors 46% 44% Significant environmental fines USD Nil Nil Relevance to Country’s Economy 2019 2018 Fabric produced (MT) 9,004 7,572* Proportion of purchases from suppliers within Sri Lanka (Local) 24% 30% Manufactured Capital 2019 2018 Net book value USD '000' Buildings 4,925 3,585 Plant & Machinery 14,155 15,122 Investments during the year USD '000' Buildings 1,510 38 Plant & Machinery 590 2,192 Capacity utilization (based on in-house production) 91% 78% 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Human Capital 2019 2018 Total workforce 1,249 1,206** Percentage of employees from the area (within 15 km radius) 68% 68% Employee retention 94% 95% Employee productivity (USD per man hour) 21 18 Training & development cost USD 43,245 53,261 Average hours of training per employee (excluding Casual) 3 9 Training coverage of employees (%) 58% N/A Injury rate (number of injuries per 100 employees) 3.48 4.08 Percentage of employees receiving performance reviews 100% 100% Incidences of child labour (below 16 years) or young workers (between 16 – 18 years) (operations & our suppliers) Nil Nil Incidences of forced labour during the year (operations & our suppliers) Nil Nil Intellectual Capital 2019 2018 Percentage of sales from Inno & product proposals 40% 32% No. of Accreditations / Certifications & Membership from fashion brands 47 41 Social & Relationship Capital 2019 2018 Community engagement (No. of persons impacted) Over 2,000 Over 2,000 Proportion of businesses analysed for risk of corruption (%) Nil Nil Significant fines for violation of laws / regulations USD Nil Nil Proportion of labels carrying ingredients used (%) 100% 100% Proportion of labels carrying information on disposal (%) Nil Nil Proportion of labels carrying sourcing of components (%) Nil Nil Significant fines for product/service issues USD Nil Nil * Based on the change in basis of calculation, these figures were restated in 2019 ** Due to the inclusion of Casual employees into the workforce, these figures were restated in 2019 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 13 OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY We are committed to sustainability as demonstrated in the numerous sustainable practices adopted across the organization and embedded into our overall business strategy. Sustainability performance is tracked, measured, and reported to Hayleys Fabric PLC's Management and the Hayleys Group Corporate Sustainability Team through a set of standardized pre-defined performance indicators. The Group’s Corporate Sustainability Team provides leadership in driving efficiencies across the Group. A direct signatory to the UN Global Compact since November 2018 and through our parent Hayleys PLC prior to that, our practices are aligned to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, wherever relevant, as highlighted below. 1. No Poverty 43% of employees have been recruited from the local area, contributing to socio-economic progress Supplied 1,038 MT of waste for cottage industries in the village, supporting livelihoods 3. Good Health & Well-being Conducted over 10 medical camps, eye clinics, blood donation campaigns and sports events for employees Donated fabric waste scrap to hospitals in the surrounding area 4. Quality Education Invested USD 43,245 in training for employees Facilitated obtaining relevant lifelong qualifications. i.e. SLITA 6. Clean water & Sanitation Compliant with Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals Programme Invested in superior water treatment facility Recycled and reused 9% of water intake Through CSR, provided access to clean drinking water to over 2,500 people in CKD affected areas 7. Affordable & Clean Energy 62% of energy requirements fulfilled through renewable energy sources 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 8. Decent Work & Economic Growth Guided by a robust governance and policy structure, we are committed to promoting inclusive and productive employment Our retention rate of 94% exceeds industry standards 9. Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure State of the art facility manufacturing innovative high value fabric Passionate about R & D Launched 81 innovations and developments 10. Reduced Inequalities We support rural employment generation and empowerment by sourcing locally wherever possible i.e., canteen, janitorial, manpower, saw dust supply services 12. Responsible Consumption & Production Committed to high levels of responsible production embodied across our value chain and affirmed through 47 International Certifications / Accreditations & Memberships 13. Climate Action Our carbon intensity declined 3% during the year Over 60 % of our energy requirements are fulfilled through renewable sources 15. Life on Land Planted over 200 trees 16. Peace, Justice & Strong Institutions Strong corporate governance practices including a stringent system of policies and procedures promoting high standards of integrity, accountability and transparency 17. Partnership for the Goals As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we are an active partner in achieving these goals HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 15 “OUR STRATEGY IS DESIGNED TO BE CUSTOMER-CENTRIC, AS WE ALIGN INNOVATION, SUPPLY CHAINS, WORKFLOWS” EXECUTIVE REPORTS Chairman’s Message ..................................................... 18 Managing Director’s Review ........................................... 22 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE “WE HAVE FINE-TUNED OUR STRATEGY TO DELIVER RESULTS, AND POSITION OURSELVES AS THE DEFINITIVE LEADER IN OUR INDUSTRY” Dear Shareholder, Cash profit recording a lower growth rate of I am pleased to report that Hayleys USD Mn 3.9% despite the reinstatement Fabric PLC has turned around to 5 of GSP+ in 2017. Sri Lanka’s record a profit after tax of USD appeal as a sourcing destination 1.06 Mn as we steadfastly pursued 4 continues to be based on quality, a differentiated strategy focusing capability and sustainability. The on our own fabric brand Inno for 3 industry responded to the Speed leading global fashion brands. The to Market requirements of brand strong order pipeline reported last 2 owners by focusing on their supply year transformed our performance chains to put in place rapid supply 1 programmes with strategic vendors with top line growth of 21% to USD 69.9 Mn affirming the positive to ensure that products are in 0 interest from buyers. Years of stock and made available to end 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 high levels of engagement with consumers consistently. Multiple our customers and careful study brands and retailers co-innovate of fashion trends combined with alongside manufacturers to our innovation capability served introduce new products improvise to produce a portfolio of fabric processes, IT systems and IOT that was relevant to our customer Our game changing devices to position Sri Lanka as the best in the region. requirements, driving top line strategy also allowed growth. A strong pipeline of orders us to align our other A Customer Centric Strategy for the year that has commenced processes to deliver The cornerstone of our strategy supports the validity of the business our designs with razor is customer centricity as we align strategy pursued, as we resisted the temptation to look beyond short sharp focus on the need innovation, supply chains, workflows term gains during the past two for high quality, speed and production with customer years to reposition ourselves as an of delivery and socially strategy, catering to their needs. innovative fabric manufacturer. and environmentally Our in-house Innovation Centre responsible processes; focusses on understanding the A Positive Landscape which in turn enables us customer needs and anticipate the future of the fast-paced fashion The McKinsey Global Fashion index to drive higher standards 2019 forecasts healthy growth of 4% industry to develop a portfolio of service excellence and to 5% marginally above the forecast of fashion forward fabric for a efﬁciencies. sophisticated and astute clientele in of 3.5% – 4.5% for 2018 and significantly above the growth rate developed markets. Our dedicated in 2017 of 2.5% – 3.5%. This was team of fabric designers have driven mainly by demand for luxury designed and developed over 70 and value brands, strong growth in new products during the past years. the US supported by tax cuts and This has enabled us to differentiate growth in emerging markets. ourselves from our competitors and attract premium global fashion Sri Lanka’s apparel sector recorded brands to our high end fabric healthy growth of 5% in 2018 8% portfolio. exporting USD 5,050 Mn textiles ROCE (Pre-tax) driven mainly by strong demand This game changing strategy from US which accounted for also allowed us to align our other 45% of apparel exports, growing processes to deliver our designs at a rate of 5.7%. EU accounted with razor sharp focus on the need for 42% of apparel exports for high quality, speed of delivery HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 19 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE and socially and environmentally Looking Ahead 8 Billion by 2022 by transforming responsible processes. We China is also forecast to overtake the industry to an ‘End-to-End weathered initial growing pains the US as the largest market and Fully Integrated Apparel Solutions witnessed in the past two years in India will become a focal point for Provider’ and positioning Sri Lanka the belief that our vision needed the industry as its middle class as a Preferred Ethical Sourcing a long term view due to the grows and the manufacturing sector Destination is expected to intensify time required for marketing and strengthens. Trade tensions are market penetration with players meticulous approvals of different likely to result in a shakeup of some moving into the premium market aspects of our product range at of the world’s most complex supply segments. varying stages. The benefit of this chains which may present significant strategy is the approval received Hayleys Fabric PLC has opportunities for those who are for our fabric which enables us to commenced its journey of moving agile. drive higher standards of service into premium market segments excellence and efficiencies. Consumer focus on sustainability and is working closely with brand has also reached critical mass and owners to understand their specific Performance is expected to drive brand owners to needs to continuously refine our Increase in Revenue by 21% move beyond traditional Corporate customer centric business model. supported an increase of 37% in Social Responsibility to take a strong A strong order pipeline for the Gross Profit to USD 8.3 Mn as stance on Sustainability – on social Company supports a positive capacity utilization increased to over and environmental issues. They are outlook for the year that has 90%, enabling enhanced recovery of likely to demand more transparency commenced and we will continue overheads which is key to success in terms of value for money, creative to work with customers to remain as a significant proportion of costs integrity and data protection from at the cutting edge of our country’s are fixed. Net finance costs shows a brand owners. These consumer apparel sector transformation. decrease of 8% which is a results of shifts will cascade down to brand the exchange gains earned through owners’ strategic partners and Acknowledgements the Rupee de-valuation during the we are already working with our We welcome Mr. R.R. Bandara as year. The taxation charge of USD customers on key initiatives. an Executive Director to the Board 0.79 Mn stems mainly from deferred w.e.f. 15 May 2018. taxes and Economic Service Charge The country’s plan to accelerate Sri resulting in a profit after tax of USD Lanka’s Apparel sector to a USD 1.058 Mn for the financial year 2018/19 compared to the loss of USD 0.68 Mn in the previous year, reflecting smart strategy and a long term view of sustainable growth. Total Assets increased by 3% as we focused all efforts on optimizing performance through enhanced utilization of assets reflected the improved Return on Assets of 2% compared with (1%) for the previous year. Equity increased by 5% to USD 17.86 Mn due to improved profitability. Retained losses decreased to USD 1.1 Mn from USD 1.7 Mn in the previous year. 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC I congratulate the team at Hayleys Fabric PLC on their performance and commend the leadership provided by Mr. Rohan Goonetilleke in steering the team to success. On behalf of the Board, I thank all our Stakeholders who have maintained their confidence in our ability to transition to a future ready innovative fabric manufacturer in the South Asian region, and look to their continued trust in steering this Company forward. A.M. Pandithage Chairman 13 May 2019 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 21 MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW “THE FIRM COMMITMENT TO A BLUE PRINT WITH PERSISTENCE TO DERIVE SUSTAINABLE RESULTS WILL CONTINUE...” Dear Shareholder, Operating profit aspects and aesthetics. The common It is a great pleasure to once again thread that attracted all these USD Mn report the performance of your customers was the capability that was 3.0 built to innovate fabric types to suite company for the financial year 2018/19. Brand requirements. This was taken a 2.5 step further by creating cost effective Continuing the strategies adopted innovative fabric to replace some of 2.0 the existing fabric with all technical to broad base the geographical market and to lead in innovation with parameters on par with or superior 1.5 to the existing fabric. This resulted in a selective customer segment have one of the leading American Brands resulted in the ability to fill capacity 1.0 classifying the Company as the with higher value added fabric. This leading innovative fabric Company in is the Blue print which was firmly 0.5 Sri Lanka. followed over the last few years which began yielding results from 0 Another dimension according to our the first quarter of this financial year. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 blue print, was to develop specific The Company is now firmly ahead in marketing teams with cultural changes technology, innovations, complexity, to suit the Tier-1 group. This made diversity, speed, quality, price and significant improvements in service service levels, which are the key levels which resulted in a high degree ingredients sought after by top brands of engagement with the Tier-1 group in the world. The strategies we of customers in areas of forecasting adopted resulted in the exercises, selection of innovations, Summarizing the financial pricing and order management. performance of the year under review, ability to ﬁll capacity your company ended the year with with higher value added Industry Outlook the highest ever turnover of USD 69.94 Mn and a Profit Before Tax of fabric. The Company As per the World Trade Organization is now ﬁrmly ahead in 2018, Global demand for the clothing USD 1.85 Mn with a cash profit of & textile industry has increased by USD 4.48 Mn. The ROE grew from a technology, innovations, 4.7% in 2017/18, compared to a negative 4% in the previous year to 6% in the year under review. A closer complexity, diversity, negative growth of 1.7% in 2016. This is a positive indication for the clothing look at each quarter reveals that the speed, quality, price and and textile industry as well as for the Company showed profits right through service levels, which investors who have dealings with the the year and a significant improvement are the key ingredients export market. The two main regional in Q1 over the past year was also level distributors being Europe, UK seen. The Company's tax expense sought after by top and USA which covers 51% of the amounted to USD 790,533/on total global clothing & textile industry. account of Economic Service Charge brands in the world. This is a 7% and 2% (respectively) (ESC) and Deferred Tax. Therefore, growth over last year. the Profit After Tax stands at USD 1.06 Mn. Further details with regard In Sri Lanka, we have witnessed a to these taxes are in note 23.3 in the sustainable growth of 4.7% in Apparel financial statement in this report. exports (2018) compared to the previous year, with the total export Selecting & Engaging the turnover increasing to USD 4.96 Bn Customers Based on Export Development Board Over the last few years, the focus was (EDB) data, 46% of exports are to on strategic customers in selected geographic locations and they 46% the USA, 15% and 26% to the UK and Europe respectively. Compared Gearing to regional competitors Bangladesh were classified as the Tier-1 group. Thereafter, to foster a high degree of & Vietnam, Sri Lanka still needs engagement with them, the Company to improve on its scale. In 2018 adopted different strategies which Bangladesh and Vietnam recorded were in-line with their future goals with an annual turnover of USD 29 Bn and regard to types of fabric, technical USD 28 Bn respectively. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 23 MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW In 2018, Global fiber production the process water is recycled daily. understanding of the Market and exceeded 100 Mn Metric Tons The entire requirement of steam Brand requirements. These teams resulting in the largest fiber production for dyeing is generated through the constantly interact with the Brand to for a year. This is a 3% year on use of bio mass (saw dust). Many carry out trials and make changes year growth over the past 7 years. specialized technical experts have through feedback. Maximum Being the rapidly growing segment, been consulted to improve process transparency is given to our selected Polyesters has a market share of times and raw material consumption Brands to work with innovations and 51% of total global fiber production. in order to enhance competitiveness production teams to create a better Some of the leading Global clothing and profitability. Projects relating to understanding of the product and its brands like Nike, Victoria’s Secret and the further reduction in energy costs is behaviour and costs. Decathlon are strategically moving continuing. towards Sri Lanka for synthetic Systems, Processes & Controls apparel production, as Sri Lanka The Team The Company is conscious of the has come up with a wide range of The continuous improvement in necessity of having all its systems, Synthetic raw material options over work ethics of the entire team in the processes and controls up to date the last couple of years. In addition, Company is an achievement for a with utmost accuracy. Verification Sri Lanka is seen as a hub for sustainable future. These are the activity is regularly carried out by Innovations, Social Compliances and results of cultural changes through the internal and external audits Sustainability. discipline, training and development, and special audits. During the year, and constant dialogue at all levels systems and controls in many areas Continued Focus to Improve to educate the need for a common including production systems were Technology and Productivity goal. This is clearly seen at the shop up-graded to be in line with the latest The rapidly changing fashion industry floor level where the culture of Trade versions. requires rapid changes in technology, Unions have changed and the trust gearing production to suit technical and understanding between the Stock levels are closely monitored requirements, finishes, colours, Management and the Trade Unions on a weekly basis by the senior textures, order quantities and short have significantly improved. management, to ensure optimum lead times. The development of agile stocks are maintained so that production methods and process Similarly, the relationships with the inventory costs are reduced. The routes has enabled the Company to people in the village surrounding the Company is currently undergoing meet these requirements in a cost manufacturing facility, religious and preliminary studies on Inventory effective way. educational institutions and other management through Artificial authorities have further improved. A Intelligence tools. The objective is Foreseeing the behaviour of the concentrated effort is put to ensure to fine tune the present forecasting end customer and market trends is that these relationships are well methods for raw material important to make suitable decisions maintained by the dedicated Human procurement. in this industry. The Company has at Resources team. many times demonstrated this ability Stock accuracy is also a key area which includes even air-freighting The Production, Marketing, Product where the Company manages all its machinery when the need arises. development and Innovations teams inventory through a cycle counting Re-arranging the process flow to suit work closely with a high degree of system. This system will ensure new technical requirements, installing a second new colour laboratory dispensing machine, additional sample dye machines and a much needed advanced laser engraver for printing was completed during the year. Further, up-grading of dye machine controllers, Finishing machines, colour kitchen systems were also completed. The commissioning of the new three storey knitting building with extra machines was also completed. Cost saving and productivity improvements are being continuously carried out. At present, almost 9% of 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC accuracy of the total inventory levels relating to Dyes, Chemicals, Yarn, Greige, Finished goods and Engineering stocks. Environment, Health, Safety & Compliance With the increasing awareness and the constant changes in standards and requirements, the Company has a separate Department with dedicated personnel to ensure all areas of compliance is met with the highest standards. This team represents the Company at international forums and share best practices. This is an area our Brand owners make vigorous routine audits to ensure that programs with religious institutions, The geographical shift of a small their own standards are maintained. schools, health camps, hospitals, percentage of business from China to The Company has been extremely elderly homes and blood donations this region will also be a benefactor responsible in maintaining the highest etc., are continuously carried out towards volume growth. level of Compliance. every year. Our flagship CSR initiative which is the prevention of deaths Acknowledgements Nike carries out a discharge water due to Chronic Kidney Disease I take this opportunity to thank the quality test annually and a “Green” (CKD), by supplying potable water Senior Management team and the certification is received every year. This to a village in Rathmalgahawewa in staff who believed in the strategies is the highest standard for water, from Kahatagasdigiliya, Anuradhapura is and made a commitment to Nike. continuing for the 3rd consecutive achieve the results this year through year. After the implementation of this improvements across the board and Zero Discharge of Hazardous project, we are pleased to inform the trust and confidence they have in Chemicals (ZDHC), is a global that there have been no deaths my leadership. initiative where all the reputed Brands due to CKD. This is a significant in the world have laid down guide achievement. This village also has a A special thank you to my Chairman lines and prohibitions relating to the large population of school children who has always been available use of certain chemicals which are and the Company supplies all on a daily basis for support, categorized as hazardous, in the requirements such as books, school encouragement and the trust he has global textile and footwear value bags etc. for approximately 500 in me. Thank you, to the Board of chain. The Company is ahead of the school children every year. Directors who have always supported targets set by the ZDHC and has been and been patient with the strategies compliant for the second consecutive Outlook presented to them. year, well ahead of the target date, With the materialization of the long which is in 2020. term strategies, the Company is I also wish to thank all stake holders of forecasting good results for the the Company for their support during Socially Responsible ensuing year. the year under review. Located in the middle of a village, there are mutual expectations from It is also important for the Company the people around the Plant and to see the growth in the local the Company. Balancing these apparel manufacturing segment. expectations require a special set The advancing of the Sri Lanka of skills in addition to the standard apparel industry to the middle to E.R.P. Goonetilleke sustainability programs that are high end segment with the capability Managing Director/ CEO normally carried out. The HR team of conceptualizing, designing & has developed a high level of manufacture of lingerie, “athleisure” 13 May 2019 contact with the village and has and sportswear, complimented by been very successful in balancing the high level of all round compliance these requirements. The traditional standards, will ensure a sustainable Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) growth of this industry in the country. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 25 BOARD OF DIRECTORS A.M. Pandithage E. R. P. Goonetilleke Chairman & Chief Executive Managing Director / CEO Executive Director : Appointed – July 2007 Executive Director : Appointed March 2013 Joined the Hayleys Group in 1969. Appointed to the Board Mr. Eranga Rohan Peiris Goonetilleke joined Hayleys Fabric in 2007. Chairman and Chief Executive of Hayleys PLC since PLC, as Managing Director /CEO on the 1st of March 2013, July 2009. Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics & and was appointed to the Group Management Committee Transport (UK). Honorary Consul of the United Mexican States in the same month. Prior to joining Hayleys Fabric, he was (Mexico), to Sri Lanka. Council Member of the Employers’ appointed as a Director of Brandix X’pressions (Pvt) Ltd and Federation of Ceylon. Member of the Advisory Council of the was appointed to the Board of CLT Apparel (India) (Pvt) Ltd Ceylon Association of Ship’s Agents. Recipient of the Best in January 2011, a fully owned subsidiary of Brandix Lanka Shipping Personality award by the Institute of Chartered Ltd. During the period 2003 to 2010, he was the Managing Shipbrokers; Excellence Leadership Recognition – Institute of Director/CEO of Textured Jersey Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, prior to Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka; Honoured with lifetime which he was the Managing Director/ CEO of Linea Clothing achievement award at Sea trade – Sri Lanka Ports, Trade (Pvt) Ltd, a subsidiary of MAS Holdings (Pvt) Ltd, and prior and Logistics; Life time award for most outstanding Logistics to that he was at Carson Cumberbatch & Company Ltd as and Transport personality of the year – Chartered Institute of the CEO of Elpitiya Plantations Ltd. He received his higher Logistics & Transport. education in the United Kingdom qualifying as a Graduate Engineer (B.Sc. Eng.). 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC K. D. D. Perera S. C. Ganegoda Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed -September 2009 Appointed – November 2009 Mr. Dhammika Perera is the quintessential strategist and Rejoined Hayleys in March 2007. Appointed to the Group business specialist with interests in a variety of key industries Management Committee in 2007. Appointed to the Board of including manufacturing, banking & finance, leisure, aluminum Hayleys Fabric in November 2009. Fellow Member of Institute extrusion, packaging, plantations, lifestyle, healthcare, of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and Member of Institute consumer and hydro power generation. He has over thirty of Certified Management Accountants of Australia. Holds years of experience in building formidable business through an MBA from the Postgraduate Institute of Management, unmatched strategic foresight. University of Sri Jayewardenepura. Worked for Hayleys Group between 1987 and 2002, ultimately as an Executive Director. Mr. Perera is the Chairman of Vallibel One PLC, Royal Subsequently, held several senior management positions in Ceramics Lanka PLC, Lanka Tiles PLC, Lanka Walltiles PLC, large private sector entities in Sri Lanka and overseas. Has The Fortress Resorts PLC, Vallibel Power Erathna PLC, responsibility for the Strategic Business Development Unit and Greener Water Ltd, Unidil Packaging Ltd, Delmege Ltd and LB the Fentons Group. Microfinance Myanmar Company Ltd. He is the CoChairman of Hayleys PLC, The Kingsbury PLC and Singer (Sri Lanka) PLC. Executive Deputy Chairman of LB Finance PLC, Deputy Chairman of Horana Plantations PLC. He is also an Executive Director of Vallibel Finance PLC and serves on the Boards of Amaya Leisure PLC, Haycarb PLC, Hayleys Fabric PLC & Dipped Products PLC. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 27 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Haresh Somashantha R. N. Somaratne Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed – February 2012 Appointed – February 2012 Mr. Haresh Somashantha counts over 19 years of experience Mr. Nandajith Somaratne was appointed to the Board of in audit, financial management and reporting, including Hayleys Fabric PLC in February 2012. He is also a Director of strategic and corporate planning across several industries Lanka Walltiles PLC and Royal Porcelain (Pvt) Ltd which is a including manufacturing, leisure, banking, plantation & etc. fully owned subsidiary of Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC. He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Mr. Somaratne is currently working in the capacity of General Sri Lanka and an Associate member of CPA Australia, further Manager (Manufacturing) for Royal Ceramics Group which to holding B.Sc. in Mathematics. includes Lanka Tiles PLC and Lanka Walltiles PLC. He has served in Ansell Lanka (Pvt) Ltd and in Central Engineering He is the Head of Finance & Treasury of Royal Ceramics Consultancy Bureau (CECB) before joining Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC (Rocell Group). He serves on the Board of Hayleys Lanka PLC in 1993. Mr. Somaratne counts more than 25 Fabric PLC further to being its Audit Committee Chairman. years’ experience in the manufacturing field. Mr. Somashantha also serves as a Director/Audit Committee Member on the Boards of Vallibel Power Erathna PLC and Mr. Somaratne holds an MBA from the University of Colombo, Unidil Packaging Limited. His further Directorships include Post Graduate Diploma in Industrial Engineering from Royal Porcelain (Pvt) Ltd and several subsidiary companies in NIBM and B.Sc. in Physical Science from the University the Delmege Group. He represents as an Alternate Director at of Peradeniya. He has undergone several corporate The Fortress Resorts PLC. leadership training programs including Corporate Leadership Management Program conducted by HIDA, Japan. 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Dr. S. J. Nawaratne Ananda Jayatilleka Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed – April 2014 Appointed – March 2015 Dr. Sunil Jayantha Nawaratne is presently working as freelance Mr. Ananda Jayatilleka is a specialist in Rubber Technology management consultant and he was the Director General of and Industrial Engineering, a Licentiate of the Institute of Sri Lanka Samurdhi Development Department and previously Plastics and Rubber Industry (L.P.R.I-(London)) and a Fellow of served as Senior Advisor to the Minister – Ministry of Social the Institute of the Work Study and Organization and Methods Empowerment & Welfare and before that as the Secretary to (F.M.S. (UK)). the Ministry of Higher Education until January 15th of 2015. He has vast experience in both the public sector as well as in Mr.Jayatilleka was a main Board Director of Richard Pieris the private sector organisations during the last 20 years. & Co. Ltd.with a long service of 27 years in the group. He was instrumental in setting up of Richrd Pieris Exports Currently, he is serving in several boards like Board of PLC and served as its Managing Director for over 15 Management (BOM) of School of Accounting and Business years. Mr.Jayatilleka also served on the Boards of Kegalle of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA & Maskelliya Plantations PLC, Aviva Global Services (Pvt) Sri Lanka) and Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology Ltd. His vast experience also includes work in Zambia (SLIIT). He holds a B.Sc. (Business Administration) degree Consolidated Copper Mines & General Tire – South Africa. He from the University of Sri Jayawardenepura (Topof-the Batch founded Latex Green (Pvt) Ltd and served as Chairman for 12 in 1977), Post Graduate Diploma in Business Management years. Presently, he serves as a Non-Executive Director of Tea (PIM), MA Economics from Kagawa University, Japan and Small Holder Factories PLC under the John Keells Group. a PhD in Management from prestigious Keio University, Tokyo, Japan. He is a visiting faculty member on Strategic Mr. Jayatilleka has been a recipient of the merit certificate Management / Marketing / Japanese Management for awarded by the Plastics and Rubber Institute (PRI) of Sri Lanka under-graduate and MBA programs in University of Sri for the outstanding contribution made to the Rubber Industry Jayawardenapura and University of Colombo. of Sri Lanka. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 29 BOARD OF DIRECTORS R. Rohitha Bandara Ms. Yogadinusha Bhaskaran Executive Director (Alternate Director to Mr. K.D.D. Perera) Appointed – May 2018 Non-Executive Director Mr. Rohitha Bandara joined in 2012 as Chief Financial Officer Appointed – June 2015 and was appointed to the Board on 15 May 2018. Ms. Yogadinusha Bhaskaran is an Accounting professional currently serving as the Chief Executive Officer of Vallibel One Mr. Rohitha Bandara is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered PLC. She also presently serves on the Board of Delmege Ltd Accountants of Sri Lanka (FCA) and Associate member of as a Director, LB Finance PLC as a Non-Executive Director ACCA (UK). He holds a B.Sc. Management Special Degree and Chairperson of Audit Committee, Haycarb PLC and from the University of Sri Jayawardenepura and in addition, an Dipped Products PLC as Alternate Directors to Mr. K.D.D. MBA in Finance from University of Colombo. Perera. He is also qualified in AAT, ACMA (SL), ACPM, AIPFM (UK) Ms. Yogadinusha Bhaskaran has previously worked as a and has over four years’ experience with Ernst & Young in Financial Controller with several Australian companies in different industry segments in Sri Lanka and Singapore and Melbourne for a number of years. She has in the past served over 13 years of manufacturing experience in Textiles Industry as the Assistant General Manager (Finance & Planning) at Pan as sector Head of Finance. Asia Banking Corporation PLC. She is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants UK (FCMA), Fellow of CPA Australia (FCPA) and an Associate Member of the Institute of Bankers, Sri Lanka. 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC MANAGEMENT TEAM E. R. P. Goonetilleke Managing Director / CEO Eranga Rohan Peiris Goonetilleke joined Hayleys Fabric PLC, as Managing Director /CEO on the 1st of March 2013, and was appointed to the Group Management Committee in the same month. Prior to joining Hayleys Fabric, he was appointed as a Director of Brandix X’pressions (Pvt) Ltd, and was appointed to the Board of CLT Apparel (India) (Pvt) Ltd in January 2011, a fully owned subsidiary of Brandix Lanka Ltd. During the period, 2003 to 2010 he was the Managing Director/CEO of Textured Jersey Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, prior to which he was the Managing Director/ CEO of Linea Clothing (Pvt) Ltd, a subsidiary of MAS Holdings (Pvt) Ltd, and prior to that he was at Carson Cumberbatch & Company Ltd as the CEO of Elpitiya Plantations Ltd. He received his higher education in the United Kingdom qualifying as a Graduate Engineer (B.Sc. Eng.). R. Rohitha Bandara Director Finance Ruwan Rohitha Bandara is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (FCA) and Associate member of ACCA (UK). He holds a B.Sc. Management Special Degree from the University of Sri Jayawardenepura and in addition, an MBA in Finance from University of Colombo. He is also qualified in AAT, ACMA (SL), ACPM, AIPFM (UK) and has over four years’ experience with Ernst & Young in different industry segments in Sri Lanka and Singapore and over 13 years of manufacturing experience in Textiles Industry as sector Head of Finance. S. S. Pulasinghe General Manager TPM, Engineering & Special Projects Saliya Pulasinghe holds a National Diploma in Engineering Sciences from Institute of Engineering Technology, an MBA from University of Wales, UK and is a Member of the Certified Management Accountants of Australia. He had undergone extensive training in Lean Management (PIPF Osaka), Operations Management (PPOM-Yokohama) and Cooperate Management (LKCM13-Chubu) from The Association of Overseas Technical Scholarship, Japan. He has over 25 years of experience in Manufacturing & Construction sectors. A. B. Senarathne General Manager – Quality Assurance, Product Development & Innovation Ajith Senarathne holds a B.Sc. Engineering Degree from the University of Moratuwa with First Class Honours’ in Textile and Clothing Engineering. He has participated in PQM2 Certificate course in Japan for Total Quality Management (TQM). He has over 25 years’ of experience in the Textile Industry. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 31 MANAGEMENT TEAM M. H. Jayasinghe General Manager Sales & Marketing Malith Jayasinghe holds a B.Sc. Degree from the University of Colombo. He has over 11 years of experience at Hayleys Fabric PLC in Marketing and Customer co-ordination, out of which 8 years has been managerial experience. M. L. Dayananda General Manager – Supply Chain Lal Dayananda holds an MBA in Finance from the University of Manipal, India and holds Memberships in AFA (Associate member of – Institute of Financial Accountants, UK) and APCM (Associate member of – Institute of Professional Managers in SL – CMA). He has over 20 years’ experience in Finance and Procurement in the Manufacturing Industry. K. P. C. P. K. Pathirana General ManagerHuman Resources & Administration Prasanna Pathirana is a Graduate in Business Management (Human Resource) Special from the University of Kelaniya. In addition, he holds a Diploma in Psychology from Sri Lanka Psychological Institute. He has over 14 years’ experience in the field of Human Resource Management at leading local and multinational companies. T. N. Peiris Deputy General Manager Brushing, Printing & Finishing Nalin Peiris holds a National Diploma in Textile Technology from the University of Moratuwa. He has over 23 years working experience at Hayleys Fabric PLC. 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC P. M. P. Perera Deputy General Manager – Engineering Mahesh Perera holds a National Diploma in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Moratuwa. He has over 24 years’ experience in the field of Engineering and 15 years’ experience in Textile manufacturing Industry. C. P. Wanasinghe Deputy General Manager – Production Planning Chinthaka Wanasinghe holds a B.Sc. in Industrial Management from the University of Kelaniya, MSc. in Operational Research from the University of Moratuwa and in addition he also holds a National Diploma in Engineering Science from the Institute of Engineering Technology (IET). He has over 10 years’ experience in overall Planning, SAP – ERP and Information systems. K. D. C. R. Gunaratne Deputy General Manager – Knitting K. D. Gunaratne has over 20 years’ experience in Knitting Technology and Production at Hayleys Fabric PLC. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE “WE ARE FOCUSED ON DELIVERING THE HIGHEST LEVELS OF TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY...” Hayleys Fabric is committed to sound corporate governance balancing interests of stakeholders and strengthening Board and management accountability. As a subsidiary of the Hayleys Group, we inherit a legacy of leading corporate governance practices which provides a solid foundation for driving performance of the Company while ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements and corporate values. Framework and Structure The Board bears responsibility to ensure Hayleys Fabric PLC pursues its strategic goals in accordance with sound corporate governance principles, safeguarding its reputation, values and assets while balancing stakeholder interests. A Board approved governance structure and framework is regularly reviewed to adapt to internal developments and reflect best practice. Hayleys Fabric PLC’s Internal Policy Framework Business Financial Human Product Social conduct and Environment Energy Reporting Resources Responsibility responsibility Ethics 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC The Governance framework is bound by external regulations and internally Hayleys Group Hayleys Fabric PLC formulated policies that defines how we do business. Policy documents are typically modelled against best Board practice and provide guidance to management in conducting day to day operations of the Company. Group Management Committee Board Our Corporate Governance framework complies fully with the following, amongst other statutory Nominations regulations; Committee Remuneration MD/CEO Committee • Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 Related Party Transactions Review • Continued Listing rules of the Committee Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) Audit Committee • Company has adopted Group IT / CISO principles included in the Code Corporate of Best Practice on Corporate Management Governance issued by the Institute Group Internal Audit of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka in 2017 The Board delegates functions The Board the Board. The Chairman and 2 warranting greater attention, to the The Board provides strategic Non-Executive Directors serve on Audit Committee and Remuneration guidance and maintains control of the Board of the parent company Committee with oversight responsibility the affairs of Hayleys Fabric PLC Hayleys PLC, creating a vital link with for same, enabling the Board to through efficient resource allocation, the extensive expertise, networks allocate sufficient time to matters risk management and performance and tacit knowledge of a highlywithin its scope. As a subsidiary management. reputed conglomerate. All Directors of the Hayleys Group, the Hayleys possess financial acumen and Fabric PLC Board is assisted by the Board Composition knowledge through the experience Nominations Committee and the gained from leading large private The Hayleys Fabric PLC’s Board Related Party Transactions Review and public enterprises. Additionally, comprises 9 members, whose Committee of Hayleys PLC as well as 03 Directors including the Chairman profiles are given on page 26. Apart Group Internal Audit, Group IT /CISO, of the Audit Committee, are finance from the Chairman, MD/CEO and Secretarial services, Group Legal, professionals ensuring a sufficiency Finance Director, all members are Strategic Business Development of financial acumen. non-executive. Sufficient balance of Unit (SBDU) in the discharge of power minimizes the tendency for responsibilities. The MD /CEO is Board Composition one or few members of the Board a member of the Hayleys Group to dominate the Board processes or Chairman (Executive) Management Committee, and is decision making. responsible to the Hayleys Board Independent for delivering agreed strategic goals The Board is diverse in its Directors for his business sector. He leads the experience, expertise and age, Non Independent corporate management team in the contributing varied perspectives Non-Executive implementation of the Company’s to Boardroom deliberations and Directors strategic plan. exercising independent judgment Executive to bear on matters set before HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Non Executive Directors' tenor Board expertise Age diversity of Directors as at 31.03.2019 Areas of expertise 22 33 Business 33 44 % % Finance Manufacturing 33 Apparel 33 < 50 years 50-60 years > 60 years 3-5 years 6-8 years >9 years 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Appointment, Re-election and Appointments, Re-Election and Hayleys Fabric PLC has obtained Resignation Resignations adequate insurance cover for Directors are appointed by the the Board and Directors through • Mr R. Rohitha Bandara was Hayleys PLC in accordance with the shareholders at the Annual General appointed as an Executive recommendations of the Nominations Meeting, following a formal and Director, w.e.f. 15.05.2018 Committee. The Directors and Officers transparent process and based on • Mr. A. M. Pandithage and Mr. Liability Policy is renewed annually and recommendations made by the Board S. C. Ganegoda will retire by details are given in page 119. of Directors. The Group Nominations rotation at the AGM to be held Committee makes recommendations on 26 June 2019 and have KEY BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES to the Board in this regard having offered themselves for reconsidered the combined knowledge, • Provide strategic direction election. experience and diversity of the Board • Monitor implementation of in relation to the Company’s strategic Appointments are communicated to strategy plans and any gaps thereof. the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) • Set corporate values and and shareholders through press promote ethical behaviours In compliance with the Articles of releases. These communications Associations of the Company, 1/3 • Establish systems of risk include a brief resume of the Director management, internal control of the NonExecutive Directors will disclosing relevant expertise, key and compliance retire from office at each Annual appointments, shareholding and General Meeting. These Directors are whether he is independent. • Be responsive to the needs of society eligible to stand for re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General Resignations or removal, if any, • Meet shareholders, employees of Directors and the reasons are and other stakeholder’s Meeting. The Group Nomination informed promptly to CSE together obligations, balancing their Committee recommends the Directors with a statement confirming whether interests in a fair manner for re-election, in compliance with the or not there are any matters that Article and approval by the Board. A • Present a balanced and need to be brought to the attention of understandable assessment director appointed by the Board to shareholders. of the Company’s position and fill a casual vacancy arisen since the prospects previous AGM, will offer himself for Board Responsibilities re-election at the next Annual General • Safeguard assets and ensure The Board determines overall legitimate use Meeting. strategy to enhance long term value of the Company and oversees • Ensure succession planning implementation of the same. Their and the continued ability of the key responsibilities are summarized Company to operate without any alongside. disruption 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Board Access to Information and Resources Directors have unrestricted access to management and organisation information, as well as the resources required to carry out their duties and responsibilities effectively. Regular presentations by the MD and Corporate Management on matters including progress in implementation of the strategic goals, financial, social and environmental performance, changes and challenges presented by the operating environment ensure that the Board is apprised of developments impacting the Company. Access to independent professional advice, coordinated through the Company Secretaries, is available to Directors at the Company’s expense. Roles of Chairman and Managing Director (MD)/CEO The role of Chairman is separate from that of the MD/ CEO, in line with best practices in Corporate Governance ensuring that no one Director has unfettered power and authority. The Chairman of the Hayleys Group serves in a similar capacity on the Board of Hayleys Fabric PLC while the Managing Director /CEO is an Executive Director appointed by the Board. The Chairman leads the Board, preserving good corporate governance and ensuring that it works effectively, acting in the best interest of the Company. The MD/CEO is accountable to the Board for exercise of delegated authority and for the performance of the Company. Chairman’s Responsibilities MD/CEO’s Responsibilities • Setting the ethical tone for the Board and the • Appointing and ensuring proper succession planning of Company the corporate management team, and assessing their performance • Setting the Board’s annual work plan and the agendas, in consultation with the Company Secretary • Developing the Company’s strategy for consideration and and the MD/CEO approval by the Board • Building and maintaining stakeholder trust and • Developing and recommending to the Board budgets confidence supporting the Company’s long-term strategy • Ensuring effective participation of all Board members • Monitoring and reporting to the Board on the performance during Board meetings of the Company and its compliance with applicable laws and Corporate Governance principles • Facilitating and encouraging discussions amongst all Directors of matters set before the Board and • Establishing an organizational structure for the Company ensuring a balance of power is maintained between which is appropriate for the execution of strategy Executive and NonExecutive Director (NED) • Ensuring a culture that is based on the Company’s values • Monitoring the effectiveness of the Board • Ensuring that the Company operates within the approved risk appetite HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Company Secretary Secretary and MD/CEO. Care is Director deems it necessary that such Secretarial services to the Board are taken to ensure the Board spends resolution must be decided at a Board provided by Hayleys Group Services sufficient time considering matters meeting and not by circulation, the (Pvt) Ltd. All Directors have access to critical to the Company’s success, as Chairman shall put the resolution to be the advice and services of this Group well as compliance and administrative decided in a meeting. function as necessary. The Secretaries matters. and Management keep the Board The Board met seven (7) times informed of new laws and revisions, Board meetings are held on a during the year. All Board minutes regulations and requirements coming quarterly basis with the flexibility are circulated to members, within into effect which are relevant to them to arrange ad-hoc meetings to 04 weeks of the meeting being held. as individual Directors and collectively supplement these when required. The Company Secretaries are in the to the Board. process of expediting this to within 2 The Chairman met informally with the weeks. Minutes are formally approved Meetings & Minutes Non-Executive Directors during the at the subsequent Board meeting, year and feedback was provided to Directors’ concerns regarding matters Agenda and Board papers are sent the MD/CEO by the Chairman. which are not resolved unanimously 7 days before the meeting, allowing are recorded in the minutes. Directors members sufficient time to review the Resolutions concerning business have access to the past Board papers documents. Chairman sets the Board matters may be passed by circulation, and minutes in case of need via agenda, assisted by the Company within regulations. However, if a single electronic means at all times. Attendance at Meetings Directors Date of Appointment Attendance Board Audit A.M. Pandithage (Chairman) * 01 July 2007 7/7 E.R.P. Goonetilleke (MD/CEO) * 01 March 2013 7/7 Dhammika Perera ** 24 September 2009 1/7 S.C. Ganegoda ** 01 November 2009 4/7 H. Somashantha *** 02 February 2012 5/7 3/4 R.N. Somaratne *** 02 February 2012 4/7 Dr. S.J. Nawartne *** 25 April 2014 4/7 4/4 A.S. Jayatilleka *** 30 March 2015 6/7 3/4 R. Rohitha Bandara (Appointed w.e.f. 15.05.18) * 15 May 2018 6/6 Ms. Y. Bhaskaran (Alternate Director to Mr. K.D.D. Perera) ** 01 June 2015 4/7 Total No. of Meetings 7 4 * Executive Director ** Non-Executive Director *** Independent Non-Executive Director 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Directors Independence Other Business Commitments of Board seats (excluding directorship Directors exercise their independent / Related Party Transactions / in Hayleys Fabric PLC) held by each Conflicts of Interests director as at 31st March 2019 is and unfettered judgment, promoting constructive Board deliberations The Board is aware of other given in the Directors' profiles on and objective evaluation of the commitments of its Directors and is pages 26 to 30. performance of the Company. satisfied that all Directors allocate sufficient time to enable them to Directors excuse themselves from the Independence of Directors is discharge their responsibilities. meeting when the Board considers determined by the Board, based any matters in which a conflict may on annual declarations submitted Directors declare their business arise, abstaining from participating in by the Non-Executive Directors interests at appointment and quarterly the discussion. in line with the Schedule K of the thereafter. Details are maintained Code. The Board believes the in a Register by the Company The Related Party Transactions Review independency of Mr. A.S. Jayatilleka Secretary and tabled at the next Committee considers all transactions is not compromised by being a Board meeting. The Register is that require approval, in line with the Board member in an independent available for inspection in terms of Group’s Related Party Transactions capacity of Unisyst Engineering PLC the Companies Act. Details of the Policy and in compliance with (Former Alufab PLC), a subsidiary business interests are submitted to regulations. Related party transactions of the Parent Company considering the Finance department for statutory are disclosed in Note 25 to the Financial his experience and knowledge disclosure. Key appointments of the Statements on page 154 . particularly in the manufacturing directors are included in their profiles field. on pages 26 to 30. The total number Board Committees The Board has appointed an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee to assist in the discharge of its duties and also has access to the Hayleys Group Nominations Committee and the Related Party Transactions Review Committee. The areas of oversight and the composition of these committees are given below. Board Committee Areas of Oversight Composition Further Information Audit Committee • Financial Reporting Comprises 3 Independent Report of the Audit • Internal Controls Non-Executive Directors Committee on page 110 • Internal Audit including the Chairman of • External Audit the Committee Nominations Committee • Appointment of Key Hayleys PLC (parent Management Personnel/ company) Nominations Directors Committee acts as • Succession Planning Company’s Nomination • Effectiveness of Committee the Board and its Committees Remuneration Committee • Remuneration policy Comprises 2 Independent Report of the Remuneration for Key Management Non-Executive Directors Committee on page 112 Personnel including the Chairman of • Goals and targets for Key the Committee Management Personnel • Performance evaluation Related Party Transactions • Review of related party Hayleys PLC (Parent Report of the Related Review Committee transactions company) Related Party Party Transactions Review Transactions Committee Committee on page 113 acts as Company’s Related Party Transaction Review Committee HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Induction and Ongoing Training Remuneration THE HAYLEYS WAY for Directors Remuneration Policy On appointment, Directors are • Shareholders The Hayleys Fabric PLC’s Remuneration provided with an orientation pack Policy seeks to motivate and reward • Employees with all relevant external and internal performance while meeting regulatory regulation documents and a tour of requirements, market expectations • Business Integrity the factory premises. The Board of and corporate values. Remuneration • Environment Directors recognize the need to keep Committee (RC) is responsible for abreast of current developments making recommendations to the Board • Consumers affecting the sector both globally regarding the remuneration of the • Corporate Responsibility and locally. They undertake training Executive Directors within agreed terms and professional development in of reference and in accordance with the • Public Activities their personal capacity as they remuneration policies of the Company. consider necessary in assisting them • Conflict of Interest The Board, as a whole, determines to carry out their duties as Directors. the remuneration of the Non-Executive • Regulatory Compliance They are members of the Sri Lanka Directors (NEDs) who receive a fee Institute of Directors and attend • Competition for being a Director of the Board and sessions from time to time. Other additional fee for being a member of a training and continuous professional committee. Remuneration for NonCode of Conduct and Ethics development undertaken by Executive Directors reflects the time Hayleys Fabric PLC is committed to Directors in 2018/19 includes commitment and responsibilities of their conducting its business operations attending seminars/workshops/ role, taking into consideration market with honesty, integrity and with conferences, using web based practices. Services of HR professionals respect to the rights and interests learning resources and reading are sought when required, by the Board of all stakeholders. The Company is regulatory updates etc. and Remuneration Committee (RC )in bound by the “ The Hayleys Way”discharging their responsibilities. Report The Ethical Road Map for Code of Board Evaluation of the Remuneration Committee is given conduct developed by Hayleys PLC The Board is currently engaged on page 112. ( Parent Company) for the Group. in establishing procedures and It applies to all employees including finalizing arrangements to conduct Level and Make Up of key management personnel. The an annual self-assessment of its Remuneration Board is not aware of any material performance, to ensure responsibilities violations of any of the provisions The remuneration packages of are satisfactorily discharged. The of the Code by any Director or Executive Directors are designed evaluation will be conducted for the employee of the Company. to attract eminent professionals as FY 2019/20. Directors will assess Directors with the requisite skills and their collective performance against experience. Remuneration is structured Relations with Shareholders pre-determined goals and targets, as taking into consideration performance The Board is conscious of their well as the independence of Directors, and risk factors entailed in the job and responsibility towards stakeholders in judgement and character. The aligned to corporate and individual and is committed to fair disclosure, results will be collated and made performance. with emphasis on the integrity, available to the Board by the Hayleys timeliness and relevance of the Group Nominations Committee, with Remuneration of Executive Directors information provided. Information recommendations for improvement are compliant with the provisions of is communicated accurately and including training needs and skills and Schedule E of the Code of Best Practice in such a manner as to avoid the knowledge gaps. on Corporate Governance issued by creation of a false market. the Institute of Chartered Accountants Appraisal of the Managing of Sri Lanka in 2017 and comprises Communication with Director /CEO two components, fixed remuneration Shareholders The Board assesses the performance and variable remuneration comprising Shareholders are engaged through of the MD/CEO annually using criteria of an annual performance bonus. No multiple channels of communication, aligned to the short, medium and special early termination clauses are including the Annual General long-term objectives of the Company included in the contract of employment Meeting (AGM) (detailed below), which are agreed with the MD/ of Executive Directors that would entitle annual report, interim financial CEO at the beginning of the year. them to extra compensation. However, statements, a dedicated investor Performance is reviewed at the end of such compensation, if any, would be relations page on the Company’s the financial year against the backdrop determined by the Board of Directors. website and notification of key of the operating environment and events through announcements in remuneration revised based on Please refer page 151 for the total the CSE. performance. Directors’ Remuneration. 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC The Annual Report presents a At the AGM, the Board provides Risk Management and Internal fair and balanced review of the an update to shareholders on Control Company’s financial position, the Company’s performance and The Board is responsible for performance and prospects shareholders have the opportunity formulating and implementing combining narrative and visual to ask questions and vote on effective risk management and elements to facilitate readability resolutions. It is the key forum internal control systems to safeguard and comprehension. All statutory for shareholders to engage in shareholder interests and the assets requirements have been complied decision making matters reserved of the Company. These systems with in the Annual Report and for the shareholders which typically cover all controls, including financial, the interim financials have been include proposals to adopt the operational and compliance and are reviewed and recommended by Annual Report and Accounts and monitored and regularly reviewed the Audit Committee and approved appointment of Directors and for effectiveness by the Board. by the Board of Directors, prior to Auditors. The Board Chairman, The Hayleys Group Internal Audit publication. Board members particularly Department supports the Audit Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration Committee, reviewing the adequacy Hayleys Fabric PLC will post on its and Nomination committees on the and effectiveness of the Hayleys website (www.hayleysfabric.com) as request of the Board Chairman, and Fabric PLC’s internal control systems soon as practicable and after they external auditors, are present and and reporting to the Audit Committee have been released to the stock available to answer questions. on a regular basis. exchange, copies of annual reports, interim reports, stock information, All Shareholders are encouraged to Compliance stock exchange announcements, participate at the AGMs and exercise shareholder circular etc. their voting rights. Directors are conscious of their duty to comply with the laws, regulations, Shareholders also have the The Company has an effective regulatory guidelines, internal controls opportunity to ask questions, make mechanism to record and count and approved policies. Hayleys Fabric the comments and suggestions to all proxy votes lodged for each PLC is compliant with all relevant legal the Board through the Company resolution. The following information and statutory requirements. Secretaries whose contact details is made available at the AGM and are provided on inner back cover of posted on the Company website, as Cyber Security this report and the Investor Relations soon as practicable. The Board has identified the need page of our website. All significant for management of IT and cyber issues and concerns of Shareholders • Number of shares in respect of risk. Hayleys Group IT Department are always referred to the Board which proxy appointments have overseas and manages the IT of Directors with the views of the been validly made requirement of Hayleys Fabric PLC Management. and other Group companies. The • Number of votes for and against Group Head of IT who is also the Constructive Use of Annual the resolution Chief Information Security Officer General Meeting (AGM) (CISO) is responsible for implementing • Number of shares in respect of the Group IT policy and the Group The AGM is the main mechanism for which the vote was directed to Information Security Policy at the Board to interact with and account be withheld entirety level in liaison with the Group to shareholders and provides an opportunity for shareholders’ views Companies, under the supervision of In the event there are a significant an Executive Director of the Group. to be heard. Notice of the AGM, the proportion of the votes cast Coverage and scope of related Group Annual Report and Accounts and against a resolution, the Board policies and guidelines are given in any other resolution together with the will take steps to understand the below table. corresponding information that may reasons behind the vote results and be set before the shareholders at the determine if any actions are required. Cybersecurity is an agenda of AGM, are circulated to shareholders minimum 15 working days prior to the the monthly Group Management AGM allowing for all the shareholders Major or Material Transactions Committee meetings with matters to attend the AGM. Hayleys Fabric During the year, there were no major escalated to the Hayleys Fabric PLC’s PLC proposes a separate resolution or material transactions as defined Board where deemed necessary for each item of business, giving by Section 185 of the Companies considering risk, impact and other shareholders the opportunity to vote Act No. 07 of 2007 which materially prudential measures. IT and Cyber on each of such issue, separately. affect the net asset base of the security formed part of the Group’s Voting procedures at the AGM are Company. annual statutory audit of financial circulated to the shareholders in statements. advance. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group IT Policy Group Information Principles Guidelines for Security Policy Corporate Websites • Group Connectivity • Protection of information from • Acceptable IT Use • Guidelines for web unauthorized access hosting • Access requirements/ • Confirmation of information • Password Protection • Guidelines for secure Resource utilization Standards web development • Individual Sector Networks/ • Confidentiality, availability and • Email Usage • Enforcement System Management integrity of information • Backup & Recovery/ • Regulatory requirements • Internet Usage Software Modification • IT Equipment & Software & • Business continuity plans • Monitoring Third Party Involvement • IT Assets & Media disposal • Information security training • Enforcement and procurement • Responsibility for Adherence • Reporting breaches of information security • IT policy embedded in to employee induction program External Auditor Accountability & Audit Inland Revenue, Sri Lanka Accounting & The External Auditor is appointed subject Every effort has been made to present a Auditing Standards Monitory Board, and balanced and understandable assessment the Colombo Stock Exchange have been to the provision of the Companies of the Company’s financial position, filed in a timely manner in compliance with Act. The Audit Committee (AC) makes performance and prospects in compliance specified requirements. The following recommendations to the Board for reports set out further information required with the various legal enactments the appointment, re-appointment or by the Code: applicable, the Sri Lanka Financial removal of the External Auditor in-line Reporting Standards, the GRI standard with professional & ethical standards • The Directors’ Report on page 121 on Sustainability Reporting published by and regulatory requirements. The Audit (including the declaration that the the Global Reporting Initiative and the Committee monitors and reviews the Company is a going concern) Integrated Reporting Framework published External Auditor’s independence, objectivity by the International Integrated Reporting • The Statement of Directors’ and the effectiveness of the audit process Council. The Company’s position and Responsibility on page 121 considering relevant professional and prospects have been discussed in detail in • Report of the Auditors on pages 123 to regulatory requirements. the following sections of this annual report. 125 • Chairman’s Message pages 18 to 21 In the assignment of non-audit services Sustainability Reporting to External Auditors, the Audit Committee • Managing Director’s Review pages 22 Sustainable reporting is part of the ensures that the External Auditor has to 25 established annual reporting process of the necessary skills and experience • The Capitals Report on pages 64 to 91 the Company and Hayleys Fabric PLC has for the assignment and ascertains that presented the relevant information within • Way Forward on pages 92 to 93 independence and objectivity of the this report as follows: External Auditor in carrying out his duties • Managing Risk on pages 94 to 99 and responsibilities will not be impaired. • Economic sustainability page 60 The Company has also complied with • The Environment – Natural Capital on On the recommendation of the Board, the the requirements of the Colombo Stock page 84 shareholders approved the reappointment Exchange and published Interim Reports • Labour Practice – Human Capital on of Messrs. Ernst & Young (Chartered on the Company website within15 page 79 days of first three quarters and within 2 Accountants) as the External Auditor for • Society – Social & Relationship Capital months of the last quarter. Price sensitive 2018/19 at the last AGM. In compliance on page 73 information, which may have an impact with Section 163 (3) of the Companies on the shares of the Company, has been • Product Responsibility Social & Act No. 07 of 2007, the External Auditors disclosed in a comprehensive but concise Relationship Capital on page 73 submit a statement annually confirming manner to the Colombo Stock Exchange • Shareholder identification, engagement their independence in relation to the on a timely basis. Reports required by and effective communication – Investor external audit. regulators including the Department of Relations on page 54 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Appendix ICompliance with the Continuing Listing Requirements Section 7.10 on Corporate Governance Rules for Listed Companies issued by the Colombo Stock Exchange. Rule No. Subject Applicable requirement Compliance Status / Applicable Section in the Annual Report 7.10.1(a) Non-Executive At least two or one third of the Directors, Compliant. Directors (NED) whichever is higher, should be Six out of eight Directors were NonExecutive NonExecutive Directors Directors up to 15th May 2018. Six out of nine Directors were NonExecutive Directors from 15th May 2018 to 31st March 2019. 7.10.2(a) Independent Directors Two or one-third of Non-Executive Compliant Directors, whichever is higher, should be Four (4) out of six (6) Non-Executive Directors independent were independent as at 31st March, 2019. 7.10.2(b) Independence of Each Non-Executive Director should Compliant Directors submit a declaration of Independence/ All Non-Executive Directors have submitted their Non-Independence confirmations in the prescribed format. 7.10.3(a) Disclosure relating to The names of Independent Directors Compliant Directors should be disclosed in the Annual The names of Independent Directors are Report disclosed in the Board profile presented on pages 26 to 30 7.10.3(b) Independence of The Board shall make a determination Compliant Directors annually as to the Independence or The Board has determined that Four (4) Non-Independence of each NonNon-Executive Directors satisfy the criteria Executive Director for “independence” set in the Listing Rules & disclosed in Corporate Governance 7.10.3(c) Disclosure relating to A brief resume of each Director should Compliant Directors be included in the Annual Report Board of Directors (profile) section in the Annual including the Director’s areas of Report on Pages 26 to 30 expertise. 7.10.3(d) Appointment of Provide a brief resume of any new Compliant Director appointed to the Board new Directors Board of Directors (profile) section in the Annual Report on Pages 26 to 30 7.10.5 Remuneration A listed company shall have a Compliant Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Report on page 112 7.10.5(a) Composition of Shall comprise of Non-Executive Compliant Remuneration Directors, a majority of whom shall be Remuneration Committee Report on page 112 Committee Independent 7.10.5(b) Functions of The Remuneration Committee shall Compliant Remuneration recommend the remuneration of Remuneration Committee Report on page 112 Committee the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Directors HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Rule No. Subject Applicable requirement Compliance Status / Applicable Section in the Annual Report 7.10.5(c) Disclosure in the Annual The Annual Report should set out; Compliant Report relating to a) Names of the Directors comprising Remuneration Committee Report on page 112 Remuneration the Remuneration Committee b) Statement of Remuneration policy Remuneration Committee Report on page 112 c) Aggregate remuneration paid to Financial Statements Note 22 on page 151 Executive and Non-Executive Directors 7.10.6 Audit Committee A listed company shall have an Audit Compliant Committee Audit Committee Report -page 110 7.10.6(a) Composition of Audit Shall comprise of Non-Executive Compliant Committee Directors, a majority of whom are Audit Committee Report -page 110 Independent Chief Executive Officer and the Chief The Managing Director/CEO and Chief Financial Financial Officer should attend Audit Officer attend Audit Committee meetings by Committee Meetings invitation The Chairman of the Audit Committee or The Chairman of the Audit Committee is one member should be a member of a a member of The Institute of Chartered professional accounting body Accountants of Sri Lanka 7.10.6(b) Audit Committee Should be as outlined in the Section Compliant 7.10 of the Listing Rules Functions Audit Committee Report on Page 110 7.10.6(c) Disclosure in the Annual a) Names of the Directors comprising Compliant Report relating to Audit the Audit Committee Committee b). The Audit Committee shall Audit Committee Report on page 110 make a determination of the independence of the Auditors and disclose the basis for such determination c) The Annual Report shall contain a Report of the Audit Committee in the prescribed manner 9.3.2 Related Party a). Details pertaining to NonCompliant Transactions Review Recurrent Related Party Note to the Financial Statements page 154 Committee Transactions b). Details pertaining to Recurrent Note to the Financial Statements page 154 Related Party Transactions c). Report of the Related Party Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Transactions Review Committee Committee on page113 d). Declaration by the Board of Annual Report of the Board of Directors on Directors as an affirmative pages 115 to 119 Statement of Compliance with the rules pertaining to Related Party Transactions, or a negative statement otherwise 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Appendix II: Compliance with the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka in 2017. Code Ref. Disclosure Compliance Page Ref. A Directors A.1 An effective Board should direct, lead Corporate Governance Yes 35 and control the Company A.1.1 Meetings & Minutes Yes 38 Regular meetings Structure and process of submitting information information to be reported A.1.2 Role & Responsibilities of the Board Board Responsibilities Yes 36 A.1.3 Act in Accordance with laws Compliance act in accordance with laws Board access to information and resources Yes 37 Independent professional advice A.1.4 Access to advise and services of Company Secretary Yes 38 Company Secretary Board Responsibilities 36 Annual report of the Board of Directors on the Insurance Cover Affairs of the Company 119 A.1.5 Independent Judgement Directors Independence Yes 39 A.1.6 Dedicate adequate time and effort to Other Business Commitments / Related Party Yes 38 39 matters of the Board and the Company Transactions / Conflicts of Interests Sufficient time to review Board Pack Meetings & Minutes A.1.7 Calls for resolutions Meetings & Minutes Yes 38 by at least 1/3rd of Directors A.1.8 Board induction and Training Induction and ongoing training for Directors Yes 40 Annual assessment of training needs A.2 Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Role of Chairman and MD/CEO clear division of responsibilities. No one Yes 37 Director with unfettered power A2.1 Combining roles of Chairman and CEO Not applicable Not Applicable A.3. Chairman’s role in preserving good Role of Chairman and MD/CEO Yes 37 corporate governance A.4 Availability of financial acumen Board Composition Yes 35 A.5 Board Balance Board Composition Yes 35 A.5.1 sufficient caliber and number of NED Board Composition Yes 35 A.5.2 If only 3 NEDs, they should be Not applicable Not Applicable independent A.5.3 Independence of Directors Director Independence Yes 39 A.5.4 Annual declaration by Directors Director Independence Yes 39 A.5.5 Annual determination of independence Director Independence Yes 39 of Director in judgment and character based on declaration and other information A.5.6 Alternate Directors Director Profiles (Alternate Director Mrs. Bhaskaran Yes 30 is not an executive of the Company) A.5.7 & A.5.8 Senior Independent Directors Chairman is an Executive Director. A Senior Not complied independent Director is expected to be appointed at the May 2019 Board meeting A.5.9 Annual meeting with NEDs Meetings and minutes Yes 38 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code Ref. Disclosure Compliance Page Ref. A.5.10 Recording of dissent in minutes Meetings and minutes Yes 38 A.6. Supply of Information Board access to information and resources Yes 37 A6.1 Quality information, timely Supply of and Access to Information Yes 37 Directors should inquire for further information Chairman’s role & responsibilities Chairman ensures board is adequately briefed A6.2 Timelines Board Meetings Yes 38 Board pack Board Meetings minutes are circulated to Yes Board meeting minutes Directors within 1 month of the meeting being held A.7. Appointments to the Board & Re-election Appointment, Re-election and Resignation Yes 36 A 7.1 Nomination Committee appointment, Appointment, Re-election and Resignation Yes 36 terms of reference, members, disclosure, A7.2 Annual assessment of whether Board’s Board Evaluation – In the process of setting up an Yes 40 skill and knowledge composition, meets appraisal system. Not complied. Organisation’s strategic demands A 7.3 Disclosure of Appointments to the Appointment, Re-election and Resignation Yes 36 Board A.8 Directors to submit themselves for reAppointment, Re-election and Resignation Yes 36 election A8.1 Re-election in accordance with Appointment, Re-election and Resignation Yes 36 Companies Act A8.2 Re-election by shareholders Appointment, Re-election and Resignation Yes 36 A8.3 Resignation Appointment, Re-election and Resignation Yes 36 A.9. Appraisal of Board & Committee Performance A 9.1 Formal annual assessment The Board is in the process of setting up a formal Yes 40 Board appraisal mechanism A9.2 Self-evaluation. Nomination Committee The Board is in the process of setting up a formal Yes 40 to assess improvements Board appraisal mechanism A9.3 Review participation, engagement and Appointment, Re-election and Resignation Yes 36 contribution of each director at Re-election A9.4 disclose evaluation procedure in Annual Board Evaluation Yes 40 report A.10 Annual Report to disclose specified Directors' Profiles Yes 26 information regarding Directors A.11 Annual appraisal of the CEO Appraisal of MD/CEO Yes 40 A11.1 Predefined targets Appraisal of MD/CEO Yes 40 A11.2 Year end appraisal Appraisal of MD/CEO Yes 40 B. Directors’ Remuneration B.1. Establish process for developing policy Remuneration Policy Yes 40 on executive and Director remuneration. B.2. Level & Make Up of Remuneration Level and Make Up of Remuneration Yes 40 B.3 Disclosures Yes 112 Remuneration Policy statement Remuneration Policy Aggregate Board remuneration paid Financial Statements HRRC report Report of the Remuneration Committee 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Code Ref. Disclosure Compliance Page Ref. C. Relations with Shareholders C.1. Constructive use of the AGM & Other Constructive use of Annual General Meeting (AGM) Yes 41 General Meetings C.2. Communication with shareholders Communication with Shareholders Yes 40 C.3. Major and Material Transactions Disclosure of Major Transactions Yes 41 D. Accountability & Audit D.1 Accountability & audit Communication with Shareholders – Annual Yes 40 Report D1.1 Balanced Annual Report Communication with Shareholders Yes 40 D1.2 Balanced and understandable Corporate communication Yes 40 communication D1.3 CEO/CFO declaration Chief Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial Yes 114 Officer’s Responsibility Statement D 1.4 Directors Report declarations Annual report of the Board of Directors on the Yes 115 Affairs of the Company D1.5 Financial reporting -statement on board Directors’ Responsibility for Financial Reporting Yes 120 responsibilities, Statement on internal control Directors’ Statement on Internal Control D1.6 Management Discussion & Analysis Capital reports Yes 64 D1.7 Net Assets < 50% In the unlikely event of the net assets of the Company falling below 50% of Shareholders Funds the Board will summon an Extraordinary Yes 41 General Meeting (EGM) to notify the shareholders of the position and to explain the remedial action being taken D1.8 Related Party Transactions report Directors’ Interest in Contracts with the Company Yes 39 D.2. Risk Management & Internal Control Risk Management and Internal Control Yes 94 D2.1 Monitor, review and report risk and Report of the Audit Committee Yes 110 internal control systems D2.2 Confirm assessment and risks identified Risk Review Yes 94 and mitigated D2.3 Internal audit function Risk Management and Internal Control Yes 94 D2.4 Board responsibilities for disclosure Risk Review / Directors’ Statement on Internal Yes 120 Control D2.5 Directors responsibility for internal Directors’ Statement on Internal Control Yes 120 control system D.3. Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee Yes 110 D.4 Related Party Transactions Review Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Yes 113 Committee Committee D.5. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Code of Conduct and Ethics Yes 40 D 5.1 Board declaration for compliance with Code of Conduct and Ethics 40 Code Yes Schedule Jtopics recommended D 5.2 price sensitive information Relations with Shareholders Yes 40 D 5.3 Monitor Share purchase by Directors/ Other Business Commitments / Related Party KPI Transactions / Conflicts of Interests Yes 39 D5.4 Chairman’s statement Chairman’s Message Yes 18 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code Ref. Disclosure Compliance Page Ref. D.6 Corporate Governance Disclosures Corporate Governance Report Yes 34 E /F . Institutional and other Investors Relations with Shareholders Yes 40 G. Internet of Things & Cybersecurity G.1 Identify connectivity and related cyber Yes 41 risks G.2 Appoint a CISO and allocate budget to Yes 41 implement a cybersecurity policy Cyber Security G.3 Include cyber security in Board agenda Yes 41 G.4 Obtain periodic assurance to Yes 41 review effectiveness of cybersecurity risk management G.5 Disclosures in Annual Report Yes 42 H. Environment, Society & Governance Sustainability Reporting Yes 42 H Sustainability Reporting Service Service excellence is driven through on time delivery and a detailed focus on fabric specifications with the aim of delighting our customers. This is supported by structured relationship management to understand customer needs and expectations in order to deliver service excellence supporting mutual growth. Responsibility We take responsibility for our actions that affect our stakeholders and are committed to creating shared value through sustainable practices. 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Statement of Compliance under Section 7.6 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) on Annual Report Disclosure Rule Compliance Reference Status (i) Names of persons who were Directors of the Entity Yes Profiles of Board of Directors pages 26 to 30 (ii) Principal activities of the entity during the year, and any Yes Note to the Financial Statements changes therein Page 130 (iii) The names and the number of shares held by the 20 Yes Share Information Page 165 largest holders of voting and non-voting shares and the percentage of such shares held (iv) The public holding percentage Yes Share information Page 165 (v) A statement of each Director’s holding and Chief Executive Yes Share information Page 165 Officer’s holding in shares of the Entity at the beginning and end of each financial year (vi) Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk factors of Yes Risk Management Page 94 the Entity (vii) Details of material issues pertaining to employees and Yes The Capital reports Page 64 industrial relations of the Entity (viii) Extents, locations, valuations and the number of buildings Yes Note to the Financial Statements of the Entity’s land holdings and investment properties Page 143 (ix) Number of shares representing the Entity’s stated capital Yes Note to the Financial Statements Page 146 (x) A distribution schedule of the number of holders in each Yes Share information Page 164 class of equity securities, and the percentage of their total holdings (xi) Financial ratios and market price information Yes Ten year summary Page 161 & Share Information Page 164 (xii) Significant changes in the Company’s fixed assets, and the Yes Note to the Financial Statements market value of land, if the value differs substantially from Page 143 the book value as at the end of the year (xiii) Details of funds raised through a public issue, rights issue Yes Not Applicable and a private placement during the year (xiv) Information in respect of Employee Share Ownership or Yes Not Applicable Stock Option Schemes (xv) Disclosures pertaining to Corporate Governance practices Yes Corporate Governance in terms of Rules 7.10.3, 7.10.5 c. and 7.10.6 c. of Section Commentary Pages 34 to 48 7 of the Listing Rules (xvi) Related Party transactions exceeding 10 per cent of the Yes Corporate Governance equity or 5 per cent of the total assets of the Entity as per Commentary Pages 34 to 48 audited financial statements, whichever is lower HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 49 Management Discussion & Analysis 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Focus on Strategy ......................................................... 52 Statement of Value Added ............................................. 59 Operating Environment .................................................. 60 The Capitals Report ....................................................... 64 Way Forward ................................................................. 92 Managing Risk ............................................................... 94 GRI Index .................................................................... 100 Independent Assurance Report ................................... 104 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 51 FOCUS ON STRATEGY Creating Value Over the recent years, we’ve followed a clear set of strategies to create a niche market as an innovative fabric solution provider. Our success today is reflected in our strong financial performance and market positioning as a business fit for purpose in a dynamic and conscientious fashion industry. Leveraging on the understanding gained and tools developed, we are geared to drive greater sustainable value for all stakeholders whilst realizing our vision for the Company. Our Business Model How We Create Value End to End Inputs Manufacturing Capabilities Financial Capital Page 65 Manufactured Capital Page 70 Social & Relationship Capital Page 73 Human Capital Page 79 Natural Capital Page 84 Intellectual Capital Page 90 Value Created for Stakeholders Shareholders Customers Employees Government EBITDA USD 4.86 Mn Fabric produced 9,004 MT Remuneration USD 7.77 Mn Taxes paid USD 0.38 Mn Total assets USD 47.61 Mn New Inno products 7 Training hours 3,024 Foreign exchange USD 69.12 Mn Impact 1,822,231 M3 62% 74 GJ/MT Water Withdrawal Renewable Energy Energy Intensity 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Comprehensive Manufacturing Solutions We offer end to end manufacturing solutions for an extensive portfolio of fabric which includes cotton, polyester, nylon and blends. Our services range from design , product development and customization to knitting, dyeing and finishing using advanced manufacturing technologies operated by a skilled team ensuring high quality, competitive pricing and short lead time. Product Quality Innovation We are passionate about creating innovative products that cater to the complex needs of our customers. Our dedicated research and development team have the industry insights and technical expertise to design and develop bespoke fashion forward fabric of varied textures and hues. Environment and Social Agility Sustainability Strong relationships throughout our supply chain, investments in technology and lean workflows within the factory enable us to compete effectively on flexibility, speed and cost. A key competitive advantage, we constantly raise the bar as we continue to fine tune our processes and systems. Service In-depth customer engagement focused on understanding customer needs better has enabled us to deliver service excellencefabric solutions that meet the expectations of high-end retail fashion brands. Customer Centricity Responsibility We take responsibility for our actions that affect our stakeholders and are committed to creating shared value through sustainable practices. Innovation and Product Development Suppliers Community Lenders Direct employment 1,391 Interest USD 0.99 Mn Yarn 5,886 MT Indirect employment Loans USD 15.19 Mn No. of developments 120 > 1,500 jobs 30,347 tCO2e 1,905 MT 94% Emissions Total Waste Employee Retention HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 53 FOCUS ON STRATEGY Stakeholder Identification As a large fabric manufacturer in the country, the Company engages with a number of stakeholders in different ways. The Company identifies a stakeholder as a person or an entity who has the potential to impact the business or whom the Company has an impact on. Stakeholder Engagement Engaging with stakeholders is a shared responsibility across the organization with both formal and informal feedback playing a key role in how we enhance our value creation processes. Brand Owners & Apparel Manufacturers Investors Employees Importance Engagement with brand owners and Investor Relations is a structured Managing employee relationships apparel manufacturers drives innovation process with sign off by the Board is key to driving growth, and supports our growth on written communications innovation and productivity • Multi layered relationship • Quarterly Financial Statements • Open-door policy management Engagement • Press releases • Formal performance • Visits appraisals • Trade exhibitions & fairs • Annual Report Mechanisms • Regular meetings with unions • Customer survey • Annual General Meeting • Quality & performance review • Communication of company • CSE Announcements performance • Innovations • Earnings & Dividends • Remuneration • Product quality • Growth prospects • Employee benefits Concerns • Lead times • Environment & social impact • Conducive workplace • Labour practices • Governance • Training & development • Environmental footprint • Share price and liquidity • Career progression • Sustainable supply chain • Health & safety • Price competitiveness • Invested in R & D center • Augmented synthetic • Benchmarked remuneration business through new product and benefits to industry stats How We Managed Concerns • Invested in technology upgrades developments, innovations • Fair and transparent • Engaged in Lean manufacturing processes • New buyers performance appraisal • Increased penetration with system • Implemented TPM existing buyers • Established new collective • Obtained new accreditations agreement • Subcontracted part • Employee training and development manufacturing/ bottlenecks • Employee engagement • Employee engagement • Improved productivity and cost initiatives • Maintained good industrial relations efficiencies • Enhanced biodiversity, • Improved social and environmental practices environmental practices • Strengthened supply chain • Obtained new accreditations • Better understanding of our • Good relationship with • Better understanding Outcomes business model, our strengths and shareholders of company policies, values • Positive reputation amongst performance and • Increased awareness of our investors management decisions commitment to sustainability • Inclusivity in decision making Social & Relationship Capital Report on Investor Relations information on Human Capital Report on page Report page 73 page 164 79 Reference 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Suppliers Regulators Community Large scale suppliers are We engage with government As a responsible corporate, our Importance assessed for environment and agencies to ensure compliance engagements with the community social practices and are typically with regulatory requirements are multi-faceted: as an employer, a accredited by brand owners while responsible manufacturer and through SMEs in the vicinity are given strategic philanthropy preference for ancillary services • Relationship management • Regular visits to premises • Engagement with religious leaders Engagement • Feedback • Filing of returns & tax • Workshops • Supplier assessment forms compliances • Village festivals Mechanisms • Visits • Compliance with CEA, BOI, SEC & CSE regulations • Capacity • Compliance with regulations • Employment Concerns • Timely payments • Timely payments • Livelihoods • Constructive feedback • Environmental protection • Sponsorships • Social and environment • Compliance with applicable conformity regulations • Established procurement • Finance division monitors • Offered ancillary services to SME in How We Managed committee compliance the vicinity • Shared sustainable social and • Identified philanthropic initiatives environmental practices Concerns • Social and environmental • An opportunity to share • Increased awareness of Hayleys compliance throughout the the Hayleys Fabric PLC’s Fabric PLC’s sustainability Outcomes supply chain commitment, policies commitments • Good relationship with and procedures towards • Better understanding of business shareholders sustainable operations • Stronger relationship with Hayleys Fabric PLC Social & Relationship Capital Investor Relations information on Social & Relationship Capital Report on Report Report on page 73 page 164 page 73 Reference HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 55 FOCUS ON STRATEGY Determining Material Issues We believe the issues identified below are the most relevant and important to the operation of our business and creation of value. These were identified, evaluated and prioritized as summarized in the heat map and table below, considering their significance to stakeholders and economic, social and environmental impact to the Company. 4JHOJmDBODFUP$PNQBOZ 4JHOJmDBOU*NQBDU )JHI*NQBDU $SJUJDBM -PX*NQBDU 4JHOJmDBOU*NQBDU )JHI*NQBDU /PU.BUFSJBM -PX*NQBDU 4JHOJmDBOU*NQBDU 4JHOJmDBODFUP4UBLFIPMEFS Critical High Impact Signiﬁcant Impact Quality Compliance Labour relations Innovation High service levels Supplier assessment Short lead times State of the art technology Product labelling Industrial safety Local community relations Anti–corruption Speed of delivery Government policy Grievance mechanisms Timely delivery Raw material Bio diversity Product responsibility Customer health and safety Child labour Flexible manufacturing Training & development Forced labour Cost efficiency Emissions Water Energy Effluents & waste REFLECTING CHANGES IN 2018/19 The heat map was reviewed to reflect the greater emphasis on innovation, quality, short lead times and Industrial safety on the Company’s business model following shifts in industry trends. New factors added to ‘Critical Impact’ Factor Reason Quality These parameters are critical when catering to high end customers Short lead times Industrial safety This is one of the key benchmarks that the Company needs to adhere to New factors added / shifted to ‘High Impact’ Factor Reason Compliance This is one of the key benchmarks that the Company needs to adhere to High service levels Essential to enhance our credibility 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Strategy The business strategy was developed, taking into consideration matters deemed as Critical in the heat map above. Key Performance Indicators identified for each material issue are proactively monitored throughout the year, with responsibilities assigned to relevant heads of department ensuring progress towards achievement of goals. Vision To be the most sought-after fabric manufacturer in South Asia Strategic Drivers Proﬁtability Growth Innovation Speed Drive Revenue growth and cost Goals Grow Inno brand Increase agility of Supply chain efficiency Strategy • New buyers • New Inno product • Restructure process flow • Enhanced capacity developments • Increase raw material • Increase penetration with • Invest in R&D, dedicated inventory existing buyers R&D centre • Improve machine productivity • Engage in lean • Stimulate learning culture by Investment in new manufacturing processes technology • Implement TPM • Implement TPM • Incentivise labour productivity through training, rewards • Invest in new technology, Improve cost efficiencies, productivity Key Performance Fashion Brands +1 New Product + 74 new Lead time 3 days for Indicators (KPI) > 9 Cumulative developments > 400 speed orders Cumulative Innovation Inventory Revenue 21% increase and product 67% of the GP holding 62 days developments GP Margin 37% increase Investment R&D USD 16,793 in plant and USD 0.6 Mn expenditure 94 projects machinery TPM project Average monthly cost savings USD 38,426 Enablers Inspiring our team Nurturing our capitals Human Capital page 79 Financial Capital page 65 Manufactured Capital page 70 Intellectual Capital page 90 Social and Relationship Capital page 73 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 57 FOCUS ON STRATEGY Strategic Happy Reliability Quality Service Drivers Employees Improve Corporate Drive Technological Focus on Customer Nurture Motivated and Goals Responsibility advancement centricity productive employees Strategy • Improve environmental • Invest in and • Close customer • Fair remuneration impact upgrade to new engagement to • Employee technology understand needs engagement • Improve society impact • Invest in training • Invest in training and • Invest in training and • Increase accreditations and development development development • Engage in brand • Enhance customer • Career progression building CSR initiatives value proposition • Health and safety Key Accreditations + 6 New Investment in USD 1.5 Innovation 40% of the Employee USD 21 Performance > 47 new factory Mn and product Revenue productivity per man Indicators cumulative building developments hour (KPI) Remuneration Carbon 3% Training and Alignment 80% 90% 8% emission Reduction development 3,024 with customer Increase intensity hours strategy Retention Quality rates 94% Renewable 62% inspection 100% Dye cycle time Reduction energy of total from 24 No. of work energy hours to related Nil consumed 12 hours fatalities Indirect for certain employment > 2000 qualities of jobs fabric Enablers Responsible Business Corporate Governance Page 34 Risk Management Page 94 Natural Capital Page 84 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC STATEMENT OF VALUE ADDED 2019 2018 USD USD Revenue 69,940,639 57,686,803 Cost of production & other OH (55,998,309) (46,024,262) Value added by operating activities 13,942,330 11,662,541 Distributed to: Employees Salaries, wages and other benefits 8,992,898 8,560,963 Government Taxes 375,131 311,946 Lenders Interest 991,393 827,555 Distribution 10,359,422 9,700,464 Gross value retained 3,582,908 1,962,077 VALUE VALUE CREATED DISTRIBUTED & RETAINED Revenue Value Created USD 69.9 Mn USD 13.9 Mn Employee USD 9 Mn Government USD 0.3 Mn Lenders Cost of materials & USD 1 Mn services Retained USD 56 Mn USD 3.6 Mn HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 59 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Economic Environment Sri Lanka’s subdued economic growth of 3.2% in 2018 was well below projections following unfavourable domestic and external developments. Political instability, weak domestic demand and continued tightening of monetary and fiscal policy underpinned political and economic tensions, hindering business and investor sentiment. However, the impact to the Company was not significant in view of the fact that it is an export oriented B2B business. INFLATION EXCHANGE RATE Sri Lanka economic indicators Tightening of fiscal and monetary LKR Depreciated sharply by 16.4% % % policy contained headline inflation (2017 2%) against the USD, 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 at low single digit levels against following widening trade deficit, 18 rising interest rates. investment outflows combined with 16 tightening US market conditions -2 14 GROSS FOREIGN RESERVES and less market intervention by the Declined to USD 6.9 Bn by year Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL). -4 12 end, providing an import cover of 10 -6 3.7 months. 8 CURRENT ACCOUNT Improved foreign exchange -8 6 TRADE VOLUMES inflows from tourism and workers’ 4 IMPORTS : grew 6.0% to USD 22.2 remittances helped cushion impact -10 Bn whilst 2 on current account -12 0 EXPORTS: grew 4.7% to USD 11.9Bn. Key export was textile and BUDGET DEFICIT Budget deficit % of GDP Trade deficit % of GDP garments accounting for 44.7% of USD/LKR depreciation % Narrowed to 5.3% of GDP exports Annual average inflation % through the Government’s fiscal Standing lending facility rate (SLFR) % consolidation efforts. Standing depository facility rate (SLDR) % TRADE DEFICIT Expanded on the back of increased Source : CBSL Annual Report 2018 import of personal vehicles and fuel. Import restrictions imposed towards the end of the year, lagged impact. GDP growth Despite a resurgence in activity in 2017, global expansion weakened in 2018 to % 3.6%, following a slowdown in manufacturing and trade and tightening financial 8 conditions. International trade was mainly affected by trade tensions, notably 7 between the United States and China impacting policy uncertainty. 6 USA , Sri Lanka’s main apparel China, the largest global exporter 5 export market, witnessed steadfast of apparel and textiles, continued growth in 2018, as tax cuts fueled its managed slowdown, to avoid 4 consumption demand. overheating the economy. 3 2 The Eurozone and UK economies, 1 other key apparel markets slowed, plagued by political 0 2016 2017 2018 2019* 2020* uncertainty, particularly in the Sri Lanka World UK, over ambiguity on the likely Advanced Economy Euro Areas consequences of Brexit. Emerging Markets US UK China * Forecasted Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, Jan 2019 & CBSL Annual Report 2018 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Apparel and Textile Fashion Industry GLOBAL GROWTH 4.7% to USD 1.6 trillion in 2017 FASTEST GROWTH Geographical markets FASTEST GROWTH Products Emerging markets in Asia Pacific at 7.5%, particularly Sportswear,at 7%, offering customers a combination of China and India, driven by rising middle class expansion both fashion and functionality Source Mckinsey Source Mckinsey FASTEST GROWTH Delivery TOP GLOBAL APPAREL TOP GLOBAL TEXTILE Channel EXPORTERS-2017 EXPORTERS 2017 E -Commerce sales grew 25% in China-35% of exports China 37% of exports 2017, accounting for 10% of global EU 27% India 6% retail sales. Bangladesh 7% USA -5% Vietnam 6% Source Statista Source WTO Source: WTO Current retail trends are driven by a combination of new technologies, social media and shifting preferences of consumers as demographics begin to skew younger consumers who increasingly seek variety, convenience and sustainability while demanding affordability, speed and increased transparency throughout the value chain. Elevated consumer expectations are now technical possibilities. Consumers expect instant gratification and speed-to-market has developed into a key differentiating factor of brand owners. To be successful in the new paradigm, industry players must be nimble, think digital-first, and achieve faster speed-tomarket. They need to be proactive on social issues, deliver on consumer demands for transparency and sustainability, think fresh and be fearlessly innovative to appeal to the changing preferences of younger consumers. Global apperel exporters USD Mn 200,000 180,000 160,000 140,000 120,000 30,000 24,000 18,000 12,000 6,000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sri Lanka Cambodia Indonesia India Vietnam Bangladesh China Source: World Trade Organization 2018 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 61 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Sri Lankan Context Apparel export markets Valued at USD 5,317.7 Mn and accounting for 44.7% of total exports in 2018, (2017 – USD 5,031.9 Mn, 44.3%), Apparel and textile is Sri Lanka’s lead export USD Mn 2,500 and a key contributor to the economy. The industry comprises approximately 300 apparel manufacturers and 4 large scale fabric mills, of which Hayleys Fabric was a pioneer. 2,000 Fabric mills mainly supply local apparel manufacturers, partially substituting textile 1,500 imports. The Sri Lankan apparel and textile industry has nurtured a reputation of being a strategic supply chain partner to reputed global brands including NIKE, 1,000 Victoria’s Secret, Next, Gap, Decathlon, TESCO,H&M, and Tommy Hilfiger; building competitive edge on value-addition with greater emphasis on innovation and design, product quality, on time delivery and ability to manufacture niche 500 products. Positioned as Garments without guilt , attention to sound social and environmental policies and practices has been a key differentiator. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sri Lanka’s main market is the USA, accounting for 46 % of total exports, US EU Others followed by the EU ( excluding UK) 24% and UK 15 % in 2018. Exports to the Source: Sri Lanka Apparel Exporters Association 2018 USA grew 6% ( 2017 – 2%) as the country benefited from the GSP+ programme, trade tensions between the USA and China and improved consumer sentiment in the USA. Export growth to the EU remained static at 4% attributed to the economic slowdown in the region and prolonged winter impacting consumer’s pattern of purchasing. Local apparel FOB improved for the second consecutive year, by 1%, from USD 5.24 to USD 5.32, reflecting the shift towards manufacture of value-added products. Regional apparel exporters 2017 USD Mn China Bangladesh Vietnam India Indonesia Cambodia Sri Lanka 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000 140,000 160,000 180,000 Regional Apparel manufacturers such as Bangladesh, Vietnam and Cambodia have grown significantly in comparison to Sri Lanka, due to cost competitiveness from scalability and preferential access to major markets. Sri Lanka’s growth has been underpinned by innovation and value addition to niche markets. Source: World Trade Organization 2018 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Opportunities Threats Business potential for innovators Over dependence on few export markets Large retailers seek to remain at the forefront of Though, over 85% of supply is to USA and EU, Sri Lanka’s innovation by leveraging their scale to fast-track exports account only for 1.8% and 0.8% of USA and EU textile capability building through mergers and acquisitions of & garment import volumes respectively smaller players and partnering innovation labs (Source : World Bank /World Integrated Trade Solution, 2017) Growing trend of nearshoring and on-shoring Availability of skilled labour and productivity Escalating trade tensions between the USA and China, Productivity of labour employed in the apparel sector of Sri has increased trade costs, resulting in many retail Lanka is identified to be low in comparison with competitors due brands seeking to move production closer to markets to factors such as lack of properly trained labour, higher level of in the East, through nearshoring or on-shoring labour turnover and rigidity in labour laws Capitalize on China’s shift in focus from apparel to New entrants textiles Central and Eastern European, countries such as Czech Republic, China’s gradual scale down of its apparel manufacture Hungary, and Bulgaria have become important apparel suppliers to with increased focus on textiles, is opportunity for industry the European market players to gain market share in apparel, whilst building specialized markets in textile Innovation Maintaining the status of a leading fabric innovator is challenging given products cannot be patented due to the nature of the industry and duplicates are created within a short period of time Sportswear dominates as the fastest growing product segment HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 63 THE CAPITALS REPORT We energise our business by investing in our CAPITALS and nurturing it for sustainable growth. 65 USD 69.94 Mn 70 9,004 MT Financial Capital Revenue Manufactured Capital Fabric produced 2018: USD 57.69 Mn 2018: 7,572 MT 73 851 79 94% Social & Relationship Capital Employees from < 15 Km Human Capital Employee retention rate radius 2018: 94% 2018: 821 84 663,174 GJ 90 40% Natural Capital Direct energy consumption Intellectual Capital % of Revenue from Innovations 2018 : 613,771 GJ & product proposals 2018 : 32% 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC FINANCIAL CAPITAL 21% 37% USD USD 46% Revenue growth GP growth 1.06 Mn 47.61 Mn PAT Total assets Gearing 2018/19 was an exciting and busy year for Hayleys Revenue, GP & PBT Fabric PLC. Anticipated orders of Inno and in-house USD Mn % product developments by top US fashion brands, 80 14 materialized during the year, turning around ﬁnancial 70 12 performance. Strong topline growth and margin 60 10 expansion drove PBT by over 100% to USD 1.85 Mn 50 (2017/18 loss of USD 0.05 Mn) and EPS by 256% to 8 40 USD 0.005. 6 30 4 20 A robust Financial Position, growing pipeline of orders 10 2 and healthy progress against our strategic goals leaves 0 0 us conﬁdent for the future. -10 -2 2016 2017 2018 2019 Revenue USD Mn Gross Profit % PBT % HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 65 FINANCIAL CAPITAL Revenue Revenue grew 21% to a record turnover of USD 69.9Mn underpinned by 20% volume growth and improved pricing from a richer sales product mix. Inno accounted for 20% of volume growth, contributing 4% (2017/18 0.3%) to revenue and 10% to Gross Profit. Product developments & Innovations contributed 38% to Revenue (2017/18 32%). Increased consumer interest following improved economic outlook in the US, deeper collaboration with fashion brands in developing customized products and increase in the number of successful market trials buoyed materialization of Inno orders. Revenue from other products grew 12% to USD 43.69Mn compounding top line growth. Overall, sales of synthetic fabric grew to 42% ( 2017/18 – 34%) driven by the athleisure product line. Hayleys Fabric PLC part outsourced production to meet the orders of lower end products, due to insufficient factory capacity given the focus on Inno, as explained on page 77 Outsourcing. Despite outsourcing, some selected orders were yet foregone to meet delivery commitments of accepted orders. Current factory capacity utilization stands at over 91%. Product mix Product categories Revenue from Inno & other % USD Mn 100 80 25 20 70 80 18 32 60 22 % 50 60 28 15 2019 40 40 2018 40 30 Babywear Lingerie (Intimates) 20 20 Athleisure Others 10 0 0 2017 2018 2019 Athleisure surpassed Baby wear, 2016 2017 2018 2019 Cotton & cotton blends manufactured from cotton/cotton Revenue from Inno & developments Polyester & polyester blends blends, as the key product line in Revenue -other Other 2018/19. The shift towards synthetic fabric accelerated during the year. At present, Polyester and polyester blends account for 42% (34% 2017/18) of revenue. Gross Profit depreciation of LKR against USD materials through initiatives including Gross profit grew 37% to USD during the year on local payments the following; 8.34Mn and GP margin increased including energy and labour, offset Monitoring of yarn global price to 12% ( 2017/18: 11% ), largely on higher input costs. movements and placement of improved pricing from Inno and other forward bookings based on synthetic fabric and reduction in cost Cost of raw materials, comprising yarn and dyes accounting for over 70% of forecast trends of sales per kg sold. cost of sales, was prudently managed Collaborating with suppliers to at 4% increase per kg sold. The develop Low priced dyes without Cost of Sales main reason for lower increase, is the compromising quality Cost of sales per kg sold reduced 1% shift in product mix from cotton yarn during the year notwithstanding the to polyester. Cost of dyes however Engaging in research and increased shift towards production increased following the enhanced development with suppliers to find of costly synthetic fabric. Tight use of quality dyes in synthetic fabric. cost effective substitutes. cost management and productivity Hayleys Fabric PLC is conscious of improvements combined with Cost of energy / kg sold declined its input costs, critically managing positive forex impact from the sharp in comparison to the previous year 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC despite increased consumption Cost of sales composition Global cotton & synthetic yarn prices mainly due to depreciation of LKR USD Mn USD/Kg against USD ,and in addition energy 70 4.0 saving initiatives. Energy saving initiatives as explained on page 3.8 60 86, contributed towards curtailing 3.6 consumption. 50 3.4 Lean processes and high levels 40 3.2 of cost consciousness facilitated 30 3.0 efficiencies in reducing costs. The wastage division continued to drive 2.8 20 the identification, monitor and control 2.6 of production related wastage in all 10 departments whilst the TPM (Total 2.4 Productive Maintenance) program 0 2.2 benefited lower machine down time 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 and productivity gains. Raw material Energy Polyester Cotton Labour Depreciation Others Source: The United Nations, Comtrade database 2019 Operating Expenses Operational expenses Borrowings Vs Finance cost Operating expenses increased 7%, in a year where we invested to support USD '000' USD Mn USD Mn USD Mn our revenue growth initiatives resulted 7 35 20 1.2 in increasing selling & distribution expenses while maintaining admin 6 30 1.0 expenses without significant increase 15 5 25 compare to last year. 0.8 4 20 Research and development (R & 10 0.6 D) expenditure reflects the cost of 3 15 fabric used to develop samples. 0.4 2 10 Relevant overhead costs are absorbed 5 separately. Although only 47 (2017/18 1 5 0.2 – 150) new products were developed 0 0 0 0.0 during the year, their potential for 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 commercialization is comparably Selling & distribution USD Mn Borrowings higher considering our customer Administrative expenses USD Mn Finance Cost Net finance cost USD Mn centric approach adopted. Research & development USD '000' Interest on borrowings increased by 20% on account of rising global USD interest rates (LIBOR), despite settlement of debt. Forex impact on LKR related expenses positively impacted net finance cost as the USD is the reporting currency of the Company. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 67 FINANCIAL CAPITAL PBT, PAT & Cash Profit Operating cash flows before working Capital Expenditure Profit before tax (PBT) grew capitals changes grew significantly Hayleys Fabric PLC invested in substantially to USD 1.85Mn by 59% to USD 5.26Mn ( 2017/18 expanding production capacity (2017/18 – Loss 0.05Mn) and profit -USD 3.30Mn) through improved whilst continuing to upgrade after tax (PAT) to USD 1.06Mn (2017 profitability. their technology to state of the /18-Loss 0.68Mn). Cash profits rose art, keeping abreast of modern However, Operating cash flows after to USD 4.46Mn (2017/18 – 2.52Mn). manufacturing techniques and working capital adjustment has driving product quality, flexibility, A provision of USD 0.79Mn has been declined by 31% to USD 2.93Mn cost efficiency and environment made in respect of income tax which (2017/18 : USD 4.24Mn) mainly sustainability. This year, investments fully represents Economic Service due to increase in Inventory by USD were made in quality control, dyeing charge (ESC) of USD 0.34Mn paid 1.86Mn (2017/18: USD 0.39Mn). and finishing machines for USD in 2018/19 and the deferred tax of This increase in Inventory is to cater 0.59Mn. USD 0.45Mn. to Tier 1 customers’ short lead time demand. Rising asset turnover reflects With the enactment of the Inland efficient use of PPE in generating Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017, the Settlement terms were renegotiated sustainable profits. Company is able to claim all taxable with customers on the back of losses to the extent of taxable increased business volumes and Capital expenditure & Assets turnover income in an entity. Considering stronger relationships reducing USD Mn Times that, Economic Service Charge debtor days by a week to 44 days, 4 2.0 (ESC) paid is recoverable only whilst smart settlement terms during the year of payment and two negotiated from suppliers last year continued to benefit cash flows. 3 1.5 subsequent years, the Management has made an assessment of ESC These gains more than offset cash recoverable and accordingly, ESC outflows on increased inventory 2 1.0 paid in 2018/19 was fully charged to holding, inherent of an agile supply the Income Statement. chain capable of delivering on speed orders from high end customers. 1 0.5 Cash Flows, Working Capital Cash generated was invested in and Liquidity capital expenditure nurturing future 0 0 growth, and balance utilized to settle 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operating cash ﬂow, Current & Quick debt. Investment in PP&E USD Mn assets ratios Asset turnover ratio Times USD Mn Times Increased inventory holding weighed 5 1.8 down on Company's current ratio. 1.6 4 1.4 Inventories 3 1.2 2.49 2 1.0 4.84 1 0.8 2.58 4.15 0 0.6 1.62 USD Mn 1.39 0.4 3.40 -1 0.2 2019 -2 0.0 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 4.35 Operating cashflow USD Mn Raw materials Work-in-progress Quick asset ratio Times Finished goods Stock consumables Current ratio Times 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Capital Structure Value Added Capital structure strengthened Through sound strategy and on the back of higher profits and efficient use of capital to create settlement of debt. Gearing (defined higher profits, we continued to grow as debt/debt+equity) declined to positive value generated by our 46% (2017/18 – 50%) and Return on operations, as reflected on page 59 Capital Employed (ROCE) rose to 8 – Statement of value added. % by year end (2017/18: 3%). Capital structure USD Mn % 25 60 50 20 40 15 30 10 20 5 10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Equity USD Mn Total borrowings USD Mn ROCE % Gearing % Of the total debt outstanding of USD 15.18 Mn at the year end, only USD 1.05 Mn (7%) is payable after 1 year. Borrowing composition 6 24 % 13 58 Term loans Short term loans Import loans Bank overdraft HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 69 MANUFACTURED CAPITAL 9,004 MT USD 1.73 Mn 91% 7 451 MT Fabric Investment Capacity No. of Outsourced produced in PP&E utilization Innovations production Manufactured Capital Value Lean manufacturing Lower Sufficient High quality Flexible Speed of Innovative driving efficiencies environmental production standards production delivery products and cost impact capacity/month reduction As a leading fabric mill in the region offering innovative, customized fabric solutions to international retail brands, our manufactured capital is a critical element of our value creation process. We regularly invest in best in class machinery and innovative technology, to enhance the reliability and ﬂexibility of our production processes and the quality of our products. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC A state-of-the-art facility, the Hayleys Fabric PLC plant is highly diversified and is capable of producing a comprehensive range of value-added products and finishes including peach finish, Brushing (in large capacity), Sueding, Printing (discharge printing, reactive printing, pigment printing and embossing) in pure and blended polyester, nylon and cotton fabric. In recognition of our capabilities, Hayleys Fabric PLC has been appointed the designated synthetic fabric supplier in Sri Lanka to a top global apparel brand. Our Manufacturing Facility Designing Developing Knitting Sueding Brushing/Shearing Dyeing Finishing/Drying Printing Finishing QA Production planning tool Fast React is interfaced with ERP system SAP, to seamlessly integrate all business functions and ensure on time delivery Inno (R & D) Centre Effluent Treatment Plant Bio Mass Plant LPG Plant Solid Waste Management This year we consolidated on our past capex investments, reaping the envisioned benefits, as we watched business volumes expand under the new strategy. We were selective in our investments expensing only those that were critical to the synthetic business. These include: • Augmenting printing capability with advanced laser engraver • Enhancing dyeing capability with new dye machines, automatic lab dispensing system and Improving quality control through new inspection machines having advanced technology • Upgrading existing stenters to improve productivity, quality and speed Capital expenditure Property, Plant & Equipment PP & E turnover and capacity utilisation USD Mn USD Mn % Times 4.0 26 95 4 3.5 25 90 3.0 3 24 85 2.5 2.0 23 80 2 1.5 22 75 1.0 1 21 70 0.5 0 20 65 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Investment in PP & E Property, Plant & Equipment Capacity utilsiaion % PP & E turnover Times An improvement in capacity utilization is seen especially in 2019. This is mainly attributable to the materialization of bulk volumes of innovative fabric. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 71 MANUFACTURED CAPITAL Having reached optimum production capacity manufacturing Inno and premium synthetic fabric orders for Tier 1 customers, a bottleneck was identified in knitting cotton greige used in the manufacture of lower end products of Tier 2 customers. Hayleys Fabric PLC opted to outsource the production of greige, as further explained on page 77 . During the year, Company outsourced over 400 MT fabric due to lack of in-house capacity. Enhanced dyeing capability with new dye machines and automatic lab dispensing system Augmenting printing capability with advanced laser engraver New chemical warehouse which facilitates the systematic and safe storage of chemicals Effluent treatment plant Establishment of the new knitting building 54 acres of land, of which 20 acres are forest reserve ‘Fast React’ planning tool interfaced to ‘SAP’ ERP systems with ‘File Maker Advance Pro’ 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 47 USD 23,969 42 USD 61 Mn USD 15 Mn No. of Accreditation/ Investment in No. of Total payments Payments made Certifications and made to to local suppliers Memberships CSR activities customers suppliers Relationship capital is critical to our growth and is carefully nurtured throughout the year through a Percentage of revenue from Innovations comprehensive framework of policies and structured & product proposals % relationship management processes in pursuit of our 45 goal to become a trusted partner. 40 35 30 Satisﬁed 25 Customers 20 15 10 5 Social & Relationship Capital 0 Trusted Partner 2016 2017 2018 2019 Reliable Suppliers Uplifted Community HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 73 SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Satisfied Customers This year we narrowed our customer engagement to focus on the specialized needs of Tier 1 brand owners enhancing our relationship through greater understanding of their needs. This has allowed us to cater to their specific requirements in designing and developing a high value and fashion forward portfolio of fabric that has gained their interest through confirmed orders. Bespoke products combined with strengthening demand in the USA, catalyzed demand for Hayleys Fabric PLC’s innovative products, driving significant sales growth. Sales of Inno grew sharply to account for 3 % (2017/18 – 0.4%) of total sales. Customers & Engagement Markets We engage with the Tier 1 brand Hayleys Fabric PLC’s export market is in the process of shifting to the USA, owners through regular visits to accounting for 20% of total sales ( 2017/18 – 16%) driven by 100% of Inno offices/ factories, dedicated account sales. Other markets are the UK – 30%( 2017/18 – 36%) and EU – 45% teams, joint business planning, joint (2017/18 – 46%). The shift is timely considering current political and economic product development initiatives and headwinds in the EU/UK and growing competition from apparel manufacturers customer satisfaction surveys. within the EU itself ( please refer Operating environment on pages 60 and 63). We’ve worked hard to build strong customer relationships to create shared success. Our customer relationships have taken time to mature in to orders due to stringent assessments of innovation, production capabilities, reliabilityin quality and speed and environmental, social and governance practices. Our customer accreditations speak for our success, as does our growing order book. We are pleased to be ranked 3rd best fabric mill globally, for the past 5 quarters, in the quarterly survey conducted by a leading global apparel brand. Value to Customers Comprehensive Sustainabe Reasonable Speed in Innovative Flexibility manufacturing Quality Reliability manufacturing cost delivery products solutions References to Value to Customers For Our Customers Sustainable Manufacturing Refer Natural Capital Page 84 Developed 74 products in 2019 Comprehensive Refer Manufactured Capital Page 70 Expanded Inno range to 33 Manufacturing Solutions products Quality Refer Quality Management Below Refer Financial Capital and Reduced lead time to 3 days Reasonable Cost Page 65 and below Supply Chain Dedicated compliance function Speed in Delivery Refer Agile Supply Chain Below Accreditations from 8 customers Refer Agile Supply Chain Reliability Below 95% Lab to Bulk RFT and Quality Management Innovative Products Refer Intellectual Capital Page 90 Flexibility Refer Agile Supply Chain Below 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Agile Supply Chain of Total Productivity Management Certifications / Accreditions / Our supply chain is critical to meeting Programme further enhanced Audits & Memberships customer demands of lower cost, efficiency, whilst reducing cost. Number 50 speed, efficiency, responsiveness and reliability in sourcing. We have developed the flexibility to deliver small order quantities in a lead 40 Investments in state-of-the-art time of 3 days and are fully geared to technology, advanced software, provide high levels of transparency that retail brands demand. Combined 30 automation, enhanced warehouse facilities, reworking of processes with a strong commitment to product flows to drive lean manufacturing and responsibility embodied across our 20 strong relationships with our suppliers value chain and affirmed through has supported development of an International certifications and 10 agile supply chain. Appointment accreditations, these developments of departmental process flow have enabled us to achieve superior 0 champions, a dedicated procurement ratings on regular assessments 2016 2017 2018 2019 committee and implementation conducted by our customers. Quality Assurance Certiﬁcations & Systems Held Since Quality control checks span the entire length of our value chain from Consumer Well being receipt of raw material to dispatch of OEKO Tex 100 (Cotton & Polyester) Nov-2006 finished goods, ensuring compliance Environment Sustainability with specifications (Including product labeling) and timely delivery. State of ISO 14001:2015 Environment Management System Dec-2017 the art machinery and deep technical Carbon Conscious Certificate Mar-2017 experience of our employees combine to ensure the high standards of Water Conscious Certificate Apr-2017 uncompromised quality that our Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) Jan-2012 customers demand. Organic Content Standard (OCS) Aug-2008 This year we invested in cutting edge Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Membership May-2015 technology that further enhanced our quality assurance process; Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Joint Road Map Dec-2015 Higg FEM 3.0 Membership Nov-2017 State of the art inspection systems have been purchased to check the Clean Chain Chemical Inventory Management Tool Sep-2018 quality of finished fabric and will replace old machines. The new Nike Sustainable Water Program Green Certification Sep-2016 machines use smart visual sensors Social Sustainability to improve the detection efficiency and will cover 100% of the fabric OSHAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Dec-2017 Series Automatic Lab Dispensing System A second Dispenser was added SEDEX Membership Mar-2016 to the existing system in order Disney Facility & Merchandising Authorization (FAMA) Approvals Sep-2016 to improve Recipe lead time, accuracy and quality George / Walmart Responsible Sourcing Program Aug-2017 The other investments include a United Nation's Global Compact (UNGC) Membership Nov-2018 laser engraver, stenter modification and dye machines that have enhanced quality standards in lab, dyeing and printing departments HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 75 SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Reliable Suppliers We work with over 400 suppliers to procure the finest raw materials, equipment and services. Services and input materials are sourced locally where ever possible, to support local communities in surrounding villages. Partnering with compliance responsible suppliers allows our Company to focus on what we do best – producing innovative, high quality fabric. Accordingly, supplier selection, development, and integration are vital elements of our business model. Their input, cooperation and trust are critical to the Company’s success. VALUE to Supplier Development Supplier Integration Suppliers Supplier Selection Potential raw material suppliers are evaluated through a rigorous and documented process which includes assessments on product quality, environmental and social criteria as graphically depicted alongside. No significant issues were identified during the year. Obtain Evaluate Register Environment Evaluate Product references strength of supplier if all and social pricing and Visit factory evaluation from technical requirements Assessment delivery times customers support are met Supplier Development We conduct supplier audits, visit factories and train selected suppliers in raw material product development. These initiatives have helped reap considerable economic gains from higher quality materials, improved product development, greater supplier support, shared risk taking and more favourable terms. Supplier audits are conducted quarterly, and constructive feedback offered. In 2018/19 88% of suppliers obtained the highest rating of 1, an increase from 79% in 2017/18. Supplier Integration We have integrated the supply chain into our business model. Suppliers are involved from design of fabric to development collaborating with Hayleys Fabric PLC in developing solutions together to independently designing and creating products. During the year, 120 new products were developed with suppliers. Substantial benefits have been gained including shorter product development time, faster delivery to customers, improved product quality and reduction in cost of development and innovation. These factors contribute towards maximizing customer service and creating a stronger, more sustainable differentiation from competitors. Suppliers' factory visits Number of visits Product Collaborations 2019 2018 14 Yarn Suppliers 105 158 12 Dye Suppliers 1 5 10 Chemical Suppliers 13 12 8 Print & Ink suppliers 1 2 6 Total product collaborations 120 177 4 Despite a lower number of product collaborations in 2018/19, the commercial viability is greater following a more customer centric approach to 2 product development. 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Outsourcing Building Trust and Uplifting We source locally wherever possible During certain period of the year the Communities to support growth of Micro and Small Company outsourced greige fabric We contribute towards positive & Medium Enterprises. In 2018/19 to satisfy customer requirements economic and social change of we sourced saw dust, janitorial and whenever there was a short fall the communities we operate in by gardening services, man power, in knitting capacity. This strategy investing to support their development transportation and canteen services. enabled the Company to maximize and enhance their quality of life. Engaging With the Community its dye capacity resulting in a better During the year we focused our efforts output. on three key areas in creating value Strong relationships with the local for the community – empowering community leaders, built on goodwill During the year, 451 MT of fabric was people, fostering deeper relationships and trust enable us to engage with outsourced and the outsourcing was and operating by our core value of the community. We initiate / sponsor carried out after a rigorous evaluation Good Citizenship – by caring for the numerous CSR activities in and to ensure high standards of quality community outside the factory and outside the village. and responsible manufacture through village. out the Company’s supply chain. Hayleys Fabric PLC own employees Empowering People have been appointed to supervise the As the main employer within a 15 quality control process of the factory km radius, we contribute significantly during production guaranteeing towards the socio-economic progress compliance with Hayleys Fabric of the local community employing PLC’s stringent standards. 68% of our employees from the area. Hayleys Fabric PLC became the 1st fabric mill to organize a chemical suppliers’ awareness forum in Sri Lanka by joining all relevant textile industry stake holders (local & International) Annual eye clinic conducted at the Sponsorship for Annual Unduwap Employee’s children with 3 As factory premises by vision care perahera of Warakagoda gal lena at the 2018 A/L examinations rajamaha viharaya received a cash gift HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 77 SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Planting of over 200 kumbuk trees between Kahathuduwa and Gelanigama interchanges on the southern expressway Health check carried out by the MOH Grade 5 scholarship winners of our 2018 mercantile B division softball Dodangoda for all employees at the employee’s children were given cricket Champions Hayleys PLC factory premises a study pack Provided study packs to around 500 children in Rathmalgahawewa village, Anuradhapura Sports equipment and Stationary Horana Sri Medhankara MV, a Local Blood donation campaign carried were given to Horana and Nagoda school’s educational visit at the out at the factory premises for 6th Hospitals Factory premises consecutive year to collect 150 pints of blood 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC HUMAN CAPITAL 1249 94% 68% 3.48 3,024 Total Employees from the Retention rate Rate of Training hours workforce village (less than injury 15 km) Our team of 1,249 motivated employees make our Company what it is and create value by growing our business responsibly and sustainably. By delivering an employee value proposition aligned to the needs of the organization, we have been successful in attracting and retaining talent with the correct skill sets, vital in the execution of our strategy. In an industry where retention of employees is a key challenge, an above industry retention rate of 94%, is testimony of our strong employee value proposition. DECENT WORK Governance & Policies Retention rate Industrial relations 2019 STRENGTHENING VALUE REMUNERATION CAPABILITIES T0 Rewards & recognition Health & Safety 2018 Training & Development EMPLOYEES Work life Balance 2017 ENHANCED EARNINGS 91 92 93 94 95 96 % Performance management HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 79 HUMAN CAPITAL Decent Work Guided by a robust governance and policy structure, Hayleys Fabric is committed to promoting inclusive and productive employment, in an environment conducive to dignity, mutual respect, wellbeing and safety. Our strong governance structure ensures that we balance the interests of our employees with the interests of other stakeholders. A comprehensive policy framework outlines the Company’s approach to managing Human Capital while the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics communicates the employees’ rights and obligations. The policies are formulated with reference to regulatory enactments and international best practice. The Company has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption which is reinforced with high levels Hayleys Fabric PLC has pledged itself to the Ethical Trading Initiative of awareness, nurtured through (ETI), an alliance of companies, trade union and non-government orientation programs and reinforced organizations committed to improving working conditions in global regularly at meetings and through supply chains and is bound by the ETI Base Code, an internationally internal communications. There are recognized code of labour practice founded on the conventions of the no pending legal cases on issues of International Labour Organisation (ILO). By complying with the local and bribery or corruption. international standards, we do not use child or forced labour and also we do not deal with suppliers who use child or forced labour. The Board, Remuneration Committee and the Managing Director regularly assess the progress and Board effectiveness of the HR Function. The HR Department is responsible for implementing the HR strategy, Remuneration Committee MD / CEO continuously improving processes and systems to strengthen the employee value proposition. HR Department 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC HR Policy Coverage Recruitment Engagement General • “No Child labour” policy • Remuneration policy • Grievance handling policy • “No Forced labour” policy • Performance management system • Industrial relations policy • Job description policy policy • Health & safety policy • “No Discrimination” policy • Internal mobility policy • Disciplinary policy • Employee relations • Communication policy Team Proﬁle Distance Gender Age Group Employee Category Total <15 > 15 Male Female 18-30 30-40 40-50 > 50 Kms Kms Executive & above 216 42 174 178 38 46 76 67 27 Manual 467 377 90 465 2 68 271 113 15 Supervisors 241 199 42 232 9 16 98 96 31 Casual 325 233 92 323 2 270 49 6 Total 1,249 851 398 1,198 51 400 494 282 73 % of Total 100% 68% 32% 96% 4% 32% 39% 23% 6% Given the manual nature of work involved, the workforce is predominantly young and male. We strive to redress the gender balance by increasing the number of females recruited to administrative departments. We offer employment opportunity to villagers from the vicinity, nurturing trust with the Company whilst driving economic empowerment. All the Company permanent employees and those who are under probation are working on a full time basis. Recruitment Distance Gender Age Group Period Total <15 > 15 Male Female 18-30 30-40 40-50 > 50 Kms Kms 2017 219 128 91 210 9 154 53 10 2 2018 119 49 70 112 7 104 9 4 2 2019 127 55 72 116 11 102 18 5 2 As an equal opportunity employer, we recruit employees based on objective criteria applied in a consistent manner to select the candidate best suited for the role. Our partnerships and collaborations with universities and technical institutes, facilitates attracting some of the best talent. Attrition Gender Turnover From Age Group Period Total Rate (%) Village Male Female 18-30 30-40 40-50 Above 50 2017 70 58 12 8% 35 22 25 12 11 2018 46 40 6 5% 20 21 11 7 7 2019 58 53 5 6% 10 22 18 9 9 Attrition is mainly due to economic migration as younger employees seek opportunities in the capital or overseas. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 81 HUMAN CAPITAL Employee Engagement In an industry fraught with skilled labour shortages, we are committed to engaging with our employees to nurture a strong company culture and improve employee productivity. Formal and informal channels are used to address concerns ranging from discipline, dignity of labour to socio economic progress. We maintain dialogue through regular staff and team meetings whilst our open-door policy has proved to be an effective mechanism for handling grievances. Informal engagement is encouraged through numerous cultural, entertainment and sports activities. Remuneration Our remuneration structure is above minimum wage requirements. This includes gratuity and leave allocations at rates above regulatory requirements, comprehensive medical insurance benefits for staff and family members and benevolent benefits. Annual Leave Allocation Legal Requirement Hayleys Fabric PLC Employee Category Annual Casual Total Annual Casual Medical Total Executives 14 7 21 16 7 7 30 Cl., Sup. & Allied grades 14 7 21 14 7 21 42 Manual grade 14 0 14 14 7 7 28 Performance Appraisal We align corporate objectives with that of our employees through the performance management system, linking departmental KPIs with individual KPIs. Performance appraisals are carried out for all employees on an annual basis following a formal and transparent process. High performing employees are recognized with rewards linked to salary increments, annual bonuses and promotions, spurring productivity and growth. In 2018/19, 54 employees were promoted. Health & Safety We are committed to providing a safe work place and are guided by a comprehensive Health and Safety policy. Continuous dialogue is maintained between employees and management on improving health and safety aspects with high levels of awareness and strict enforcement of minimum safety procedures. Joint worker management committees on Health and Safety represent an average of 2% workforce participation. For the current year, 59 injuries in total have been recorded out of which, 40 injuries were categorized as first aid cases while the balance 19 injuries have been identified as loss time injuries. During 2018/19, we achieved a 9% reduction in employee accidents through provision of technical training and safety awareness programmes conducted during the year. Types of Injuries Year *Rate of Injury Occupational Lost Days Work Related Diseases Fatalities 2016 3.17 Nil 20 Nil 2017 6.64 Nil 43 Nil 2018 4.08 Nil 100 Nil 2019 3.48 Nil 83 Nil * Injury rates have been calculated based on 200,000 hours worked method Industrial Relations We maintain cordial relations with three trade unions representing 37% of our employees. Open and effective dialogue is sustained through monthly meetings between the management and the unions. We recognise and respect our employees’ right to freedom of association and Collective Bargaining. As such, a collective agreement was signed for the first time in 2017, with the main trade union the Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya (SLNSS), effective 1st April 2017 for a period of 3 years. The agreement stipulates salary increments for the next 3 years, industrial dispute resolution and other worker conditions. There were no industrial disputes during the year under review. 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Strengthening Capabilities Average training hours We invest in our employees to match internal skills with business needs and Hours successfully execute the Company’s strategy. In a dynamic and demanding 60 industry, where flexibility, speed of delivery and service are critical factors, employees need to be agile and innovative to respond quickly and effectively to 50 changing conditions. 40 More emphasis is given to on the job training, particularly of training in machine technology provided to supervisors and operators, considering the enhanced 30 learning outcomes compared to course work. A total of 3,024 training hours was dedicated to employees, averaging 3.27 hours per employee for the year 20 (2017/188.56 hours). Training coverage was 58%. However, this data does not capture on the job training, due to its inherent nature and therefore is largely 10 limited. The data covers mostly classroom-based training and attendance of workshops, seminars etc, which programmes are popular with executives. 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Executive & above All of our new employees will be provided with a proper understanding of the Clerical, Supervisory & Allied grades Company values, principles, standards and norms at their orientation by the HR Manual department and in addition, these details will be displayed around the factory premises in Sinhala and English languages. We facilitate employees to obtain relevant lifelong qualifications. 24 employees obtained qualifications from Sri Lanka Institute of Textile and Apparel (SLITA) during the year. Average Training Hours By Gender By Employment Category Year Male Female Executive & above Clerical, Supervisory Manual and Allied grades 2018 8.27 13.90 26.39 7.09 1.96 2019 3.37 1.49 3.76 2.32 3.54 Spurring Innovation Training & development We are focused on stimulating innovation and nurturing a culture of learning and USD Hours growth. Training and development is provided to employees to learn new and 60,000 20 modern concepts and technologies and facilitate application of their learning at the factory. They are empowered in their roles and responsibilities, encouraging 50,000 out of the box thinking and innovation and are rewarded and recognized for their 16 efforts. 103 employees were recognized in 2018/19 for their cost saving initiatives 40,000 proposed under the Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) programme (please refer 12 page 90 – Intellectual Capital). 30,000 8 20,000 4 10,000 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Training and development cost Average hours of training per employee HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 83 NATURAL CAPITAL 30,347 tCO2e 3% 202 M3 867 MT 74 Carbon Recycled raw Water intensity Hazardous waste Energy intensity footprint (Water withdrawal/ incinerated (GJ/ MT material MT of production) of production) Raw Materials Our key raw materials are yarn, dye Environmental Policy and chemicals, accounting for 74% • Identify and comply with all of our cost of production. Renewable legislation, standards and codes raw materials consisting largely cotton, reduced following growth in athleisure of practice which are relevant to and other polyester based product our business activities categories. Recycled raw materials • Continue to improve our showed promise, rising to 2.6% of total environment, Health & Safety consumption reflecting increased interest in recycled polyester despite being more expensive than virgin polyester, given the performance through effective process of recycling. Selection of yarn suppliers is at the discretion of the buyers in communication, provision of some instances and we have flexibility in sourcing raw materials of our choice too. staff training and adoption of the We are committed towards responsible consumption of raw materials and engage in best techniques available several initiatives as detailed below. • Enhance the awareness, As we progressively shift to synthetic fabric, the debate continues skills and competent of our as to which ﬁber synthetic polyester or cotton is eco-friendlier. employees to take responsibility Both have their pros and cons. Either way, conscious of our for Health & Safety at works in profound bearing on the environment, we constantly explore the order to prevent incidents and use of innovative technologies and solutions to drive sustainability accidents and cleaner production throughout our production processes. To • Effective conservation of energy mitigate these impacts we constantly develop processes to reduce and natural resources water through re-cycling and energy consumption reductions. 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Renewable / Recycled 2019 2018 Raw material consumption MT Raw material consumption (MT) 15,127 13,160 20,000 Renewable materials 32% 37% Recycled materials 3% 1% 15,000 Initiatives Implemented in 2019 10,000 • Improving material efficiency • Investment in state of the art dyeing and recipe dispensing equipment 5,000 • Continuous product developments to improve dye and chemical recipes • Sourcing of premium quality dyes to improve recipes 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 • Attraction of new suppliers for the procurement of dyes and chemicals at Yarn Greige better quality and lower cost for existing dye recipes. Dyes & Chemicals • Monitor and minimize waste through Waste Management Department • Sourcing of raw materials from suppliers certified for their product quality, environmental and social management practices Energy Energy consumption Our energy expense is significant and it accounts for 8% of the production GJ GJ/MT costs. Despite the increase in energy 800,000 100 consumption during the year, given the 90 700,000 increase in production volumes, energy 80 intensity continued to decline following 600,000 70 conscious efforts to improve energy 500,000 60 efficiency through investments in new technology and process improvements, 400,000 50 as described below. 300,000 40 30 Bio mass generated from saw dust, is the main source of energy trailed by 200,000 20 furnace oil and electricity. As such, consumption of energy from renewable 100,000 10 sources, is high at 62% (2018 – 61%). Further expansion is constrained by the 0 0 difficulty in sourcing saw dust in the required quantities. The Company sources 2016 2017 2018 2019 LPG as an alternative to furnace oil when it is cost effective to do so, given its Furnace oil Bio mass higher combustion efficiency. Electricity Diesel LPG Energy intensity GJ/MT Energy Sources 2019 2018 Variance % Renewable sources Sawdust (GJ) 411,860 371,844 11% Non-renewable sources (GJ) 251,313 241,927 4% Furnace oil (GJ) 133,828 102,623 30% Electricity (GJ) 65,716 63,071 4% LPG (GJ) 44,683 66,001 (32%) Petrol & Diesel (GJ) 7,087 10,233 (31%) Direct energy consumption (GJ) 663,174 613,771 8% HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 85 NATURAL CAPITAL Initiatives Implemented in 2019 Savings Per Annum kWh Rs. Mn Combination of two Thermic boiler heaters to reduce Furnace oil and Electricity Savings from Furnace oil 14.40 consumption and Electricity Successful implementation of the compressed air saving project which have 360,000 3.60 generated the following benefits; • Increased compressed air quality • Reduction of the electricity consumption • Reduction of the sudden pressure drops Replacement of CFL and other inefficient bulbs with LED Lights in the Indoors 888 5.56 Replacement of CFL and other inefficient bulbs with LED Lights in the Outdoors 150 0.63 Water Hayleys Fabric PLC is conscious of its excessive water footprint and responsibilities towards the sustainability of freshwater resources. We source water solely from the adjacent river “Kalu Ganga” which is abundant in supply of water with regular flooding occurring in many areas around the village. Every effort is taken to increase our water efficiency including the re-cycling of 9% at present whilst maintaining purity of the balance water discharged to the river. Details regarding the discharge of water to the river is provided in the Effluents segment of this report on page 88. Water recycled & discharged Investments in technology enhancements and process mechanisms have M 3 '000' % improved our water efficiency over the past years, although these efforts have 2,000 100 been overshadowed by the increase in ‘water intensive’ value added solutions such as the new Washing Range and increased orders for double dying. 1,600 80 Given the increased quantities used for steam generation, as the Company shifts 1,200 60 towards synthetic value added fabric and high end printing solutions, water discharged to the river has been reduced comparatively. 800 40 Initiatives Implemented in 2019 400 20 • Replacement of old dyeing plants with new machinery of advanced technology 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 • Recycling cooling water from dye machines back into the cooling process Water withdrawal from Kalu Ganga M 3 '000' Water discharged as a % of river intake • Recycling of water from the water treatment plant to produce steam in the Water recycled & reused % boiler • Engaging staff in conservation, through awareness building and training programmes 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC implemented to save energy are GHG emissions explained on page 86. tCO2e tCO2e / MT 35,000 3.6 The carbon footprint for 2018/19 30,000 was determined at 30,347 tCO2e ( 2017/18 – 26,207 tCO2e ) by 3.5 25,000 Climate Smart Initiatives (Pvt) Ltd, 20,000 in accordance with ISO 14064-1 3.4 and the World Business Council 15,000 for Sustainable Development and Emissions 10,000 World Resources Institute, Green 3.3 We are conscious of our impact on House Gas Protocol. The carbon 5,000 climate change and we focus on footprint intensity has reduced to 3.4 0 3.2 decreasing our carbon footprint by tCO2e / MT from 3.5 tCO2e / MT, the 2017 2018 2019 reducing energy consumption and previous year even though there is Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 converting to renewable energy an increase in the overall production Emission intensity tCO2e / MT sources such as bio-gas. Initiatives capacity. Emissions tCO2e Furnace oil 11,354 Grid electricity 10,317 Sea freight 3,004 LPG 2,748 Others 2,924 Carbon emissions 30,347 Carbon emissions/MT 3.4 Carbon Neutral Certificate Annual Carbon Conscious Certificate 2019 Report 2019 Air & Noise Pollution The quality of air and the level of noise, within factory doors and outdoors was tested by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, against standards stipulated by the American Conference of Government Industrial Hygienist (ACGIH) and National Environment Act No.47 of 1980, and was found to be satisfactory. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 87 NATURAL CAPITAL Effluents Over the years, we have continuously made investments to upgrade our effluent treatment technology. In December 2015, we committed to the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Programme , leading textile, leather and ZERO DISCHARGE OF footwear industries to advance towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals HAZARDOUS by 2020 by driving responsible chemical management. We are pleased to CHEMICALS – compliant inform that we have already eliminated the use of 20 chemicals identified for this purpose in 2018/19, well ahead of the time line, creating a safer environment. Quality of Water Our modern water treatment plant utilizes enhanced purification methodology to ensure good quality water is consistently discharged to the adjacent river, used by the villagers for their daily needs. All treated water is checked in house once in two hours and regular checks are carried out by external agencies such as the Central Environment Authority (CEA), the Water Board and the Board of Investment (BOI). Our commitment to high standards is reflected in the awarding of a NIKE Green Certification for Sustainable Water Program since 2016. Discharge Water Quality 2019 2018 Standard pH 7.85 7.71 6.5 8.5 Temperature 0C 31.64 35.17 < 40 BOD (mg /L) 22.05 20.67 <30 Member of the United Nation's COD (mg /L) 157.10 181.92 <250 Global Compact initiative since Total suspended solids (mg/L) 22.67 23.08 <50 November 2018 Voluntarily follows the ZDHC Joint Road Map since December 2015 Member of the Lanka Environment Management System Responsible Care Council since ISO 14001:2015, obtained by the Company in June 2017 December 2017 through SGS Lanka 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Solid Waste incinerated by INSEE Eco-cycle, the All solid waste is disposed according only approved agency by the CEA. to the CEA’s guidelines. Recyclable Given the capacity constraints of material and e-waste are disposed a single incinerator in the country of through professionals in waste and impact on Company’s growing management approved by the business, Hayleys Fabric PLC is Central Environment Authority exploring avenues of disposing (CEA). Sludge from the operation is sludge through own incineration or chemical management. Hazardous & Non-hazardous Waste 2019 2018 Further, waste yarn and fabric are sold to local villagers encouraging Hazardous waste Incinerated self-employment and cottage Sludge (MT) 867 863 industries and fabric off cuts Non-hazardous waste Reused / Resold are donated to the Psychiatric Rehabilitation Unit of the Nagoda Fluff (MT) 12 15 Hospital, Kalutara and Senior Fabric strips, off cuts, etc. (MT) 437 481 Citizens Society of Kalutara, to Cardboards, yarn cones, etc. (MT) 312 383 design and produce handcraft. Polythene (MT) 102 95 Others (MT) 175 114 Total Non-hazardous waste (MT) 1,038 1,088 Total (MT) 1,905 1,951 Nurturing the environment We are committed to nurturing and sustaining the environment and to this end have engaged in the following initiatives. Initiatives Implemented in 2019 • Maintaining 20 acres of forest coverage, adjacent to the factory property • Collaborative effort by the factory employees to grow organic vegetables and fruits in the factory gardens sans any chemicals or pesticides. The produce is shared amongst factory employees. • Nurturing the partly grown “Kumbuk Trees” planted within the vicinity of the factory water treatment plant, near the Kalu Ganga river bed and along the Southern Expressway Compliance Hayleys Fabric PLC is compliant with all relevant environmental laws and regulations. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 89 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL 8% 406 58% 94 USD16,793 Innovation as Cumulative Employees who have been Successfully Research & a % of GP developments with the Company for over Implemented TPM development projects cost 5 years Hayleys Fabric PLC’s Intellectual capital is key to Company’s Innovations & developments success as a globally recognized niche supplier of synthetic Number fabric to premium retail brands. Our Innovation Centre is 450 reputed for creating innovative and technologically advanced 400 fabric that cater to evolving consumer preferences, as 350 conﬁrmed by Hayleys Fabric PLC’s recognition as the best 300 innovator in Sri Lanka for the past ﬁve quarters ended December 2018 by a top apparel brand. 250 200 Brand 150 Recognition 100 50 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Group Linkages Intellectual Inno and Innovation Cumulative Innovations Capital Value Cumulative Developments Business Processes and Organisational tacit Management systems knowledge 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Brand Recognition Established as a pioneer in the textile industry we have gained global recognition as a niche supplier of premium, innovative fabric to fashion brands, delivering on innovation, speed, reliability, quality, service and (social and environment) responsibility. Our accreditations, endorsements, ratings and awards , detailed on page 75 enhances our brand value and bears testimony to the success of our business strategy. Innovation Inno Center Our innovation center is led by a robust research and development team who have the industry insights and technical expertise to bring cutting-edge design to market. The team includes account officers, project designers and project engineers. The team is supported by state-of-the-art technology and has online access to daily trend intelligence, retail analytics and consumer insights, to continually track and monitor evolving consumer preferences, shifting market conditions and emerging futuristic trends. They collaborate with University of Moratuwa in fabric development and technology, spurring innovation. 7 innovations and 74 developments including variants of existing fabric to cater to specific customer requirements on texture and functionality were created during the year. These value-added synthetic fabric are used in performance and sportsinspired apparel particularly Athleisure. We maintained strict customer confidentially in the development of these products. Account Ofﬁcers Project Designers Project Engineers • Each dedicated to a brand • Inspired design consultants • These concepts are made a owner, account officers engage forecast fashion trends following reality by the dynamic product with the customer closely to in-depth analysis of consumer development team, who understand their expectations requirements, latest fashion experiments with new fabric and liaise with the Inno team to trends and customer brand and finishes and researches ensure these requirements are values to create fabric concepts new textile technology to met develop premium fabric with the appliance and functionality customers require In 2018/19, we adopted a more programme where employees across Organizational Capital and customer centric approach to the organization were encouraged to Tacit Knowledge innovation, centered around deep propose process improvements and Our systems, standards and consumer insights. Closely engaging mechanisms to increase production processes together with the skills and collaborating with the brand efficiency, eliminate waste and reduce and industry insights of employees owners in developing fabric that suited costs. 175 proposals were evaluated and strategic leadership of the their specific fashion palates, we were and prioritized for implementation, management team, nurtures an able to fast track products to market generating substantial savings of USD invaluable base of organizational and reduce cost of developments. 38,426 / month. capital in driving competitive advantage. Employee tacit knowledge Although the number of innovations Business Processes and is fostered through a learning culture and product developments were less Systems which stimulates innovation and this year, these products had higher We have continuously improved, knowledge sharing. potential for commercialization. Sales innovated and optimized our of Inno and developments grew operations, strengthening internal Group Linkages 49% in 2018/19 accounting for 40% systems and processes, to create As part of the Hayleys PLC Group, we of revenue (2017/18 -32%). Inno a leaner, flexible and cost efficient tap in to high standards of corporate grew rapidly to 3% of total revenue business. Our commitment to governance, mature systems of (2017/18 0.4%). operational excellence is reflected management and expertise of in the stringent accreditations and leading professionals in the country. Total Productive Maintenance certifications obtained as well as Entrepreneurship and professionalism (TPM) Management achievement of high customer ratings is combined to ensure strategic Last year, the Company conducted a by brand owners and global apparel direction and resource allocation. Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) manufacturers, as listed on page 75 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 91 WAY FORWARD Global economy is expected to slow the economic shift, retail brands will demand increased investments down to 3.3% in 2019 (3.6% 2018), continue to look towards emerging by brand owners in e-commerce, amid continued trade tensions nations for new markets of growth. omni channel integration, customerbetween the United States and relationship-management, in-store China, moderation of international In Sri Lanka, the country is stabilizing experiences, and brand building. trade and investments, tightening of following political and economic Consequently, supply chains require financial conditions and higher policy tensions witnessed in 2018 and the to be more responsive, pushing uncertainty across many economies. economy is expected to gradually time limits from design to shelf while Emerging markets and developing improve to 3.8% and 4.1% in 2019 ensuring responsible manufacture and countries are forecasted to soften to and 2020 respectively (3.2% 2018), enhanced transparency throughout 4.4%, while advanced economies, subject to the continuation of a stable the supply chain. Delivery of new, which include our principal markets, economic and social environment. innovative products at increased are expected to drop to 1.8%. Global speed, flexibility and lower cost, growth is forecast to pick up to 3.6% Retail trends driven by a combination require supplier business models in 2020, driven by more growthof evolving technological landscape to adopt a more customer-centric friendly policies in Emerging markets and shifting consumer preferences as approach with the retailer as the main and developing countries. Following demographics begin to skew younger, driver of design and manufacture. Hayleys Fabric PLC is already in gear to meet evolving customer needs and Order pipeline challenges. Having adopted a customer centric business model last year, MT the Company is nurturing innovation, design and development capabilities 3,000 in collaboration with retail chains, under the Inno brand while investing in e-commerce, digitization and advance technologies in molding an agile and 2,500 transparent supply chain and driving responsible production. A growing pipeline of orders demonstrates the confidence of retailers in the Company. 2,000 A healthy economic outlook in the US, Company’s main market and added 1,500 benefits from the restoration of US GSP+ since April 2018 is expected to support increased business volumes. The following initiatives will be 1,000 implemented by the Company in 2019. 500 0 We believe these initiatives will deliver the following goals: 2019 2019 2020 2020 2020 2020 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Key Performance Indicators Goals Profitability growth 20% growth in PBT New products Over 10 Lead time 3 days for fast orders Employee productivity 25% increase Reduce carbon footprint intensity 5% reduction Reduce water intensity 5% reduction 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Financial Capital • Growth in earnings through high margin, value added products • Drive cost efficiencies through smart sourcing strategies and operational excellence Manufactured Capital • Increase capacity through investments of USD 2.1 Mn • Investment in responsible production using energy efficient and clean technology Social & Relationship Capital • Grow supply chain by improving response times, increased customization, reduced turnaround times • Strengthen order pipeline through deeper customer engagement • Innovate and inspire fashion as a niche supplier to international brands • Support the external community through economic and social development initiatives Human Capital • Inspire team to deliver corporate goals through improved communication and performance management • Acquire and nurture talent • Recognise and Reward Natural Capital • Responsible consumption and production • Manage and minimise our impacts through clean technology • Deepen engagement in sustainability Intellectual Capital • Innovate and Increase our Inno range • Improve our research and Development capability HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 93 MANAGING RISK “WE CONSTANTLY MONITOR, MANAGE AND MITIGATE EMERGING AND POTENTIAL RISKS TO ENSURE A STABLE PATH TOWARDS GROWTH.” Managing Risk & Opportunities Managing risk is a vital function of the Board and the Corporate Management Team provides a regular report on Key Risks to the Board to ensure that potential threats are identified, measured, monitored and managed. A risk is defined as a factor that can become an impediment to the achievement of corporate goals. Our process of identifying material issues described on page 56 serves as an annual objective overhaul of the risk identification process as we review number of potential risk factors prior to applying filters to prioritise them and identify those that are likely to have the highest impact and those that are most likely to pose a threat in the year ahead, considering current developments. Risk Impact Mitigating Factors/Activities Net Risk Assessment External Risks Demand in Key IMF forecasts moderating • Securing key buyers through Innovation, lead time Assessment: Markets growth in key markets for the and cost advantages enabling recovery of overheads Moderate Sri Lankan apparel industry • Our Tier 1 customers who are premium brands have growth forecast for 2019 GDP Growth (%) 2019 2018 USA 2.3 2.9 Euro Area 1.3 1.8 UK 1.2 1.4 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Risk Impact Mitigating Factors/Activities Net Risk Assessment Industry Shifts China is forecast to become • We work with global brands that work across markets Assessment: the largest market for fashion • Growth in US and Europe continues to be strong Moderate in 2019 and India is forecast • Credentials of supplying global brand owners will to become a focal point for the support growth in new markets fashion industry Government Policy Government policies, taxes, • Continuation of the GSP + in EU and negotiating Assessment: foreign relations, interest rates, preferential Trade Agreement with the UK, productivity High inflation, energy and wages improvements to mitigate Rising inflation, interest have a direct impact on the rates and wages are strategies to minimize impact Company where possible Opportunities Develop Own Branded Having our own branded • We continue to develop and refine our Inno branded Potential: High Portfolio portfolio of fabric will enable portfolio of synthetic fabric to meet current trends in us to differentiate ourselves fashion from competitors and • 7.7% of Gross profit has been from our Inno range provide significant resource Inno profitability (GP) management opportunities USD `000´ 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2018 2019 Focus on Synthetic Synthetic fabric attract higher • Close monitoring of fashion trends to determine Potential: High Fabric Catering to the margins which will enhance direction Lingerie and Athleisure profitability of the Company Revenue analysis by product category Trends % 100 80 60 40 20 0 2018 2019 Synthetic Natural Other HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 95 MANAGING RISK Risk Impact Mitigating Factors/Activities Net Risk Assessment GSP ++ GSP+ enhances the • We continue to nurture our relationships with Potential: competitiveness of Sri Lankan customers in the EU to exploit potential opportunities Significant exports in the Euro Zone markets which has contributed to the increase in the country’s exports in 2018 Key Risks Arising from Our Business Model Strategic Risk Company has pursued a long • Interest shown by buyers with contracts for capacity Assessment: term strategy of developing enabling recovery of overheads High its own branded portfolio • Order pipeline for Inno and synthetic fabric of synthetic fabric which Order pipeline addresses a number of issues MT with the supply chain and holds 3,000 the promise of enhanced gains for shareholders 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 2019 2019 2020 2020 2020 2020 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Critical Aspects Customer Satisfaction Customer satisfaction is key • System integration with key customers to enhance Assessment: to our growth and we work ease of doing business with the Company Moderate together with them to gain • Structured relationship management deeper insights in to potential • Regular visits to customers and vice versa areas for improvement. We have used feedback received • Reduced our ability to turnaround orders on key as an opportunity to implement products from 14 days to 3 days changes addressing key Refer Creating Value for Customers on page 74 concerns, enhancing our competitive edge Innovation Our ability to innovate is key to • Monitoring of fashion trends to anticipate customer Assessment: growth and profitability needs in developing own portfolio High • Investment in our own Design Centre with state of the art equipment • Ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced talent to operate the Design Centre • Continuous monitoring of performance to inspire and motivate these highly skilled employees 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Risk Impact Mitigating Factors/Activities Net Risk Assessment Timely Delivery Timely delivery is key to • Strengthening the planning system within the Assessment: profitability as late delivery Company Moderate comes with penalties and loss • Increased inventory to facilitate shorter lead times of customer satisfaction • Production scheduling to maximize capacity utilization and ensure timely delivery • Quality control checks at each stage of the process to ensure compliance with specifications and timely delivery Refer Creating Value for Customers on page 74 Product Responsibility Product responsibility is critical • OEKO Tex certification for all Dye & Chemicals Assessment: to our reputation and growth • Zero usage of hazardous chemicals identified by the Moderate Brands under the ZDHC initiatives. • Compliance with regulatory and certification requirements • Monitoring of customer complaints • Supplier screening for financial, social and environmental criteria • Quality control processes Refer Creating Value for Customers on page 74 Cost Efficiency As the country’s productions • Process improvements Assessment: costs increase, cost efficiency • Lean processes Moderate provides a competitive edge • Sourcing strategies • Product re-engineering Availability of Water The non -availability of flowing • Principal source of water is the river Kalu Ganga Assessment: river water in drought condition which has the highest discharge of water to the sea in High affects production due to the country. estimated 4,000 million m3 annually * salinity • Monitor water levels of river and consumption continuously. It is noteworthy that the Kalu Ganga As our processes require water has the highest water levels in the country at all stages, both production • Recycle water withdrawn from source for cooling and and community relations may heating purposes be impacted by a prolonged drought • Review operations to reduce water usage intensity • Compliance with licensing requirements of the Central Environment Authority Refer page 84 of the Natural Capital segment for further information Raw Materials Raw materials directly impact • Broadbasing of suppliers and deepening relations to Assessment: Availability the quality of the product drive competitive advantage Moderate including the consumer • Ensure that suppliers of raw material have experience as our product certifications for their manufacturing processes directly touches the skin. The • Quality control processes from receiving point to availability of raw materials ensure a match with specifications impact our profitability as well. • Monitoring market trends for yarn, chemicals etc to ensure we receive competitive pricing Refer page 76 on Creating Value for Suppliers for further information *Source Ampitiyawatta, A. & Guo, S., (2010). Precipitation trends in the Kalu Ganga basin in Sri Lanka. Journal of Agricultural Sciences. 4(1), pp.10–18. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 97 MANAGING RISK Risk Impact Mitigating Factors/Activities Net Risk Assessment Energy Energy is required at every • Review energy mix and decrease dependency on Assessment: stage of our manufacturing main grid Low operations and has a direct • Increased investments in renewable energy sources impact on our carbon footprint • Investing in energy efficient machinery and equipment and profitability • Driving cost leadership through energy management • Continuous monitoring of energy intensity ratio to drive required action Refer page 84 of the Natural Capital segment for further information Employee Health & We value our employees and • Establishment of worker management health Assessment: Safety recognize our responsibility and safety committees to ensure their views are Moderate to provide a safe working understood and addressed environment. We also • Establishing safety procedures for all operations understand that specific that present risks to employees and ensuring aspects of our processes implementation of the same present higher levels of risk to • Maintaining and monitoring employee health and employees’ health and safety. safety statistics Refer page 79 of the Human Capital Report for further information Employee Relations Employee relations are a key • Open door policy for employees to discuss areas of Assessment: concern as 68% are employed concern Moderate from the vicinity and 37% are • Regular structured dialogue with union members of politically allied representatives to identify areas of concern trade unions as Hayleys Fabric • Balanced HR policies applied in a consistent manner PLC recognizes the right to building trust with employees freedom of association • Communicating how personal goals are aligned with organization goals through an organization wide performance management system Refer page 79 of the Human Capital Report for further information Effluents & Waste Effluents from our processes • Investing in effluent treatment and solid waste Assessment: contain chemicals and are management High discharged to the river after • Monitoring quality of effluents on an hourly basis to treatment which can affect the ensure conformity with CEA requirements community and the bio diversity • Residual sludge is disposed at INSEE Eco-cycle for of the surrounding area safe disposal approved by the CEA. Refer Natural Capital Report on page 84 Emissions Directly impacts our carbon • Investments in energy efficient technology Assessment: footprint, compliance with CEA • Investments in switching to low carbon intensity Moderate license and the quality of air in energy sources the community • Managing energy mix to reduce emissions • Continuous monitoring of emissions to ensure compliance with CEA requirements and certifications Refer Natural Capital Report on page 84 for more information 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Risk Impact Mitigating Factors/Activities Net Risk Assessment High Impact Speed of Delivery Our ability to turn around an • Company has shortened the lead time of products Assessment: order within a few days is highly within the Inno portfolio to 3 days from 14 days for Moderate valued by customers certain programs. • Supply chain& inventory geared to support the promise State of the Art High end fabric require state of • Company has invested regularly in upgrading Assessment: Technology the art technology and a wide machinery Moderate range of finishes which we have Investment in PP&E in place USD Mn 4.0 3.5 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employment, As the largest employer within a • High levels of engagement with employees and Assessment: Local Community 15 km radius, the employment community Low Relations, Market opportunities provided are • Robust employee and community value propositions Presence & Indirect critical for the socio economic to maintain an appropriate balance Economic Impacts progress of the community and • Building pride in the organization with employees and an interdependency exists which community requires continuous engagement with both employees and the Refer Human Capital Report and Creating Value for the local community Community on page 82 and 77 respectively Marketing Marketing communications • Marketing communications are reviewed at Corporate Assessment: Communications are key to growth requiring Management level to ensure accuracy, integrity and Low a fine balance that does not appeal over promise while conveying our capability to potential and existing customers Transport The industry typically has a • Distance is factored in to the supplier selection criteria Assessment: long supply chain spanning for orders Low continents which is under • Transport of hazardous chemicals is done under constant scrutiny. Additionally, stringent conditions contracted with a third party we provide transport to provider with specialized capability to ensure safe employees as rural transport transportation infrastructure is insufficient • Employee transport provided by a third party to support Company evaluated for safe driving requirements. • Workmen compensation cover extended to cover travel and from work HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 99 GRI INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page Remarks number(s) General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization 08 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 08 & 71 102-3 Location of headquarters IBC 102-4 Location of operations Operates only in Sri Lanka 102-5 Ownership and legal form 08 & IBC 102-6 Markets served 74 102-7 Scale of the organization 11 13 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 81 102-9 Supply chain 73, 75 77 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and No significant changes its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 97 102-12 External initiatives 06 102-13 Membership of associations 75 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 19 21 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 09, 40 & 80 behaviour 102-18 Governance structure 35 Sustainability comes under the purview of the Finance GRI 102: General Director Disclosures 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 54 & 55 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 82 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 54 & 55 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 54 & 55 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 54 & 55 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Hayleys Fabric PLC statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 06 & 103 102-47 List of material topics 56 & 103 102-48 Restatements of information 12 & 13 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes 102-50 Reporting period 06 102-51 Date of most recent report 06 102-52 Reporting cycle 06 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 06 report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 06 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 100 102 102-56 External assurance 06, 104 & 105 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC GRI Standard Disclosure Page Remarks number(s) Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103 Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its 103 Approach 2016 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103 Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 59 GRI 201: Economic distributed Performance 2016 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 147 & 151 retirement plans GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 12 Procurement practices 2016 Environmental GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 12, 84 & 85 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 84 & 85 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 12 & 85 GRI 302: Energy 302-3 Energy intensity 12 & 84 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 12 & 86 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 12 & 86 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by No significant Impact GRI 303: Water 2016 withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 12 & 86 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 12 & 87 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 12 & 87 GRI 305 Emissions: 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 12 & 87 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 87 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 12 & 87 GRI 306: Effluents 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 12 & 86 and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 12 & 89 GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 12 & 89 Environmental regulations Compliance 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 76 GRI 308: Supplier environmental criteria Environmental Assessment 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 76 chain and actions taken HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 101 GRI INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page Remarks number(s) Social 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 81 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 82 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 82 GRI 403: management–worker health and safety committees Occupational Health 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 13 & 82 and Safety 2016 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 13 & 83 employee GRI 404: Training 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 83 and Education 2016 transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 13 & 82 performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 81 and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 13 Labor 2016 incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 13 Compulsory Labor incidents of forced or compulsory labor 2016 GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 77 & 78 communities 2016 impact assessments, and development programs 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 76 GRI 414: Supplier criteria Social Assessment 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain 76 and actions taken GRI 416: Customer 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the Nil Health and Safety health and safety impacts of products and services 2016 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Nil GRI 417: Marketing product and service information and labeling and Labeling 2016 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Nil marketing communications GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches Nil Privacy 2016 of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in Nil Socioeconomic the social and economic area Compliance 2016 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Table of Our Material Matters Topic Boundary (102-46) Internal External Stakeholders Management Stakeholders Approach The Company Brand Investors Employees Suppliers Regulators Community Material Topic (103-1, 103-2 Owners & & 103-3) Apparel Manufacturers Economic Performance (201) 65 69 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ Procurement Practices (204) 75 & 76 √ √ √ √ Materials (301) 84 & 85 √ √ √ Energy (302) 85 & 86 √ √ √ Water (303) 86 & 88 √ √ √ √ Emissions (305) 87 √ √ √ √ Effluents and Waste (306) 88 & 89 √ √ √ √ Environmental Compliance 41 & 89 √ √ √ √ √ (307) and Socioeconomic Compliance (419) Supplier Environmental 76 √ √ √ Assessment (308) and Supplier Social Assessment (414) Employment (401) 79 83 √ √ √ √ Occupational Health and 82 √ √ √ √ Safety (403) Training and Education (404) 83 √ √ Diversity and Equal 80 & 81 √ √ √ √ √ Opportunity (405) Child Labor (408) and Forced 80 & 81 √ √ √ √ or Compulsory Labor (409) Local Communities (413) 77 & 78 √ √ √ Customer Health and Safety 75, 97 & 99 √ √ (416) and Marketing and Labeling (417) Customer Privacy (418) 74 & 91 √ √ HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 103 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT Independent Assurance Report Standards ‘In accordance’ Core 2019. We disclaim any assumption of to Hayleys Fabric PLC on the guideline publication, publicly available responsibility for any reliance on this Sustainability Reporting Criteria at GRI’s global website at “www. report to any person other than the Presented in the Integrated Annual globalreporting.org”. Company or for any purpose other Report2018/19 than that for which it was prepared. Our engagement provides limited In conducting our engagement, we Introduction and scope of the assurance as well as reasonable have complied with the independence engagement assurance. A limited assurance requirements of the Code for Ethics The management of Hayleys Fabric engagement is substantially less in for Professional Accountants issued PLC (“the Company”) engaged scope than a reasonable assurance by the ICASL. us to provide an independent engagement conducted in accordance assurance on the following elements with SLSAE-3000 and consequently Key assurance procedures of the sustainability reporting criteria does not enable to obtain assurance We planned and performed our presented in the annual reportthat we would become aware of procedures to obtain the information 2018/19 (“the Report”). all significant matters that might be and explanations considered identified in a reasonable assurance necessary to provide sufficient • Reasonable assurance on engagement. Accordingly, we do evidence to support our limited the information on financial not express an opinion providing assurance conclusions. Key performance as specified on page reasonable assurance. assurance procedures included: 59 of the Report. Management of the Company’s • Interviewing the relevant • Limited assurance on other responsibility for the Report Company’s personnel to information presented in the understand the process for The management of the Company Report, prepared in accordance collection, analysis, aggregation is responsible for the preparation of with the requirements of the Global and presentation of data. the self-declaration, the information Reporting Initiative GRI Standards: ‘In accordance’ – Core guidelines. and statements contained within the • Reviewing and validation of the Report, and for maintaining adequate information contained in the Basis of our work and level of records and internal controls that are Report. assurance designed to support the sustainability reporting • Checking the calculations We performed our procedures to provide limited assurance in performed by the Company process in line with the GRI on a sample basis through accordance with Sri Lanka Standard Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. recalculation. on Assurance Engagements (SLSAE 3000): ‘Assurance Engagements Ernst & Young’s responsibility • Reconciling and agreeing the Other than Audits or Reviews of Our responsibility is to express a data on financial performance Historical Financial Information’, conclusion as to whether we have are properly derived from the issued by the Institute of Chartered Company’s audited financial become aware of any matter that Accountants of Sri Lanka (“ICASL”). statements for the year ended 31 causes us to believe that the Report is not prepared in accordance with March 2019. The evaluation criteria used for this limited assurance engagement are the requirements of the Global • Comparison of the content of the based on the Sustainability Reporting Reporting Initiative, GRI Standards: Report against the criteria for a Guidelines (“GRI Guidelines”) and ‘In accordance’ Core guidelines. Global Reporting Initiative, GRI related information in particular, This report is made solely to the Standards: ‘In accordance’ – Core the requirements to achieve GRI Company in accordance with our guidelines. engagement letter dated 13 March 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Our procedures did not include testing electronic systems used to collect and aggregate the information. Limitations and considerations Environmental and social performance data are subject to inherent limitations given their nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above, we conclude that; • The information on financial performance as specified on page 59 of the Report are properly derived from the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2019. • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that other information presented in the Report are not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s sustainability practices and policies some of which are derived from Sustainability Reporting Guideline, GRI Standards‘In accordance’ Core. Chartered Accountants 13 May 2019 Colombo HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 105 Financial & Statutory Reports 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 107 “ENGINEERED AND DESIGNED TO DELIVER OUTSTANDING VALUE, OUR LONG TERM STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUES TO SET US APART FROM OTHER PLAYERS IN THE INDUSTRY.” 10 1088 ANNUAL REPOR REPORT PORT 2 018/19 T 2018 2018/19 /19 | HAY HAYLEYS HAYLEY LEYS F S FABR FABRIC ABR B IC PLC FINANCIAL REPORTS Report of the Audit Committee ................................................... 110 Report of the Remuneration Committee...................................... 112 Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee ...... 113 Responsibility Statement of Managing Director/CEO and Chief Financial Officer ...................................................... 114 Annual report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company ................................................ 115 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Control ....................... 120 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Statements ............................................................. 121 Financial Calendar 2018/19 ........................................................ 122 Independent Auditors’ Report ..................................................... 123 Financial Statements .................................................................. 126 Financial Statements translated into LKR .................................... 159 Ten Year Summary ..................................................................... 161 Glossary of Financial Terminology ............................................... 162 Investor Information .................................................................... 164 Notice of Meeting ...................................................................... 166 Form of Proxy ............................................................................. 167 Corporate Information................................................................. IBC LEYS F S FABR HAYLEYS HAY HAYLEY IC PLC | ANNUAL ABRIC ANNUAL REPORT FABRIC REP RE 01 /19 PORT 2018 2018/19 109 10 9 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE PURPOSE OF THE The power and responsibilities of 7.10 of the Corporate Governance COMMITTEE the Audit Committee of Hayleys Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock The Audit Committee of Hayleys Fabric PLC are governed by the Exchange (CSE). Fabric PLC is established to Audit Committee Charter which assist the Board in fulfilling its is approved and adopted by the MEMBERS AND MEETINGS oversight responsibility for the Board. The Audit Committee of Hayleys Company’s’ financial reporting Fabric PLC is consists of system, compliance with legal TERMS OF REFERENCE Independent Non-Executive and regulatory requirements, The Audit Committee has written Directors and formally constituted internal control mechanism, risk terms of reference, dealing with as a sub-committee of the management process, internal its authority and duties, which is Main Board. The Committee’s audit function and review of carefully designed to discharge the composition met the requirements Independence and External Committee’s purpose and duties and of the rule 7.10.6 of Listing Rules Auditors’ performance, with a responsibilities of the Committee of the Colombo Stock Exchange. view to safeguarding the interests The members of the Audit of the shareholders and all other The terms of reference comply with Committee are as follows; stakeholders. the requirements of the Section Audit Committee Members Chairman Mr. H. Somashantha* Members Dr. N.S.J. Nawartne* Mr. A.S.J. Jayatilleka* (*Independent Non-Executive Director) Secretary to the Committee Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd Attendance by Invitation Mr. A.M. Pandithage Chairman -Hayleys Fabric PLC Mr. E.R.P. GoonetillekeManaging Director/CEO-Hayleys Fabric PLC Mr. S.C. Ganegoda Director Hayleys Fabric PLC Mr. R. Rohitha Bandara -Director Finance-Hayleys Fabric PLC Mr. A. MathangaweeraManager -(MA & SRD)-Hayleys PLC Mr. Choliya. De. Silva -Group CFO -Hayleys PLC The Audit Committee comprises Financial Statements in accordance Review of the adequacy and individuals with extensive experience with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards effectiveness of the Company’s Internal in the fields of Accounting & Finance, (SLFRSs/LKASs). Control and Risk Management systems, Corporate Management, and over the financial reporting process. Marketing & Strategic Management. The compliance with legal and The Chairman of the Audit Committee regulatory requirements of Companies Audit Committee assesses the is a member of the Institute of Act and other relevant financial Company’s ability continue as a going Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka reporting related regulations and concern in the foreseeable future. and the profiles of the members are requirements. given on pages 26 to 30 of this report. MEETINGS Committee evaluates the The Audit Committee met four (4) Key Responsibilities performances and independence of times during the year and attendance Audit Committee assesses the The External and Internal Auditors by the Committee members at each integrity of the Financial Statements (Hayleys Management Audit of these meetings are given in the of the Company and ensures that and System Review Department Corporate Governance Report on good financial reporting system is in (HMA and SRD) and make the page 38. place sound enough to give accurate recommendations to the Board the appropriate and timely information that re-appointment of the change of The Committee has a written Terms is in accordance with the Companies External Auditors and to recommend of Reference, which clearly defines Act No. 7 of 2007 and other legislative their remuneration and terms of the oversight role and responsibility of reporting requirements and that engagement and to maintain free the Audit Committee as summarized adequate disclosures are made in the and open communication. below: 110 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC SUMMARY OF KEY FOCUS Risk management and Internal Messrs Ernst & Young be reAREAS DURING THE YEAR controls appointed as the Independent ENDED 31ST MARCH 2019 The Audit Committee has reviewed External Auditor. Financial Reporting and Risk Management Process & Procedures adopted by the Company. COMPLIANCE WITH Financial Control The key risks that could impact the FINANCIAL REPORTING AND The Audit Committee reviewed STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS operations of the Company have been the quarterly and annual Financial identified and appropriate actions The Audit Committee receives Statements prior to its publication have been taken to mitigate their statutory declaration from Chief impact to the minimum extent. Financial Officer quarterly on financial The review included: reporting and statutory compliances. • Appropriateness and changes in External Audit Accounting Policies. In addition, Committee reviewed The Audit Committee reviewed the • Significant estimates and judgment independence and objectivity of the compliance with relevant Sri made by the management. the Independent External Auditors, Lanka Accounting Standards and Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered the Committee has pursued the • Compliance with relevant assistance from Messrs Ernst & Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ Accountants. The Audit Committee has met with the External Auditors Young, Chartered Accountants to LKASs) and applicable regulatory assess and review existing Accounting requirements. to review their audit plan and any observations made by them. policies and procedures adopted by • Issues arising from the Internal Audit the Company. and Independent External Audit. At the conclusion of the audit, the External Auditors met with the Audit SUPPORT TO THE • The Company’s ability to continue Committee to discuss any matters of COMMITTEE as a going concern. concern found in the course of the The Committee received the • Statements and Reports include in audit and also to discuss the matters necessary support and information the Annual Report. mentioned in the Management Letter. from the management of the Company during the year to enable Internal Audit Management responses for those them to carry out its duties and The Committee monitors the concerns raised by the External responsibilities effectively. effectiveness of the internal audit Auditors were discussed with the function and empowered them to Managing Director/CEO and Chief CONCLUSION access to information required to Financial Officer of the Company. The Audit Committee is satisfied that conduct their audits. the effectiveness of the Organizational There were no significant issues structure of the Company and the The internal audit of the Company during the year under review. implementation of the Company’s has been carried out by Hayleys Accounting policies and operational Management Audit and System Review The Committee has received a controls provide reasonable assurance Department (HMA and SRD) and they declaration from the External Auditors, that the affairs of the Company directly submit their findings to the confirming that they do not have are managed in accordance with Audit Committee and relevant reports any relationship or interest in the accepted policies and the assets are available to External Auditors. Company. are properly accounted for and adequately safeguarded. Audit Committee has met the Internal The Committee reviewed the nonAuditors during the year under review audit services and its impact on and followings were reviewed; the independence of the External Auditors. The Internal Audit program and process The current auditors, Messrs Ernst & H. Somashantha Young, was initially appointed as the Chairman-Audit Committee The effectiveness of Internal Audit external auditors of the Company, 13 May 2019 functions and continue to hold that position Coverage and adequacy of the at present. A partner rotation of the internal audit plan auditor took place in the current year. Follow up the actions taken by the The Audit Committee has Company recommended by the recommended to the Board that Internal Audit. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 111 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY COMMITTEE The remuneration policy is designed The Committee is currently composed to reward, motivate and retain the of two Independent Non-Executive Company’s executive team, with one of whom functions as the market competitive remuneration and Chairman. The members of the benefits, to support the continued Committee have wide experience success of the business and creation and knowledge of finance, business of shareholder value. Accordingly, and industry. The Committee act as a salaries and other benefits are sub-Committee to the Remuneration reviewed periodically, taking into Committee of the Parent Company, account the performance of the Hayleys PLC. individual and industry standards. The Members of the Remuneration The remuneration packages which Committee consist of as below; are linked to individual performances are aligned with the Company’s Mr. A.S. Jayatilleka – Chairman short-term and long-term strategy. The Committee makes every effort Mr. H. Somashantha to maintain remuneration levels that INDEPENDENCE OF THE are sufficient to attract and retain COMMITTEE Executive Directors. The members of the Remuneration All Non-Executive Directors receive Committee are independent Directors a fee for serving on the Board and and are completely free from any serving on sub-committees. They business, Operational, personal or do not receive any performance other relationships that may interfere related incentive payments. The with the exercise of their independent, Hayleys Fabric PLC does not have unbiased judgment an employee share ownership plan for members of the Board, who are KEY OBJECTIVE considered as Key Management The Committee advises the Board on Personnel (KMP). the policy to be followed on executive remuneration packages for individual Directors’ Emoluments Directors and senior management. The Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in Note 22 on page 151. RESPONSIBILITIES The Remuneration Committee is responsible to the Board for; • Determining the policy of the remuneration package of the A.S. Jayatilleka Directors. Chairman Remuneration Committee 13 May 2019 • Evaluating performance of the Managing Directors, Executive Directors as well as the individual and collective performance of Directors. • Deciding on overall individual packages, including compensation on termination of employment 112 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC REPORT OF THE RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS REVIEW COMMITTEE The Related Party Transaction Review Committee of Hayleys PLC, the parent • To review the transfer of resources, Company functions as the Committee of the Company in terms of the Code of services or obligations between Best Practice on Related Party Transactions issued by the Securities & Exchange related parties regardless of Commission of Sri Lanka and the Section 9 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo whether a price is charged. Stock Exchange. • To review the economic and commercial substance of both Composition of the Committee recurrent/non recurrent related The Related Party Transactions Review Committee comprises two Independent party transactions Non-Executive Directors and one Executive Director. • To monitor and recommend the acquisition or disposal of The Committee comprises the following members. substantial assets between related parties, including obtaining Name Status ‘competent independent advice’ from independent professional Dr. Harsha Cabral, PC. Chairman Independent Non -Executive experts with regard to the value of Director the substantial asset of the related Mr. M.Y.A. Perera Independent Non-Executive Director party transaction. Mr. S.C. Ganegoda Executive Director Task of the Committee Meetings & Attendance The Committee re-viewed the Number of Meetings held in 2018/19 related party transactions and their compliances of Hayleys Fabric PLC Dates of the Meeting and communicated the same to the Board. • 16.05.2018 • 08.11.2018 • 06.08.2018 • 06.02.2019 The Committee in its re-view process recognized the adequate of the content and quality of the information Name Attendance forwarded to its members by the Dr. Harsha Cabral, PC. 4/4 management. Mr. M.Y.A. Perera 4/4 Mr. S.C.Ganegoda 2/4 The duties of the Committee Dr. Harsha Cabral, PC. • To review in advance all proposed expert advice from suitably Chairman Related Party Transactions related party transactions of qualified persons. Review Committee of Hayleys PLC the group either prior to the • To recommend, where necessary, transaction being entered into or, if 15 May 2019 to the Board and obtain their the transaction is expressed to be approval prior to the execution of conditional on such review, prior to any related party transaction. the completion of the transaction. • To monitor that all related party • Seek any information the transactions of the entity are Committee requires from transacted on normal commercial management, employees or terms and are not prejudicial to external parties to with regard to the interests of the entity and its any transaction entered into with a minority shareholders. related party. • Meet with the management, • Obtain knowledge or expertise to Internal Auditors/External Auditors assess all aspects of proposed as necessary to carry out the related party transactions where assigned duties. necessary including obtaining appropriate professional and HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 113 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF MANAGING DIRECTOR/CEO AND DIRECTOR-FINANCE / CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER The Financial Statements of The Financial Statements of Hayleys Fabric PLC are prepared the Company were audited by in compliance with following Messrs.’ Ernst & Young-Chartered requirements; Accountants, the Independent External Auditors. Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No.15 of 1995 The Audit Committee of the Company Companies Act No.07 of 2007 meets periodically with Internal Auditors and where necessary with Listing Rules of the Colombo External Auditors to review the Stock Exchange manner in which these Auditors are performing their responsibilities. In The Accounting policies used addition, internal control and financial in preparation of the Financial reporting issues are also discussed. Statements of the Company are In order to ensure the independence appropriate and applied consistently. of the Internal and External Auditors. They have been given full and free All applicable Sri Lanka Accounting access to the members of the Audit Standards have been duly applied. Committee to discuss any matters The significant Accounting policies they thing important. and estimates involved a high degree of judgment and complexity have been informed discussed with the Audit Committee. The Board of Directors and the E. R. P. Goonetilleke Management of the Company accept Managing Director/CEO the responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of Financial Statements. The estimates and judgments relating to the Financial Statements were made in a prudent and reasonable basis, in order to reflect true and fair R. Rohitha Bandara picture and the form and substance of Director – Finance transactions and reasonably present 13 May 2019 the Company’s State of affairs. Company has established proper system of internal control and accounting system in order to safeguard assets, preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities, which is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis. The Internal Auditors Hayleys Management Audit and System Review Department (HMA and SRD) have conducted periodic audits to provide reasonable assurance that the established policies, internal controls and procedures of the Company were consistently followed. 114 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY The Board of Directors of Hayleys Companies Act No 17 of 1982 and The Financial Statements, together Fabric PLC are pleased to present its re-registered as required under the with the Reviews and other Reports Annual Report to the shareholders for provisions of the Companies Act No 7 which form part pf the Annual Report the financial year ended 31st March of 2007. The re-registration number of were approved by the Board of 2019, together with the audited the Company is PQ 37. Directors on 13th May 2019. Financial Statements of the Company and the Auditor’s Report on those The issued shares of the Company Statutory disclosures Financial Statements, conforming to were listed on the main Board of the Section 168 of the Companies Act the requirements of the Companies Colombo Stock Exchange in Sri Lanka No. 07 of 2007, requires the following Act No 7 of 2007 and Listing Rules of in April 2003. information to be published in the the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). Annual Report prepared for the year The registered office of the Company under review. Hayleys Fabric PLC is a public limited is located at 400, Deans Road, liability company incorporated in Sri Colombo-10. Lanka in 1993 under the previous Disclosure requirements Reference to the Disclosure reference for Page Companies Act compliance No. 07 of 2007 The nature of the business of the Section 168 (1) (a) About Us 6 Company Financial Statements for the accounting Section 168 (1) (b) The Financial Statements of the 126 to 158 Period completed and signed in Company for the year ended 31st Signed on page accordance with section 152 March 2019 126 Auditor’s report on the Financial Section 168 (1) (c) Independent Auditors’ Report. 123 to 125 Statements of the Company Any change in accounting policies made Section 168 (1) (d) Note 3 to the Financial Statements 131 During the accounting period Changes in Accounting Policies Particulars of entries in the interests Section 168 (1) (e) Directors’ Interest in Contracts with the register made during the accounting Company period Details of the Directors’ shareholdings. Investor Information 165 There were no changes to the Directors’ shareholding during the financial year. Remuneration and other benefits of Section 168 (1) (f) Note 22 to the Financial Statements 151 directors during the accounting period Profit/ (Loss) Before Tax. Corporate Governance report Directors’ and Executive Remuneration, provides details of the 40 remuneration framework Total amount of donations made by the Section 168 (1) (g) Note 22 to the Financial Statements 151 Company during the accounting period Profit/ (Loss) Before Tax HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 115 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY Disclosure requirements Reference to the Disclosure reference for Page Companies Act compliance No. 07 of 2007 Names of the persons holding office Section 168 (1) (h) Board Profiles 26 to 30 as Directors of the Company as at the In terms of the Article 29 of the Articles end of the accounting period and the of Association of the Company, names of any persons who ceased to Mr. A. M. Pandithage and Mr. S. C. hold office as directors of the Company Ganegoda retire by rotation and being during the accounting period eligible offer themselves for re-election New Appointment Section 168(1) (h) Mr. Malith Hasantha Jayasinghe was appointed to the Board with effect from 1st April 2019. In terms of Article 27(2) of the Article of Association of the Company, shareholders will be requested to elect him at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. His profile is given on page 32. Amounts payable by the Company to Section 168 (1) (i) Note 22 to the Financial Statements 151 the Person or firm holding office as Profit/ (Loss) Before Tax auditor of the Company as audit fees and as a separate item, fees payable by the Company for other services provided By that person or firm ; Particulars of any relationship (other Section 168 (1) (j) The Company’s auditors during the 111 than that of auditor) which the auditor period under review were Messrs. has with or any interests which the Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants. auditor has in, the Company or any of its The auditors do not have any subsidiaries relationship or interest with the 111 Company other than that of an Auditor. A resolution authorizing the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Auditors who are deemed re-appointed in terms of the section 158 of the Companies 111 Act No 07 of 2007 will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. Signed on behalf of the Board by two Section 168 (1) (k) Annual Report of the Board of 119 Directors and the Company Secretary Directors In addition to the above, the following information is disclosed. The details are provided within notes to the Annual report, which form an integral part of the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. Disclosure Note Reference Page Principal Activities About us 8 Vision, Mission and Values The Company is committed to upholding high standards of business 9 conduct and ethics in the work place at all times, paramount in retaining the trust of stakeholders. All employees abide by the Company’s Code of Conduct and Ethics in achieving the vision and mission. 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Disclosure Note Reference Page Review of Business performance Chairman’s Message 18 Managing Director’s Review 22 Managing Our Capitals & Impacts 64 Measures taken to manage risks are given in the Risk Management 94 Report Financial Statements The Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards laid down by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and comply with the requirements of Companies Act No 7 of 2007. 126 These Statements have been duly approved by the Directors and certified by the Chief Financial Officer/Director Finance. Directors’ Responsibility The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility for Financial Reporting 121 for Financial Reporting Auditors’ Report Independent Auditors’ Report 123 Significant Accounting Policies Note 3 to the Financial Statements Significant Accounting Policies 131 Going Concern Note 3.2 to the Financial Statements – Going Concern 132 Revenue Note 18 to the Financial Statements – Revenue 150 Financial Results and Statement of Profit or Loss and other Comprehensive Income 127 Appropriations Statement of Changes in Equity 128 Taxation Note 23 to the Financial Statements Taxation 152 Corporate Donations Note 22 to the Financial Statements Profit Before Tax 151 Stated Capital and Reserves Statement of Changes in Equity 128 Property, Plant and Equipment Note 6 to the Financial Statements Property, Plant and Equipment 142 Intangible assets Note 7 to the Financial Statements – Intangible Assets 144 Capital Expenditure The total capital expenditure on acquisition of property, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets of the Company amounted to USD 1,733,345 and USD 5,625 respectively. Details are given in Note 6 and 7 to the Financial Statements. Capital 143, 144 and expenditure approved and contracted for, and not contracted for, as 155 at Reporting date are given in Note 26 to the Financial Statements under Commitments and Contingencies. Market Value of Note 6.8 to the Financial Statements Property, Plant and 143 FreeholdProperties Equipment. Contingent Liabilities and Note 26 to the Financial Statements Commitments and 155 Commitments Contingencies Events after the Reporting period Note 28to the Financial Statements Events After the Reporting 156 Period Risk Management Disclosure of the different types of risks the Company activities were 156 exposed to, are given in Note 29to the Financial Statements. The Company’s risk management process is described in the Annual 94 Report. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 117 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY Disclosure Note Reference Page Statutory Payments The Directors, to the best of their knowledge are satisfied that all 121 statutory payments in relation to the Government and the employees have been made up to date. Internal Control The Board is responsible for formulating and implementing sound 120 internal control systems to safeguard shareholder interests and assets of the Company. Directors’ Statement on Internal Control Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report 35 The Company has complied with the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) and the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) Environmental Protection To the best of knowledge of the Board, the Company has not 89 engaged in any activity that is harmful or hazardous to the environment and has complied with the relevant environmental laws and regulations. Specific measures taken to protect the environment are found in the Natural Capital Report. Compliance To the best of their knowledge, the Board believes that the Company has not engaged in any activity which contravenes laws and regulations. There have been no irregularities involving management or employees that could have any material financial or other effect. Stated Capital Note 13 to the Financial Statements – Stated Capital 146 Share Information and Share Information 164 Shareholdings Investor information 164 Register of Directors and As required under Section 223 (1) of the Companies Act No 7 of Secretaries 2007, the Company maintains a Register of Directors and Secretaries which contains the name, surname, former name (if any), residential address, business, occupation, dates of appointment and dates of resignation (if applicable) of each Director and the Secretary. Board of Directors Board Profiles Board Composition 26 The Board, Corporate Governance Report 35 Board Committees Board Committees Corporate Governance Report 39 Board and Committee meeting Attendance at meetings Corporate Governance Report 38 attendance Directors’ shareholdings Investor Information 165 Directors’ interest in transactions The Directors declared in terms of the requirement of the listing rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange that the transactions carried out by the Company with its Related Parties during the financial year ended 31st March 2019 did not exceed 10% of equity or 5% of the total assets of the Company. Related party transactions are disclosed in Note 25 to the Financial Statements Directors’ Remuneration Note 22 to the Financial Statements Directors’ Emoluments 151 Human Resources Human Capital 79 118 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Disclosure Note Reference Page Insurance and Indemnity A Corporate Guard has been taken from Orient Insurance Ltd for the Group by Hayleys PLC (parent company) to indemnify all past, present and future directors and officers liability of the Company Policy No. P/100/6020/2015/10 Limit of Liability USD 5,000,000 Policy Premium LKR 8,321,959 Period From 01.06.2018 to 31.05.2019 Material Foreseeable Risk Factors Risk Management Review 94 (As per Rule No. 7.6(VI) of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange) Material Issues Pertaining No material issues occurred during the year to Employees and Industrial Relations Pertaining to the Company (As per Rule No. 7.6 (VII) of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange) Operational Excellence Performance Highlights 11 to 13 Related Party Transactions The Board of Directors has given the following statement in respect of the related party transactions. The related party transactions of the Company during the financial year have been re-viewed by the Related party Transactions Review Committee of Hayleys PLC, the Parent Company of Hayleys Fabric PLC and are in compliance with Section 09 of the CSE Listing Rules. Notice of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company is convened on 26th June 2019, at 3.00 pm, at the Auditorium of the Registered Office of the Company, No 400, Deans Road, Colombo. The Notice of the Annual General Meeting appears on page 166. Acknowledgement of the Contents of the Report As required by Section 168 (1) (k) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors hereby acknowledges the contents of this Annual Report. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors A.M. Pandithage E.R.P. Goonetilleke Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd Chairman Managing Director Secretaries 13 May 2019 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 119 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROLS Requirement Department (HMA and SRD) which the Registrar of Companies. The The Section D.1.5 of the ‘Code is an independent function report Company Financial Statements for of Best Practice on Corporate directly to Audit Committee that the year ended 31st March 2019 Governance 2017’ (The Code) provides assurance on the efficiency have been audited by Messrs. Ernst & issued by the Institute of Chartered and effectiveness of the Internal Young, Chartered Accountants, Accountants of Sri Lanka Control System of the Company and recommends that the Board of more details are available in Audit By order of the Board Directors present a Statement on Committee Report on page 110. Internal Controls in the Annual Report. Review adequacy and The Board of Directors is responsible Effectiveness for formulating and implementing a The Board and Audit Committee E.R.P. Goonetilleke sound system of internal controls have reviewed effectiveness of the Managing Director/CEO and for periodically reviewing its financial, operations and compliance effectiveness and integrity in terms controls and internal control system of mitigating any risk associated and including the risk management and safeguard the Company’s assets taken appropriate actions where and prevention of their misused or necessary. Thereby the Board and the H. Somashantha unauthorized disposal. Audit Committee assure that effective Chairman-Audit Committee system of risk management and The Board is in the opinion that the internal control system are in place to system of internal controls is sound safeguard the assets of the Company. and adequate and accordingly the System of internal controls can Code of Business Conduct and provide a reasonable but not absolute Ethics R. Rohitha Bandara assurance against successful The Board ensures that Directors Director Finance management of risk, financial losses and employees strictly comply with or fraud. Company’s Code of Ethics at all Colombo levels in the performance of their 13 May 2019 The Board identifies significant official duties, communications, risk on an ongoing basis and take role modelling and in any other necessary actions for implementation circumstances, so as to prevent the of appropriate procedures to evaluate tarnishing of the Company’s image in and manage the identified risks. any manner. The violation of the Code of Ethics is an offence that is subject Board Committee to disciplinary action. The Board Committee and Management Committee have Confirmation been established to assist the The Board of Hayleys Fabric PLC Board to ensure the effectiveness confirms that all Financial Statements of the Company’s operations and are prepared in accordance with are directed towards corporate the requirements of the Companies objectives, strategy, Company’s Act No. 7 of 2007, the Sri Lanka budgets, Company policies, taking Accounting and Auditing Standards in to consideration the business Act, the Listing Rules of the Colombo environment and internal operating Stock Exchange and other regulatory conditions. bodies as applicable for the Company. Internal Audit We have duly complied with all the Company’s Internal Audit function is requirements prescribed by the performed by Hayleys Management regulatory authorities including the Audit and System Review Colombo Stock Exchange and 120 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The responsibilities of the Directors in • The Financial Statements of Compliance Report relation to the Financial Statements the Company are prepared and The Directors confirm that to the best of the Company are set out in this presented in accordance with the of their knowledge, all taxes, duties statement. The responsibility of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and levies payable by the Company, Auditors, in relation to the Financial (SLFRSs/ LKASs); and that all contributions, levies and taxes Statements is set out in the Report reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been made payable on behalf of and in respect of of the Auditors on pages from 123 to the employees of the Company, and so that the form and substance of 125 as required by the Companies Act all other known statutory dues as were transactions are properly reflected; No.7 of 2007. due and payable by the Company and as at the reporting date have been The financial statements • Listing Rules of the Colombo paid, or where relevant provided for, comprise of: Stock Exchange are complied except as specified in Note 26.2 to • Income statement and statement with. the Financial Statements covering of comprehensive income of the contingent liabilities. The Directors are also required Company, which present a true to ensure that the Company has and fair view of the profit and loss By Order of the Board, adequate resources to continue in of the Company for the financial year. operation to justify applying the going concern basis in preparing these Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd • A statement of financial position, Financial Statements. Secretaries which presents a true and fair Colombo view of the state of affairs of the Further, the Directors have a Company as at the end of the responsibility to ensure that the 13 May 2019 financial year. Company maintains sufficient accounting records to disclose, with • Statement of Changes in Equity reasonable accuracy the financial and Cash Flow for the year then ended and Accounting Policies position of the Company. and Notes thereto. The Directors are required to prepare Accordingly, the Board of Directors the Financial Statements and to confirms that the Financial provide the auditors with every Statements of the Company give a opportunity to take whatever steps true and fair view of the; and undertake whatever inspections that may be considered being • Financial position of the Company appropriate to enable them to give as at 31st March 2019; and Financial performance of the their audit opinion Company for the financial year ended 31st March 2019 The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard The Directors are required the assets of the Company and in this to confirm that the Financial regard to give proper consideration Statements have been prepared: to the establishment of appropriate internal control systems with a view • Using appropriate accounting to preventing and detecting fraud and policies which have been selected and applied in a consistent other irregularities. manner, and material departures, if any, have been disclosed and The Directors are of the view that they explained; and have discharged their responsibilities as set out in this statement HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 121 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2018/19 1st Quarter Report 31 July 2018 2nd Quarter Report 01 November 2018 3rd Quarter Report 21 January 2019 4th Quarter Report 13 May 2019 Annual Report 2018/19 31 May 2019 27th Annual General Meeting 26 June 2019 122 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT To the Shareholders of Hayleys Basis for opinion addressed in the context of the audit Fabric PLC We conducted our audit in of the financial statements as a whole, Report on the audit of the ﬁnancial accordance with Sri Lanka and in forming the opinion thereon, statements Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our and we do not provide a separate responsibilities under those standards opinion on these matters. For each Opinion are further described in the Auditor’s matter below, our description of how We have audited the financial our audit addressed the matter is responsibilities for the audit of the statements of Hayleys Fabric PLC provided in that context. financial statements section of our (“the Company”) which comprise the report. We are independent of the statement of financial position as at We have fulfilled the responsibilities Company in accordance with the 31 March 2019, and the statement of described in the Auditor’s Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka profit or loss and other comprehensive responsibilities for the audit of the (Code of Ethics) and we have fulfilled income, statement of changes in equity financial statements section of our other ethical responsibilities in and statement of cash flows for the year our report, including in relation to accordance with the Code of Ethics. then ended, and notes to the financial these matters. Accordingly, our We believe that the audit evidence statements, including a summary of audit included the performance of we have obtained is sufficient and significant accounting policies. procedures designed to respond appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. to our assessment of the risks of In our opinion, the accompanying material misstatement of the financial financial statements give a true and statements. The results of our audit fair view of the financial position of Key audit matters procedures, including the procedures the Company as at 31 March 2019, Key audit matters are those matters performed to address the matters and of their financial performance and that, in our professional judgment, below, provide the basis for our audit cash flows for the year then ended in were of most significance in the audit opinion on the accompanying financial accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting of the financial statements of the statements. Standards. current period. These matters were Key audit matters Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter Valuation of Inventories Inventories amount to USD 13,299,520 as at the reporting date, To validate the valuation of inventories, we; being 28% of the Total Assets of the Company. assessed the appropriateness of the The Company has applied judgment in the determination of impairment recognized by the Company, inventories that are slow moving, also considering the ageing of checking inventory ageing reports to determine inventories. An impairment of USD 795,001 has been recorded whether management has appropriately as an impairment loss as reflected in Note 8 to the financial considered slow moving inventories, and statements. for finished goods identified as second grade, Further, the Company has identified finished goods amounting to we checked the appropriateness of net USD 98,697 as second grade finished goods, which are recorded realizable value, performing tests on sales at net realizable value (NRV). The determination of NRV also prices secured by the Company for similar or represents a significant judgement as such is dependent on prices comparable items of inventories, that the Company would be able secure. We also assessed the adequacy of disclosures The significance of the balance coupled with the judgment made in relation to the valuation of inventories in involved in the determination of impairment as well as the Note 8 to the financial statements. determination of NRV for second grade finished goods has resulted in the valuation of inventories being identified as a key audit matter. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 123 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter Impairment Assessment of Plant and Machinery The carrying value of the Company’s plant and machinery as at 31 Our audit procedures to assess the impairment of March 2019 amounted to USD 14,154,844. plant and machinery included the following: The carrying values of these assets are reviewed annually by obtaining, discussing with management and management for potential indicators of impairment. For assets evaluating the key assumptions underlying where such indicators exist, management performs an impairment management’s assessment of potential test, taking into account, inter alia, the impact of revenue impairment of these assets, and assumptions and technical factors which may affect the expected where potential indicators of impairment remaining useful lives and carrying value of the assets. were identified, evaluating management’s An amount of USD 90,019 was recognized as an impairment impairment assessments and the assumptions loss by the Company as described in Note 6.9 to the financial adopted therein, including the determination of statements. production capabilities, revenue assumptions with reference to the actual revenue levels We identified the impairment of plant and machinery as a key audit achieved in the current year and future matter because the assessment can involve a significant degree of operating plans. management judgement in determining the production capabilities of identified items of plant and machinery as well as expected We also assessed the adequacy of disclosures sales volumes from the related products. made in relation to the assessment of impairment in the financial statements. Other Information included in Responsibilities of the Auditor’s responsibilities the 2019 Annual Report management and those for the audit of the financial Other information consists of the charged with governance for statements information included in the Annual the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain Report, other than the financial Management is responsible for the reasonable assurance about whether statements and our auditor’s report preparation of financial statements the financial statements as a whole thereon. Management is responsible that give a true and fair view in are free from material misstatement, for the other information. accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting whether due to fraud or error, and to Standards, and for such internal issue an auditor’s report that includes Our opinion on the financial control as management determines is our opinion. Reasonable assurance is statements does not cover the other necessary to enable the preparation of a high level of assurance, but is not a information and we do not express financial statements that are free from guarantee that an audit conducted in any form of assurance conclusion material misstatement, whether due to accordance with SLAuSs will always thereon. fraud or error. detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from In connection with our audit of the In preparing the financial statements, fraud or error and are considered financial statements, our responsibility management is responsible for material if, individually or in the is to read the other information and, in assessing the Company’s ability to aggregate, they could reasonably be doing so, consider whether the other continue as a going concern, disclosing, expected to influence the economic information is materially inconsistent as applicable, matters related to going decisions of users taken on the basis with the financial statements or our concern and using the going concern of these financial statements. knowledge obtained in the audit or basis of accounting unless management otherwise appears to be materially either intends to liquidate the Company As part of an audit in accordance with misstated. If, based on the work we or to cease operations, or has no SLAuSs, we exercise professional have performed, we conclude that realistic alternative but to do so. judgment and maintain professional there is a material misstatement of this skepticism throughout the audit. We other information, we are required to Those charged with governance also: report that fact. We have nothing to are responsible for overseeing the report in this regard. Company’s financial reporting process. 124 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC • Identify and assess the risks of are inadequate, to modify our a matter should not be communicated material misstatement of the opinion. Our conclusions are in our report because the adverse financial statements, whether based on the audit evidence consequences of doing so would due to fraud or error, design obtained up to the date of our reasonably be expected to outweigh and perform audit procedures auditor’s report. However, future the public interest benefits of such responsive to those risks, and events or conditions may cause communication. obtain audit evidence that is the Company to cease to continue sufficient and appropriate to as a going concern. Report on other legal and provide a basis for our opinion. regulatory requirements The risk of not detecting a material • Evaluate the overall presentation, As required by section 163 (2) of the misstatement resulting from fraud structure and content of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we is higher than for one resulting financial statements, including have obtained all the information and from error, as fraud may involve the disclosures, and whether the explanations that were required for collusion, forgery, intentional financial statements represent the the audit and, as far as appears from omissions, misrepresentations, or underlying transactions and events our examination, proper accounting the override of internal control. in a manner that achieves fair records have been kept by the presentation. Company. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the We communicate with those charged CA Sri Lanka membership number of audit in order to design audit with governance regarding, among the engagement partner responsible procedures that are appropriate other matters, the planned scope for signing this independent auditor’s in the circumstances, but not for and timing of the audit and significant report is 2440. the purpose of expressing an audit findings, including any significant opinion on the effectiveness of the deficiencies in internal control that we Company's internal controls. identify during our audit. • Evaluate the appropriateness of We also provide those charged with accounting policies used and the governance with a statement that we Chartered Accountants reasonableness of accounting have complied with relevant ethical 13 May 2019 estimates and related disclosures requirements regarding independence, Colombo made by management. and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that • Conclude on the appropriateness may reasonably be thought to bear of management’s use of the going on our independence, and where concern basis of accounting and, applicable, related safeguards. based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material From the matters communicated with uncertainty exists related to those charged with governance, we events or conditions that may determine those matters that were of cast significant doubt on the most significance in the audit of the Company’s ability to continue as financial statements of the current a going concern. If we conclude period and are therefore the key audit that a material uncertainty exists, matters. We describe these matters we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report unless law or in our auditor’s report to the regulation precludes public disclosure related disclosures in the financial about the matter or when, in extremely statements or, if such disclosures rare circumstances, we determine that HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 125 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION As at 31st March 2019 2018 Note USD USD ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, plant and equipment 6 24,819,631 25,015,918 Intangible assets 7 64,117 152,030 24,883,748 25,167,948 Current Assets Inventories 8 13,299,520 11,524,663 Trade receivables 9 8,394,207 7,896,734 Other receivables 10 373,932 664,891 Advances and prepayments 11 373,499 489,158 Cash and cash equivalents 12 284,635 345,731 22,725,793 20,921,177 Total Assets 47,609,541 46,089,125 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and Reserves Stated capital 13 17,561,761 17,561,761 Revaluation reserve 1,415,280 1,240,369 Retained losses (1,117,816) (1,765,160) Total Equity 17,859,225 17,036,970 Non-Current Liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 1,054,778 3,286,112 Deferred tax liabilities 23.2 1,768,003 1,360,184 Retirement benefit obligations 15 2,534,443 2,033,015 5,357,224 6,679,311 Current Liabilities Trade and other payables 16 8,729,229 8,212,686 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 14,130,063 13,420,559 Amounts due to Hayleys PLC 62,018 52,934 Other non financial liabilities 17 1,471,782 686,665 24,393,092 22,372,844 Total Equity and Liabilities 47,609,541 46,089,125 These financial statements are in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No : 07 of 2007. Ruwan Rohitha Bandara Director Finance The Board of Directors is responsible for these financial statements. Signed for and on behalf of the Board by, A.M.Pandithage E.R.P.Goonetilleke Chairman Managing Director Colombo 13 May 2019 The accounting policies and notes on pages 130 through 158 form an integral part of these financial statements. 126 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Year ended 31st March 2019 2018 Note USD USD Revenue from Contracts with Customers 18 69,940,639 57,686,803 Cost of Sales (61,601,834) (51,609,217) Gross Profit 8,338,805 6,077,586 Other operating income 19 67,049 60,914 Administrative expenses (4,779,539) (4,724,567) Distribution expenses (781,286) (488,944) Other expenses 20 (103,757) Net financing costs 21 (892,404) (974,034) Profit/(loss) before tax 1,848,868 (49,045) Income tax expense 23 (790,533) (630,471) Profit/(loss) for the year 1,058,335 (679,516) Other Comprehensive Income not to be reclassified to profit or loss Surplus on revaluation of land 6.8 203,386 Income tax effect on revaluation of land 23.2 (28,475) (201,920) Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans 15 (477,896) 387,138 Income tax effect on actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans 23.2 66,905 (54,199) Total Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax 822,255 (548,497) Basic / Diluted Earnings/(loss) per Share 24 0.005 (0.003) The accounting policies and notes on pages 130 through 158 form an integral part of these financial statements. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 127 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Year ended 31st March 2019 Stated Revaluation Retained Total capital reserve earnings/ (losses) USD USD USD USD Balance as at 1st April 2017 17,561,761 1,442,289 (1,418,583) 17,585,467 Loss for the year (679,516) (679,516) Other comprehensive income Income tax effect on surplus on revaluation of land (201,920) (201,920) Actuarial gain on defined benefit plans 387,138 387,138 Income tax effect on actuarial gain on defined benefit plans (54,199) (54,199) Total other comprehensive income (201,920) 332,939 131,019 Total comprehensive income (201,920) (346,577) (548,497) Balance as at 31st March 2018 17,561,761 1,240,369 (1,765,160) 17,036,970 Profit for the year 1,058,335 1,058,335 Other comprehensive income Surplus on revaluation of land 203,386 203,386 Income tax effect on surplus on revaluation of land (28,475) (28,475) Actuarial loss on defined benefit plans (477,896) (477,896) Income tax effect on actuarial loss on defined benefit plans 66,905 66,905 Total other comprehensive income 174,911 (410,991) (236,080) Total comprehensive income 174,911 647,344 822,255 Balance as at 31st March 2019 17,561,761 1,415,280 (1,117,816) 17,859,225 The accounting policies and notes on pages 130 through 158 form an integral part of these financial statements. 128 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Year ended 31st March 2019 2018 Note USD USD Cash flows from / (used in) operating activities Profit /(loss) before income tax expense 1,848,868 (49,045) Adjustments for Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 6 2,020,888 1,955,485 Amortization of intangible assets 7 93,538 143,410 Provision for retiring gratuity 15 362,013 394,668 Net unrealised gain on translation of foreign currency (227,873) (47,507) Net finance costs 991,393 827,555 (Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13,738 (182) Loss on impairment of property, plant and equipment 90,019 Creditors write back 6 (47,044) (60,732) Impairment for bad and doubtful debts 26,397 65,566 Impairment for slow moving inventories 84,282 73,041 Operating profit before working capital changes 5,256,219 3,302,259 Increase in trade and other receivables (185,867) (1,272,576) Decrease in advances and prepayments 115,659 733,612 Increase in inventories (1,859,139) (389,861) Increase in trade and other payables and other non financial liabilities 991,780 2,992,095 Cash generated from operations 4,318,652 5,365,529 Retiring gratuity paid 15 (110,608) (123,598) Interest paid (955,178) (794,970) Economic service charge paid (325,316) (211,448) Net cash flows from operating activities 2,927,550 4,235,513 Cash flows from / (used in) investing activities Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment (1,469,566) (2,329,077) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 8,375 509 Purchase of intangible assets 7 (5,625) (48,233) Interest received 1,027 Net cash flows used in investing activities (1,466,816) (2,375,774) Cash flows from /(used in) financing activities Proceeds from new term loans 14 310,000 Repayment of term loans 14 (2,710,509) (2,572,428) Net cash flows used in financing activities (2,400,509) (2,572,428) Net Decrease in Cash and Cash Equivalents (939,775) (712,690) Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year 12 (10,380,320) (9,667,630) Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the year 12 (11,320,095) (10,380,320) The accounting policies and notes on pages 130 through 158 form an integral part of these financial statements. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 129 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. REPORTING ENTITY The financial statements have been result of the Company’s adoption of 1.1 Domicile and Legal Form prepared on a historical cost basis, SLFRS 9 and SLFRS 15. except for land which is reflected at Hayleys Fabric PLC (“Company”) fair value. 2.5 Offsetting is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in Sri Assets and liabilities or income and 2.1 Statement of Compliance expenses, are not offset unless Lanka. The ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the Colombo The financial statements have been required or permitted by Sri Lanka Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka. prepared in accordance with the Accounting Standards. The Company’s registered office Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No 15 of 1995, 2.6 Use of Estimates and is situated in 400, Deans Road, which requires compliance with Judgments Colombo 10 and the principle place of business of the Company is at Sri Lanka Accounting Standards The preparation of these financial Narthupana Estate, Neboda. promulgated by The Institute of statements requires management Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka to make judgments, estimates 1.2 Principal Activities and (CASL), and with the requirements and assumptions that affect the Nature of Operations of Companies Act No 7 of 2007. application of accounting policies The Company’s principal activity is and the reported amounts of income, 2.2 Functional and expenses, assets, liabilities, and the the manufacture of knitted fabric. Presentation Currency disclosure of contingent liabilities, at 1.3 Parent Enterprise The financial statements are the end of the reporting period. presented in United States Dollars In the opinion of the Directors, (USD) as commercial transactions Judgments and estimates are the Company’s ultimate parent are primarily carried out by the based on historical experience and undertaking and controlling party is Company in USD and such other factors, including expectations Hayleys PLC, which is incorporated would better reflect the economic that are believed to be reasonable in Sri Lanka. substance of underlying events under the circumstances. Hence, and circumstances relevant to the actual experience and results may 1.4 Approval of Financial enterprise. differ from these judgments and Statements estimates. Estimates and underlying The financial statements of Hayleys 2.3 Materiality and assumptions are reviewed on Fabric PLC were authorized for issue Aggregation an ongoing basis. Revisions in accordance with a resolution of the to accounting estimates are Each material class of similar Board of Directors on 13th May 2019 recognised in the period in which items is presented separately in the Financial Statements. Items of the estimates are revised if the 1.5 Responsibility for Financial revision affects only that period and a dissimilar nature or function are Statements any future periods. presented separately unless they The responsibility of the Directors in are immaterial. relation to the Financial Statements is Information about significant areas set out in the Statement of Directors’ 2.4 Comparative information of estimation uncertainty and Responsibility Report in the Annual critical judgements in applying Comparative information including Report. accounting policies that have quantitative, narrative and the most significant effect on the descriptive information as relevant 2. BASIS OF amounts recognised in the financial is disclosed in respect of previous PREPARATION statements are discussed below. period in the Financial Statements. The financial statements of the The presentation and classification Company comprise the Statement of Depreciation of Property, Plant and of the Financial Statement of the Financial Position, Statement of Profit Equipment previous year are amended, where or Loss and Other Comprehensive relevant for better presentation and Management assigns useful lives Income, Statement of Changes to be comparable with those of the and residual values to property, in Equity and Statement of Cash current year. plant and equipment based on Flows together with the Accounting the intended use of assets and Policies and Notes to the financial No restatements were made to the economic lives of these statements. comparative information as a assets. Subsequent changes in 130 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC circumstances such as technological recovered through a sale in the local Several other amendments and advances or utilization of the market. interpretations apply for the first assets concerned could result in time in 2018/19, but do not have an the actual useful lives or residual Impairment of Non-Financial Assets impact on the financial statements values differing from initial estimates. Impairment exists when the carrying of the Company. The Company has Management reviews annually the value of an asset or cash generating not early adopted any standards, residual values and useful lives of unit exceeds its recoverable amount, interpretations or amendments that major items of property, plant and which is the higher of its fair value have been issued but are not yet equipment. Refer Note 3.6.7 for less costs to sell and its value in effective. useful lives used in depreciating use. The fair value less costs to sell Property, Plant and Equipment in the calculation is based on available a) SLFRS 15 Revenue from Company. data from binding sales transactions Contracts with Customers in arm’s length transactions of SLFRS 15 supersedes LKAS 11 Retirement Benefit Obligations similar assets or observable market Construction Contracts, LKAS 18 The cost of defined benefit plan prices less incremental costs for Revenue and related Interpretations is determined using actuarial disposing of the asset. The value and it applies, with limited valuations. An actuarial valuation in use calculation is based on a exceptions, to all revenue arising involves making various assumptions discounted cash flow model. The from contracts with its customers. that may differ from actual recoverable amount is most sensitive SLFRS 15 establishes a five-step developments in the future. These to the discount rate used for the model to account for revenue arising include the determination of the discounted cash flow model as from contracts with customers and discount rate, future salary increases well as the expected future cashrequires that revenue be recognised and mortality rates. Due to the inflows and the growth rate used for at an amount that reflects the complexity of the valuation, the extrapolation purposes. consideration to which an entity underlying assumptions and its expects to be entitled in exchange long-term nature, a defined benefit Deferred Tax for transferring goods or services to obligation is highly sensitive to Deferred Tax Assets as reflected a customer. changes in these assumptions. All in Note 23.2 are recognized for all assumptions are reviewed at each unused tax losses to the extent SLFRS 15 requires entities to reporting date. Further details about that it is probable that taxable profit exercise judgement, taking into the assumptions used are provided will be available against which the consideration all of the relevant facts in Note 15.3. losses can be utilized. Significant and circumstances when applying management judgment is required each step of the model to contracts Valuation of Inventories to determine the amount of deferred with their customers. The standard The Company manufactures and tax assets that can be recognized, also specifies the accounting for sells fabric based on customized based upon the likely timing and the the incremental costs of obtaining specifications made by its level of future taxable profits together a contract and the costs directly customers. The price of fabric with future tax planning strategies. related to fulfilling a contract. In manufactured by the Company addition, the standard requires varies based on the Company’s 3. SIGNIFICANT extensive disclosures. determination of whether the stock ACCOUNTING items are 1st Grade or 2nd Grade POLICIES The Company adopted SLFRS 15 Stocks. Judgement is required to using the modified retrospective 3.1 Changes in Accounting assess whether finished goods method of adoption. Based on Policies can be resold as 1st or 2nd Grade the assessment performed, the 3.1.1 New and amended Company concluded that SLFRS 15 stocks as well as to determine the standards and does not have a material impact on appropriate level of impairment for interpretations the Company’s Financial Statements. items which may not be resold or which would be sold in the local The Company applied SLFRS 15 market at a nominal price. Such and SLFRS 9 for the first time. The b) SLFRS 9 Financial judgements include management’s nature and effect of the changes as Instruments expectations of repeat orders a result of adoption of these new SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments to utilize the finished goods in accounting standards are described replaces LKAS 39 Financial stock and the price that would be below. Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for annual periods HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 131 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS beginning on or after 1 January either on a 12-month or lifetime of gain or loss on the change in fair 2018, bringing together all three basis. The Company applies the value of the item (i.e., translation aspects of the accounting for simplified approach and records differences on items whose fair financial instruments: classification lifetime expected losses on all value gain or loss is recognised and measurement; impairment; and trade receivables. The Company in OCI or profit or loss are also hedge accounting. reassessed the impairment loss recognised in OCI or profit or loss, recognized by the Company and respectively). Classification and measurement there was no significant effect which Under SLFRS 9, debt instruments arose on the adoption of SLFRS 9. In determining the spot exchange are subsequently measured at rate to use on initial recognition fair value through profit or loss, 3.2 Going Concern of the related asset, expense amortised cost, or fair value The Directors have made an or income (or part of it) on the through OCI. The classification assessment of the Company’s ability derecognition of a non-monetary is based on two criteria: the to continue as a going concern and asset or non-monetary liability Company’s business model for is satisfied that it has the resources relating to advance consideration, managing the assets; and whether to continue in business for the the date of the transaction is the the instruments’ contractual cash foreseeable future. Furthermore, date on which the Company initially flows represent ‘solely payments management is not aware of any recognises the non-monetary asset of principal and interest’ on the material uncertainties that may or non-monetary liability arising principal amount outstanding. cast significant doubt upon the from the advance consideration. Company’s ability to continue as If there are multiple payments or The assessment of the Company’s a going concern. Therefore, the receipts in advance, the Company business model was made as Financial Statements continue to determines the transaction date for of the date of initial application, be prepared on the going concern each payment or receipt of advance 1 April 2018, and then applied basis. consideration. retrospectively to those financial assets that were not derecognised 3.3 Foreign Currency 3.4 Current versus Nonbefore 1 April 2018. The Transactions Current Classification assessment of whether contractual Transactions in foreign currencies The Company presents assets and cash flows on debt instruments are are translated to USD at the foreign liabilities in the statement of financial solely comprised of principal and exchange rate ruling at the date of position as current and non-current. interest was made based on the transaction. Monetary assets and facts and circumstances as at the liabilities denominated in foreign An asset is classified as current initial recognition of the assets. currencies are translated at the when it is: functional currency spot rate of Trade receivables and Other non• Expected to be realised or exchange at the reporting date. current financial assets previously intended to be sold or consumed Differences arising on settlement classified as Loans and receivables in the normal operating cycle or translation of monetary items are held to collect contractual cash are recognized in the Statement of • Held primarily for the purpose of flows and give rise to cash flows Profit or Loss. Non-monetary assets trading representing solely payments of and liabilities which are measured principal and interest. These are in terms of historical cost in a • Expected to be realised within now classified and measured as foreign currency are translated using twelve months after the reporting Debt instruments at amortised cost. exchange rates at the dates of the period, or The classification and measurement initial transactions. requirements of SLFRS 9 did not • Cash or cash equivalents unless have a significant impact on the Non-monetary items measured at restricted from being exchanged Company. fair value in a foreign currency are or used to settle a liability for at translated using the exchange rates least twelve months after the Impairment at the date when the fair value is reporting period SLFRS 9 requires the Company determined. The gain or loss arising to record expected credit losses on translation of non-monetary All other assets are classified as on all of its debt securities, items measured at fair value is non-current. loans and trade receivables, treated in line with the recognition 132 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC A liability is current when: financial asset takes into account determined classes of assets and • It is expected to be settled in the a market participant’s ability to liabilities on the basis of the nature, normal operating cycle generate economic benefits by using characteristics and risks of the asset the asset in its highest and best use or liability and the level of the fair • It is held primarily for the purpose or by selling it to another market value hierarchy as explained above. of trading participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. 3.6 Property, Plant and • It is due to be settled within Equipment twelve months after the reporting period, or The Company uses valuation The Company applies the techniques that are appropriate in requirements of LKAS 16 on • It does not have a right at the the circumstances and for which ‘Property Plant and Equipment’ in reporting date to defer the sufficient data are available to accounting for its owned assets settlement of the liability for at measure fair value, maximising which are held for and use in the least twelve months after the the use of relevant observable provision of the services or for reporting period inputs and minimising the use of administration purpose and are unobservable inputs. expected to be used for more than The Company classifies all other liabilities as non-current. one year. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the 3.6.1 Basis of recognition Deferred tax assets and liabilities are financial statements are categorized classified as non-current assets and Property, plant and equipment is within the fair value hierarchy, liabilities. recognised if it is probable that described as follows, based on the future economic benefit associated lowest level input that is significant 3.5 Fair Value Measurement with the assets will flow to the to the fair value measurement as a The Company measures land at fair Company and cost of the asset can whole: value in these financial statements. be reliably measured. Level 1Quoted (unadjusted) market Fair value is the price that would 3.6.2 Basis of measurement prices in active markets for identical be received to sell an asset or Items of property, plant & equipment assets or liabilities paid to transfer a liability in an including construction in progress orderly transaction between market Level 2 Valuation techniques are measured at cost net of participants at the measurement for which the lowest level input accumulated depreciation and date. The fair value measurement that is significant to the fair value accumulated impairment losses, is based on the presumption that measurement is directly or indirectly if any, except for land which is the transaction to sell the asset observable measured at fair value. or transfer the liability takes place either: Level 3Valuation techniques 3.6.3 Owned Assets for which the lowest level input The cost of property, plant and • In the principal market for the that is significant to the fair value equipment includes expenditure asset or liability, or measurement is unobservable that are directly attributable to the • In the absence of a principal acquisition of the asset. The cost of market, in the most For assets and liabilities that self-constructed assets includes the advantageous market for the are recognised in the financial cost of materials and direct labour, asset or liability statements on a recurring basis, any other costs directly attributable the Company determines whether to bringing the asset to a working The principal or the most transfers have occurred between condition for its intended use, advantageous market must be Levels in the hierarchy by reand the costs of dismantling and accessible to the Company. The assessing categorization (based removing the items and restoring fair value of an asset or a liability is on the lowest level input that the site on which they are located measured using the assumptions is significant to the fair value and borrowing costs on qualifying that market participants would use measurement as a whole) at the end assets. Purchased software that is when pricing the asset or liability, of each reporting period. integral to the functionality of the assuming that market participants related equipment is capitalised as a act in their economic best interest. A For the purpose of fair value part of that equipment. fair value measurement of a nondisclosures, the Company has HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 133 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS When parts of an item of property, leased property or, if lower, at the proceeds and the carrying amount of plant and equipment have different present value of the minimum lease the asset) in the Statement of Profit useful lives, they are accounted payments. Lease payments are or Loss. Gains are not classified as for as separate items (major apportioned between finance charges revenue. When revalued assets are components) of property, plant and and reduction of the lease liability sold, any related amount included equipment. so as to achieve a constant rate of in the Revaluation Reserve is interest on the remaining balance transferred to Retained Earnings. Revaluation of land is done with of the liability. Finance charges are sufficient frequency to ensure that recognised in finance costs in the 3.6.7 Depreciation the fair value of the land does not statement of profit or loss. Depreciation is recognised in the differ materially from its carrying statement of profit or loss on a amount, and is undertaken by A leased asset is depreciated over straight-line basis over the estimated professionally qualified valuers. the useful life of the asset. However, useful lives of each part of an item if there is no reasonable certainty of property, plant and equipment Any revaluation surplus is recorded that the Company will obtain since this most closely reflects the in other comprehensive income and ownership by the end of the lease expected pattern of consumption credited to the revaluation reserve term, the asset is depreciated over of the future economic benefits in equity, except to the extent that the shorter of the estimated useful embodied in the asset. it reverses a revaluation decrease life of the asset and the lease term. of the same asset previously Assets held under finance leases recognised in the statement of profit An operating lease is a lease other are depreciated over the shorter of or loss, in which case, the increase than a finance lease. Operating lease the lease term and the useful lives of is recognised in the statement of payments are recognised as an equivalent owned assets unless it is profit or loss. A revaluation deficit operating expense in the Statement reasonably certain that the Company is recognised in the statement of of Profit or Loss on a straight-line will have ownership by the end of profit or loss except to the extent basis over the lease term. the lease term. Freehold land is not that it offsets an existing surplus on depreciated. the same asset recognised in the 3.6.5 Subsequent Costs revaluation reserve. Upon disposal, The cost of replacing part of an item The estimated useful lives for the any revaluation reserve relating to of property, plant and equipment current and comparative periods are the particular asset being sold is is recognised in the carrying as follows; transferred to retained earnings. amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits Buildings 40 years 3.6.4 Leased Assets embodied within the part will flow Water Treatment Plant 15 years The determination of whether an to the Company and its cost can Plant & Machinery 15-20 years arrangement is, or contains, a be measured reliably. The carrying Motor Vehicles 5 years lease is based on the substance amount of the replaced part is Furniture and Fittings 6 2/3 years of the arrangement at inception derecognised in accordance with the Office Equipment 6 2/3 years date, whether fulfillment of the derecognition policy given below. Computers 6 2/3 years arrangement is dependent on the Factory Equipment 6 2/3 years use of a specific asset or assets The costs of the repair and Safety and Medical 6 2/3 years or the arrangement conveys a maintenance of property, plant & Equipment right to use the asset, even if that equipment are recognised in the Bungalow Equipment 6 2/3 years right is not explicitly specified in an Statement of Profit or Loss as arrangement. incurred. Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use and A lease is classified at the 3.6.6 Derecognition ceases at the earlier of the dates on inception date as a finance lease which the asset is classified as held The carrying amount of an item or an operating lease. A lease that for sale or is derecognised. of property, plant & equipment transfers substantially all the risks is derecognised on disposal; or and rewards incidental to ownership The assets’ residual values, useful when no future economic benefits to the Company is classified as a lives and methods of depreciation are expected from its use. Any Finance Lease. Finance leases are are reviewed at each financial year gains and losses on derecognition capitalised at the commencement end and adjusted prospectively, if are recognised (calculated as the of the lease at the fair value of the appropriate. difference between the net disposal 134 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 3.7 Intangible Assets consistent with the function of the 3.9 Cash and Cash Equivalents 3.7.1 Basis of recognition intangible assets. Cash and cash equivalents are cash An Intangible asset is recognised if in hand and demand deposits that are Intangible Assets of the Company readily convertible to known amounts it is probable that future economic consists of Computer Software, of cash and subject to insignificant risk benefit associated with the assets which being an intangible asset of changes in value. For the purpose will flow to the Company and cost of with a finite useful life is amortized of the cash flow statement, cash and the asset can be reliably measured. over a period of 4 – 6 2/3 years, as cash equivalents consist of cash in such represents management’s best hand and deposits in banks net of 3.7.2 Basis of measurement estimate. outstanding bank overdrafts, and Intangible assets acquired separately short term loans. are measured on initial recognition 3.7.4 De-recognition of at cost. The costs of intangible intangible assets 3.10 Impairment of Nonassets acquired in a business Intangible assets are de-recognised Financial Assets combination is their fair value as at on disposal or when no future The carrying amounts of the the date of acquisition. Following economic benefits are expected Company’s assets are reviewed at initial recognition, intangible from its use. Gains or losses arising each reporting date to determine assets are carried at cost less any from de-recognition of an intangible whether there is any indication of accumulated amortisation and asset are measured as the difference impairment. In assessing indicators of accumulated impairment losses. between the net disposal proceeds impairment, management assesses, Internally generated intangibles, and the carrying amount of the asset (amongst others) the existence of excluding capitalised development and are recognised in the Statement assets which remain idle, assets which costs, are not capitalised and the of Profit or Loss when the asset is have been subject to wear and tear related expenditure is reflected in derecognised. or technological obsolescence, and the Statement of Profit or Loss in the year in which the expenditure is items of inventories which have not 3.8 Inventories been sold or used in the production incurred. Inventories are valued at the lower of process for a significant period of 3.7.3 Useful economic lives and cost and net realisable value. time. If any such indication exists, amortisation then the asset’s recoverable amount is Costs incurred in bringing each estimated. The recoverable amount of The useful lives of intangible assets product to its present location and an asset or cash generating unit is the are assessed as either finite or condition are accounted for as greater of its value in use and its fair indefinite. follows: value less costs to sell. Intangible assets with finite lives are • All inventory items, except An impairment loss is recognised amortised over the useful economic manufactured inventories and if the carrying amount of an asset life and assessed for impairment work-in-progress are measured or its cash-generating unit exceeds whenever there is an indication at weighted average directly its recoverable amount. Impairment that the intangible asset may be attributable cost. losses are recognised in the statement impaired. The amortisation period of profit or loss. and the amortisation method for an • Manufactured inventories and intangible asset with a finite useful workin-progress are measured 3.11 Financial instruments life is reviewed at least at the end at weighted average factory of each reporting period. Changes cost which includes all direct A financial instrument is any contract in the expected useful life or the expenditure and appropriate that gives rise to a financial asset expected pattern of consumption of share of production overhead of one entity and financial liability or future economic benefits embodied based on normal operating equity instrument of another entity. capacity but excluding borrowing in the asset is accounted for by costs. 3.11.1 Financial Assets changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are 3.11.1.1 Initial recognition and Net realisable value is the estimated treated as changes in accounting measurement selling price in the ordinary course of estimates. The amortisation expense Financial assets are classified, at business less, the estimated cost of on intangible assets with finite lives initial recognition, as subsequently completion and the estimated costs is recognised in the statement of measured at amortised cost, fair necessary to make the sale. profit or loss in the expense category HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 135 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS value through other comprehensive 3.11.1.2 Subsequent measurement 3.11.1.3 Derecognition income (OCI), and fair value through of financial assets A financial asset (or, where applicable, profit or loss. For purposes of subsequent a part of a financial asset or part of measurement, financial assets are a group of similar financial assets) is The classification of financial assets classified in four categories; primarily derecognised (i.e: removed at initial recognition depends on from the Company’s financial position) the financial asset’s contractual • Financial assets at amortised when: cash flow characteristics and the cost (debt instruments) Company’s business model for The rights to receive cash flows from the • Financial assets at fair value managing them. With the exception asset have expired through OCI with recycling of of trade receivables that do not cumulative gains and losses Or contain a significant financing (debt instruments) component or for which the The Company has transferred its rights Company has applied the practical • Financial assets designated at to receive cash flows from the asset expedient, the Company initially fair value through OCI with no or has assumed an obligation to pay measures a financial asset at its fair recycling of cumulative gains and the received cash flows in full without losses upon derecognition (equity value plus, in the case of a financial material delay to a third party under a instruments) asset not at fair value through profit ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either or loss, transaction costs. Trade • Financial assets at fair value receivables that do not contain a through profit or loss (a) the Company has transferred significant financing component or All financial assets of the substantially all the risks and for which the Company has applied Company represent Financial rewards of the asset, or the practical expedient are measured assets at amortised cost (debt (b) the Company has neither transferred at the transaction price determined instruments). Prior to the nor retained substantially all the risks under SLFRS 15. adoption of SLFRS 9, Financial and rewards of the asset, but has Assets at the amortised cost transferred control of the asset. In order for a financial asset to was classified as Loans and be classified and measured at Receivables. The Company When the Company has transferred amortised cost or fair value through measures financial assets at its rights to receive cash flows from OCI, it needs to give rise to cash amortised cost if both of the an asset or has entered into a passflows that are ‘solely payments of following conditions are met: through arrangement, it evaluates if principal and interest (SPPI)’ on the • The financial asset is held within and to what extent it has retained the principal amount outstanding. This a business model with the risks and rewards of ownership. When assessment is referred to as the objective to hold financial assets it has neither transferred nor retained SPPI test and is performed at an in order to collect contractual substantially all of the risks and rewards instrument level. cash flows, and of the asset, nor transferred control of • The contractual terms of the the asset, the Company continues to The Company’s business model for financial asset give rise on recognise the transferred asset to the managing financial assets refers to specified dates to cash flows that extent of its continuing involvement. In how it manages its financial assets are solely payments of principal that case, the Company also recognises in order to generate cash flows. The and interest on the principal an associated liability. The transferred business model determines whether amount outstanding asset and the associated liability are cash flows will result from collecting measured on a basis that reflects the Financial assets at amortised cost contractual cash flows, selling the rights and obligations that the Company are subsequently measured using financial assets, or both. has retained. the effective interest (EIR) method Purchases or sales of financial and are subject to impairment. Gains Continuing involvement that takes the assets that require delivery of assets and losses are recognised in profit or form of a guarantee over the transferred within a time frame established loss when the asset is derecognised, asset is measured at the lower of by regulation or convention in the modified or impaired. the original carrying amount of the market place (regular way trades) are asset and the maximum amount of The Company’s financial assets at recognised on the trade date, i.e., consideration that the Company could amortised cost includes trade and the date that the Company commits be required to repay. other receivables. to purchase or sell the asset. 136 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 3.11.1.4 Impairment of financial 3.11.2.2 Subsequent measurement 3.12 Employee benefits assets After initial recognition, financial Defined contribution plan Further disclosures relating to liabilities are subsequently A defined contribution plan is a impairment of Trade receivables measured at amortised cost using postemployment benefit plan Is provided in the note 9.2 to the the EIR method. Gains and losses under which an entity pays fixed Financial Statements are recognised in the Statement of contributions into a separate Profit or Loss when the liabilities entity and will have no legal or For trade receivables and contract are derecognised as well as constructive obligation to pay assets, the Company applies a through the EIR amortisation further amounts. Obligations for simplified approach in calculating process. Expected Credit Loss (ECLs). contributions to Provident and Therefore, the Company does Amortised cost is calculated by Trust Funds covering all employees not track changes in credit risk, taking into account any discount are recognised as an employee but instead recognises a loss or premium on acquisition and fees benefit expense in profit or loss in allowance based on lifetime or costs that are an integral part the periods during which services ECLs at each reporting date. of the EIR. The EIR amortisation are rendered by employees. The Company has established a is included in finance costs in the provision matrix that is based on Statement of Profit or Loss. The Company contributes 12% its historical credit loss experience, and 3% of gross emoluments to adjusted for forward-looking 3.11.2.3 Derecognition employees as Provident Fund factors specific to the debtors and A financial liability is derecognised and Trust Fund contribution the economic environment. when the obligation under the respectively. liability is discharged or cancelled A financial asset is written off when or expires. When an existing Defined benefit plans there is no reasonable expectation financial liability is replaced by A defined benefit plan is a postof recovering the contractual cash another from the same lender on employment benefit plan other flows. substantially different terms, or than a defined contribution plan. the terms of an existing liability The defined benefit is calculated 3.11.2 Financial liabilities are substantially modified, such by independent actuaries using 3.11.2.1 Initial recognition and an exchange or modification is Projected Unit Credit (PUC) measurement treated as the derecognition of the method as recommended by Financial liabilities are classified, original liability and the recognition LKAS 19 – “Employee benefits”. at initial recognition, as financial of a new liability. The difference in The present value of the defined liabilities at fair value through profit the respective carrying amounts benefit obligation is determined or loss, loans and borrowings, is recognised in the Statement of by discounting the estimated payables or as derivatives Profit or Loss. future cash outflows using interest designated as hedging instruments 3.11.3 Offsetting of financial rates that are denominated in the in an effective hedge, as instruments currency in which the benefits appropriate. will be paid, and that have terms Financial assets and financial to maturity approximating to the All financial liabilities are liabilities are offset and the net recognised initially at fair value terms of the related liability. The amount reported in the Statement and in the case of loans and of Financial Position if, present value of the defined benefit borrowings and payables, net of obligations depends on a number directly attributable transaction • There is a currently enforceable of factors that are determined on costs. legal right to offset the an actuarial basis using a number recognised amounts and of assumptions. Key assumptions The Company’s financial liabilities • There is an intention to settle used in determining the defined include trade and other payables, on a net basis, or to realise the retirement benefit obligations are amounts due to related parties, assets and settle the liabilities given in Note 15.3 . Any changes bank overdrafts, loans and simultaneously in these assumptions will impact borrowings. the carrying amount of defined benefit obligations. Actuarial gains HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 137 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS or losses are recognised in full in If the effect of the time value of entitled in exchange for transferring the Other Comprehensive Income. money is material, provisions are the goods to the customer. discounted using a current pre-tax The variable consideration is Provision has been made for rate that reflects, when appropriate, estimated at contract inception retirement gratuities from the the risks specific to the liability. and constrained until it is highly beginning of service for all When discounting is used, the probable that a significant revenue employees, in conformity with LKAS increase in the provision due to the reversal in the amount of cumulative 19 on employee benefit. However, passage of time is recognised as a revenue recognised will not occur under the Payment of Gratuity Act finance cost. when the associated uncertainty No. 12 of 1983, the liability to an with the variable consideration is employee arises only on completion 3.14 Ordinary shares subsequently resolved. of 5 years of continued service. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly Right of return assets The liability is not externally funded. attributable to the issue of ordinary Right of return asset represents The settlement of the liability is shares are recognised as a deduction the Company’s right to recover the carried out on the following basis; from equity, net of any tax effects. goods expected to be returned by customers. The asset is measured Length of No. of months’ 3.15 Revenue from contract at the former carrying amount of the service (years) salary for each with customers inventory, less any expected costs completed year Revenue from contracts with to recover the goods, including any 5 and Up to 20 1/2 customers is recognised when potential decreases in the value of Over 20 and up to 25 3/4 control of the goods or services the returned goods. The Company are transferred to the customer updates the measurement of the Over 25 and up to 30 1 at an amount that reflects the asset recorded for any revisions to Over 30 and up to 35 1¼ consideration to which the Company its expected level of returns, as well Over 35 1½ as any additional decreases in the expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. value of the returned products. Short-term benefits Short-term employee benefit Sale of goods Up to 31 March 2018, revenue from obligations are measured on the sales of goods was recognized Revenue from sale of goods is an undiscounted basis and are in the statement of profit or loss recognised at the point in time when expensed as the related service is when significant risks and rewards control of the asset is transferred provided. of ownership were transferred to the to the customer, generally on buyers in accordance with LKAS 18. delivery of the goods. The Company 3.13 Provisions considers whether there are other Provisions are recognised when the 3.16 Other Income promises in the contract that are Company has a present obligation separate performance obligations to Interest (legal or constructive) as a result which a portion of the transaction Interest income and expense are of a past event, it is probable that price needs to be allocated (e.g., recognised in profit or loss using an outflow of resources embodying warranties, customer loyalty points). the effective interest method. The economic benefits will be required In determining the transaction price effective interest rate is the rate that to settle the obligation and a for the sale of goods, the Company exactly discounts the estimated reliable estimate can be made of considers the effects of variable future cash payments and receipts the amount of the obligation. When consideration, the existence of through the expected life of the the Company expects some or all significant financing components, financial assets or liability (or, where of a provision to be reimbursed, non-cash consideration, and appropriate a shorter period) to the reimbursement is recognised consideration payable to the the carrying amount of the financial as a separate asset, but only when customer (if any). asset or liability. When calculating the reimbursement is virtually the effective interest rate, the certain. The expense relating to Variable considerations Company estimates future cash any provision is presented in the flows considering all contractual If the consideration in a contract Statement of Profit or Loss net of terms of the financial instruments, includes a variable amount, the any reimbursement. but not future credit losses. Company estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be 138 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC The calculation of effective interest Borrowing costs consist of interest time of the transaction, affects rate includes all transaction costs and other costs that an entity incurs neither the accounting profit nor and fees and points paid or received in connection with the borrowing of taxable profit or loss that are an integral part of the funds. • In respect of taxable temporary effective interest rate. Transaction differences associated with costs include incremental cost 3.18 Tax expense investments in subsidiaries, that are directly attributable to the Tax expense comprises current equity accounted investee and acquisition or issue of a financial and deferred tax. Current tax and interests in joint ventures, when asset or liability. Interest income is deferred tax are recognised in the the timing of the reversal of the presented in finance income in the Statement of Profit or Loss except temporary differences can be Statement Profit or Loss. items recognised directly in Other controlled and it is probable that Comprehensive Income. the temporary differences will not Gains and losses reverse in the foreseeable future. Gains and losses on disposal of an 3.18.1 Current tax Deferred tax assets are item of property, plant & equipment Current income tax assets and recognised for all deductible are determined by comparing liabilities are measured at the temporary differences, the the net sales proceeds with the amount expected to be recovered carry forward of unused tax carrying amounts of property, plant credits and any unused tax from or paid to the taxation & equipment and are recognised losses. Deferred tax assets are authorities. The tax rates and net within “other income” in profit or recognised to the extent that it is tax laws used to compute the probable that taxable profit will loss. amount are those that are enacted be available against which the or substantively enacted at the deductible temporary differences, Other income reporting date. and the carry forward of unused Other income is recognized on an tax credits and unused tax losses accrual basis. Current tax relating to items can be utilised, except: recognised directly in Other • When the deferred tax asset 3.17 Expenses Comprehensive Income is relating to the deductible Expenses are recognized in the recognised in Other Comprehensive temporary difference arises from profit or loss on the basis of a Income and not in the Statement the initial recognition of an asset direct association between the of Profit or Loss. Management or liability in a transaction that is cost incurred and the earnings periodically evaluates positions not a business combination and, of specific items of income. All taken in the tax returns with respect at the time of the transaction, expenditure incurred in the running to situations in which applicable affects neither the accounting of the business has been charged to tax regulations are subject to profit nor taxable profit or loss income in arriving at the profit for the interpretation and establishes • In respect of deductible year. For the purpose of presentation provisions where appropriate. temporary differences of the Statement of Profit or Loss, associated with investments in the function of expenses method is 3.18.2 Deferred tax subsidiaries, equity accounted adopted. Deferred tax is provided using investee and interests in joint the liability method on temporary ventures, deferred tax assets are Repairs and renewals are charged to differences between the tax bases recognised only to the extent that profit or loss in the year in which the of assets and liabilities and their it is probable that the temporary expenditure is incurred. carrying amounts for financial differences will reverse in the reporting purposes at the reporting foreseeable future and taxable 3.17.1 Borrowing Costs date. profit will be available against which the temporary differences Borrowing costs directly attributable Deferred tax liabilities are recognised can be utilised. to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that for all taxable temporary differences, except: The carrying amount of deferred tax necessarily takes a substantial assets is reviewed at each reporting period of time to get ready for its • When the deferred tax liability date and reduced to the extent that intended use or sale are capitalised arises from the initial recognition it is no longer probable that sufficient as part of the cost of the asset. All of goodwill or an asset or liability taxable profit will be available to other borrowing costs are expensed in a transaction that is not a allow all or part of the deferred tax in the period in which they occur. business combination and, at the asset to be utilised. Unrecognised HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 139 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS deferred tax assets are reassessed 4.2 Earnings Per Share • recognise assets and liabilities at each reporting date and are The Company presents basic for all leases with a term of more recognised to the extent that it has earnings per share (EPS) for its than 12 months, unless the become probable that future taxable underlying asset is of low value ordinary shares. Basic EPS is profits will allow the deferred tax calculated by dividing the profit • present depreciation of lease asset to be recovered. or loss attributable to ordinary assets separately, from interest shareholders of the Company by on lease liabilities in the income Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the weighted average number of statement. measured at the tax rates that are ordinary shares outstanding during SLFRS – 16 substantially carries expected to apply in the year when the period. forward the lessor accounting the asset is realised or the liability requirement in LKAS – 17. is settled, based on tax rates that 4.3 Statement of Cash Flows Accordingly, a lessor continues to have been enacted or substantively The Statement of Cash Flows has classify its leases as operating lease enacted at the reporting date. been prepared using the “indirect or finance lease, and to account for method”. those two types of leases differently. Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the Statement Interest paid is classified as SLFRS -16 will become effective of Profit or Loss is recognised operating cash flow. Interest income on 1st January 2019. The impact outside the Statement of Profit is classified as cash flows from on the implementation of the above or Loss. Deferred tax items are investing activities. Standard has not been quantified recognised in correlation to the yet. underlying transaction either in other 5. STANDARDS ISSUED comprehensive income or directly in BUT NOT YET IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty equity. EFFECTIVE over Income Tax Treatment The Company offsets deferred tax The standards and interpretations The Interpretation addresses the assets and deferred tax liabilities that are issued, but not yet effective, accounting for income taxes when if and only if it has a legally up to the date of issuance of the tax treatments involve uncertainty enforceable right to set off current Company’s financial statements that affects the application of LKAS tax assets and current tax liabilities are disclosed below. The Company 12 and does not apply to taxes or and the deferred tax assets and intends to adopt these standards, levies outside the scope of LKAS deferred tax liabilities relate to if applicable, when they become 12, nor does it specifically include income taxes levied by the same effective. requirements relating to interest and taxation authority on either the penalties associated with uncertain same taxable entity or different SLFRS 16 Leases tax treatments. taxable entities which intend either SLFRS 16 sets out the principles to settle current tax liabilities and for the recognition, measurement, The Interpretation specifically assets on a net basis, or to realise presentation and disclosure of addresses the following: the assets and settle the liabilities leases for both parties to a contract, simultaneously, in each future period i.e. the customer (‘Lessee’] and • Whether an entity considers the supplier (‘Lessor’]. SLFRS 16 uncertain tax treatments in which significant amounts of will replace Sri Lanka Accounting separately deferred tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or recovered. Standard – LKAS 17 (Leases) and • The assumptions an entity makes related interpretations. about the examination of tax 4. GENERAL treatments by taxation authorities 4.1 Events Occurring After the SLFRS 16 introduces a single • How an entity determines taxable Reporting Date accounting model for the lessee, profit (tax loss), tax bases, eliminating the present classification unused tax losses, unused tax All material post reporting date of leases in LKAS 17 as either credits and tax rates events have been considered and operating leases or finance leases. where appropriate adjustments or • How an entity considers changes disclosures have been made in the The new Standard requires a lessee in facts and circumstances respective notes to the financial to: An entity must determine whether statements. to consider each uncertain tax treatment separately or together 140 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC with one or more other uncertain plan amendment, curtailment or tax treatments. The approach that settlement. better predicts the resolution of the uncertainty should be followed. The Any change in that effect, excluding interpretation is effective for annual amounts included in the net reporting periods beginning on or interest, is recognised in other after 1 January 2019, but certain comprehensive income. transition reliefs are available. The Company will apply interpretation The amendments apply to plan from its effective date. amendments, curtailments, or settlements occurring on or after Amendments to LKAS 19: Plan the beginning of the first annual Amendment, Curtailment or reporting period that begins on or Settlement after 1 January 2019, with early The amendments to LKAS 19 application permitted. address the accounting when a plan amendment, curtailment or These amendments will apply only settlement occurs during a reporting to any future plan amendments, period. The amendments specify curtailments, or settlements of the that when a plan amendment, Company. curtailment or settlement occurs Annual Improvements 2015-2017 during the annual reporting period, Cycle (issued in December 2017) an entity is required to: in relation to LKAS 23 – Borrowing • Determine current service cost Costs for the remainder of the period The amendment clarifies that an after the plan amendment, entity treats as part of general curtailment or settlement, using borrowings any borrowing originally the actuarial assumptions used made to develop a qualifying asset to remeasure the net defined when substantially all of the activities benefit liability (asset) reflecting necessary to prepare that asset the benefits offered under the for its intended use or sale are plan and the plan assets after complete. that event • Determine net interest for the An entity applies those amendments remainder of the period after the to borrowing costs incurred on or plan amendment, curtailment or after the beginning of the annual settlement using: the net defined reporting period in which the entity benefit liability (asset) reflecting first applies those amendments. An the benefits offered under the entity applies those amendments for plan and the plan assets after annual reporting periods beginning that event; and the discount on or after 1 January 2019, with rate used to remeasure that net early application permitted. Since defined benefit liability (asset). the Company’s current practice The amendments also clarify that is in line with these amendments, an entity first determines any past the Company does not expect any service cost, or a gain or loss on effect on its consolidated financial settlement, without considering statements. the effect of the asset ceiling. This amount is recognised in profit or loss. An entity then determines the effect of the asset ceiling after the HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 141 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6. PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT 6.1 Gross Carrying Amounts As at Re-valuation Additions Disposals As at 01.04.2018 31.03.2019 USD USD USD USD USD At valuation Freehold Land 2,773,808 203,386 2,977,194 At cost Buildings 5,912,418 1,509,556 7,421,974 Water Treatment Plant 2,221,729 2,221,729 Plant and Machinery 32,743,046 590,006 (39,461) 33,293,591 Motor Vehicles 1,101 1,101 Furniture and Fittings 1,279,633 636,531 (568) 1,915,596 Office Equipment 281,779 9,097 (17,216) 273,660 Computers 452,824 56,554 (75,015) 434,363 Factory Equipment 3,449,916 317,401 3,767,317 Safety and Medical Equipment 198,740 61,282 (81,514) 178,508 Bungalow Equipment 8,263 (410) 7,853 Total Value of Depreciable Assets 49,323,257 203,386 3,180,427 (214,184) 52,492,886 6.2 In the course of construction As At Incurred during Transfers As At 01.04.2018 the year 31.03.2019 USD USD USD USD Work in Progress 1,864,758 1,584,302 (3,031,383) 417,677 Total gross carrying amount 51,188,015 203,386 4,764,729 (3,245,567) 52,910,563 6.3 Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment Balance Impairment Charge Disposals/ Balance As at for the Year Transfers As at 01.04.2018 31.03.2019 USD USD USD USD USD At Cost Buildings 2,327,705 169,359 2,497,064 Water Treatment Plant 1,481,854 68,453 1,550,307 Plant and Machinery 17,620,752 90,019 1,455,897 (27,921) 19,138,747 Motor Vehicles 1,101 1,101 Furniture and Fittings 1,124,787 93,630 (568) 1,217,849 Office Equipment 256,606 7,720 (17,216) 247,110 Computers 327,261 39,078 (75,008) 291,331 Factory Equipment 2,843,114 179,638 3,022,752 Safety and Medical Equipment 180,661 7,106 (70,949) 116,818 Bungalow Equipment 8,256 7 (410) 7,853 Total Depreciation 26,172,097 90,019 2,020,888 (192,072) 28,090,932 142 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 6.4 Net Book Values As at 31st March 2019 2018 USD USD At Cost Freehold Land 2,977,194 2,773,808 Buildings 4,924,910 3,584,713 Water Treatment Plant 671,422 739,875 Plant and Machinery 14,154,844 15,122,294 Furniture and Fittings 697,747 154,846 Office Equipment 26,550 25,173 Computers 143,032 125,563 Factory Equipment 744,565 606,802 Safety and Medical Equipment 61,690 18,079 Bungalow Equipment 7 24,401,954 23,151,160 In the course of construction Work in Progress 417,677 1,864,758 Total carrying amount of property, plant and equipment 24,819,631 25,015,918 6.5 During the financial year, the Company acquired Property, Plant & Equipment to the aggregate value of USD 1,733,345 (2018 USD 2,385,921). Cash payments amounting to USD 1,469,566 (2018 USD 2,329,077) were made during the year for the purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment. 6.6 Property, plant and equipment includes fully depreciated assets having gross carrying amounts of USD 10,108,634 which are still in use. (2018 USD 9,197,798). 6.7 25 permanent buildings are located in Narthupana Estate, Neboda where the principle place of the business is operated. 6.8 The Company revalued its land (extent of 54.3 Acres) during the financial year 2018/19. The fair value of the land was determined by using market comparable methods which mean that valuation performed by the valuer are based on market prices, significantly adjusted for difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property. The fair value of land is based on valuations performed by Messrs P.B Kalugalgedara and Associates., an accredited independent valuer, on 31 March 2019. The significant unobservable valuation input used for Revaluation of Land, is the estimated market price of a perch of land, which was estimated as follows: Land extent of 34.1 acres of Land in Anguruwatota demarcated by survey plan Rs. 85,000 a perch (2018 Rs. 70,000) Land extent of 20.2 acres of Land in Anguruwatota demarcated by survey plan Rs. 18,750 a perch (2018 Rs. 12,500) Significant increase/(decrease) in estimated price per perch in isolation would result in a significantly higher/(lower) fair value. The surplus arising from the revaluation ,was transferred to a revaluation reserve. If land was measured using the cost model, the carrying amounts would be USD 1,331,519 (2018 USD 1,331,519) 6.9 The Company recorded an impairment loss of USD 90,019 relating to items of knitting and dyeing machinery during the year. The impairment was recognised based on specific identification of assets which are recently idle and which are unlikely to be brought back into use by the Company. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 143 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2019 2018 USD USD Software Cost At beginning of the year 1,297,509 1,249,276 Acquisitions 5,625 48,233 At end of the year 1,303,134 1,297,509 Amortization At beginning of the year (1,145,479) (1,002,069) Amortization (93,538) (143,410) At end of the year (1,239,017) (1,145,479) Net Book Value 64,117 152,030 8. INVENTORIES 2019 2018 USD USD Raw materials 5,083,173 4,441,697 Less : Impairment for slow moving items (247,480) (287,416) 4,835,693 4,154,281 Work-in-progress 4,477,163 3,551,151 Less : Impairment for slow moving items (124,460) (148,869) 4,352,703 3,402,282 Finished goods (8.1) 2,041,008 1,659,809 Less : Impairment for slow moving items (423,061) (274,434) 1,617,947 1,385,375 Stock consumables 2,493,177 2,582,725 2,493,177 2,582,725 13,299,520 11,524,663 8.1 Second grade finished goods amounting to USD 98,697 (2018 USD 78,084) are carried at net realizable value. 9. TRADE RECEIVABLES 2019 2018 USD USD Trade receivables 8,543,291 8,102,588 Less : Impairment loss recognised (9.2) (149,084) (205,854) 8,394,207 7,896,734 144 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 9.1 The aging analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Neither past Past due but not impaired due nor 0 60 days 61-120 days 121-180 181-365 > 365 days Total impaired days days As at 31/03/2019 4,881,802 3,165,670 221,575 96,314 28,846 8,394,207 As at 31/03/2018 3,859,773 3,492,323 427,882 104,758 11,998 7,896,734 See note 29 on credit risk of trade receivables, which explains how the Company manages and measures credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. 9.2 The impairment recognised in relation to Trade Receivables of the Company has been based on a collective impairment model and is as follows: 2019 2018 USD USD Balance as at the beginning of the year 205,854 140,288 Impairment loss recognized during the year 26,397 65,566 Written off of previously recognized impairment loss (83,167) Balance as at the end of the year 149,084 205,854 10. OTHER RECEIVABLES 2019 2018 USD USD VAT recoverable 248,746 386,756 Claim receivable 10,746 42,909 WHT recoverable 8,738 9,877 Staff loans & advances 4,799 98,796 Deposits 100,903 126,553 373,932 664,891 11. ADVANCES AND PREPAYMENTS 2019 2018 USD USD Advances paid to related parties The Kingsbury PLC 1,111 Advances paid to suppliers 240,604 310,882 Other prepayments 132,895 177,165 373,499 489,158 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 145 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS IN CASH FLOW STATEMENT Components of Cash and Cash Equivalents 12.1 Favourable Cash and Cash Equivalent Balances 2019 2018 USD USD Cash and Bank Balances 284,635 345,731 284,635 345,731 12.2 Unfavourable Cash and Cash Equivalent Balances 2019 2018 USD USD Bank Overdraft (840,068) (594,769) Short term loans (1,902,500) (4,000,000) Import loans (8,862,162) (6,131,282) (11,604,730) (10,726,051) Total cash and cash equivalent balance for the purpose of cash flow statement (11,320,095) (10,380,320) 13. STATED CAPITAL 2019 2018 Number USD Number USD Ordinary shares (13.1) 207,740,888 17,561,761 207,740,888 17,561,761 13.1 Fully Paid Ordinary Shares 2019 2018 Number USD Number USD Balance at the beginning of the year 207,740,888 17,561,761 207,740,888 17,561,761 Balance at the end of the year 207,740,888 17,561,761 207,740,888 17,561,761 13.2 Nature and Purpose of Reserve Revaluation Reserve The Revaluation Reserve is maintained to record any surplus on revaluation of the Company’s Land, net of the tax effect of such re-valuation 14. INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 2019 2018 Amount Amount Total Amount Amount Total Repayable Repayable Repayable Repayable Within 1 Year After 1 Year Within 1 Year After 1 Year USD USD USD USD USD USD Term loans (Note 14.1) 2,525,333 1,054,778 3,580,111 2,694,508 3,286,112 5,980,620 Short term loans (12.2) 1,902,500 1,902,500 4,000,000 4,000,000 Import loans (12.2) 8,862,162 8,862,162 6,131,282 6,131,282 Bank overdraft (12.2) 840,068 840,068 594,769 594,769 14,130,063 1,054,778 15,184,841 13,420,559 3,286,112 16,706,671 146 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 14.1 Term loans 2019 2018 USD USD Balance at the beginning of the year 5,980,620 8,553,052 New loans obtained 310,000 Repayments (2,710,509) (2,572,428) Effect of movements in exchange rates (4) Balance at the end of the year 3,580,111 5,980,620 14.2 Aging Analysis for Interest -bearing loans and borrowings On demand Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 years >5 years Total 3 months months USD USD USD USD USD USD Total Interest bearing 993,898 10,644,803 2,491,362 1,054,778 15,184,841 borrowings As at 31.03.2019 Total Interest bearing 933,620 10,122,379 2,364,560 3,286,112 16,706,671 borrowingsAs at 31.03.2018 15. RETIREMENT BENEFIT LIABILITY 2019 2018 USD USD Retirement Benefit Obligation Gratuity At beginning of the year 2,033,015 2,196,587 Effects of movement in exchange rate (227,873) (47,503) Benefits paid by the plan (110,608) (123,599) Current service cost 169,561 144,255 Interest cost 192,452 250,413 Actuarial (gain)/loss recognized directly in Other Comprehensive Income 477,896 (387,138) At end of the year 2,534,443 2,033,015 15.1 Expenses recognised in the Statement of Proﬁt or Loss 2019 2018 USD USD Current service cost 169,561 144,255 Interest cost 192,452 250,413 362,013 394,668 15.2 Legal Liability as at 31st March 2019 2018 USD USD Legal Liability 1,860,206 1,831,064 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 147 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.3 The Gratuity liability as at 31st March 2019 is based on an actuarial valuation carried out by Actuarial and Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd, a firm of professional actuaries. The following key assumptions were made in arriving at the above figure. 2019 2018 USD USD Rate of discount 11% 11% Salary increase 10% 7% Retirement age 60 Years 60 Years Weighted average remaining working life 6.95 Years 6.46 Years Assumptions regarding mortality are based on a 1967/70 Mortality Table, issued by The Institute of Actuaries, London. 15.4 A quantitative sensitivity analysis for signiﬁcant assumptions as at 31st March 2019 is as follows: Salary increment rate Discount rate 1% Increase 1% decrease 1% Increase 1% decrease USD USD USD USD As at 31st March 2019 218,637 (196,249) (182,986) 206,864 As at 31st March 2018 162,313 (146,142) (131,973) 148,376 15.5 Maturity Proﬁle 2019 2018 USD USD Within the next 12 months 197,589 225,865 Between 1 to 5 years 827,055 731,381 Between 5 to 10 years 652,926 499,869 More than 10 years 856,873 575,900 2,534,443 2,033,015 16. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2019 2018 USD USD Trade Payables Related Parties (16.2) 111,104 90,296 Others 8,388,538 7,906,197 Other Payables 229,587 216,193 8,729,229 8,212,686 148 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 16.1 Aging Analysis for Trade and Other Payables. On demand Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 years >5 years Total 3 months months USD USD USD USD USD USD 31.03.2019 Related party 49,146 59,508 2,450 111,104 Others 1,350,468 6,591,303 511,731 46,820 117,803 8,618,125 Total 1,399,614 6,650,811 514,181 46,820 117,803 8,729,229 31.03.2018 Related party 49,909 36,080 4,307 90,296 Others 1,317,881 6,439,720 67,952 105,727 191,110 8,122,390 Total 1,367,790 6,475,800 72,259 105,727 191,110 8,212,686 16.2 Payable to related parties 2019 2018 Name of the Company Relationship Nature of Transaction USD USD Puritas (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of oxypura products 149 Hayleys Electronics Lighting (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of electronic items 60 The Kingsbury PLC Fellow Subsidiary Entertainment facility 66 Hayleys Travels (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Reservations, ticketing and other travel 12,216 3,452 related services Hayleys Tours (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Reservations and travel related services 3,246 1,359 Hayleys Aventura (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchase spare parts and obtained technical 7,222 15,582 support Haycolur (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchases of dyes & chemicals 9,625 Energynet Pvt. Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Service charge of electrical equipment 8,145 MIT Cargo (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 9,396 9,986 Logiwiz Limited Fellow Subsidiary Storage facility 134 77 Advantis Projects & Engineering (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service / Purchase of containers 12,307 Expelogix (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 4,085 5,157 Agility Logistics (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 295 Hayleys Business Solutions Int.(Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Payroll charges 3,090 7,806 Delmege Forsyth & Co.(Pvt) Ltd Affiliate Company Purchases of mechanical items 519 Hayleys Aviation and Projects(Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Project management 4,307 Fentons Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Instillation of fire solutions & cabling 23,892 38,602 Alufab PLC Fellow Subsidiary Instillation of fire doors 1,840 Singer Sri Lanka PLC Fellow Subsidiary Purchases of electrical items 16,932 1,351 Advantis Freight (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 502 111,104 90,296 17. OTHER CURRENT NON FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2019 2018 USD USD Accrued Expenditure 1,006,995 686,665 Advances Received 464,787 1,471,782 686,665 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 149 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18. REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS 18.1 Disaggregated revenue contracts 2019 2018 USD USD Sales of Fabric 69,616,351 57,285,305 Sundry Sales 324,288 401,498 69,940,639 57,686,803 18.2 Nature of revenue 2019 2018 USD USD Direct exports 8,078,153 4,791,483 Indirect exports 60,750,732 51,496,362 Local sales 1,111,754 1,398,958 69,940,639 57,686,803 18.3 In relation to Indirect exports and sundry sales, the performance obligation is satisfied upon delivery of the goods. In relation to Direct exports, the performance obligation is satisfied upon shipment of the goods considering the terms under which the shipment has been carried out. 18.4 Payments for all revenue from contracts with customers is generally due within 15 to 30 days from delivery. 18.5 Contract assets from advances received amount to USD 464,787 (2018-Nil) and are reflected in Note 17. 19. OTHER OPERATING INCOME 2019 2018 USD USD Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 182 Creditors write back 67,049 60,732 67,049 60,914 20. OTHER EXPENSES 2019 2018 USD USD Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13,738 Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment 90,019 103,757 150 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 21. NET FINANCING COST 21.1 Finance income 2019 2018 USD USD Interest income (1,027) Gain on translation of foreign currency (98,989) (98,989) (1,027) 21.2 Finance cost 2019 2018 USD USD Interest on short term borrowings 723,367 542,475 Interest on long term loans 268,026 286,107 Loss on translation of foreign currency 146,479 Finance cost 991,393 975,061 Net finance cost 892,404 974,034 22. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX 2019 2018 USD USD Profit/(loss) before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following ; Staff cost (Note 22.1) 7,765,053 7,597,325 Directors' fees 13,910 17,270 Directors' emoluments 232,533 240,207 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,020,888 1,955,485 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 90,019 Amortization of intangible assets 93,538 143,410 Legal fees 49,071 85,624 Audit fees 15,059 15,444 Non-audit professional services 5,006 6,151 Donations 5,076 5,335 Impairment charge for slow moving inventories 84,282 73,041 Impairment charge for Receivables 26,397 65,566 Research & Development 16,793 15,153 22.1 Staff cost 2019 2018 USD USD Salaries and other personnel cost 6,468,164 6,270,449 Defined contribution plan costEPF and ETF 934,876 932,208 Defined benefit plan costRetiring gratuity 362,013 394,668 7,765,053 7,597,325 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 151 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23. INCOME TAX The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31st March are as follows : 2019 2018 USD USD Income Tax on profit for the year (Note 23.1) (Over)/under provision in respect of previous year (7,607) Irrecoverable Economic service charge (ESC) (Note 23.3) 344,283 727,727 Provision for deferred tax (Note 23.2) 446,250 (89,649) Income tax expense reported in the Statement of profit or loss 790,533 630,471 23.1 Reconciliation of Current Tax Expenses and product of Accounting Proﬁt/(loss) 2019 2018 USD USD Profit/(loss) before tax 1,848,868 (49,045) Disallowable expenses 2,777,482 2,928,188 Tax deductible expenses (2,366,785) (2,963,116) Tax loss set-off (2,259,565) Taxable income/(loss) (83,973) Income tax @ 14% Income tax on profit for the year Details of Tax Losses carried forward Tax Loss brought forward 7,960,214 8,059,015 Add: incurred during the year 83,973 Less: Set off against the current income tax liability (2,259,565) Effects of movement in exchange rate (466,880) (182,774) Tax Loss carried forward 5,233,769 7,960,214 Company’s profit from exports is taxed at 14% and other income is liable at the rate of 28% 152 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 23.2 Deferred Tax Assets, Liabilities and Income Tax relates to the following Statement of Financial Position Statement of Profit or Loss and Comprehensive Income 2019 2018 2019 2018 USD USD USD USD Deferred Tax Liabilities Capital allowances for tax purposes 2,757,331 2,685,636 71,695 445,997 Tax re-valuation of land 230,395 201,920 28,475 201,920 2,987,725 2,887,556 100,169 647,917 Deferred Tax Assets Tax effect of tax loss carried forward 732,728 1,114,430 381,702 (425,451) Defined Benefit Plans 354,822 284,621 (70,201) (21,032) Impairment for Slow Moving Inventories 111,300 99,501 (11,799) (22,979) Impairment for Doubtful Debts 20,872 28,820 7,948 (11,985) 1,219,722 1,527,372 307,650 (481,447) Net Deferred Tax Liability 1,768,003 1,360,184 Deferred Income Tax Charged/(Reversal) to Profit or Loss 446,250 (89,649) Deferred Income Tax Charged to Other Comprehensive income28,475 201,920 Land re-valuation Deferred Income Tax Charged/(Reversal) to Other (66,905) 54,199 Comprehensive incomeDefined benefit plan Charge to Statement of Profit or Loss and Other 407,820 166,470 Comprehensive Income 23.3 With the enactment of the Inland Revenue Act No.24 of 2017, the Company is able to claim all taxable losses to the extent of taxable income in an entity. Considering that Economic Service Charge (ESC) paid is recoverable only during the year of payment and two subsequent years. Management has made an assessment of ESC recoverable and an amount of USD 344,283 (2018-USD 727,727) has been impaired in these Financial Statements. 24. BASIC / DILUTED EARNINGS/(LOSS) PER SHARE Basic Earnings/(Loss) per share is calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The following reflects the income and share data used in the earnings/(loss) per share computations. 24.1 Amount Used as the Numerator: 2019 2018 USD USD Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders of the Company for Earnings/(loss) per Share 1,058,335 (679,516) 1,058,335 (679,516) 24.2 Number of Ordinary Shares Used as the Denominator: 2019 2018 Weighted Average Number of Ordinary Shares in issue applicable to Basic Earnings/(loss) per Share 207,740,888 207,740,888 207,740,888 207,740,888 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 153 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES 25.1 Transactions with the parent and related entities during the year a) 2019 2018 Name of the Company Relationship Nature of Transaction USD USD Hayleys PLC Parent Office space together with other related 633,775 639,380 facilities Puritas (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchase oxypura products 210 376 Hayleys Agriculture Holding Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchases of machinery items 104 Hayleys Electronics Lighting (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of electronic items 469 31,160 The Kingsbury PLC Fellow Subsidiary Entertainment facility 1,717 1,368 Hayleys Travels (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Reservations, ticketing and other travel 98,805 75,391 related services Hayleys Tours (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Reservations and other travel related services 9,634 17,705 Hayleys Aventura (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Purchase spare part items and obtained 94,255 140,251 technical support Haycolour (Pvt) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Purchases of dyes & chemicals 10,255 MIT Cargo (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 58,518 47,333 Hayleys Advantis Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Cost of intangible assets/Service 16,365 Agility Logistics (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 8,944 2,381 Advantis Freight (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 5,004 5,168 Logiwiz Limited Fellow Subsidiary Storage facility 840 12,644 Advantis Projects & Engineering (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service / Purchase of containers 12,673 387 Expelogix (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 21,334 26,419 Hayleys Business Solutions Int.(Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Payroll charges 39,913 46,084 Dipped Products PLC Fellow Subsidiary Cost of intangible assets/Service 12,079 Volanka (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Warehouse Facility 12,515 Fentons Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Instillation of fire solutions & cabling 66,440 134,045 Delmege Forsyth & Co.(Pvt) Ltd Affiliate Company Purchases of office equipment 2,440 1,141 Energynet (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Service charge of electrical equipment 13,268 198 Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of tea 134 1,429 Hayleys Lifesciences (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of Stationery 4,189 257 Singer Sri Lanka PLC Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of electrical equipment 55,507 1,858 Alufab PLC Fellow Subsidiary Installation of aluminum doors 5,102 Cosco Shipping Lines Lanka Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 12,522 b) Transactions with related parties have been carries out under relevant commercial terms and conditions. c) Amounts due from /to related parties are reflected in these Financial Statements within notes 9,11,16 and directly in the Statement of Financial Position. 154 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC d) Mr. K.D.D.Perera who is a Director of the Company has a significant influence on the operation of Pan Asia Bank PLC. The Company has carried out transactions in the ordinary course of business with Pan Asia Bank PLC during the year, the details of which are as follows: 2019 2018 Facility Facility Amount Outstanding Interest & Facility Amount Outstanding Interest & USD amount USD charges USD amount USD charges incurred during incurred during the year USD the year USD Pan Asia Bank Trade facility 3,000,000 2,119,385 106,177 3,000,000 2,197,276 73,046 Overdraft (5,749) (5,441) facility 25.2 Transactions with Key Management Personnel Key management personnel (KMP) are those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity. Accordingly, the Directors of the Company (including executive and non executive Directors) have been designated as KMP of the entity while their immediate family members have also been identified as related parties. An immediate family member is defined as spouse or dependent. A dependent is defined as anyone who depends on the respective Director for more than 50% of his/ her financial needs. a) Loans to Key Management Personnel No loans have been provided to the Directors of the Company. b) Compensation of key management personnel 2019 2018 USD USD Short term employment benefits 232,533 240,207 The amounts disclosed above are the amounts recognised as an expense during the reporting period related to key management personnel. 26. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 26.1 The amount of capital expenditure approved by the Directors but not contracted for was nil (2018-USD nil) 26.2 Contingent liabilities as at 31 March 2019 on bills discounted amounted to USD 273,510 (2018 USD 32,415). HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 155 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27. ASSETS PLEDGED The following assets have been pledged as security for liabilities. Carrying Amount Pledged Included under 2019 2018 Nature of Assets Nature of Liability USD USD Plant & Machinery, Water Primary Mortgage for Loans and Borrowings 14,826,266 15,862,169 Property, Plant & Treatment Plant Equipment Land & Buildings Primary / Concurrent mortgage for Loans and 7,902,104 6,358,521 Property, Plant & Borrowings Equipment Inventories Primary / Concurrent mortgage for Loans and 10,806,343 8,941,938 Inventories Borrowings Trade Receivables Primary / Concurrent mortgage for Loans and 8,394,207 7,896,734 Trade Receivable Borrowings 28. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD There have been no material events occurring after the reporting date that require adjustments to or disclosure in the financial statements. 29 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Company’s financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations. The Company’s financial assets included trade other receivables, cash and cash equivalent that arrive directly from its operations. The Company is exposed to Market risk, Interest rate risk, Foreign currency risk and liquidity risk. The Company continuously evaluates the mentioned risks and appropriate actions are being taken with assistance from Group Treasury Department to minimize the adverse impact arising from such risks . Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprise two types of risk: interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Financial instruments affected by the said risks in the Company includes loans and borrowings, The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at 31 March in 2019 and 2018. The following assumptions have been made in calculating the sensitivity analyses: The sensitivity of the relevant statement of profit or loss item is the effect of the assumed changes in respective market risks. This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 March 2019 and 2018. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Company’s debt obligations with floating interest rates. The Company manages its interest rate risk by constantly monitoring the interest rates and negotiating them with the banks through assistance from the Parent Company’s Treasury. Company’s strategy is to keep the borrowing rates at AWPLR for LKR borrowings and USD borrowings at 3 Months LIBOR +3.5% or less. 156 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Interest rate sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings affected. With all other variables held constant, the Company’s profit before tax is affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings outstanding as of the reporting date is as follows: 2019 2018 Increase/Decrease Effect on profit Increase/Decrease Effect on profit in basis points before tax -USD in basis points before tax -USD 0.61 (90,188) 0.53 (86,923) -0.61 90,188 -0.53 86,923 Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Company’s operating activities (when local expense is denominated in a different currency from the Company’s presentation currency). The Company manages its foreign currency risk by closely monitoring the rates with the assistance of the Parent Company’s Treasury. Transactions are entered in to on carefully chosen dates to maximize the positive impact on exchange variance while caution is practiced to negate and minimize any negative effect. The Company does not hedge its exposure to fluctuations on the translation in to USD of its LKR denominated expenses. However, care is taken to reduce such liability thus nullifying any impact on exchange variance. No currency hedge is applied against other major currencies such as EURO or GBP due to their triviality. Foreign currency sensitivity The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in LKR and EURO exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The impact on the Company’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. The Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material. The movement in the post-tax effect is a result of a change in the monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies such as LKR and Euro, where the functional currency is US dollars. 2019 2018 Change in Effect on profit Change in Effect on profit LKR Rate before tax -USD LKR Rate before tax -USD Change in LKR Exchange Rate 3% 32,346 3% 26,745 -3% (34,347) -3% (28,399) 2019 2018 Change in Effect on profit Change in Effect on profit EURO Rate before tax -USD EURO Rate before tax -USD Change in Euro Exchange Rate 3% 1,146 3% 2,698 -3% (1,217) -3% (2,865) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 157 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Trade receivables Customer credit risk is managed by customer wise and is subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit. An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major all clients. The calculation is based on expected credit losses. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets reported in these financial statements. The Company does not hold collateral as security. The Company evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are well reputed; cash rich and operate in largely independent markets. Financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury department in accordance with the Company’s policy. However, currently the Company does not hold any cash deposits or any other financial instrument other than those disclosed and is not affected by any credit risk emanating from such balances. Liquidity risk The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts and bank loans. The Company’s policy is that the gearing is managed to a sustainable level. Company forecasts its financial commitments and collections on a weekly basis and any gap is bridged with an alternate fund sourcing in consultation with the Parent Company Treasury and financial institutions. Approximately 93% of the Company’s debt will mature in less than one year at 31 March 2019 (2018: 80%) based on the carrying value of borrowings reflected in the financial statements. The Company assessed the concentration of risk with respect to refinancing its debt and concluded it to be low. Access to sources of funding is sufficiently available and debt maturing within 12 months can be rolled over with existing lenders. Excessive risk concentration Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Company’s performance to developments affecting a particular industry. In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risk, the Company’s policies and procedures include specific guidelines to focus on the maintenance of a diversified portfolio. Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled and managed accordingly. The maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments are provided in Notes 14.2 and 16.1 to the financial statements. Capital Management The Company’s Capital is made up of both equity and debt capital which have been disclosed in Notes 13 and 14 respectively. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial assets of the Company include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and other receivables, whilst financial liabilities include trade and other payables and interest bearing loans and borrowings. The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, trade and other payables approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short term maturities of these instruments. The management also assessed that long term variable rate borrowings approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the market based interest rates charged. 158 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION TRANSLATED INTO LKR As at 31 March 2019 2018 LKR '000 LKR '000 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, plant and equipment 4,418,391 3,939,757 Intangible assets 11,414 23,943 4,429,805 3,963,700 Current Assets Inventories 2,367,580 1,815,019 Trade receivables 1,494,337 1,243,657 Other receivables 66,567 104,714 Advances and prepayments 66,490 77,037 Cash and cash equivalents 50,671 54,449 4,045,646 3,294,876 Total Assets 8,475,450 7,258,576 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and Reserves Stated capital 1,968,193 1,968,193 Revaluation reserve 251,948 195,346 Retained earnings 51,673 (59,237) Exchange fluctuation reserve 907,485 578,850 Total Equity 3,179,299 2,683,152 Non-Current Liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 187,771 517,530 Deferred tax liabilities 314,740 214,215 Retirement benefit obligations 451,182 320,180 953,693 1,051,925 Current Liabilities Trade and other payables 1,553,977 1,293,416 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2,515,434 2,113,604 Amounts due to Hayleys PLC 11,040 8,336 Other current non financial liabilities 262,007 108,143 4,342,458 3,523,499 Total Equity and Liabilities 8,475,450 7,258,576 The financial statements prepared and presented in US Dollars reflect the economic substance of underlying events and circumstances of the enterprise. The supplementary information in SL Rupees is presented for convenience purposes only. The statements presented in SL Rupees are not a full set of financial statements and are not purported to comply with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. They represent selected information taken from the US Dollar financial statements, translated into SL Rupees generally using the principles set out in Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (LKAS) 21 for the translation of financial statements to a presentation currency from a measurement currency. Revenue and costs are converted using the average exchange rate for the period. Assets and liabilities are converted using the exchange rate at the end of the year. The revenue reserves incorporates the profit for the period reflected in the income statements. In accordance with advice received from the Urgent Issue Task Force of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, stated capital is represented at it’s original SL Rupee value. Followings exchange rates were used to convert the financials into LKR 2019 2018 Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 171.33 155.40 Statement of financial position 178.02 157.49 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 159 STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME TRANSLATED INTO LKR Year ended 31 March 2019 2018 LKR '000 LKR '000 Revenue 11,982,988 8,964,529 Cost of sales (10,554,294) (8,020,072) Gross Profit 1,428,694 944,457 Other operating income 11,488 9,466 Administrative expenses (818,882) (734,198) Distribution expenses (133,858) (75,982) Other expenses (17,777) Net financing costs (152,897) (151,365) Profit/(loss) before tax 316,768 (7,622) Income tax expense (135,443) (97,975) Profit/(loss) for the year 181,325 (105,597) Other Comprehensive Income not to be reclassified to profit or loss Surplus on revaluation of land 34,846 Income tax effect on revaluation of land (4,879) (31,378) Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans (81,878) 60,161 Income tax effect on actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans 11,463 (8,423) Total Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax 140,878 (85,237) Basic / Diluted Earnings/(Loss) per Share LKR 0.87 (0.51) 160 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC As at 31 March 10-year 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 compound USD USD USD USD USD USD USD USD USD USD growth % Results Net turnover 4 69,940,639 57,686,803 55,537,401 59,924,103 65,031,509 61,252,088 44,193,490 45,936,097 58,322,307 50,056,501 Profit after tax (11) 1,058,335 (679,516) 490,267 1,845,409 679,920 (1,388,400) (3,642,771) (7,581,712) (7,078,596) 3,163,627 Funds Employed Stated capital 12 17,561,761 17,561,761 17,561,761 17,561,761 17,561,761 13,563,304 13,563,304 6,534,102 6,534,102 6,534,102 Reserves (36) 297,464 (524,791) 23,706 (434,262) (2,052,032) (2,875,191) (1,508,395) 2,012,633 9,594,346 17,021,818 Shareholders' fund (3) 17,859,225 17,036,970 17,585,467 17,127,499 15,509,729 10,688,113 12,054,909 8,546,735 16,128,448 23,555,920 Borrowings (both short & long term) (1) 15,184,841 16,706,671 19,686,731 16,818,660 18,951,491 16,866,448 12,655,851 19,996,108 23,706,118 16,362,217 33,044,066 33,743,641 37,272,198 33,946,159 34,461,220 27,554,561 24,710,760 28,542,843 39,834,566 39,918,137 Assets Employed HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Non current assets (1) 24,883,748 25,167,948 24,833,016 23,096,764 22,610,098 22,622,634 24,304,984 25,750,288 27,616,695 26,737,822 Current assets (0) 22,725,793 20,921,177 21,942,322 19,649,659 22,507,145 19,490,701 11,753,515 13,006,227 18,987,220 23,428,147 TEN YEAR SUMMARY Current liabilities net of borrowings 4 (10,263,029) (8,952,285) (6,112,839) (5,575,020) (7,535,519) (11,615,635) (8,632,504) (7,453,474) (3,954,781) (7,520,043) Provisions 5 (4,302,446) (3,393,199) (3,390,301) (3,225,244) (3,120,504) (2,943,139) (2,715,235) (2,760,198) (2,814,569) (2,727,790) Capital Employed (2) 33,044,066 33,743,641 37,272,198 33,946,159 34,461,220 27,554,561 24,710,760 28,542,843 39,834,566 39,918,137 Cash Flow Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 2,927,550 4,235,513 1,916,117 2,606,119 (1,392,458) (3,763,827) 589,410 5,660,679 (4,837,120) 3,783,556 Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,466,816) (2,375,774) (4,521,131) (2,734,731) (1,712,927) (401,501) (507,460) (1,339,693) (2,485,654) (2,046,136) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities (2,400,509) (2,572,428) 2,939,367 (2,420,540) 10,185,800 1,291,588 5,654,647 (1,827,919) 897,130 (2,568,869) Increase / (decrease) in cash & cash equivalents (939,775) (712,690) 334,353 (2,549,151) 7,080,416 (2,873,740) 5,736,597 2,493,067 (6,425,644) (831,449) Key Indicators Earnings/(Loss) per share (basic) USD 0.005 (0.003) 0.002 0.009 0.004 (0.008) (0.025) (0.120) (0.1394) 0.062 Net assets per share USD 0.086 0.082 0.085 0.082 0.075 0.07 0.08 0.13 0.31 0.46 Dividend per share Rs. 2.50 Gearing % 46 50 53 50 55 61 51 70 60 41 Turnover to capital employed (times) 2.12 1.71 1.49 1.77 1.89 2.22 1.79 1.61 1.46 1.25 161 GLOSSARY OF FINANCIAL TERMINOLOGY Accounting Policies Current Ratio Energy Intensity The specific principles, bases, Current Assets divided by Current Total energy consumed by the conventions, rules and practices Liabilities. Company in GJ divided by the adopted by an entity in preparing production in MT and presenting Financial Debt/Equity Ratio Statements. Debt as a percentage of Equity Shareholders’ funds. Shareholders’ funds Accrual Basis Recording revenues and expenses Deferred Taxation Fair value in the period in which they are Sum set aside for income tax in The price that would be received earned or incurred regardless the Financial Statements that may to sell an asset or paid to transfer of whether cash is received or become payable/receivable in a a liability in an orderly transaction disbursed in that period. financial year other than the current between market participants at the financial year. It arises because of measurement date. Actuarial Gain/Loss on temporary differences between tax defined benefit plan rules and accounting conventions. Financial Instrument Gain or loss arising from the A financial instrument is any difference between estimates and Direct Employment contract that gives rise to both actual experience in an entity’s The workers employed by the a financial assets in one entity defined benefit plan. Company. and a financial liability or equity instrument in another entity. Amortized cost Discount Rate Amount at which the financial asset A rate used to place a current Interest cover or financial liability is measured at value on future cash flows. It is A ratio showing the number of initial recognition, minus principal needed to reflect the fact that times interest charges is covered repayment plus or minus the money has a time value. by earnings before interest and tax. cumulative amortization using the effective interest method of Diluted Earnings Per share Market capitalization any difference between that initial Profit attributable to equity holders Number of Shares in issue at the amount and the maturity amount divided by the weighted average end of the period multiplied by and minus any reduction for number of ordinary shares in issue the share price at the end of the impairment or un-collectability. during the period adjusted for period. options granted but not exercised Assets Turnover and outstanding unexpired Market value added Revenue divided by average total warrants. Market capitalization minus assets. shareholders’ funds. Earnings Per Share (EPS) Borrowings Profit attributable to equity holders Net Assets Bank loans and overdrafts. divided by the weighted average Total assets minus long term and number of ordinary shares in issue current liabilities. Capital Employed during the period. Shareholders’ funds plus debt. Net Assets Per Share EBIT Net assets at the yearend divided Cash Equivalents Earnings before interest and tax by the number of Ordinary shares Liquid investments with original (Includes other operating income). in issue maturities of three months or less. EBITDA Net Profit Ratio Contingent Liabilities Earnings before interest, tax, Profit after tax attributable to equity Conditions or situations at the date depreciation and amortization. holders of the Company divided by of Statement of Financial Position, total revenue. the financial effect of which are to Effective Rate of Taxation be determined by future events Income tax including Deferred tax which may or may not occur. over Profit before tax. 162 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Net working capital Stewardship Current assets minus current The role of supervising or taking liabilities. care of the organization. Organic wastage Total Assets Bio-degradable waste. Noncurrent assets plus current assets. Price Earnings Ratio Market price of share as at the Total Debt yearend divided by Earnings Per Long term loans plus short term Share. loans and overdrafts. Public Holding Percentage of shares held by the public calculated as per the Colombo Stock Exchange Listing Rules as at the date of the Report. Quick Asset Ratio Current Assets other than inventory divided by Current liabilities. Return on Assets (ROA) Profit after tax divided by average total assets. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Earnings before interest and tax as a percentage of average shareholders’ funds plus total debt. Return on Equity (ROE) Profit after tax as a percentage of Average shareholders’ funds. Recycle The process of converting waste into reusable materials. Risk Management The identification, analysis, assessment, control and avoidance , minimization or elimination of unacceptable risk. Shareholders’ Funds Total of issued and fully paid share capital and both capital and Revenue Reserves. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 163 INVESTOR INFORMATION Ordinary Shareholders as at 31 March 2019 Residents Non-Residents Total No. of shares held No. of No. of % No. of No. of % No. of No. of % shareholders shares shareholders shares shareholders shares 1 1,000 1,716 631,224 0.304 9 3,850 0.002 1,725 635,074 0.306 1,001 10,000 1,220 4,977,051 2.396 4 23,700 0.011 1,224 5,000,751 2.407 10,001 100,000 538 17,776,705 8.557 12 508,154 0.245 550 18,284,859 8.802 100,001 1,000,000 75 21,420,935 10.311 5 1,555,276 0.749 80 22,976,211 11.060 Over 1,000,000 10 160,843,993 77.425 10 160,843,993 77.425 3,559 205,649,908 98.993 30 2,090,980 1.007 3,589 207,740,888 100.000 Residents Non-Residents Total Categories of shareholders No. of No. of % No. of No. of % No. of No. of % shareholders shares shareholders shares shareholders shares Individuals 3,346 34,608,983 16.660 28 1,755,642 0.845 3,374 36,364,625 17.505 Institutions 213 171,040,925 82.333 2 335,338 0.162 215 171,376,263 82.495 3,559 205,649,908 98.993 30 2,090,980 1.007 3,589 207,740,888 100.000 Market Value The market value of an ordinary share of Hayleys Fabric PLC was : 2019 (LKR) 2018 (LKR) Highest 13.70 (on 26 April 2018) 17.70 (on 28 April 2017) Lowest 8.40 (on 04 July 2018) 12.20 (on 28 March 2018) Year end 8.50 12.50 Share Trading 2019 2018 No. of transactions 7,911 9,990 No. of shares traded 24,782,369 30,273,485 Value of shares traded (LKR) 241,563,086 484,704,794 164 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC MAJOR SHAREHOLDING The twenty major shareholders and the percentage held by each is as follows : First twenty shareholders as at 31 March 2019 No. of Shares No. of Shares Name of Shareholder as at 31/03/2019 % as at 31/03/2018 % 1 HAYLEYS PLC NO 3 SHARE INVESTMENT ACCOUNT 122,487,023 58.96 122,487,023 58.96 2 THE CEYLON GUARDIAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC A/C # 02 8,417,992 4.05 8,645,207 4.16 3 THE CEYLON INVESTMENT PLC A/C # 02 8,247,810 3.97 8,474,184 4.08 4 EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND 5,540,727 2.67 5,540,727 2.67 5 HAYLEYS ADVANTIS LIMITED 5,036,850 2.42 5,036,850 2.42 6 HAYLEYS AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LIMITED 3,472,257 1.67 3,472,257 1.67 7 THE CEYLON CHAMBER OF COMMERCE ACCOUNT NO 02 2,467,400 1.19 2,506,275 1.21 8 MR.A.M.WEERASINGHE 1,850,000 0.89 1,800,000 0.87 9 MR.A.N.ESUFALLY 1,815,000 0.87 1,815,000 0.87 10 HATTON NATIONAL BANK PLC A/C NO.4 (HNB RETIREMENT PENSION FUND) 1,508,934 0.73 1,528,934 0.74 11 HATTON NATIONAL BANK PLC ASTRUE ALPHA FUND 1,000,000 0.48 12 FREUDENBERG SHIPPING AGENCIES LIMITED 841,786 0.41 841,786 0.41 13 J.B.COCOSHELL (PVT) LTD 819,963 0.39 14 BANK OF CEYLON A/C NDB WEALTH GROWTH FUND 774,565 0.37 774,565 0.37 15 BANK OF CEYLON NO.01 ACCOUNT 774,098 0.37 774,098 0.37 16 MR.G DANGAMPOLA & MRS.N.P.DANGAMPOLA 773,077 0.37 773,077 0.37 17 MR.D.F.G.DALPETHADO & MRS.H.F.A.K.D. FONSEKA 715,748 0.34 1 0.00 18 MR.K.A.S.R NISSANKA 700,000 0.34 700,000 0.34 19 MRS.V.SARASWATHI 650,535 0.31 20 MERCHANT BANK OF SRI LANKA & FINANCE PLC 01 630,408 0.30 275,000 0.13 Total 168,524,173 81.12 165,444,984 79.64 The issued number of shares of the Company As at 31.03.2018 207,740,888 As at 31.03.2019 207,740,888 Registered Shareholders as at 31 March 2019 3,589 (3,371) The percentage of shares held by public as at 31st March, 2019 was 36.92% (36.92%) No.of shareholders representing Public Holding as at 31 March 2019 3,582 (3,365) Float adjusted Market Capitalization as at 31 March 2019 was Rs.651,932,454.72 DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING Direct holding No. of Shares No. of Shares Directors' shareholding as at 31 March 2019 2018 Mr. A.M.Pandithage Nil Nil Mr. K.D.D.Perera ** 4,090 4,090 Mr. S.C.Ganegoda Nil Nil Mr. H.Somashantha 20,000 20,000 Mr. R.N.Somaratne 25,000 25,000 Mr. E.R.P.Goonetilleke Nil Nil Dr. N.S.J.Nawaratne Nil Nil Mr. A.S.Jayatilleka Nil Nil Mr. R.Rohitha Bandara 5,000 5,000 Mrs. Y.Bhaskaran Nil Nil ( alternate Director to Mr.K.D.D.Perera ) ** Mr.K.D.D.Perera holds 50.44% directly and indirectly of the total issued shares of Hayleys PLC which has 122,487,023 shares in Hayleys Fabric PLC. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 165 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Twenty Seventh Annual General Meeting of Hayleys Fabric PLC, will be held at the Registered Office of the Company, at No.400, Deans Road, Colombo 10, on Wednesday 26th June , 2019 at 3.00 p.m. and the business to be brought before the meeting will be: 1. To consider and adopt the Annual Report of the Board and the Statements of Accounts for the year ended 31st March, 2019 with the Report of the Auditors thereon. 2. To elect Mr. M. H. Jayasinghe who has been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, a Director. 3. To re-elect Mr. S. C. Ganegoda, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 4. To re-elect Mr. A. M. Pandithage, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 5. To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities for the year 2019/20. 6. To authorize the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors, Messrs. Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants who are deemed to have been re-appointed in terms of section 158 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 as Auditors for the year 2019/20. 7. To consider any other business of which due notice has been given. NOTE : A shareholder is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead of himself and a proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company. A Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office, No.400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 by 3.00 p.m. on 24th June , 2019. By Order of the Board HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC HAYLEYS GROUP SERVICES (PRIVATE) LIMITED Secretaries Colombo 25th May 2019 166 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC FORM OF PROXY I/We* ........................................................................................................................................... (Full name of shareholder**) NIC No./Reg. No. of Shareholder(**) ....................................................................................................................................... of ............................................................................................................................................................................................ being a shareholder/shareholders of HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC hereby appoint, 1. ................................................................................................................................................ (Full name of Proxyholder**) NIC No.of proxyholder (**) ....................................................................................................................................................... of ............................................................................................................................................................................................ or failing him/them,* 2. ABEYAKUMAR MOHAN PANDITHAGE (Chairman of the Company) of Colombo, or failing him, one of the Directors of the Company as my/our* proxy to attend, speak and vote as indicated hereunder for me/us* and on my/our* behalf at the Twenty Seventh Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on Wednesday, 26th June, 2019 and at every poll which may be taken in consequence of the aforesaid meeting and at any adjournment thereof. For Against 1. To consider and adopt the Annual Report of the Board and the Statements of Accounts for the year ended 31st March, 2019, with the Report of the Auditors thereon. 2. To elect Mr. M .H. Jayasinghe who has been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, a Director. 3. To re-elect Mr. S. C. Ganegoda, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director 4. To re-elect Mr. A. M. Pandithage, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director 5. To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities for the year 2019/20. 6. To authorize the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors, Messrs. Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants who are deemed to have been reappointed in terms of section 158 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 as Auditors for the year 2019/20. (***) The proxy may vote as he thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the Meeting of which due Notice has been given. As witness my/our* hands this ……………… day of………………… 2019. …………………………......… Signature Of Shareholder Witness(**); Name ………………………………..………………………… Address ……………………………………………………… Signature ……………………………………………………… NIC No. …………………………………………….………… Notes: (a) * Please delete the inappropriate words. (b) A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General meeting of the Company, is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead of him/her and the proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company . ** Full name of shareholder/proxy holder and their NIC Nos and Witness are mandatory. Your Proxy Form will be rejected if these details are not completed. (c) A shareholder is not entitled to appoint more than one proxy to attend on the same occasion. (d) Instructions are noted on the reverse hereof. (e) This Form of Proxy is in terms of the Articles of Association of the Company. HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 167 FORM OF PROXY Instructions as to Completion 1. To be valid, this Form of Proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company, No.400, Deans Road, Colombo 10, by 3.00 p.m. on Monday, 24th June, 2019. 2. In perfecting the Form of Proxy, please ensure that all details are legible 3. If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman of the Company (or failing him, one of the Directors) as your proxy, please insert the relevant details at 1 overleaf and initial against this entry. 4. Please indicate with an X in the space provided how your proxy is to vote on each resolution. If no indication is given, the proxy in his discretion will vote as he thinks fit. Please also delete (***) if you do not wish your proxy to vote as he thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the Meeting. 5. In the case of a Company / Corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 6. Where the Form of Proxy is signed under a Power of Attorney (POA) which has not been registered with the Company, the original POA together with a photocopy of same or a copy certified by a Notary Public must be lodged with the Company along with the Form of Proxy. 7. In case of Marginal Trading Accounts (slash accounts), the form of Proxy should be signed by the respective authorised Fund Manager/Banker with whom the account is maintained. 168 ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC CORPORATE INFORMATION Name of Company Bankers Hayleys Fabric PLC Standard Chartered Bank Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Legal Form Hatton National Bank PLC A Quoted Public Company with Limited Liability Bank of Ceylon (Incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1993 ) National Development Bank PLC Sampath Bank PLC Company Registration Number Deutsche Bank AG PQ 37 Citibank, N.A. Seylan Bank PLC Accounting year end Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC 31st March People’s Bank Principal Activity Auditors Manufacturing of knitted fabric Ernst & Young Chartered Accountants, Directors 201, De Saram Place, A.M. Pandithage Chairman Colombo 10. E.R.P. Goonetilleke Managing Director K.D.D. Perera S.C. Ganegoda H. Somashantha R.N. Somaratne Dr. S.J. Nawaratne A.S. Jayatilleka R. Rohitha Bandara (Appointed w.e.f. 15 May 2018) Ms. Yogadinusha Bhaskaran (Alternative Director to K.D.D. Perera) Secretaries Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd. 400, Deans Road,Colombo 10. Telephone: (94-11) 2627650 /51/52/53 Registered Ofﬁce 400, Deans Road , Colombo 10. Telephone: (94-11) 2627000 Main Ofﬁce & Factory Narthupana Estate , Neboda. Telephone: (94-34) 4297100, 2242055 Designed & produced by Digital Plates & Printing by Softwave Printing and Publishing (Pvt) Ltd www.hayleysfabric.com
