Foresight Annual Report 2018 Values with impact. Helaba in Brief: One of the leading banks in the German financial capital of Frankfurt am Main, the Helaba Group employs approximately 6,100 people and has total assets of € 163 bn. We offer a complete range of financial services from a single source for companies, banks and institutional investors. We provide innovative, high-quality financial products and services for the Sparkassen. Helaba serves as the Sparkasse central bank for Hesse, Thuringia, North Rhine-Westphalia and Brandenburg, making it a strong partner for some 40 percent of Germany’s Sparkassen. We are the regional market leader in retail banking through our subsidiary Frankfurter Sparkasse and also have a presence in direct banking through 1822direkt. Landesbausparkasse Hessen-Thüringen, Helaba’s ­independent home loans and savings division, uses the Sparkassen as sales partners and is the market leader in both Hesse and Thuringia. WIBank, which comes under Helaba’s Public Development and Infrastructure Business unit, supports ­development programmes for the State of Hesse. We also engage in many areas of public life by sponsoring groundbreaking cultural, educational, environmental, sports and social projects. “Throughout 2018, we implemented a large number of projects to propel Helaba forwards and ready it for the future. We are pursuing a strategic, customer-focused agenda that comprises growth initiatives, digitalisation and corporate culture – thus building on Helaba’s already strong market position.” Herbert Hans Grüntker, Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Helaba Preface 2 The Board of Managing Directors 4 Corporate Strategy 6 Staff 8 Sustainability 9 Group Management Report Basic Information About the Group 14 Economic Report 18 Financial Position and Financial Performance 22 Risk Report 32 Non-Financial Statement 58 Outlook and Opportunities 64 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement 72 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 73 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 74 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 76 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 77 Notes 80 Responsibility Statement 298 Country by Country Reporting Pursuant to Section 26a KWG 299 Independent Auditor’s Report 303 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report 309 Corporate Bodies Supervisory Board 312 Board of Public Owners 318 A dvisory Board on Public Companies / Institutions, Municipalities and Sparkassen 319 Report of the Supervisory Board 321 Report of the Board of Public Owners 325 Helaba Addresses 327 We have a firm belief in our long-term success. We consistently strive to find the best solutions and maintain close and lasting partnerships. We also have a long-term public duty to perform, in close coop­ eration and solidarity with the Sparkassen. All this can help us achieve our aspiration of simply being a good bank.  Contents At a Glance Helaba ratings (As at: February 2019) Moody’s Fitch Standard & Poor’s Outlook Stable Outlook Stable Outlook Positive Long-term Long-term Issuer Long-term Issuer Credit Issuer Rating Aa3 Default Rating 1) A+ Rating 1) A Counterparty Risk Short-term Issuer Credit ­Assessment3) Aa3(cr) Public Sector Pfandbriefe AAA Rating 1), 2) A-1 Long-term Long-term Senior Deposit Rating3) Aa3 Mortgage Pfandbriefe AAA ­Unsecured 1), 3) A Public Sector Short-term Issuer Default Long-term Senior Covered Bonds Aaa Rating 1), 2) F1+ ­Subordinated 1), 4) A– Short-term Derivative Counterparty Deposit Rating 2) P-1 ­Rating 1) A A –(dcr) Standalone Credit Profile 1) a Long-term Long-term Deposit Senior Unsecured3) Aa3 Rating 1), 3) AA– Long-term Junior Senior Unsecured 4) A2 Senior Unsecured 1), 4) A+ Subordinate Rating 5) Baa2 Subordinated Debt 1), 5) A At a Glance Baseline Credit Assessment baa2 Viability Rating 1) a+  Ratings for Helaba liabilities that are covered by statutory guarantee6) Moody’s Fitch Ratings Standard & Poor’s Long-term ratings Aaa AAA AA– 1) Joint S-Group rating for the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe Hessen-Thüringen, respectively based on the group rating 2) Corresponds to short-term liabilities 3) Corresponds in principle to long-term senior unsecured debt according to § 46f (5 u. 7) KWG (“with preferential right to payment”) 4) Corresponds in principle to long-term senior unsecured debt according to § 46f (6) KWG (“without preferential right to payment”) 5) Corresponds to subordinated liabilities 6) The statutory guarantee applies to all liabilities in place prior to 18 July 2001 (no time limit) Stakes in Helaba’s share capital Public owners in % Sparkassenund Giroverband Hessen-Thüringen 68.85 State of Hesse 8.10 State of Thuringia 4.05 Sparkassenverband Westfalen-Lippe 4.75 Rheinischer Sparkassenund Giroverband 4.75 FIDES Alpha GmbH1) 4.75 FIDES Beta GmbH 1) 4.75 1) represented by DSGV e. V. as the trustee The Helaba Group in figures 2018 2017 Change Performance Figures in € m in € m in € m in % Net interest income before allowances for losses on loans and advances 1,072 1,069 3 0.3 Net fee and commission income 349 354 –5 – 1.4 General and administrative expenses – 1,440 – 1,348 – 92 – 6.8 Profit before taxes 443 447 –4 – 0.9 Consolidated net profit 278 256 22 8.6 Return on equity before taxes in % 5.4 5.7 Cost-income ratio in % 78.3 77.5 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Change Balance Sheet Figures in € m in € m in € m in % Measured at amortised cost: Loans and advances to banks 11,222 10,678 544 5.1 Loans and advances to customers 95,529 88,750 6,779 7.6 Trading assets 16,989 16,100 889 5.5 Financial assets measured at fair value (not held for trading) 27,390 27,985 – 595 – 2.1 Measured at amortised cost: Deposits and loans from banks 32,144 31,249 895 2.9 Deposits and loans from customers 47,396 47,621 – 225 – 0.5 Securitised liabilities 45,455 43,514 1,941 4.5 Trading liabilities 12,763 12,277 486 4.0 Financial liabilities measured at fair value (not held for trading) 13,761 12,592 1,169 9.3 Equity 8,462 7,998 464 5.8 Total assets 162,968 158,201 4,767 3.0 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Key indicators for regulatory purposes in % in % CET1 capital ratio 14.9 15.4 Tier 1 capital ratio 16.4 16.4 Total capital ratio 20.6 21.8 2 Helaba Preface Financial year 2018 was a lively and highly constructive year for Helaba. We demonstrated once again that we occupy a strong position in the market in our core business areas. Our Group net profit figures under IFRS were largely unchanged year on year at € 443 m before tax and € 278 m after tax. Its stability and its robust capital resources ensured that Helaba successfully passed the EBA stress test again in 2018. The Bank’s good equity ratio not only underpins our position of strength, but also enables us to pursue inorganic growth measures, which in financial year 2018 included the acquisition of Dexia Kommunalbank Deutschland and the land transport portfolio of DVB Bank. Numerous projects and initiatives in 2018 kept Helaba moving forwards and building for the future. We are making good progress with our digitalisation initiatives too: our customer portals for our ­corporate and real estate customers have been well received and komuno, our digital platform for municipal loans, has enjoyed a successful start. Given the persistently challenging competitive ­environment and the many initiatives launched to strengthen our business model, we are satisfied overall with the results achieved. 3 The good position we enjoy in our various core business areas is our greatest and most vital asset for the future. Our company has a sustainable and well-diversified business model. We are firmly ­anchored in the real economy and occupy a strong position in the market in our core business areas. We serve our public owners with a wide range of attractive and effective products and services. And we have been a reliable partner for decades. We embrace our responsibilities to society and the ­environment and have made many formal commitments in this area, including signing up to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. All of these attributes form an integral part of Helaba’s DNA . The core values of Reliability, Customer Focus and Enthusiasm describe how we want and intend to cooperate with our customers and realise our objectives. Our customers too have learned to appreciate the way we consistently apply our values in our business activities; indeed they made this point very clearly in our customer survey. More than 90 percent of our business partners say that they are very satisfied with the state of cooperation with Helaba and we received particularly high ratings in the areas of trustworthiness, reliability, security and partnership too. Our commitment to following our values is also reflected in the decision to put them front and centre in our new corporate tag line – “Values with impact” – and the marketing campaign it supports. I believe that implementing our strategic agenda of growth initiatives, digitalisation and corporate culture will make Helaba even stronger and ensure that we are able to continue building on our strong market position in future taking advantage of the market opportunities that become available to us along the way. The adverse effects of persistently low interest rates and regulatory requirements will continue to apply, but we expect results for the current financial year to be largely unchanged from the previous year taking account of the initiatives already in progress. I would like to convey the thanks of the entire Board of Managing Directors to our customers for their enduring trust and our corporate bodies for their unfaltering support. I also extend my heartfelt thanks to our esteemed employees, without whose deep commitment and great professionalism Helaba’s relentless progress would be impossible. Yours sincerely, Herbert Hans Grüntker Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors 4 Helaba The Board of Managing Directors The Board of Managing Directors Herbert Hans Grüntker Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors, Central Staff and Group Strategy, Legal ­Services, Internal Audit, Human Resources, Economics/Research, Public Development and Infrastructure Business, Process ­Management and Information Security Christian Schmid Thomas Groß Real Estate Finance, PortfolioVice-Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors, and Real Estate Management, Risk Management and Control, Cash Management, Administration, GWH , OFB Strategy Project Digitalisation, Frankfurter Sparkasse, Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft 5 Dr. Norbert Schraad Dr. Detlef Hosemann Corporate Finance, Target Clients Finance, IT, Compliance Frank Nickel Hans-Dieter Kemler Executive Vice President and Capital Markets, Treasury, Business with Designated Member of the Board Savings Banks, Financial Institutions and of Managing Directors Trade Finance, Helaba Invest 6 Helaba Corporate Strategy Real Estate Commercial bank Corporates & Markets Sparkasse central institute Retail & Asset Management Development bank Development Business 7 Corporate Strategy Helaba’s basic strategic focus remains unchanged and it intends to continue to serve its customers as a commercial bank, Sparkasse central bank and development bank. It will in addition press ahead with the growth initiatives identified in 2018 as it seeks to refine its proven business model. Helaba is a credit institution organised under public law with the long-term strategic business model of a full-service bank; it has a strong regional focus, a presence in carefully selected international markets and is tightly integrated into the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe. One key aspect of Helaba’s business model is its legal form as a public-law institution. Equally important are its status as part of the Sparkassen organisation with its institutional protection scheme, the distribution of tasks between Sparkassen, Landesbanken and other S-Group institutions, the large stake in Helaba owned by the Sparkassen organisation, and Helaba’s retention and expansion of its activities in the S-Group and Public Development and Infrastructure Business. As a commercial bank, Helaba operates in Germany and abroad. The Bank’s hallmarks include stable, long-term customer relationships. It works with companies, institutional clients, the public sector and municipal corporations. Helaba provides a comprehensive range of products for its customers. The positive results of a customer survey conducted in 2018 underline the value attached to this long-term approach by Helaba’s customers. Helaba serves as the Sparkasse central bank for the states of Hesse, Thuringia, North Rhine-Westphalia and Brandenburg, meaning that it is the preferred service provider and product supplier for 40 percent of all Sparkassen in Germany. It operates as a partner to the Sparkassen rather than as a competitor. In its capacity as the central development institution for Hesse, Helaba administers public-sector ­ evelopment programmes through Wirtschaftsund Infrastrukturbank Hessen (WIBank ). WIBank ’s d business activities are guided by the development objectives of the State of Hesse. The Bank’s registered offices are situated in Frankfurt am Main and Erfurt and it has branches in D ­ üsseldorf, Kassel, London, New York, Paris and Stockholm plus a number of representative and sales offices, subsidiaries and affiliates. 8 Helaba Staff Sustainability Staff The Helaba Group employed 6,074 people in 2018. This equates to a year-on-year reduction of 37. Comprehensive demographic analyses are performed to generate a detailed overview of how many employees and managers the Bank is likely to lose in which organisational units over the next five, ten or 15 years as a result of demographic change. It is intended that these analyses be repeated at regular intervals to allow as much time as possible to respond when required. The initial main priorities of our newly devised diversity management concept are gender, age and disability. We have developed actions, propositions and a model based on phase of life to promote diversity at Helaba and will be implementing them from 2019. The overall representative body at Helaba for employees with disabilities signed an inclusion agreement with the Bank’s general staff council and Board of Managing Directors in December 2018. The new agreement aims to raise awareness of the needs of people with disabilities and improve their opportunities to participate fully in professional life. We believe it is incumbent on us to offer people with disabilities better chances in their work and professional life, to promote their training and employment and to recognise and respect them as full and equal employees. We have made very substantial progress now with the roll-out of our Employee Assistance Programme, which offers all employees – management level staff included – free consultation on work-life-service matters (such as family, health, care in old age, leadership etc.) with an external service provider. Helaba has introduced an electronic personnel file to streamline and digitalise processes in human resources. Employees and their direct managers can now access important personal documents electronically. The management selection procedure at Helaba is currently being revised with a particular focus on standardising the interview process and redesigning our assessment centres and the appointments decision-making process they underpin. The new assessment centre format has been formalised in a service agreement. The distinctive space concept at our new office building in Offenbach supports a much more pronounced team-oriented/project-oriented approach to work. A comprehensive set of change management measures is being implemented to smooth the transition to the “New Work” environment. One prominent element of “New Work” is mobile working, including the necessary conditions that have to be met to make mobile working effective. A project addressing the associated issues launches at the beginning of 2019. Megatrends like demographic change, diversity and digitalisation are causing society’s values to change in a way that will also permanently change the world of work. Helaba too can of course ­expect to feel the effects. Our employee survey in 2016 revealed significant opportunities and potential improvements: more cooperation, a more open communication culture and appreciative management to the benefit of every individual, of all of us together and of the Bank itself. Work to implement the actions devised in these areas in response to the survey reached key milestones in 2018. In addition to the above, we plan to digitalise more processes in the HR sphere and integrate them with the electronic personnel file, and will be developing and implementing further actions to hone our employer branding. 9 Sustainability Helaba has always embraced its responsibilities to society and the natural environment and its s­ trategic business model embodies a firm commitment to promoting prosperity, protecting vital ­natural resources and generally acting in the public interest. We endeavour to improve our sustainability profile continuously across the whole of the Group and to enhance our effectiveness as a force for social and environmental good. Our efforts in this area are extending Helaba’s sustainability management activities well beyond the established standards and regulatory frameworks. Standards and Regulatory Frameworks Helaba’s overriding commitment to sustainability is set out in the Treaty of the Formation of a Joint Savings Banks Association Hesse-Thuringia, which requires it to operate in the public interest. The detail of its mission to serve the public interest is filled in by the Helaba sustainability principles, in which we affirm our commitment to environmental and social responsibility and establish standards of conduct regarding business activities, our staff, the operation of our business and our corporate social responsibility. The revised Corporate Values adopted by Helaba in 2018 emphasise the importance of values that drive real action: we believe that putting valueled decision-making at the heart of our organisation’s approach to business helps to ensure that our impact on society is a ­positive one. Helaba upholds the principles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, which cover human rights, workers’ rights, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. Our subsidiary company Helaba Invest signed up to the UN Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI) in May 2018. The principles to which signatory institutions agree include giving proper consideration to environmental, social and corporate culture factors in investment and decision-making processes. Helaba has adopted a Code of Conduct to disseminate the sustainability concept underlying these requirements within the Bank and provide all employees with a binding framework to guide their ­actions. This Code of Conduct, which sets out a basis for responsible conduct within the Bank and in interactions with its various stakeholders, is available to employees, customers who wish to see it and the public at large. Helaba’s business strategy for 2018, which applies with binding effect across the whole of the Group, commits us to pursue our business operations with a sustainable focus taking account of economic, environmental and social factors. The mandatory risk strategy followed at Helaba defines far-reaching criteria for sustainability in lending business, which is one of the organisation’s most important business areas. These criteria are derived from the business strategy. 10 Helaba Sustainability Key Issues and Action Areas The comprehensive materiality analysis carried out by Helaba in 2017 led to the identification of six action areas: economic performance, impact-driven business operations, responsible corporate management, appreciative corporate culture, climate change and resource efficiency and, finally, ­corporate social responsibility. These have subsequently come to form the basis of the strategic ­integration of non-financial issues into business operations. Stepping up the Sustainability Dialogue We stepped up our in-house sustainability dialogue in 2018 to help us develop our Group-wide sustainability management for the long term. An information event arranged to address the whole of the Bank explained where we stand at the moment with our sustainability activities and the key next steps on our sustainability agenda. Interested employees from all over the Helaba organisation seized the opportunity to become actively involved in our sustainability dialogue. Sustainability mentors specific to each area are now fostering and guiding relevant discussions between specialists within the Bank in relation to particular issues and developments. We have stepped up the dialogue with our Group subsidiaries too to enable us to grasp the specific requirements of the Group units better and integrate them into Group-wide sustainability management. Sustainable Finance The action plan on sustainable finance adopted by the European Commission at the beginning of March 2018 dominated Helaba’s sustainability activities for much of the year under review. Helaba has been following developments closely since the plan was released and investigating how the expected changes in the wider legal environment might affect the Group. We attach particular importance in this connection to the possible inclusion of environmental and climate risks in the Group’s risk management. We are watching current developments in the green and social bond markets ­intensively and evaluating possible options for the Group to enter these markets itself. Mindful of the increasing pace of change in the area of sustainability in the financial sector, we maintain close links with the trade associations representing the banking sector – among them the Association of German Public Sector Banks (VÖB), the German Association for Environment and Sustaina­ bility in Financial Institutions (VfU) and the Green and Sustainable Finance Cluster Germany – so that we are able to bring our influence to bear on regulatory developments at an early stage. Participation in these forums enables Helaba to enhance the specialist discussions taking place with its input and contribute proactively in the interests of society and environment. Revisions to core processes We have defined mandatory guidelines for our core business – lending business – that apply across the whole of the Group. Derived from our business strategy, these lending guidelines are formalised in the risk strategies, which are approved by Helaba’s corporate bodies and thus bear the full authority of our organisation. 11 The universal lending guidelines ensure respect for human rights, workers’ rights and cultural assets and protection for the environment, while sector-specific lending guidelines for the energy, mining, oil and gas, agriculture and forestry, pulp and paper and defence industries ensure that the Bank does not become involved in controversial business practices. We review our lending criteria every year and adapt them as necessary. The update process for 2018, for example, flagged up the issue of animal welfare, which will be included as a new audit criterion from 2019, and we are also tightening the lending guidelines to speed up our withdrawal from current exposures in relation to power station coal and coalfired power plants. Hand-in-hand with these steps to reduce possible negative impacts of our operations go positive contributions to climate protection such as our strategic focus on financing renewable energy projects and energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly technologies. Transparency Our responsible corporate management approach emphasises the importance of transparent values, conduct, standpoints and decisions and our Code of Conduct expressly commits us to a policy of open and transparent communication. All relevant data and information concerning HR matters, resource consumption and emissions is r­ ecorded and analysed centrally. The principal medium used to communicate information relating to sustainability is Helaba’s sustainability website (https://www.helaba.com/int/about-us/helaba/ sustainability/). We publish a ­declaration of compliance with the German Sustainability Code (DNK ) and include a non-financial statement with the Group management report as part of our annual reporting. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we also publish an annual progress report. Sustainability Ratings Specialist agencies regularly scrutinise companies including banks to assess their performance in the area of sustainability. Leading sustainability rating agencies include ISS -oekom, imug, Sustainalytics and MSCI . Helaba aims to improve its sustainability ratings continuously and maintains close contacts with all of the rating agencies to this end. We achieved a notable improvement in our rating with all of the agencies in 2018. Rating agency ISS -oekom awarded us “Prime Status”, which recognises outstanding sustainability performance in our sector, for the first time in March 2018. Sustainalytics upgraded us significantly too, boosting our rating to 73 points. 12 Helaba Sustainability Rating agency Rating Trend ISS -oekom “C” (Prime) C C among the top 20 % in the CCcomparison group of 138 banks B– grade for sub-rating “Social & Governance” 2016 2017 2018 2019 imug “B” (Positive) Top 5 in the comparison group B B of 25 banks CC CC BBB (Positive) grade for sub-rating “Mortgage Pfandbriefe” 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sustainalytics 73 points out of 100 72 73 among the top 15 % in the 62 61 comparison group of 345 banks 81 points for sub-rating “Environment” 2016 2017 2018 2019 MSCI “A” in the upper midrange in the A A A comparison group BBB Top score for sub-rating “Financial Product Safety” 2016 2017 2018 2019 Group Management Report 14 Basic Information About the Group 18 Economic Report 22 Financial Position and Financial Performance 32 Risk Report 58 Non-Financial Statement 64 Outlook and Opportunities 14 Group Management Report Basic Information About the Group Group Management Report Basic Information About S ­ parkassen and their associations in North Rhine-Westphalia. In addition, there are sales co-operation agreements with the the Group Sparkassen in Brandenburg. The agreements with the ­Sparkassen in North Rhine-Westphalia and Brandenburg complement the S-Group Concept of the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe Hessen-Thüringen, which continues in its current form. Business model of the Group Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale (Helaba) is a credit In its capacity as the central development institution for Hesse, institution organised under public law; its long-term strategic Helaba administers public-sector development programmes business model is that of a full-service bank with a regional through Wirtschaftsund Infrastrukturbank Hessen (WIBank). focus, a presence in carefully selected international markets and As a dependent institution within Helaba, WIBank enjoys a dia very close relationship with the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe. rect statutory guarantee from the State of Hesse as is to be apOne key aspect of Helaba’s business model is its legal form as a plied under European Union (EU) law. WIBank’s business activpublic-law institution. Helaba operates as a for-profit entity in ities are guided by the development objectives of the State of line with the applicable provisions of the Charter and the Treaty Hesse. Helaba also has stakes in a number of other development of the Formation of a Joint Savings Banks Association Hesseinstitutions in Hesse and Thuringia. Thuringia. The Treaty and the Charter establish the legal framework for Helaba’s business model. Other factors central to this In addition to Helaba, the business model includes further business model are Helaba’s status as part of the Sparkassen-­ strong, well-known brands (in some cases, legally independent Finanzgruppe with its institutional protection scheme, the dissubsidiaries) that complement the Group’s product portfolio. tribution of tasks between Sparkassen, Landesbanken and other S-Group companies, the large stake in Helaba owned by the Helaba is one of the market leaders in the home loans and savSparkassen organisation, and Helaba’s retention and expansion ings business in both Hesse and Thuringia through the legally of its activities in the S-Group and public development and independent Landesbausparkasse Hessen-Thüringen (LBS). frastructure business. Frankfurter Sparkasse, a wholly owned and fully consolidated Helaba serves its clients in three functions: as a commercial subsidiary of Helaba organised under German public law, is the bank, as a Sparkasse central bank and as a development bank. leading retail bank in the Frankfurt am Main region with over 800,000 customers; it also has a presence in the direct banking As a commercial bank, Helaba operates in Germany and abroad. market through 1822direkt. The Bank’s hallmarks include stable, long-term customer relationships. It works with companies, institutional clients, the Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG (FBG ) and its wholly public sector and municipal corporations. owned subsidiary Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Deutschland) AG provide Helaba’s products and services for Sparkassen in Helaba is a Sparkasse central bank and S-Group bank for the private banking and in the wealth and asset management busiSparkassen in Hesse, Thuringia, North Rhine-Westphalia and nesses. Brandenburg and, therefore, for around 40 % of all Sparkassen in Germany. It operates as a partner to the Sparkassen rather FBG , which operates as the private bank of the Sparkassen-­ than as a competitor. Finanzgruppe, acquires high-net-worth customers in Germany through Sparkassen in the S-Group with which it has a collaboHelaba and the S-Group Sparkassen in Hesse and Thuringia ration agreement. Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft’s Family Office t­ogether constitute the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe Hessen-­ adds a professional point of contact for all asset-related matters Thüringen, which follows a business model based on economic as a central partner for the Sparkassen. unity and a joint S-Group rating. Comprehensive co-operation and business agreements have been entered into with the 15 The wholly owned subsidiary Helaba Invest is one of Germany’s lows this system. Regular plan/actual comparisons are generleading institutional asset management companies. There are ated and variances analysed based on a management income three main pillars to the Helaba Invest business strategy: the statement produced in the Margin Accounting System at regular master investment company (Master IC ) service; asset manageintervals in the course of the financial year. In line with management with securities; and real estate and alternative asset ment reporting, segment information is based on internal manclasses. Within the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe, Helaba Invest is agement (contribution margin accounting) and also on external the largest provider of special funds for institutional investors. financial reporting. The GWH Group holds one of the largest residential real estate One key indicator used to manage portfolios is the volume of portfolios in Hesse with around 50,000 residential units. Its acnew mediumand long-term business (defined as the volume tivities centre on the management and optimisation of residenof new mediumand long-term business with a funding term of tial property portfolios and in residential real estate project more than one year). Systematic preliminary costings are carried development. out for loan agreements, in particular to ensure that new business is managed with a focus on risk and profitability. The OFB Group is a full-service group of companies in the fields of real estate project development, land development and the Equity is managed through the allocation of regulatory and ecoconstruction and project management of high-value commercial nomic limits and through the capital ratio. When the target capreal estate. It operates throughout Germany with a particular ital ratios are set, the targets take into account the additional focus on the Rhine-Main region. own funds requirements specified by the European Central Bank (ECB). The minimum Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) capital ratio The Bank’s registered offices are situated in Frankfurt am Main required to be maintained by the Helaba Group (as defined by and Erfurt, and it also has branches in Düsseldorf, Kassel, Paris, the German Banking Act (Kreditwesengesetz, KWG ) and the London, New York and – since June 2018 – Stockholm. The Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR ) in 2018 under the branches allow Helaba to strengthen its local presence close to ­Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) decision customers and Sparkassen. The foreign branches provide taken by the ECB is 8.89 %. Profitability targets are managed on Helaba with access to the funding markets, particularly those the basis of, for example, the economic return on equity (ratio markets based on the US dollar and pound sterling. The organof profit before taxes to average capital employed in the finanisation also includes representative and sales offices, subsidiarcial year determined in accordance with IFRS ). Helaba has set a ies and affiliates. A new representative office was opened in São target range of 5 % to 7 % for economic return on equity before Paulo in June 2018. tax. Management instruments and non-financial The leverage ratio measures the ratio between regulatory ­performance indicators ­capital and the unweighted total of all on-balance sheet and As part of managing the Bank as a whole, Helaba has integrated off-balance sheet asset items including derivatives. Currently, systems in place for business and productivity management. banks must disclose the leverage ratio and report it to the suThis is based on a multi-level Margin Accounting System Conpervisory authorities as an indicator for monitoring purposes. trolling comprising both the management of absolute income A mandatory minimum ratio of 3.0 % is expected to apply when and costs and the integrated management of contribution marthe leverage ratio migrates to Pillar 1 of the three-pillar model gins. The target is to achieve a cost-income ratio below 70 %. of prudential supervision. The European Commission has still The cost-income ratio is the ratio of general and administrative to decide on the details. Helaba is already taking this ratio into expenses to profit before taxes net of general and administrative account in its management systems. expenses and of loss allowances for loans and advances. The annual planning process, from which a budgeted statement of financial position and income statement are derived, also fol16 Group Management Report Basic Information About the Group The CRR specifies that banks must calculate a (short-term) ings with the general public, and has established standards of l­iquidity coverage ratio (LCR ) and a net stable funding ratio conduct regarding business activities, business operations, staff (NSFR ). The regulatory minimum LCR is 100 %. As regards the and corporate social responsibility. Helaba has also translated NSFR , Europe has still to implement the requirements for meits responsibility to the environment and society into binding diumand long-term liquidity. The NSFR is currently expected requirements in its business strategy. Helaba’s risk assessment to be introduced in 2021 at the earliest. However, it is already and risk management processes thus incorporate the identifibeing taken into account in Helaba’s management systems on cation and assessment of environmental risks and of issues from the basis of the guidance issued by the Basel Committee on a social and ethical perspective. Banking Supervision (BCBS). Both liquidity ratios are leading to an increase in liquidity management costs and therefore have a In lending operations, Helaba has defined mandatory Groupnegative impact on profitability. wide sustainability criteria that have been incorporated into the risk strategies. These ensure that human and workers’ rights are An institution-specific minimum requirement for own funds and respected, cultural assets are preserved and the environment is eligible liabilities (MREL ) will also be specified as part of the protected. Helaba will not knowingly finance projects that are implementation of the Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) in likely to cause severe environmental damage or breach internaEurope. It was announced that Helaba would be receiving a mantional social standards. For critical sectors of the economy, it has datory MREL at the start of 2019. developed specific lending criteria that rule out controversial business practices in particular, and take into account secHelaba’s business activities are geared to customer requiretor-specific risk issues. ments. The Bank provides products and services for a broad spectrum of different customer groups. The Bank’s business Helaba’s sustainability performance is regularly rated by susactivities are tightly interconnected with the real economy. The tainability rating agencies. The ratings are a core component in degree of interconnectedness with the real economy is shown the process of analysing and refining Helaba’s sustainability by the percentage of the total assets accounted for by customer profile. Helaba aims to achieve continuous improvement in business (loans and advances to customers and affiliated these third-party ratings. ­Sparkassen). Employees To fund itself, Helaba draws on different sources and products, focusing in particular on the anchor sources of funding available ■■ HR strategy through direct and indirect Sparkasse business (proprietary and The basic principles of Helaba’s HR activities are derived from customer transactions) as a result of belonging to a strong asits business strategy. These principles incorporate social, sociation of financial institutions. Development funds raised economic and regulatory changes. The core tasks include, for through WIBank and Pfandbrief issues are also a cost-efficient example, strategy-oriented and needs-based recruitment of component of its stable funding base. suitable employees, the provision of professional services, attractive remuneration and ancillary benefits (such as occuAs the leading S-Group bank in the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe, pational pensions), continuing professional development Helaba is continuously expanding its business relationships and the development of young talent. with Sparkassen throughout Germany. In the regions of Hesse, Thuringia and North Rhine-Westphalia, where Helaba acts as ■■ Remuneration principles the Sparkasse central bank, Helaba uses standard criteria to The business strategy and risk strategy specify the degree of determine a product use ratio that expresses the volume of flexibility available to employees. This then also forms the business conducted with Helaba and its subsidiaries as a perbasis for the remuneration system. The Bank’s remuneration centage of the total purchases by each Sparkasse. The product strategy and remuneration principles set out the relationship utilisation rates are to range between 60 % and 80 %. between business strategy, risk strategy and remuneration strategy. The remuneration strategy takes into account the As a public-law credit institution with a mandate to operate in attainment of targets specified in operational planning when the public interest, Helaba has laid down guiding sustainability determining an overall budget for the Bank and allocating the principles in which it has pledged its commitment to environbudget for variable remuneration at unit level, thereby ensurmental and social responsibility, both internally and in its dealing that there is a link between the remuneration strategy 17 and divisional strategic objectives. For the corporate centre units, budgets are allocated based on the results generated by the Bank as a whole and the attainment of qualitative targets. This system rules out the possibility of incentives for individual employees to enter into disproportionately high risks. The fixed salaries are based on market requirements. ■■ Human resources development Despite a high level of cost-consciousness, Helaba continues to make a significant investment in developing the skills and qualifications of its employees. The needs-based range of seminars covering professional, personal, social and methodological development helps managers and employees fulfil their day-to-day responsibilities. This range of training seminars is complemented by foreign language training, topic-specific seminars provided by external providers and courses of study in business management. In addition to the aforementioned range of training options, the repertoire of human resources development also includes aspects of change, diversity and performance management, for example. The new life-stage model takes account of all the different stages of the employment relationship at Helaba when implementing human resource management measures, thus increasing Helaba’s appeal as an employer. ■■ Development of young talent Demographic change and ongoing digitalisation will have an impact on Helaba’s competitiveness in the long term. The design of human resources management processes under consideration of social change presents the challenge that Helaba must acquire young talent with a high degree of potential – or identify such people already at Helaba – and then train and retain them. In addition, advances in digitalisation are changing the requirements that companies need to meet to retain their appeal, particularly for a young employee target group. This is noticeable, for example, in changing recruitment processes, which are increasingly characterised by the use of social media for contact with applicants. ■■ Other key areas of focus Other key areas on which HR activities are currently focused include work-life balance and the implementation of measures in the context of diversity management. An Employee Assistance Programme introduced at the start of 2019 is a welcome addition to the established elements of health management. Various indicators, such as a low turnover rate, length of service and low absenteeism, confirm that employees are satisfied and highly committed. 18 Group Management Report Economic Report Economic Report investors as well. Derivative platforms enable currency hedges to be effected using standardised processes, lending portals arrange funding for small corporate customers through banks or directly through institutional investors and banks analyse Macroeconomic and sector-specific conditions their customer data in search of more effective ways of offering in Germany products. Around the globe, blockchain technology is being reThe German economy expanded at a rate of 1.5 % (seasonally fined to find new, faster and more cost-effective methods of adjusted) in 2018, which more or less corresponds to its growth exchanging data; besides the handling of promissory note potential, i.e. the growth that would be expected over the long loans, foreign trade finance has also become a focus of attention. term given a normal level of capacity utilisation. Over the course of the year, the pace of growth eased off. Growth was driven Following the referendum on Brexit in June 2016, the specific ­almost exclusively by domestic demand, with foreign trade conterms of the exit have still not been definitively negotiated betributing just 0.2 percentage points and acting as a drag. tween the EU and the United Kingdom. Despite EU heads of ­Although at 1.9 %, inflation was slightly up on the prior-year government agreeing on a withdrawal agreement for the UK to rate, collectively agreed pay rises and higher employment led leave the EU, it is still unclear whether the British parliament will to a rise in real incomes. agree to the deal, and a hard Brexit cannot be ruled out at this time. Despite continuing political uncertainty and a slump in demand in the second half of the year, businesses invested somewhat As part of its preparations for a hard Brexit, Helaba has – with more heavily in machinery and vehicles in 2018. The expansion the consent of the Bank’s governing bodies – submitted an apof residential construction continued on the back of strong deplication to the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA ), the Britmand for residential space (mainly in large cities), very low mortish supervisory authority, to set up a third-country branch for its gage rates, the lack of investment alternatives and investment branch in London. On 6 November 2018, the UK ’s finance and in existing property. Higher public-sector spending on infraeconomics ministry introduced a regulation – the Temporary structure also had a positive impact. Permissions Regime – that will allow firms currently passporting into the UK to continue new and existing regulated business On the one hand, the German banking sector is benefiting from within the scope of their current permissions should the withthe positive economic trend in 2018. This is reflected in particdrawal agreement not be ratified. The PRA has confirmed that, ular in the low level of loss allowances for loans and advances by applying to set up a third-country branch in London, the bank required to be recognised. Conversely, though, banks’ operating has met the criteria for entering the temporary regime. This business continues to be impacted by the current level of intermeans that the period of time available to the British superviest rates. On top of this, institutional investors (insurance comsory authorities for approving the application or otherwise has panies, pension funds) are making inroads into the market in been extended to three years as of the withdrawal date. response to their own investment pressures and are becoming competitors of the banks. Cut-throat competition continues to Key developments in the regulatory framework were as follows: put pressure on margins. ■■ Prudential supervision by the ECB (Single Supervisory MechMore and more areas of economic activity are becoming digitalanism, SSM) ised, driven by continuous advances in information technology. The Helaba Group (within the meaning of the German BankOnline and mobile channels are presenting financial service ing Act [Kreditwesengesetz – KWG ]) together with its affiliproviders with new ways of offering products and of accessing ated subsidiaries Frankfurter Sparkasse and Frankfurter and exchanging data with customers. Bankgesellschaft (Deutschland) AG , is among the banks classified as “significant” and therefore subject to direct superIn this way, online banks, high street banks and increasingly vision by the ECB . The ECB sent the Helaba Group a letter non-bank web-based businesses (termed fintech companies or dated 14 February 2019 notifying it of the findings of the fintechs) too have developed new communication and sales Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP). The ECB channels in private customer business, in some cases in comhas specified that the minimum Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) petition and in other cases in co-operation with one another. To capital ratio to be maintained by the Helaba Group in 2019 is an ever greater extent, attention is now focusing on business with corporate clients, real estate customers and institutional 19 9.85 %. This requirement comprises the Pillar 1 minimum tions now include a stipulation that the number of members capital requirement, the Pillar 2 capital requirement and the of the Board of Managing Directors is to be reduced in the capital buffers. new term of office from July 2019. ■■ EBA stress test ■■ EU action plan on sustainable financing In 2018, European banks underwent a stress test required by At the beginning of March 2018, the European Commission the European Banking Authority (EBA ) in conjunction with published its action plan on financing sustainable growth, the ECB ; these tests are conducted as part of a 2-year cycle. issuing a corresponding package of measures at the end of The objective was to evaluate the stability of global and doMay 2018 aimed at implementing significant actions. Thus, mestic systemically important institutions under stressed in July 2018, the EU Commission set up a Technical Expert economic conditions. The number of banks included deGroup on Sustainable Finance to provide support for the folcreased marginally from 51 in 2016 to 48. In 2018 as well, lowing four areas: an EU taxonomy to determine whether an Helaba was one of the participating banks, and once again economic activity is environmentally sustainable, an EU showed that it is a stable institution with resilient capital reGreen Bond Standard, benchmarks for low-carbon investsources. One of the outcomes of the stress test in the third ment strategies, and guidance to improve corporate disclostress year was that the Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1, phased sure of climate-related information. Through its membership in) capital ratio fell from the figure of 15.40 % reported at the in various banking associations and involvement in key susend of 2017 to 9.96 %. Helaba therefore complies with all the tainability initiatives, Helaba is integrated in the consultation minimum regulatory requirements. processes and closely follows developments in these areas. ■■ Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) Business performance Helaba is classified as a “significant” bank and thus falls Key factors influencing Helaba’s business performance and rewithin the responsibility of the Single Resolution Board. As sults of operations in financial year 2018 were strong economic in previous years, a data collection exercise was conducted growth in Germany, which was 1.5 % in real terms, and the perin the first half of 2018 for the purposes of resolution plansistently low and negative levels of interest rates. ning and determining minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL ). As a result of the 2018 data The volume of new mediumand long-term business in the collection exercise, Helaba will probably be notified at the group (excluding the WIBank development business, which start of 2019 of a binding MREL . does not form part of the competitive market) was positive year on year at € 19.0 bn (2017: € 18.5 bn). Maturities and special ■■ Analytical credit datasets (AnaCredit) repayments were more than offset. Loans and advances to cusA decision was made back in 2016 to introduce the collection tomers (financial assets measured at amortised cost and at fair of granular credit and credit risk data. The requirements were value) rose to € 96.3 bn (31 December 2017: € 89.8 bn). Added to set out in Regulation (EU) 2016/867 of the European Central these were loans and advances to affiliated Sparkassen (financial Bank. As part of their responsibilities, national central banks assets measured at amortised cost and at fair value) in the are required to assist with the collection of granular credit amount of € 5.8 bn (31 December 2017: € 5.5 bn). The focus on and credit risk data at the level of the individual borrower. lending in core business areas and to the Sparkassen as S-Group Since September 2018, the monthly notification has taken partners is in line with the customer-centric orientation of the full reporting requirements into account. Helaba’s business model. The degree of interconnectedness with the real economy, i.e. the percentage of the total consolidated ■■ EBA guidelines on internal governance assets accounted for by customer transactions, rose to 63 % After publication by the EBA of the guidelines on internal (31 December 2017: 60 %) on account of the rise in loans and governance and on the assessment of the suitability of memadvances to customers. bers of the management body and key function holders, Helaba analysed the requirements, identified the need for The market environment for funding business for financial instiaction, and initiated implementation measures in these tutions turned out to be very mixed in the year under review. fields. Many of the requirements in the EBA guidelines were Promising market phases for financial institutions alternated already in the Bank’s in-house set of rules and regulations or with phases of increased market volatility due to macro-ecohave since been added to it. For example, the bank’s regulanomic and geopolitical events. Nevertheless, in 2018, Helaba was able to obtain mediumand long-term funding at favourable 20 Group Management Report Economic Report rates from institutional and private investors. As in previous As at 31 December 2018, the Helaba Group’s leverage ratio was years, the Bank continued to benefit in this regard from its stra5.1 % taking into account the transitional provisions set out in tegic and well diversified business model and from its stable the delegated act, or 4.8 % fully loaded, and therefore above the business and earnings performance. specified minimum ratio of 3.0 %. As planned, mediumand long-term funding of around € 13.1 bn The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR ) for the Helaba Group was (2017: € 17.5 bn) was raised during 2018, with unsecured fund126 % as at 31 December 2018. The uniform Europe-wide liquiding amounting to approximately € 8.7 bn (2017: € 12.8 bn). Deity coverage requirement (LCR ) is 100 %. spite persistently low interest rates, sales of retail issues placed through the Sparkasse network were lower than in previous The NPL ratio for the Helaba Group (in accordance with EBA risk years at around € 2.4 bn (2017: € 2.9 bn). Pfandbrief issues indicator code AQT_3.2) was 0.67 % as at 31 December 2018. As amounted to € 4.4 bn in total (2017: € 4.7 bn), with mortgage in the previous year, therefore, Helaba fell below the German Pfandbriefe accounting for a little over 70 % and public Pfandaverage published in the context of the 2018 EU -wide transparbriefe for around 30 %. For example, it was once again possible ency exercise, which at 1.7 % (as at 30 June 2018) was already to place US dollar mortgage Pfandbriefe. As in previous years, very low by European standards. the customer deposits in the retail business within the Group, in particular through the subsidiary Frankfurter Sparkasse, Helaba’s own funds and eligible liabilities were well above the brought further diversification to the funding base. notified indicative target MREL . Moreover, it was possible – in exchange for outstanding silent Helaba is the S-Group bank for around 40 % of the German participations – to raise new AT 1 liable capital totalling € 0.4 bn ­Sparkassen in four federal states. Collaboration with the affiliin order to strengthen the Bank’s capital base. In addition, ated Sparkassen held steady in 2018. WIBank placed capital of around € 3.7 billion, largely for the purpose of funding the State of Hesse’s “Hessenkasse” project. On 14 December 2018, Helaba concluded a contract of sale with Dexia Crédit Local (Dexia) for 100 % of the shares in Dexia KomThe cost-income ratio was 78.3 % as at 31 December 2018 munalbank Deutschland (DKD) for a purchase price of € 352 m. (31 December 2017: 77.5 %) (restated in line with the new strucSubject to regulatory approval, the transaction is currently set ture of the income statement), and is therefore higher than the for completion in the second quarter of 2019. Plans are to merge target range (2018 target: < 70 %). Return on equity declined to DKD – with total assets of around € 19 bn (30 June 2018) – fully 5.4 % (31 December 2017: 5.7 %), still within the target range with Helaba. Dexia will terminate, with effect as of the closing of 5 to 7 %. date of the sale, the Letters of Support it had issued to DKD. Afterwards, Helaba will provide a declaration of exemption in Phased in, i.e. taking into account the CRR transitional arrangefavour of the Deposit Protection Fund of the Association of Germents, as at 31 December 2018 the Helaba Group’s CET 1 capital man Banks (BDB) that exempts the fund from losses that arise ratio was 14.9 % and its total capital ratio 20.6 %. Fully loaded, from DKD ’s membership in the BDB ’s Deposit Protection Fund. i.e. disregarding the transitional arrangements, the CET 1 capital ratio was 14.9 % and the total capital ratio 20.6 %. Helaba thereAlso in December, Helaba agreed to take over both a Land Transfore has a comfortable capital position and satisfies all the regport Finance customer credit portfolio with a volume of more ulatory requirements that have currently been published. than one billion euros and the staff of DVB Bank SE (DVB). Both parties agreed to refrain from disclosing details on the purchase CRD IV provides for a transitional phase until the end of 2021 price. This transaction, which remains subject to regulatory apfor capital instruments that are currently recognised as regulaproval, is currently scheduled to be completed in the first half of tory Tier 1 capital, but will not meet the future requirements for 2019. such capital. At Helaba, this affects silent participations with a nominal amount of € 518 m. The decline from the previous year In March 2018, Helaba was re-rated by the sustainability rating (31 December 2017: € 953 m) is due primarily to the repurchase agency oekom research. In terms of the corporate rating, the of silent participations associated with the issue of the new AT 1 rating of C (on a scale from Dto A+) meant that Helaba achieved instrument. prime status for the first time, consolidating its position as one of the leading financial institutions from the perspective of sustainability. Sustainalytics also improved its rating of Helaba from 21 61 to 73 points. This significant improvement in ratings is a visIn the first half of 2018, Helaba established Helaba Digital ible sign that Helaba is successfully developing its sustainabilGmbH & Co. KG (Helaba Digital), an equity investment entity foity profile and thus strengthening its own position among comcusing on digital start-ups. The objective of Helaba Digital is to petitors. make strategic equity investments in innovative companies offering digital solutions that actively complement and refine the In May 2018, Helaba Invest signed the UN -supported Principles business model of the Helaba Group and/or that streamline the for Responsible Investment (PRI ), under which the signatory Bank’s core processes. In 2018, Helaba Digital founded the “koinstitutions agree, among other things, to abide by principles muno” joint venture with Lucht Probst Associates (LPA ), which such as the inclusion of environmental, social and corporate went live with a digital platform for municipal loans in Septemcultural factors in investment and decision-making processes. ber. The platform enables bidding processes for capital develIn an initial step, from 2019 Helaba Invest will roll out environopment and municipal authority loans to be handled much mental, social, and governance (ESG ) screening for its retail faster and more efficiently and simply. equity funds. It will also examine all investment securities to determine the extent to which they comply with international Helaba reviews its business model on a regular basis and consustainability standards and conventions, such as the principles tinues to refine it. After implementing the action points arising of the UN Global Compact. from the portfolio review in 2017, the management of the business was also aligned with the new structure at the beginning For the first time in September 2018, Helaba Invest launched a of 2018. This is reflected primarily in the new segment breakreal estate loan fund that aims to provide Sparkassen with acdown, which has been used as the basis for reporting since the cess to Helaba’s diversified loans portfolio. This is a special albeginning of the year. ternative investment fund (AIF ) in accordance with German law. The first closing attained a subscription volume of € 100 m. The fund’s target volume is € 250 m. On 1 June 2018, Helaba upgraded its Stockholm office (set up in 2016) to a branch. By turning the office into a branch, the Bank has laid the foundations for further growth. Activities at the branch will continue to focus on real estate lending, corporate customers and corporate finance. 22 Group Management Report Financial Position and Financial Performance Financial Position and Financial Performance Changes to basis of consolidation The changes to the basis of consolidation in 2018 did not have any material impact on financial position or financial performance. The changes related mainly to property companies in the area of real estate project development. Financial performance of the Group 2018 20171) Change in € m in € m in € m in % Net interest income 1,072 1,069 3 0.3 Loss allowances 45 56 – 11 – 19.6 Net interest income after loss allowances for loans and advances 1,117 1,125 –8 – 0.7 Dividend income 36 26 10 38.5 Net fee and commission income 349 354 –5 – 1.4 Net trading income 32 268 – 236 – 88.1 Net income from hedge accounting and other financial instruments measured at fair value (not held for trading) 13 – 136 149 >100.0 Gains or losses on derecognition of financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss 6 24 – 18 – 75.0 Share of profit or loss of equity-accounted entities 13 19 –6 – 31.6 Other net operating income 317 115 202 >100.0 General and administrative expenses – 1,440 – 1,348 – 92 – 6.8 Profit before taxes 443 447 –4 – 0.9 Taxes on income – 165 – 191 26 13.6 Consolidated net profit 278 256 22 8.6 1) Structure adjusted; see Note (1). As part of the initial application of IFRS 9 in the 2018 financial income statement have been restated in line with the new strucyear, Helaba has changed the structure of its statement of finanture. Figures have not been restated in accordance with the cial position, statement of changes in equity, income statement, transitional arrangements for IFRS 9. The comments relating to statement of comprehensive income and cash flow statement the items in the statement of financial position refer to the openfrom a presentation based on the standard form prescribed ing statement of financial position as at 1 January 2018. This under the German Regulation on the Accounting of Banks and includes both the reclassifications and the remeasurement efFinancial Services Institutions (Verordnung über die Rechnungs­ fects from the first-time application of IFRS 9. Please refer to legung der Kreditinstitute und Finanzdienstleistungsinstitute, Notes (1) and (2) for further details. RechKredV) to a portfolio-based presentation using the IFRS 9 measurement categories. The prior-year figures in the 23 In 2018, Helaba generated profit before taxes of € 443 m, matchconsiderable drop in net trading income was also due to the ing the level of €447 m achieved in 2017. Operating business, widening of credit spreads. A negative impact compared with the results of which show up most clearly in net interest income 2017 arose from the consolidation of internal forward exchange and net fee and commission income, was satisfactory. Thanks to transactions between the trading book and banking book, and the high quality of its business portfolio and the fact that the this affected earnings to the tune of € 22 m (2017: € 42 m). The German economy is in good shape, Helaba was again able to corresponding positive impact (2017: negative impact) from the derive income from a net reversal of loss allowances for loans and consolidation was recognised under gains or losses on non-tradadvances. Market-related measurement effects declined year on ing derivatives and financial instruments to which the fair value year. These effects led to a significant improvement in net inoption is applied. Income from customer-driven capital market come from hedge accounting, but also to a decline in net trading operations was in line with projections. Helaba Bank was reincome. The adverse effects of a rise in administrative expenses, sponsible for most of the Group’s trading activities. caused by higher project costs in connection with the implementation of regulatory and business-driven requirements, was offThe gains or losses on hedge accounting and other financial set by a substantial rise in other net operating income. The instruments (not held for trading) measured at fair value inchanges in the individual items in the income statement were as creased from a net loss of € 136 m in the previous year to a net described below. gain of € 13 m in financial year 2018. It should be noted that the prior-year figure included a loss of € 60 m related to the liquidity Net interest income of € 1,072 m was at the level of the prior-­ component of foreign currencies (cross currency basis spread) year figure (2017: € 1.069 m). With average portfolio volumes in the measurement of derivatives. With the first-time applicalower than in the previous year, the slight increase in interest tion of IFRS 9, these changes in value are recognised as hedge rate margins on new business had a steadying effect on the opcosts in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI). Before erating lending business. Slightly lower net interest income inclusion of this liquidity component in the prior-year figure, the from loans and advances was offset by higher one-off income remeasurement of the banking book derivatives used to manamounts and treasury shares. As in the previous year, negative age interest rates resulted in a net gain of € 5 m in the first half interest had an adverse impact on net interest income. of 2018 compared with a net loss of € 54 m in the equivalent prior-year period. This figure also reflected the positive impact The allowance for losses on loans and advances amounted to a from the consolidation of internal forward exchange transacnet reversal (i.e. income) of € 45 m (2017: € 56 m). The breaktions between the trading book and banking book in an amount down of these loan loss allowances by stage in accordance with of € 22 m (2017: negative impact of € 42 m), this being the corIFRS 9 (including loss allowances for loan commitments and responding opposite effect from that in net trading income. The ­financial guarantees) was as follows: stage 1, net addition of net loss from hedge accounting, in which the ineffective portion € 4 m; stage 2, net reversal of € 47 m; stage 3, net reversal of of micro hedges is reported, amounted to € 0 m (2017: net loss € 1 m. The balance of direct write-downs and recoveries on loans of € 9 m). and advances previously written off amounted to net income of € 1 m. Gains or losses on derecognition of financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss declined from a net Net fee and commission income decreased by € 5 m to € 349 m. gain of € 24 m to a net gain of € 6 m. The prior-year result was Net fee and commission income is mostly generated by Helaba, achieved largely through the disposal of an equity investment. Frankfurter Sparkasse and Helaba Invest. Particularly the deconThe share of profit or loss from associates and joint ventures solidation of LB (Swiss) Investment AG had a negative impact. In accounted for using the equity method amounted to income of addition, fees and commissions from Helaba’s lending and guar€ 13 m (2017: € 19 m). antee business charted a negative development, while fees and commissions from Helaba Invest’s asset management activities Other net operating income increased from € 115 m to € 317 m. increased. A significant component of this figure is the net income from investment property, which amounted to € 198 m in 2016 (2017: Net trading income declined considerably, from € 268 m in 2017 € 194 m). Most of the net income from investment property is to € 32 m in the year under review. This was due partly to the generated by the GWH Group. This figure comprises the balance absence in 2018 of certain market-related measurement efof rental income, the net proceeds of disposals and operating fects – for instance, with regard to derivatives – that had helped costs. The substantial increase in other net operating income to boost income a year earlier (down € 11 m; [2017: € 77 m]). The was partly explained by the absence of one-off items that had 24 Group Management Report Financial Position and Financial Performance had an adverse impact in the first half of 2017. However, the figure The consolidated net profit, i.e. the profit after tax, declined by was also boosted by a gain of € 36 m from the disposal of LB (Swiss) 8.6 % to € 278 m. Of the consolidated net profit, a profit of € 2 m Investment AG and several real estate project companies. (2017: loss of € 6 m) was attributable to non-controlling interests, with the result that the profit attributable to the shareholdGeneral and administrative expenses rose by € 92 m to € 1,440 m. ers of the parent company amounted to € 276 m (2017: € 262 m). These expenses comprised personnel expenses of € 655 m From the latter, € 28 m has been earmarked to service the capi(2017: € 646 m), other operating expenses of € 708 m (2017: tal contributions of the Federal State of Hesse that are reported € 630 m) as well as depreciation and impairment losses totalling under equity, and € 62 m has been earmarked for distribution to € 77 m (2017: €72 m). The increase in personnel expenses was shareholders. due to two pay-scale increases in 2018. The Group employed an Comprehensive income for financial year 2018 declined from average of 6,127 people in the year under review (2017: 6,123). € 275 m to € 200 m. This figure includes other comprehensive Factors contributing to the increase in other administrative exincome in addition to the consolidated net profit as reported in penses included IT and consulting expenses in connection with the income statement. Other comprehensive income amounted the implementation of regulatory and operating requirements. to a loss of € 78 m (2017: profit of € 19 m). The figure was negaThe contributions to the European bank levy also increased from tively impacted by a loss of € 42 m before taxes arising from the € 38 m in 2017 to € 40 m in the reporting year. Expenses for the cross currency basis spread in the measurement of derivatives, Association overhead allocation and the reserve funds remained which had to be recognised in accumulated OCI for the first time the same year on year at € 52 m. as part of the initial application of IFRS 9. The remeasurement of the net liability under defined benefit plans contributed an The general and administrative expenses were covered by the increase in comprehensive income before tax of € 10 m (2017: total operating income of € 1,839 m (2017: € 1,740 m), producing € 116 m). A discount rate of 2.0 % (31 December 2017: 2.0 %) a cost-income ratio of 78.3 % (2017: 77.5 %). Helaba’s return on was used to determine pension provisions for the main pension equity before taxes fell from 5.7 % to 5.4 %. The return on assets obligations in Germany. Debt instruments measured at fair value pursuant to article 90 of Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD through other comprehensive income accounted for a net loss IV ) was unchanged compared with 2015 at 0.2 %. of € 89 m before taxes within comprehensive income (2017: net loss of € 51 m). The income tax expense amounted to € 165 m (2017: € 191 m). It was mainly accounted for by Helaba in Germany (€ 59 m; 2017: € 22 m), Frankfurter Sparkasse (€ 34 m; 2017: € 58 m), the branches in New York (€ 26 m; 2017: € 47 m) and London (€ 8 m; 2017: € 37 m), and GWH (€ 25 m; 2017: € 26 m). Of the total income tax expense, € 198 m was attributable to current taxes. Deferred tax expenses of € 33 m arose in relation to temporary differences. On account of non-deductible operating expenses and impairment losses as well as a countervailing effect from prior-period taxes, the tax rate amounts to 37.2 % (2017: 42.8 %). This substantial decline results from the absence of two one-off effects in the previous year: the write-off of goodwill and the effects of US tax reforms. 25 Statement of financial position Assets 31.12.2018 1.1.20181) Change in € m in € m in € m in % Cash on hand and demand deposit balances with central banks and banks 7,342 10,478 – 3,136 – 29.9 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 106,755 99,458 7,297 7.3 Bonds 4 30 – 26 – 86.7 Loans and advances to banks 11,222 10,678 544 5.1 Loans and advances to customers 95,529 88,750 6,779 7.6 Trading assets 16,989 16,100 889 5.5 Financial assets measured at fair value (not held for trading) 27,390 27,985 – 595 – 2.1 Investment property 2,420 2,239 181 8.1 Income tax assets 593 470 123 26.2 Other assets 1,479 1,471 8 0.5 Total assets 162,968 158,201 4,767 3.0 1) See Notes (1) and (2) in the Notes for information on the reconciliation to the opening statement of financial position. Equity and liabilities 31.12.2018 1.1.20181) Change in € m in € m in € m in % Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 125,222 122,537 2,685 2.2 Deposits and loans from banks 32,144 31,249 895 2.9 Deposits and loans from customers 47,396 47,621 – 225 – 0.5 Securitised liabilities 45,455 43,514 1,941 4.5 Other financial liabilities 227 153 74 48.4 Trading liabilities 12,763 12,277 486 4.0 Financial liabilities measured at fair value (not held for trading) 13,761 12,592 1,169 9.3 Provisions 2,087 2,101 – 14 – 0.7 Income tax liabilities 157 258 – 101 – 39.1 Other liabilities 516 438 78 17.8 Equity 8,462 7,998 464 5.8 Total equity and liabilities 162,968 158,201 4,767 3.0 1) See Notes (1) and (2) in the Notes for information on the reconciliation to the opening statement of financial position. 26 Group Management Report Financial Position and Financial Performance Helaba’s consolidated total assets swelled by € 4.8 bn (3.0 %) to North Rhine-Westphalia and Brandenburg accounted for € 163.0 bn in financial year 2018. The rise in total assets is € 7.4 bn (1 January 2018: € 6.3 bn). Likewise, securitised liabilimainly due to the increase in loans and advances to customers. ties rose by € 1.9 bn to € 45.5 bn, Whereas mortgage Pfandbriefe Total business volume, which included off-balance sheet liabilrose by € 2.2 bn to € 10.3 bn, public Pfandbriefe and issued ities in banking business and fiduciary activities as well as asmoney market instruments fell by € 0.8 bn and € 1.2 bn respecsets, increased by 4.9 % to € 200.9 bn (1 January 2018: tively to € 10.7 bn and € 4.1 bn respectively. The deposits of and € 191.5 bn). loans to customers recognised under financial liabilities measured at amortised cost declined by € 0.2 bn to € 47.4 bn. Cash on hand and demand deposit balances with central banks and banks fell by 29.9 % to € 7.3 bn (1 January 2018: € 10.5 bn). Trading liabilities recognised at fair value rose by € 0.5 bn to This fall was attributable to a drop in the volume of demand € 12.8 bn. Whereas deposits and loans rose by € 0.7 bn to deposits, which are mainly held with Deutsche Bundesbank. € 4.4 bn, the negative fair values of derivatives declined by € 0.4 bn to € 7.5 bn. The financial assets measured at amortised cost, which are reported at their net carrying amounts, rose by € 7.3 bn to Financial liabilities measured at fair value (not held for trading) € 106.8 bn. The rise in these assets is mainly due to the increase amounted to € 13.8 bn for the reporting period (1 January 2018: in loans and advances to customers, which rose by € 6.8 bn to € 12.6 bn). Among these are non-trading derivatives that re€ 95.5 bn. WIBank’s implementation of the Hessenkasse promained unchanged year on year at € 2.3 bn; as a result, the total gramme in the State of Hesse contributed € 4.3 bn to this innegative fair values of all derivatives declined by € 0.4 bn to crease. Of the loans and advances to customers, commercial real € 9.8 bn. estate loans accounted for € 32.2 bn (1 January 2018: € 29.7 bn) and infrastructure loans for € 18.6 bn (1 January 2018: € 15.1 bn). Equity Of the loans and advances to banks amounting to € 11.2 bn The Helaba Group’s equity amounted to € 8.5 bn as at 31 Decem(1 January 2018: € 10.7 bn), which are financial assets measured ber 2018 (1 January 2018: € 8.0 bn). The increase is mainly the at amortised cost, € 5.8 bn (1 January 2018: € 5.5 bn) are refiresult of the € 354 m in Tier 1 registered bonds (AT 1 bonds) nancing funds made available to the Sparkassen in Hesse, raised in the fourth quarter of the year under review. For further Thuringia, North Rhine-Westphalia and Brandenburg. details, please refer to Notes (59). This figure was subject to a positive impact from the comprehensive income of € 200 m The cumulative loss allowances recognised in respect of finan(1 January 2018: € 275 m). Accumulated OCI for the Group cial assets measured at amortised cost amounted to € 299 m amounted to a loss of € 361 m (1 January 2018: cumulative net (1 January 2018: € 430 m). loss of € 282 m). Within this figure, a cumulative loss of € 444 m (1 January 2018: cumulative loss of € 449 m) is related to items Trading assets recognised at fair value amounted to € 17.0 bn at that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in future periods (i.e. the reporting date (1 January 2018: € 16.1 bn). While the portthey will not be recycled). This loss included remeasurements in folio of bonds and other fixed-income securities increased by connection with pension obligations. On a cumulative basis, € 1.2 bn to € 6.6 bn, the positive fair values of derivatives fell by these remeasurements amounted to a loss of € 440 m (1 Janu€ 0.3 bn to € 9.0 bn. ary 2018: loss of € 450 m) after deferred taxes. At 2.0 %, the discount rate was unchanged year on year. Within this figure, a cuOf the financial assets measured at fair value (not held for tradmulative loss of € 83 m (1 January 2018: cumulative loss of ing) amounting to € 27.4 bn (1 January 2018: € 28.0 bn), assets € 167 m) is related to items that will be reclassified to profit or of € 22.0 bn (1 January 2018: € 21.9 bn) were accounted for by loss in future periods. One of the factors contributing to this debonds and other fixed-income securities measured through cline was the cumulative gains and losses (after deferred taxes) other comprehensive income. Non-trading derivatives deon debt instruments measured at fair value through other comcreased by € 0.3 bn to € 2.0 bn, meaning that the positive fair prehensive income amounting to a gain of € 94 m (1 Januvalues of all derivatives declined by € 0.6 bn overall to € 11.7 bn. ary 2018: gain of € 157 m). Equity was negatively impacted by a loss of € 29 m after deferred taxes arising from the cross currency Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost amounted to basis spread in the measurement of derivatives, which had to be € 125.2 bn (1 January 2018: € 122.5 bn). Within this figure, recognised in accumulated OCI for the first time as part of the ­deposits and loans from banks rose by € 0.9 bn to € 32.1 bn, initial application of IFRS 9. Exchange rate factors resulted in an of which liabilities due to Sparkassen in Hesse, Thuringia, increase of € 8 m in the currency translation reserve for foreign 27 operations to € 35 m. An amount of € 90 m was distributed to the Please refer to the risk report and Note (79) in the Notes for inowners from consolidated net profit for 2017 based on their formation on the regulatory capital ratios. shareholdings and capital contributions. Comparison with prior-year forecasts As a consequence of the switch in the accounting standard for The following table shows a comparison between the actual valfinancial instruments to IFRS 9, equity on the opening stateues achieved in the year under review for the key performance ment of financial position as at 1 January 2018 declined by indicators used by Helaba and the original forecasts: € 36 m compared with the equivalent figure as at 31 December 2017. Please refer to Note (2) in the Notes for further details. Helaba has not made use of regulatory transitional provisions. 2017 forecast for 2018 2018 actual Net interest income Up by approx. 3 % year on year 0.3 % Loss allowances for loans and advances Expense of € 150 m € 45 m Net fee and commission income Up by approx. 4 % year on year – 1.4 % Net trading income Substantial decrease – 88.1 % Other net operating income € 255 m € 317 m Headcount (average for the year) Slight decrease + 0.1 % Personnel expenses On par with previous year + 1.4 % Non-personnel operating expenses (including depreciation, amortisation and write-downs) Up by 3 % year on year + 11.8 % General and administrative expenses Up by 1 % year on year + 6.8 % Profit before taxes Down by approx. 10 % year on year – 0.9 % Cost-income ratio Approximately 71 % 78.3 % Total assets Slightly above prior-year figure + 3.0 % Loans and receivables from customers (measured at amortised cost) Slightly above prior-year figure + 7.6 % Return on equity Approximately 5 % 5.4 % Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) 13.9 % 14.9 % Leverage ratio Approximately 5 % 5.1 % Short-term liquidity ratio (LCR) Approximately 135 % 126 % Mediumand long-term liquidity ratio (NSFR) Approximately 105 % 100 % Volume of new mediumand long-term business (excl. WIBank) € 17.9 bn € 19.0 bn 28 Group Management Report Financial Position and Financial Performance Helaba’s performance was largely in line with forecasts. The Personnel expenses were also slightly above what was expected main variances are described below. due to the headcount being somewhat higher than the budgeted figure. The anticipated rise in non-personnel operating Contrary to expectations, net interest income did not rise, owing expenses was much more pronounced due to higher project and to low average inventory positions and the unchanged interest IT expenditure. Factors contributing to this increase included rate. Within loss allowances for loans and advances, planned higher IT outlay and unscheduled consulting expenses in conadditions were offset by significantly more unplanned reversals, nection with strategic initiatives. as a result of which the loss allowances for loans and advances were much better overall than forecast. The year-on-year contraction in profit before taxes was, at around 1 %, less significant than projected. Even though genThe projected increase in net fee and commission income failed eral and administrative expenses were higher than the budget to materialise fully in the actual figure realised. A negative onefigure as a result of the effects described above, profit before off effect coupled with the disposal of a consolidated company taxes was greater than forecast, primarily as a consequence of had an adverse impact. the positive change in loss allowances for loans and advances. The anticipated drop in net trading income was more proThe differing changes in income and administrative expenses nounced than expected due to the widening of credit spreads. resulted in an actual CIR of 78.3 %, considerably higher than the In addition, the consolidation of internal forward exchange projection of 71 %. transactions between the trading book and banking book unexpectedly and negatively impacted earnings to the tune of € 22 m. The main contributor to the volume of new mediumand longThe corresponding positive impact from this consolidation was term business in excess of the budget was the high volume of recognised under gains or losses on hedge accounting and new business in real estate lending and corporate finance. other financial instruments (not held for trading) measured at fair value. Financial performance by segment Segment reporting reflects the structures introduced as of 2018. Better-than-budgeted operating income, coupled with certain The prior-year figures have been restated accordingly. The condisposals, meant that other net operating income surpassed tributions of the individual segments to the profit before taxes expectations by far. of € 443 m in 2018 (2017: € 447 m) were as follows: in € m 2018 20171) Real Estate 242 254 Corporates & Markets 119 261 Retail & Asset Management 205 220 WIBank 19 19 Other – 117 – 316 Consolidation / reconciliation – 25 9 Group 443 447 1) Prior-year figures restated: New segment structure and effects in accordance with the modified presentation of the income statement. 29 Real Estate segment Loss allowances for loans and advances at € 0 m improved subThe Real Estate Lending business line is reported in the Real stantially compared with the figure in the previous year (2017: Estate segment. Products related to financing major commer€ 68 m). A significant factor was the allowances for losses on cial projects and existing properties are Helaba’s particular loans and advances related to ship finance, which declined sigspeciality. nificantly year on year and were also lower than forecast. In real estate lending, the volume of new mediumand longNet fee and commission income declined slightly year on year term business increased by around 13 % year on year to € 9.8 bn to € 117 m. and therefore exceeded the budgeted level by some distance. Margins on new business were nearly constant compared with Net trading income from capital market operations declined the previous year. 2018 also saw a high level of early redempconsiderably, from € 222 m in 2017 to € 54 m in the year under tions, as a result of which the average customer volume declined review. This was due mainly to the cessation of certain market-­ slightly. related measurement effects on derivatives that had helped to boost income a year earlier. The widening of credit spreads also Net interest income fell by around 2 % to € 386 m year on year. gave rise to lower market measurements. Income from customer-­driven capital market operations was in line with The loss allowances amounted to € 14 m and were therefore projections. higher year on year. An anticipated increase in the budget to € 60 m in loss allowances for loans and advances did not occur. The rise in general and administrative expenses of approximately 4 % to € – 462 m is the result of general cost increases The 9 % rise in general and administrative expenses was in line and more project work in cash management and in capital marwith the budget and was mainly the result of higher internal cost ket operations. allocations. The profit before taxes for the segment amounted to € 119 m, Profit before taxes for the segment amounted to € 242 m, which significantly lower than the 2017 figure of € 261 m and 11 % equated to a decrease of 5 % compared with the figure for 2017 below expectations. This was largely the result of the substantial (€ 254 m). As such, the figure for profit was in line with expectadecline in net trading income. Corporate Finance earnings were tions. much higher year on year, profiting in particular from the improvement in loss allowances for loans and advances. Corporates & Markets segment The Corporates & Markets segment offers products aimed at Retail & Asset Management segment corporate customers, institutional customers as well as public The Retail & Asset Management segment offers retail banking, institutions and municipal customers. private banking and asset management products through the subsidiaries Frankfurter Sparkasse, Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft In Corporate Finance, the volume of new mediumand long-term and Helaba Invest as well as through Landesbausparkasse business with corporate clients was up by around 5 % on the ­Hessen-Thüringen. The Settlement/Custody Services business previous year to € 6.1 bn and therefore well above budget. In the complements the traditional asset management value chain by municipal lending business, growth in new business of € 0.9 bn providing a custodian bank function. The Real Estate Managewas much more modest than in the previous year. The volume ment business, including the real estate subsidiaries of the GWH of business in Sparkasse lending stood at € 0.8 bn, slightly under Group and Helicon KG , also forms part of this segment. the prior-year level. Net interest income in the segment amounted to € 268 m, marDespite pressure on margins, net interest income from the lendginally below the previous year’s figure. The fall in net interest ing business with these customer groups performed in a stable, income, achieved primarily through the retail business at Franksideways manner. Conversely, net interest income from capital furter Sparkasse, was considerably lower than anticipated. market operations fell by some € 20 m year on year. All told, net interest income in the segment stood at € 384 m, around 4 % down on the previous year but slightly above what was predicted. 30 Group Management Report Financial Position and Financial Performance At € 4 m, loss allowances for loans and advances in this segment Other segment were unchanged compared with a year earlier, and an anticiThe Other segment contains the contributions to income and pated budgetary increase in these allowances to € 18 m did not expenses that cannot be attributed to the operating segments. occur. In particular, these include the net income from centrally consolidated equity investments such as the OFB Group as well as Net fee and commission income for the segment declined the costs of the central units that cannot be allocated to the slightly year on year. In addition, net fee and commission income individual segments in line with the user-pays principle. The net from Helaba Invest’s asset management services rose slightly, income or expense from Treasury activities in the Asset/Liability while FBG accounted for less such income due to the disposal of Management business, from central own funds investing activLB (Swiss) Investment AG during the year. However, this disposal ities and from the centrally held liquidity securities are also recdid generate proceeds in other net operating income, which – for ognised under this segment. the segment as a whole – was up about 9 % on the previous year. GWH accounts for nearly 70 % of other net operating income in Despite the adverse effects of investment of own funds in special this segment. funds, the segment’s net interest income increased considerably year on year thanks to higher treasury shares. General and administrative expenses rose around 5 % for the segment as a whole, owing in part to initiatives launched by In 2018, loss allowances for loans and advances in this segment Helaba Invest and GWH to develop new products and sales included a reversal of € 50 m relating to a portfolio loan loss forms. allowance. In previous years, this item included additions for risks that could not yet be allocated to specific individual expoProfit before taxes in the Retail & Asset Management segment sures. This allowance was then allocated to individual exposures was below the prior-year level at € 205 m (2017: € 220 m), but and segments in 2018 or reversed. nevertheless significantly exceeded the budget. The gains or losses on hedge accounting and other financial WIBank segment instruments (not held for trading) measured at fair value in this Helaba performs public development functions for the State of segment increased from a net loss of € 97 m in the previous year Hesse through Wirtschaftsund Infrastrukturbank Hessen to a net gain of € 5 m in financial year 2018. The primary reason (WIBank). for this is the absence of the prior-year loss of € 60 m related to the liquidity component of foreign currencies (cross currency An increase in development business and the ongoing low basis spread) in the measurement of derivatives. With the first­interest-rate environment were key features of the year under time application of IFRS 9, these changes in value are recreview. The significant rise in new business resulted mainly from ognised as hedge costs in other comprehensive income (OCI). a new development product to replace or take over approximately € 4.9 bn in short-term public sector loans of municipal Other net operating income in this segment rose to € 71 m authorities in Hesse as part of the “Hessenkasse”. (2017: loss of € 78 m) and this was mainly down to a year-onyear increase in project business of the OFB subsidiaries. The Thanks to an increase in business volume in certain areas of substantial increase in other net operating income in the entire business, interest income of € 51 m was higher year on year segment is explained by the absence of one-off items that had (2017: € 48 m). Net fee and commission income, which depends had an adverse impact in the previous year (write-off of the largely on the service business, was on a par with the previous goodwill in relation to Frankfurter Sparkasse, impairment loss year. in respect of a project for the introduction of a new core banking system discontinued for capacity reasons). General and administrative expenses stood at € 72 m. The increase on the previous year’s expense (€ 69 m) was mainly down The loss for the segment amounted to € 117 m (2017: loss of to higher IT and personnel costs. € 316 m), a year-on-year change mainly caused by the absence of adverse one-off items. Profit before taxes in this segment was unchanged on the previous year at € 19 m and thus above budget. 31 Consolidation / reconciliation Effects arising from consolidation and intragroup adjustments between the segments are reported under consolidation/reconciliation. Effects that arise from the reconciliation between the segment figures and the consolidated income statement, in particular in relation to net interest income, are also reported under consolidation/reconciliation. The profit/loss before taxes under consolidation/reconciliation declined to a loss of € 25 m (2017: a profit of € 9 m). 32 Group Management Report Risk Report Risk Report capacity as determined in an analysis of the initial business policy position and an assessment of the associated primary risks defined in the risk inventory process, and is responsible for ensuring compliance with the risk strategy defined by means of The Board of Managing Directors is responsible for all of the the establishment of an efficient risk management process. The risks to which Helaba is exposed and for defining a risk strategy risk strategy covers all material business activities of the Helaba consistent with the business strategy. The risk strategy lays Group. The strategies, processes and procedures are impledown, in accordance with the requirements imposed by the law, mented at the subsidiary companies in accordance with their the Charter and the banking regulatory authorities, the princilegal and actual scope of influence. The subsidiary companies pal elements of the approach adopted to dealing with risk, the are also included in the scope of the controlling tools for the risk appetite, the objectives of risk containment and the meavarious risk types in line with their relative significance and the sures employed to achieve these objectives at the Helaba relevant legal options. Effective risk controlling throughout the Group. The risk strategy encompasses all the main business Group is thus assured. units in the Helaba Group and therefore also the Helaba Group itself within the meaning of the German Banking Act (KWG) and Protection of assets the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR ). Once adopted by Risks may be assumed only as permitted under the general risk the Board of Managing Directors, the risk strategy is presented strategy and the specific risk strategies and only in pursuit of to and discussed with the Supervisory Board and the Board of the strategic objectives of Helaba on the basis of the risk appePublic Owners. tite framework (RAF ), in particular in order to maintain Helaba’s long-term earnings power while protecting its assets as effecThe business strategy and risk strategy of the Helaba Group are tively as possible and accomplishing its mission. integrally linked to the business strategy and risk strategy of Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe Hessen-Thüringen. Protection of the Bank’s reputation Effective risk management and the avoidance of legal or reguThe principal objectives of the Helaba Group’s risk strategy are latory breaches that could damage its reputation are absolutely to maintain the organisation’s conservative risk profile and envital for the Bank if it is to preserve its positive image and sure that its solvency is assured at all times, that risk-bearing achieve the best possible rating. A corresponding control procapacity is always maintained and that all regulatory requirecess to assess reputation risks in new business has been implements are met. The risk management system accordingly plays mented. a central role in the management of the company. Clearly defined responsibilities Helaba has refined the risk management process over the years The managers of the various front office units are responsible to create a range of sophisticated tools for and an environment for ensuring that their unit achieves a reasonable balance beconducive to risk containment. The methods employed to identween risks incurred and earnings realised. The units exercising tify, quantify, contain and monitor risks and the systems required control must ensure that the maintenance of this balance is to implement them have undergone continuous development, monitored continuously and that the person with the relevant as have organisational provisions such as process and system authority is notified of any existing or potential discrepancies. documentation and guidelines detailing responsibilities. Segregation of functions (“three lines of defence”) The independence of risk controlling and risk containment must Principles be assured in order to maintain objectivity and transparency. Independent control processes are implemented wherever the Responsibility of executive management type and degree of risk so require. The responsibilities of the The Board of Managing Directors bears responsibility for all of organisational units for risk identification and containment, risk the risks to which Helaba is exposed, irrespective of how indiquantification, risk monitoring/ controlling and risk reporting vidual responsibilities are assigned, as part of its overall execfollow a “three lines of defence” policy. This governance policy utive management responsibility. The Board of Managing Direcsets out roles and responsibilities to ensure there is indepentors is also responsible for the implementation of the risk policy dent monitoring and internal auditing of the effectiveness of the throughout the Group. It defines the risk strategy and risk aprisk containment and monitoring functions that have been impetite simultaneously, with reference to Helaba’s risk-bearing plemented. At Helaba Bank, including LBS and WIBank, and in 33 the Group companies, the containment of risks in the first line Compliance with regulatory standards of defence is separated in terms of disciplinary and organisaThe implementation of regulatory requirements, which protional reporting lines from the independent monitoring of risks ceeds in close consultation with the banking regulator, also has in the second line of defence. a decisive influence on the risk strategy. Helaba’s regulatory capital backing and the determination of the regulatory capital Transparency are based on the provisions of the Capital Requirements ReguThe comprehensive and objective reporting and disclosure of lation (CRR ) and take account of the stipulations of the Superrisks is another important component of Helaba’s risk strategy visory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP). and is indispensable for the proper notification, by the Board of Managing Directors, of the corporate bodies, the banking reguRisk culture lator and the public at large. The risk culture at Helaba consists of the attitudes and conduct of Helaba’s employees in relation to risk awareness, risk appeCost efficiency tite and risk management. The risk culture at Helaba fosters an The cost efficiency of the units exercising control and, in particenvironment in which risks are identified and consciously hanular, of the systems used also has to be considered. The expendled to ensure that decision-making processes lead to results diture incurred in connection with risk control (and also risk that comply with the approved risk strategy requirements and containment) is reasonable given the pertinent regulatory rereflect Helaba’s risk appetite. Helaba’s risk culture therefore exquirements and the risks under consideration in each case. tends beyond the governance framework and the established controls. The refinement of the risk culture is an ongoing task Risk Appetite Framework for all employees and managers at Helaba. The elements of the Helaba defines the RAF as a holistic approach to risk containrisk culture include the corporate values adopted by the Board ment. Factors known as RAF indicators are identified and then of Managing Directors, which set out Helaba’s basic values and used to produce a complete description of the risk profile in guiding principles, the need-based management development material terms. These RAF indicators, some of which span mulprogramme, the remuneration system, with its focus on risk tiple risk types and some of which are specific to a particular risk awareness, and the open communications policy, all of which type, focus on regulatory and economic capital adequacy, the have been developed to help ensure relevant national and inappropriateness of liquidity levels and the sustainability of the ternational standards are respected. organisation’s earning power. For each RAF indicator, the Board of Managing Directors specifies threshold values for risk appeAuditing tite, risk tolerance and – where relevant – risk capacity; these The Internal Audit function in principle audits all of the activities values are used to convert the main risk strategy objectives into and processes involved in the operating and business proceoperational details as part of the planning. Risk appetite refers dures taking account of the scale and risk content of the activito the level of risk Helaba is prepared to assume to attain its ties and processes. This helps to promote compliance with the strategic objectives. Risk tolerance indicates the level of variprocedures defined. Assessments of the efficacy and adequacy ance from the risk appetite that Helaba is still prepared to tolerof the internal control system facilitate the ongoing developate in an unfavourable environment to reach its strategic objecment and improvement of the risk management processes. tives. On the basis of regulatory limits (where available), risk capacity specifies the maximum level of risk that Helaba can take on. Risk-bearing capacity / ICAAP Helaba’s procedures for quantifying and containing risks ensure that the primary risks always fall within the risk-taking potential and that its risk-bearing capacity is thus assured. Helaba’s risk-bearing capacity is one of the factors considered in defining its risk strategy. 34 Group Management Report Risk Report Risk Classification from the insufficient liquidity of assets, with the consequence that positions can be closed out only, if at all, at a disproporRisk types tionately high cost. The liquidity risks associated with transThe risk types of relevance to Helaba result directly from its busiactions not included in the statement of financial position ness activities. The structured risk inventory process, which is lead to short-term and/or structural liquidity risks depending implemented annually and, where necessary, in response to on their precise nature. relevant developments, examines which risks have the potential ■■ The operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting to damage Helaba’s financial position (including capital refrom inadequate or failed internal processes, people and syssources), financial performance or liquidity position to a material tems or from external events. Compliance, business continudegree. The following primary risk types have been identified ity management (BCM ), human resources and tax matters for the Helaba Group and Helaba Bank (real estate risk ­excepted). that are of relevance to operational risk are considered under this risk type as well. ■■ The default risk or credit risk is defined as the potential economic loss that can arise as a result of non-payment by or a Operational risk also includes the following risks: deterioration in the creditworthiness of borrowers, issuers, ■■ Legal risk is defined as the risk of loss for the Bank resultcounterparties or equity investments and as a result of reing from infringements of legal provisions that have the strictions on cross-border payment transactions or perforpotential to result in (i) legal proceedings or (ii) internal mance (country risk). actions to avert such losses. Breaches of contract relating ■■ The potential economic loss is determined using internal to matters of creditworthiness (for example in the case of or external credit assessments and risk parameters asloan contracts) do not fall within this definition. sessed by Helaba itself or set out in regulatory specifica■■ Conduct risk is defined as the current or potential risk of tions. loss for an institution as a result of an inappropriate offer ■■ The default risk does not include credit standing risks, of financial (banking) services, including cases of intenwhich are mapped in the market risk under the residual tional or negligent misconduct. risk and the incremental risk. ■■ There are two distinct aspects to model risk: ■■ The equity risk – the potential economic loss as a result of I. One involves the risk of loss associated with the develnon-payment by or a deterioration in the creditworthiness opment, implementation or inappropriate use of a difof an equity investment – that is not managed at the level ferent model (a model of a type other than that referred of the individual risk types also forms part of the default to in II) by Helaba for the purposes of decision making. risk. Such developments can lead to a decline in the value This aspect of model risk is factored into operational of the holding, to the reduction or cancellation of dividend risk. payments, to loss transfers and to contribution, margin call II. The other aspect of model risk involves the risk of own and liability obligations. funds requirements being underestimated as a result of the use of models to quantify risks. This is in part a ■■ The market risk is the potential economic loss as a result of reflection of the fact that a model can never entirely disadvantageous movements in the market value of expocapture reality. This aspect of model risk is mapped in sures due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, share the Helaba Group by means of a risk exposure prices and commodity prices and their volatility. In this con­surcharge for the primary risk types in economic risk text changes in interest rate levels in one market segment containment. lead to general interest rate risks, specific interest rate ■■ The information technology risk (IT risk) is defined as the changes (for example on the part of an issuer) lead to residual risk of loss resulting from the operation and development risks and changes in the price of securities subject to a credit of IT systems (for example technical implementation of rating as a result of rating changes (including default) lead to functional requirements and technical design activities for incremental risks. the provision, support and development of software and ■■ The liquidity and funding risk is broken down into three cathardware). egories. The short-term liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to meet payment obligations as they fall due. Structural liquidity risks result from imbalances in the mediumand long-term liquidity structure and a negative change in the organisation’s own funding curve. Market liquidity risks result 35 ■■ The information security risk relates to the risk of loss Risk Concentrations caused by the impairment of Helaba’s information assets at a technical, process, organisational or personnel level Risk concentrations can occur both within a single risk type and both internally and externally (cyber crime, for example). across different risk types. The areas responsible for risk moniThe risk of loss in the case of both the IT risk and the infortoring are charged with managing – that is to say, identifying, mation security risk relates to situations in which the availquantifying, containing and monitoring – risk concentrations ability, confidentiality or integrity of data is compromised and reporting on identified risk concentrations at Helaba in line or in which unforeseen additional expenditure is incurred with their respective accountability for major risk types, for data processing. risk-bearing capacity and stress tests. ■■ Outsourcing risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from contract, supplier and performance risks and risks Both concentrations within a risk type (intraconcentrations) and associated with a failure to comply with regulatory requireconcentrations across risk types (interconcentrations) are anaments that can arise when procuring services externally. lysed and integrated into the risk management reporting and ■■ Project risk involves the risk of negative consequences for decision-making processes. No risk-mitigating diversification project objectives in the context of scheduling, financial effects between the risk types are applied in the risk-bearing and human resources matters. capacity calculation. The design of the extreme market dislocation stress scenarios across all risk types, moreover, implicitly ■■ The business risk is the potential economic loss attributable takes account of the main risk concentrations between risk types to possible changes in customer behaviour, in competitive of significance for Helaba. conditions in the market or in general economic conditions. Damage to Helaba’s reputation could also trigger a change in customer behaviour. Risk Management Process ■■ The reputation risk involves the possibility of a deterioration in Helaba’s public reputation in respect of its competence, Risk management at Helaba comprises four elements that are integrity and trustworthiness as a result of perceptions of the best understood as consecutive phases in a single continuous individuals having a business or other relationship with the process. Bank. The material consequences of reputation risks impact on the business and liquidity risk. 1. Risk identification Reputation risk is consequently assigned to these risk types The risks affecting Helaba and the companies included in risk in the risk type system. Reputation risk encompasses repumanagement at Group level are identified continuously as an tation loss caused by direct actions as well as by the effects integral part of daily operations. Once identified, each risk is of operational losses. The reputation risk profile is mapped assigned to the relevant risk type. Comprehensive identification entirely under operational risk. and incorporation into existing risk measurement systems and ■■ Real estate risk comprises the real estate portfolio risk – the the associated risk monitoring processes are particularly impotential economic loss from fluctuations in the value of an portant in connection with the introduction of new products and entity’s own real estate – and the real estate project managecomplex transactions. The central monitoring units are involved ment risk associated with project development business. in the authorisation of new products as part of the New Product Risks associated with the provision of equity and loan capital Process for lending business and trading business. The risk infor a project are excluded from this risk type, as are risks asventory process to be completed for the Helaba Group annually sociated with real estate finance. and on an ad hoc basis also helps to identify previously unknown risks and ensure that any of material significance are incorporated into the risk management process. 36 Group Management Report Risk Report 2. Risk quantification Risk Management Structure Effective mapping of individual transactions and risk parameters in the risk measuring systems enables qualitatively and quanEntities involved titatively robust risk measurement and assessment for the varThe Helaba Board of Managing Directors is responsible for all of ious risk types. A variety of models, methods and processes are the risks to which the Bank is exposed and for implementing the used for this purpose. Helaba applies corresponding premiums risk policy throughout the Group. The Board of Managing Direcand discounts to cover the model risk that results from the use tors has also established a Risk Committee to implement and of models and is confirmed in the course of validations. monitor Helaba’s risk strategy, first and foremost, and to aggregate all of the risks – that is to say, the default risks, market price 3. Risk containment and liquidity risks, operational risks, business risks and real The information obtained in the risk identification and quantiestate risks – assumed across the Bank and evaluate their comfication phases provides the basis for risk containment by the bined implications. The Risk Committee is charged with identilocal management units. Risk management is the entirety of the fying risks within the Helaba Group at the earliest possible measures aimed at incurring, reducing, limiting, avoiding or stage, designing and monitoring the calculation of risk-bearing transferring risks within the framework of the RAF thresholds capacity and deriving measures to avoid risk and generate conand the limits and additional management variables for default tainment mechanisms for risk management. It also adopts the risk defined by the Board of Managing Directors. containment and quantification methods employed by the various units and assesses the appropriateness of the tools applied 4. Risk monitoring / controlling and reporting in light of the extent of the risk. Independent central risk monitoring of the risk types default risk (including equity risk), market risk, liquidity risk, operational The Risk Committee is complemented by the Asset/ Liability risk, real estate risk and business risk is performed by the Risk Management Committee and the Credit Committee of the Board Controlling unit. The responsibilities of the Risk Controlling unit of Managing Directors (VSKA ). The Asset/Liability Management in this regard include the specification of appropriate methods, Committee has responsibility for monitoring market risks, intheir implementation and the operation of the associated modcluding the associated limit utilisation, and containing the straels. A comprehensive and objective reporting system keeps the tegic market risk portfolio and the portfolio of non-interest-­ relevant people within the organisation apprised of the existing bearing liabilities. The Credit Committee of the Board of risks as part of an independent risk controlling structure. The Managing Directors is responsible for credit and settlement methods of the preceding process phases and the quality of the risks associated with counterparties as well as syndication risks, data used are also reviewed in this phase and plausibility checks placement risks and country risks. are carried out on the results. Appointments to the committees and the committees’ duties, jurisdiction and responsibilities are governed in separate rules of procedure approved by the Board of Managing Directors. The organisational guidelines specify that the approval of the entire Board of Managing Directors or of the Supervisory Board or one of its committees must be obtained for decisions on matters of particular significance such as acquiring, changing or disposing of equity investments, granting loans above a certain threshold and defining the cumulative limit for market risks. The Bank’s Charter, moreover, requires that any decision to take on or make changes to strategic equity investments involving a stake in excess of 25 % also be approved by the Board of Public Owners. 37 Risk management at Group companies lines from the independent monitoring of risks in the second Companies belonging to the Group are incorporated into risk line of defence. The three lines of defence policy is implemented management activities at Group level by taking account of the as follows at Helaba Bank: risks established in the course of the annual or, where applicable, an ad hoc risk inventory. The risk inventory process identiFirst line of defence (LoD 1) fies risks at the level of Helaba’s direct equity investments, with For the relevant value creation processes, the profit-and-loss each of these Group companies measuring the cumulative risk and risk responsibility lies with the front-office units (lending across its own organisation including its own equity investand trading units). These units are responsible for containing ments. The starting point for determining inclusion is all direct the default, market, liquidity and real estate risks. Each unit genequity investments of Helaba Bank under commercial law plus erally acts as a first line of defence for certain non-financial risks, special purpose entities and special funds. The regular risk inespecially operational risk. ventory covers the companies belonging to the Group for which there exists a material legal or economic reason for inclusion. Second line of defence (LoD 2) The list of companies to be included is drawn up with reference The independent monitoring, risk control and risk reporting to a catalogue of criteria. Companies belonging to the Group functions are covered by units not directly involved in the value that are not included in the risk inventory are considered chain, specifically the Risk Controlling and Credit Risk Managethrough the mechanism of the residual equity risk. ment units. The outcome of the materiality assessment conducted as part Third line of defence (LoD 3) of the risk inventory process is used to determine which Group The Internal Audit department carries out audits on a risk-­ companies are included in risk management at Group level with oriented basis and completely independently of the value crewhich risk types and which Group companies are considered ation processes; these audits review the first two lines of deonly through the mechanism of the residual equity risk. Helaba fence to ensure they are fully functioning (effective) and assess (with WIBank and LBS) and Frankfurter Sparkasse were included compliance with the risk containment processes specified by the in their entirety in risk management at the level of individual Board of Managing Directors, taking into account regulatory risks in 2018. Other companies belonging to the Group are inrequirements. Internal Audit monitors the implementation of cluded in risk management at the level of individual risks in line measures in response to external and internal audit findings, with their primary risk types. including measures that are overdue in terms of the deadline set by audit findings. Internal Audit reports directly to Helaba’s Companies belonging to the Group must in addition establish full Board of Managing Directors and also on a regular basis to an appropriate risk management process for any of their own the Supervisory Board and its Audit Committee. risks that are assigned to the risk type at Group level. The officers responsible for the relevant risk types and methods stipuTo enable the aforementioned organisational units at Helaba to late precisely how risks are to be included. The mode of inclucarry out their assigned responsibilities, the other organisasion in the methods used in the risk management process varies tional units must offer appropriate support by providing the from risk type to risk type. necessary information and assistance. Principal risk monitoring areas The responsibilities of the organisational units follow a “three lines of defence” policy. This governance policy sets out roles and responsibilities to ensure there is independent monitoring and internal auditing of the effectiveness of the risk containment and monitoring functions that have been implemented. At Helaba Bank, including LBS and WIBank, and in the Group companies, the containment of risks in the first line of defence is separated in terms of disciplinary and organisational reporting 38 Group Management Report Risk Report Risk types Risk containing units Risk monitoring units Reviewing unit (LoD 1) (LoD 2) (LoD 3) Default risk Front office units (lending units, Risk Controlling (combined bank, portfolio level) Internal Audit including equity risk Capital Markets, Asset / Liability Group Strategy and Central Staff Division Management: Municipal Loans) (equity risk) Credit Risk Management (individual exposure level and individual portfolio level) Market risk Capital Markets, Asset / Liability Risk Controlling Management Capital Markets (money Risk Controlling market trading), Asset / Liability Liquidity and funding risk Management Operational risk All units Risk Controlling together with specialist functions1) in the following units: Process Management and Information Security (Corporate Business Continuity Management, IT Risk Management, Information Security Management, Corporate Sourcing Management, Project Portfolio Management), Legal Services, Compliance, Human Resources, Accounting and Taxes Business risk Front office units Risk Controlling Real estate risk Real Estate Management Risk Controlling Tasks across all risk types – Risk Controlling (including calculation of potential risk exposures, model governance) Group Controlling (including risk-bearing capacity calculation, capital planning) 1) The specialist functions are responsible alongside the Risk Controlling unit for relevant risks (as set out in the risk type breakdown) that are subsumed under ­operational risk and described in detail in the specific risk strategy for operational risk. The independent management of risk within LBS , WIBank and particular attention to the assessment of the risk situation, the the Group companies is generally structured in the same way as adequacy of processing and the effectiveness of the internal conthat at Helaba Bank in terms of the three lines of defence printrol system. ciple. Regardless of the overall structure, there may, however, be specific arrangements in place. The relevant units at Helaba The scope and result of each audit are documented in accordance Bank are responsible for the integration of activities into the risk with uniform standards. Informative audit reports are supplied containment and risk monitoring systems of the Helaba Group. to the Board of Managing Directors and the people responsible LBS and WIBank must also directly apply the requirements apfor the units audited. Internal Audit reports to the Supervisory plicable to Helaba Bank. Board on findings of particular significance every quarter. The Group Controlling unit is responsible for carrying out the Compliance calculation of risk-bearing capacity across risk types. The Bank established a new Compliance unit bringing together the existing functions of the departments Compliance Capital Internal Audit Markets, Compliance Money Laundering and Fraud Prevention The Internal Audit function, which reports directly to the Board and Compliance M aRisk (in accordance with the German Miniof Managing Directors, examines and assesses the activities and mum Requirements for Risk Management [AT 4.4.2 M aRisk]) on processes of the Bank and of subsidiary companies selected on 1 July 2018. The Compliance M aRisk department was estabthe basis of risk considerations without need of further instruclished as an independent department on 1 July 2018. tion. It plans and conducts its audits with risk in mind, paying 39 The Compliance Capital Markets department advises the operInformation Security Management ating units and monitors and evaluates the principles, processes The Information Security Management function is responsible and practices applied against various criteria including, in parfor ensuring the proper control, coordination and development ticular, the requirements of the German Securities Trading Act of information security management in line with the Bank’s (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – W pHG ), German Investment Serbusiness strategy, IT strategy and risk management strategy. It vices Conduct of Business and Organisation Regulation (Wertidentifies and analyses the information security (IS) risks to this papierdienstleistungs-Verhaltensund Organisationsverordend using an information security management system (ISMS) nung – W pDVerOV ) and German W pHG Employee Notification and develops relevant measures and checks for sustainable risk Regulation (W pHG -Mitarbeiteranzeigeverordnung – W pHGreduction and risk monitoring. The Information Security ManM aAnzV), statements of the German Federal Financial Superviagement function also continuously refines the processes for sory Authority (BaFin) and pertinent statements of the European ensuring that any necessary security requirements arising in Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA ). It also evaluates inconnection with relevant laws and regulations (data protection herent risks and checks compliance with the relevant regulatory legislation (German Federal Data Protection Act – BDSG , EU requirements and performs regular risk-oriented monitoring General Data Protection Regulation – GDPR ), German IT Security activities using a monitoring plan based on a prior risk analysis, Act, German Minimum Requirements for the Security of Internet paying particular attention in this regard to the rules prohibiting Payments – MaSI , M aRisk, German Supervisory Requirements insider dealing and market manipulation, and identifies and for IT in Financial Institutions – BAIT, etc.) are determined and regulates conflicts of interest throughout the Group that pose a specified, that information protection classifications and infrapotential risk. structures are analysed regularly and that technical and organisational measures appropriate for this purpose are coordinated The Compliance Money Laundering and Fraud Prevention deto make certain that a proper level of security is maintained at partment, acting in its capacity as the central authority for the the Bank. purposes of Section 25h KWG , develops internal principles and adequate transactionand customer-related safeguards and The Data Protection Officer reports to and advises the Board of checks to prevent money laundering, the funding of terrorism Managing Directors and all organisational units and employees and other criminal acts. The precautionary organisational meawith regard to data protection requirements. He or she is resures to be implemented are based in part on the Group risk sponsible for monitoring the implementation of and compliance analysis (money laundering, terrorism financing and fraud prewith the requirements of data protection law and for relevant vention) and also in part on the Group Policy. This Group Policy employee training and measures to raise awareness of data prosets out the Group’s general ground rules, which reflect the tection issues among employees. Helaba maintains a record of pertinent national and international regulatory requirements. processing activities (Art. 30 GDPR ) covering procedures that Monitoring software keeps business relationships under coninvolve the processing of personal data. This record provides the stant surveillance. The Compliance Money Laundering and Fraud basis for ensuring that the processing of personal data complies Prevention department is also responsible for the implementawith the data protection regulations. Helaba has developed an tion of the legal requirements created by the Agreement information security management system (ISMS) aligned with ­between the United States of America and the Federal Republic the ISO 27001 standard to ensure the availability, confidentialof Germany to Improve International Tax Compliance (FATCA ) ity and integrity of data (Art. 5 and Art. 32 GDPR ) and to assess and the international Automatic Exchange of Information (AEOI) the resilience (maintenance of operability) of data processing process. systems. The Compliance M aRisk department identifies material legal These independent functions report directly to the Board of provisions and regulations and promotes the adoption of effecManaging Directors. The internal control structures and procetive procedures to ensure that they are observed. It also condures in place to contain and monitor the specified risks are thus ducts risk-based checks of its own, regularly reviewing and asadequate – in terms of both structural and procedural organisasessing the adequacy and efficacy of the business processes and tion – and effective as required by the applicable regulatory practices associated with ensuring that material legal provisions provisions. and regulations are observed within the Bank. 40 Group Management Report Risk Report Risk-Bearing Capacity / ICAAP margin, underlining Helaba’s conservative risk profile. Helaba had a capital buffer of € 4.6 bn in respect of its economic risk Helaba uses its established procedures for quantifying and conexposures as at the reporting date. taining risks to ensure that all primary risks within the Helaba Group are always covered by risk cover pools and that its Helaba regularly examines the effects of historical and hyporisk-bearing capacity is thus assured. thetical stress scenarios on risk-bearing capacity as well as analysing risk-bearing capacity for given reference dates. These Against the backdrop of the consultation on ICA AP guidelines scenarios comprise a macroeconomic stress scenario and a being conducted by European banking supervisors, Helaba carscenario involving exceptional market dislocation based on the ried out fundamental further development in 2017 of its most extreme changes in parameters observed over the historrisk-bearing capacity calculation. The previous calculation apical time frame (usually observed market dislocation occurring proaches determined at national level were replaced by the two in a global financial crisis). ICA AP perspectives as specified in the guidelines. The changeover to the new system in operational risk reporting took effect An analysis using the internal normative perspective is confrom financial year 2018. ducted quarterly to supplement the internal economic perspective, which is the lead approach for ensuring Pillar II risk-bearing Helaba’s principal risk-bearing capacity approach corresponds capacity. The internal normative perspective examines how the conceptually to the regulatory requirement that institutions’ primary Pillar II risks affect the regulatory ratios in balance sheet ICA AP apply an internal economic perspective (meaning that terms and the internal objectives for capital ratios in the context when determining risk-bearing capacity, all risks that could of the risk appetite framework for the institution as a going conjeopardise Helaba’s future prospects, from an internal economic cern. This analysis is conducted using various macroeconomic perspective, are considered). The economic limitation and conscenarios. Pillar II risks affect regulatory capital via both the tainment of risks is also based on ensuring risk-bearing capacincome statement (with an impact on results) and the other ity in accordance with this internal economic perspective. The comprehensive income item (with no impact on results), risk tolerance and risk appetite related to the risk exposures in whereas the Pillar I risk quantification feeds into changes to riskthis perspective are specified in the risk appetite framework. weighted assets (RWA ). Risk-bearing capacity is determined on the basis of a time frame The internal normative perspective is intended to ensure conof one year in the internal economic perspective and both risk tinuous compliance with the regulatory requirements and the exposures and risk cover pools are designed and quantified for internal objectives stemming from the risk strategy and the risk this period. appetite framework. The capital ratios achieved under the simulated scenarios exceed the regulatory minimum requirements The economic risk cover pools are calculated on the basis of own by a significant margin as well as the risk tolerance defined in funds determined in accordance with IFRS financial reporting the risk appetite framework. requirements, adjusted for economic correction factors. These factors ensure a loss absorption capacity comparable with regHelaba additionally conducts three inverse stress tests to invesulatory CET 1 capital. tigate what nature of event could jeopardise its continued existence. The associated scenarios, “minimum capital requireIn terms of risk, risk exposures for default risk, market risk, opments not met” and “illiquid”, examine the implications of a erational risk, business and real estate risk are included in the variety of economic developments that could result in Helaba analysis for the internal economic perspective with a confidence being unable to comply with the minimum capital requirements level of 99.9 %. This provides verification that the economic risk specified by the regulator or consuming its liquidity reserves. cover assets pool is sufficient to enable the institution to sustain A reverse stress scenario is used in the internal economic perits existence out of its own resources – with no recourse to exspective to analyse what events beyond the extreme market ternal funds – even in the event of exceptional and heavy losses dislocation scenario would need to materialise to place the being incurred. risk-bearing capacity of the Helaba Group in jeopardy. There is currently no indication of any of the scenarios described above The risk-bearing capacity assessment covering all risk types becoming a reality. reveals that the existing risk cover pools at the end of 2018 once again exceeded the quantified risk exposures by a substantial 41 Other deposit security mechanisms 2018 (31 December 2017: € 518 m). The total contributions paid There are other deposit security mechanisms in addition to the in cash as at the same date amounted to € 475 m (31 Decemrisk cover pool. Helaba is a member of the Reserve Fund of the ber 2017: € 442 m). Landesbanken and Girozentralen and is thus included in the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe’s protection scheme, which comThe Sparkassenund Giroverband Hessen-Thüringen has underprises the eleven regional Sparkasse support funds, the aforetaken to make up the shortfall between the amount actually paid mentioned reserve fund and the deposit security reserve fund in and the full amount should the fund be required before such of the Landesbausparkassen. time as the full amount has been contributed. The most notable features of this protection scheme are the way Rheinischer Sparkassenund Giroverband (R SGV ) and that it safeguards the viability of the affiliated institutions, es­Spar­kassenverband Westfalen-Lippe (SV WL ) have each also pecially their liquidity and solvency, its risk monitoring system unilaterally set up an additional regional reserve fund for for the early detection of specific risk profiles and its use of a Helaba. method based on risk parameters defined by the supervisory authorities to calculate the amounts to be paid into the protecDevelopment institution WIBank, which is organised as a detion scheme by the various institutions. The legally dependent pendent institution within Helaba, enjoys the direct statutory Landesbausparkasse Hessen-Thüringen, the subsidiary Frankguarantee of the State of Hesse as regulated by law and as perfurter Sparkasse, and Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Deutschmitted under EU law on state aid. land) AG , which is a subsidiary of Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG (which in turn is a subsidiary of Helaba), are also directly integrated into this protection scheme. Default Risk The Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe scheme includes a deposit guarThe lending business is one of Helaba’s core activities and the antee scheme to protect qualifying deposits up to a value acceptance, control and containment of default risks accordingly of € 100,000 per customer as well as safeguarding the viability constitutes one of its core competencies. Events in the market of the affiliated institutions themselves. The deposits thus and developments in the regulatory environment for banks are ­protected at the Helaba Group amount to € 16.0 bn in total together generating a continuous stream of new challenges for (31 December 2017: € 15.6 bn). The German Federal Financial internal default risk management, making rigorous examination Supervisory Authority (BaFin) has recognised the Sparkassen-­ of the existing procedures absolutely essential. Finanzgruppe’s institutional protection scheme as a deposit guarantee scheme for the purposes of the German Deposit GuarGuiding these steps is a comprehensive and universal risk stratantee Act. egy derived from the business strategy. The specific risk strategy for default risks defines the risk propensity, differentiated by Helaba and Frankfurter Sparkasse are also affiliated to the product, customer segment and risk type, for every business ­Reserve Fund of the Sparkassenund Giroverband Hessen-­ segment. It is reviewed annually. Thüringen under the terms of their Charters. The reserve fund provides further protection in the event of a default in addition Basel III / CRR to the nationwide Joint Liability Scheme. It covers the liabilities Helaba applies the IRBA . The corresponding regulatory requireof Helaba and Frankfurter Sparkasse to customers, including ments as set out in Basel III /CCR are implemented in Helaba’s banks, insurance companies and other institutional investors, procedures and systems with the internal rating methods (deand their securitised liabilities. Liabilities that serve or have fault rating) for the lending portfolio, the Collateral Management served at the institutions as components of own funds pursuant System, the credit loss database, which is used to record and to Section 10 KWG , such as asset contributions of dormant analyse the default portfolio and the specific loan loss allowshareholders, liabilities under profit participation rights and ances, and a regulatory calculation module. subordinated liabilities, are not covered irrespective of their remaining term. The total volume of the fund is equal to 0.5 % of the affiliated institutions’ total risk exposure amount as defined by article 92(3) CRR and stood at € 555 m at the end of 42 Group Management Report Risk Report Risk monitoring using the global limit system Helaba Asset Services) of € 182.3 bn as at 31 December 2018 Helaba employs a global limit system that records counterparty-­ (31 December 2017: € 175.8 bn) broken down by portfolios. The specific default risks promptly in a structured and transparent total volume of lending is the risk exposure value calculated in manner. The system uses counterparty limits based on a comaccordance with the legal provisions applicable to large expobination of the creditworthiness (rating) of counterparties and sures before applying the exemptions in relation to calculating the Bank’s risk-bearing capacity. utilisation of the large exposure limit and before applying credit mitigation techniques. Cumulative limits for each borrower are recorded in the global limit system at Group level to help monitor, limit and contain Total volume of lending by portfolio default risks. All types of loans in accordance with Articles 389 (narrow Group companies) et seq. of the CRR made to borrowers in both trading and bankChart 1 in € bn ing book activities are counted against these cumulative limits. Advance payment and settlement risks attributable to foreign 1.4 7.3 4.9 currency and securities transactions, current account intraday 7.9 40.4 risks, creditor risks associated with direct debits and what are referred to as “additional risks from constructs” are approved as commercial risks and counted against separate limits. 19.9 The approved total limits are allocated to individual borrowers, product categories and the operating divisions concerned in accordance with the application for approval. The utilisation of the individual limits is monitored on a daily basis and appropriate measures are initiated immediately if any limit is exceeded. 29.4 37.8 Swaps, forward transactions and options are counted towards the total limit at their credit equivalent amounts based on an internal add-on method. The Risk Controlling unit validates and, where appropriate, adjusts the add-ons once a year or on an ad 33.3 hoc basis (for example in the event of market turmoil). All other Real Estate Project Finance trading book positions (for example money market trading and Financial Institutions Asset-Backed Finance securities) are valued at market prices. Public Authorities Transport and Equipment Corporate Customers Retail Customers Creditor risks associated with direct debits and secondary risks resulting from leasing commitments (lessees) or guarantees WIBank received are also recorded for the relevant entity bearing the economic risk as indirect commercial risks. Chart 1 shows the total volume of lending (comprising drawThe real estate, financial institutions (especially the banking downs and unutilised lending commitments) in the narrow sector) and public sector portfolios accounted for most of Group companies (Helaba Bank plus subsidiaries Frankfurter Helaba’s lending activities as at 31 December 2018. Sparkasse, Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft [Schweiz] AG and 43 The summary below provides an overview of the regional breakdown of the total lending volume by borrower’s country of ­domicile. Share in % Region 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Germany 61.25 61.50 Western Europe 19.00 19.16 Scandinavia 3.25 2.96 Rest of Europe 3.36 3.57 Europe 86.86 87.19 North America 11.86 11.66 Rest of the world 1.28 1.16 The table shows that Germany and selected other countries in western Europe continue to account for most of the total lending volume. The United Kingdom accounted for 4.2 % (31 December 2017: 4.4 %). Creditworthiness / risk appraisal The Bank employs 15 rating systems developed together with DSGV or other Landesbanken and two rating systems developed internally. Based on statistical models, these systems classify loan exposures, irrespective of the customer or object group, by the fixed probability of default (PD) using a 25-point cardinal default rating scale. 44 Group Management Report Risk Report Chart 2 shows the total volume of lending in the narrow Group companies (Helaba Bank plus subsidiaries Frankfurter ­Sparkasse, Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG and Helaba Asset Services) of € 182.3 bn (31 December 2017: € 175.8 bn) broken down by default rating category. Total volume of lending by default rating category (narrow Group companies) Chart 2 in € bn 50 40 30 20 10 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 n. a. Collateral Country risks Like the creditworthiness of borrowers or counterparties, the Helaba has broadened its definition of country risk (transfer and collateral arrangements (or general credit risk reduction techconversion risk) to include the risk of sovereign default. Country niques) available are of major importance when determining the risk exposure thus now also includes individual transactions enextent of default risks. Collateral is measured in accordance with tered into by a Helaba location with a borrower in the same counthe Bank’s lending principles. The measurement is adjusted as try in local currency (local transactions). part of the regular or ad hoc monitoring process if there are any changes in factors relevant for measurement purposes. Helaba has a uniform methodology for the internal measurement and allocation of country risks based on the entity bearing the Helaba’s Collateral Management System meets the necessary economic risk. The risk initially assigned to the borrower’s counconditions to allow full advantage to be taken of the comprehentry of domicile in accordance with the strict domicile principle is sive opportunities for recognising credit risk reduction techaccordingly transferred, subject to certain conditions, to the niques that enhance shareholders’ equity in accordance with the country of domicile of the parent company of the Group, the lesCRR . It provides the data resources required to verify and dissee or, in the case of cash flow structures and when collateral is tribute the assets eligible as collateral to the risk exposures involved, to the country of the entity bearing the economic risk. secured. The country risk system is the central tool for the comprehensive, timely and transparent risk-oriented recording, monitoring and containment of country risks. All of Helaba’s lending and trading units, including subsidiaries Frankfurter Sparkasse, Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG and Helaba Asset Services, are 45 involved in country risk containment. The total country risk, exCredit risk processes and organisation cluding the countries of the euro zone, may not exceed six times The M aRisk contain differentiated rules in respect of the organthe liable capital of the Helaba Group of institutions. As at 31 Deisation of lending business, of lending processes and of the cember 2018, utilisation was less than four times the liable design of the methods used to identify, quantify, contain and ­capital. monitor risks in lending business. The Credit Committee of the Board of Managing Directors defines The Board of Managing Directors has defined the main requirecountry limits for all countries apart from Germany. The overall ments of business policy regarding structural and procedural limit assigned to a country is subdivided into a lending limit and organisation in lending business in separate organisational a trading limit. The country risks for long-term transactions are guidelines for lending business. also subject to additional sub-limits. Approval procedure The internal rating method for country and transfer risks proThe approval procedure followed by the Bank ensures that no vides 25 different country rating categories based on the uniform credit risks are entered into without prior approval. The rules of master scale used throughout the Bank. All classifications are procedure for the Board of Managing Directors state that loans established at least annually by the Economics and Research above a certain value require the approval of the Supervisory department and ultimately defined by the Credit Risk ManageBoard Risk and Credit Committee. Commitments in amounts ment unit. The Banks and International Business unit, which below this value are approved at different authorising levels performs the central coordination function for country limit re(Board of Managing Directors, Credit Committee of the Board of quests, presents a country limit proposal on this basis factoring Managing Directors, individual members of the Board of Manin bank-specific considerations and relevant factors relating to aging Directors, staff members) depending on the amounts business policy and risk methodology and the Credit Committee involved. Loans are approved on the basis of detailed risk asof the Board of Managing Directors then sets the limits for the sessments. In accordance with the M aRisk, the loan documents individual countries based on this proposal. in what is designated risk-relevant business always comprise two independent opinions, one from the relevant front office The Bank has no defined country limits for countries falling into unit and one from the relevant back office unit. The representathe weakest rating categories (22-24). tive of the relevant back office unit also always has a right of veto in this connection as part of an escalation process. The ultimate The transfer, conversion and sovereign default risks from Helaba decision rests with the entire Board of Managing Directors. loans issued by the narrow Group companies to borrowers based outside Germany amounted to € 67.4 bn (31 December 2017: The procedure also takes account of the concentration limits € 46.0 bn excluding local transactions), most of which was acderived from the Bank’s risk-bearing capacity, which place an counted for by borrowers in Europe (66.5 %) and North America additional limit on exposures in line with the default rating cat(31.4 %). As at 31 December 2018, 80.5 % (31 December 2017: egory of the economic group of connected clients. All loans also 75.6 % excluding local transactions) of these risks were assigned have to be reviewed at least once every twelve months. Mechato country rating classes 0 and 1 and a further 19.4 % (31 Decemnisms for ensuring on a daily basis that limits are not exceeded ber 2017: 24.3 % excluding local transactions) to rating classes include the use of the global limit system, which aggregates all 2-13. Just 0.1 % (31 December 2017: 0.1 % excluding local transloans (credit lines and utilisations) extended by the narrow actions) fell into rating class 14 or worse. Group companies for each group of connected clients. Exposures in the UK Quantifying default risks Helaba’s net exposure to borrowers in the United Kingdom For regulatory purposes, expected and unexpected default risks across the narrow Group companies amounted to € 7.9 bn as at are quantified using the regulatory calculation module. Ex31 December 2018 (31 December 2017: € 7.3 bn). This increase pected default risks are treated for calculation purposes on a reflects a year-on-year reduction in the value of collateral protransaction-by-transaction basis in the form of the expected vided. The United Kingdom’s vote to leave the EU (Brexit) other­ loss. The calculation for regulatory purposes is carried out using wise had no significant effect on the level of default risk. the internal rating methods and regulatory loss given default (LGD s). The equity to be held available in accordance with the 46 Group Management Report Risk Report CRR to cover unexpected losses is also calculated on a transacEquity Risk tion-by-transaction basis and is used for containment purposes for both the specific transaction and the risk capital. The equity risk category brings together those risks attributable to equity investments whose individual risk types are not conDefault risks are determined for the purposes of internal considered separately in risk controlling activities by risk type. tainment using a value-at-risk approach with a Credit­Metrics­Equity risks do not have to be considered for an equity investbased simulation method (Monte Carlo simulation) factoring in ment if all risk types of relevance for the equity investment conmigration and LGD risks. The value-at-risk calculated correcerned are integrated into Group-wide risk management (at the sponds to what is deemed, with a certain confidence level, to be level of individual risks) in line with their relative significance the upper threshold of the potential loss of a portfolio or posiand the relevant legal options. Financial instruments classified tion within a period of one year. under the CRR as equity exposures are also reported as equity risks alongside the equity investments under commercial law. The risk parameters applied include internally generated LGD estimates and empirically measured correlation values as well The risk content of each individual equity investment is classias the internal rating method. The overall risk assumes that the fied with regard to value using a two-phase catalogue of criteria various different losses occur simultaneously. The value-at-risk (traffic-signal method). In addition, the risk assessment is based (VaR ) calculated using the risk model provides a measure of the on the appraisal and development of the rating of the company maximum loss (expected and unexpected) that will not be exconcerned within the framework of the Bank’s internal rating ceeded, with a probability of 99.9 % (internal economic perspecmethod. Equity risks are reported quarterly to the Risk Committive), on the basis of the underlying historical observation petee of the Board of Managing Directors and the Risk and Credit riod of one year. Factoring in empirical correlations provides a Committee of the Supervisory Board. way to map the simultaneous occurrence of discrete credit events (systematic risk). The composition of the equity investments portfolio is virtually unchanged from year-end 2017. The analysis as at the reporting The expected and unexpected losses quantified in this way are date using the internal economic perspective for the calculation assessed against various scenarios to determine the impact of of risk-bearing capacity shows an economic risk exposure of corresponding stress situations. The risk parameters are mod€ 70 m (31 December 2017: € 67 m on the basis of the methodelled scenario by scenario for this purpose. ology of the internal economic perspective introduced on 1 January 2018) for the Group from equity risk. The increase was The analysis as at the reporting date using the internal ecomainly attributable to new investments in private equity/meznomic perspective for the calculation of risk-bearing capacity zanine funds. shows an economic risk exposure of € 1,421 m (31 December 2017: € 1,423 m on the basis of the methodology of the internal economic perspective introduced on 1 January 2018) for Market Risk the Group from default risk. Risk exposures remained essentially unchanged in 2018. The change in total exposure and the Risk containment changes in ratings remained in balance overall. Helaba manages market risks for the trading book and the banking book as part of its overall bank management. Clearly defined Allowance for losses on loans and advances responsibilities and business processes create the necessary An appropriate allowance for losses on loans and advances is conditions for effective limitation and containment of market created for default risks. The adequacy of the allowance is rerisks. The subsidiaries are integrated into the containment proviewed regularly and adjustments are made where necessary. cess as part of Group-wide risk management according to a graduated system based on the risk inventory process in line with the specific business activities involved. Attention in this area focuses principally on subsidiaries Frankfurter Sparkasse and Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG . Market risks are quantified using Helaba’s own methods. 47 Trading activities focus for strategic purposes on customer-­ for position recording, processing, profit or loss determination, driven business, which is supported by a demand-led product risk quantification, accounting and reporting before they can range. Responsibility for containing trading book exposures gain authorisation. rests with the Capital Markets unit, while the Asset / Liability Management unit has responsibility for funding and for the A comprehensive reporting regime ensures that the relevant management of the interest rate and liquidity risks in the bankmembers of the Board of Managing Directors and the ing book. The own issues repurchase portfolio belonging to the ­position-keeping units are notified daily of the risk figures caltrading book also falls under the jurisdiction of the Asset/Liabilculated and the economic profit and loss generated on the basis ity Management unit. of current market prices. Information about the current risk and earnings situation is in addition provided weekly to the entire Limitation of market risks Board of Managing Directors and the Asset/Liability ManageHelaba employs a uniform limit structure to limit market risks. ment Committee and monthly to the Risk Committee. Any The process through which limits are allocated involves the breach of a defined limit triggers the escalation process to limit Bank’s internal corporate bodies and, in the context of limit defiand reduce the associated risks. nition for the risk-bearing capacity, the Risk and Credit Committee of the Supervisory Board. Quantification of market risks Market risks are quantified using a money-at-risk approach Acting on the recommendation of the Asset/Liability Managebacked up by stress tests, the measurement of residual risks, ment Committee, the Risk Committee allocates limits to the sensitivity analyses for credit spread risks and the assessment risk-incurring business units and the various types of market of incremental risks for the trading book. The money-at-risk risk within the scope of the defined cumulative limit for market (MaR ) figure corresponds to what is deemed, with a certain conrisks. In addition separate limits are defined for the trading book fidence level, to be the upper threshold of the potential loss of and the banking book. Responsibility for the onward allocation a portfolio or position due to market fluctuations within a preof limits to Helaba’s subordinate organisational units and its scribed holding period. various sites rests with the divisions to which a limit has been assigned. Stop-loss limits and volume limits are also used indeThe risk measurement systems employed at Helaba for each of pendently in the trading units to limit market risks. the various types of market risk (interest rates, share prices and foreign exchange rates) all use the same statistical parameters Compliance with the cumulative market risk limit was mainin order to facilitate comparisons across the different risk types. tained at all times in the year under review and there were no This also makes it possible to aggregate the risk types into an limit violations at the main trading book and banking book agoverall risk. The overall risk assumes that the various different gregation stages (both Bank and Group) or for the individual losses occur simultaneously. The MaR figure calculated using market risk types. the risk models provides a measure of the maximum loss that will not be exceeded, with a probability of 99.0 %, on the basis Risk monitoring of the underlying historical observation period of one year and The Risk Controlling unit is responsible for identifying, quantia holding period for the position of ten trading days. fying and monitoring market risks. This responsibility includes checking transactions for market conformity and determining The summary below presents a reporting date assessment of the economic profit or loss as well as risk quantification. In adthe market risks (including correlation effects between the portdition, the reconciliation statement with external Accounting is folios) taken on as at the end of 2018 plus a breakdown by tradprepared. ing book and banking book. The linear interest rate risk is the most significant of the market risk types. The rise in the linear Continuous functional and technical development of the methinterest rate risk was primarily attributable to greater market ods and systems used and intensive data entry play a key role volatility in the bond markets resulting from political uncertainty in ensuring that Helaba’s market risks are recorded properly. and to a normal level of reallocated exposures. Various countryA special process owned by the New Products Committee has to and rating-dependent government, financials and corporate be completed whenever a new product is introduced. New prodyield curves are also used alongside swap and Pfandbrief curves ucts must be incorporated correctly into the required systems for measurement purposes. Euro positions account for 87 % (31 December 2017: 86 %) of the linear interest rate risk for the overall portfolio of the narrow Group companies, US dollar po48 Group Management Report Risk Report sitions 8 % (31 December 2017: 8 %). In the field of equities, the using the internal economic perspective for the calculation of focus is on securities listed in the DAX and DJ Euro Stoxx 50. risk-bearing capacity shows an economic risk exposure of The main foreign currency risks are attributable to US dollar, € 601 m (31 December 2017: € 412 m on the basis of the methCanadian dollar and sterling positions. Residual risk amounted odology of the internal economic perspective introduced on to € 14 m for the Group (31 December 2017: € 10 m). The incre1 January 2018) for the Group from market risk. The increase was mental risk in the trading book amounted, with a time horizon due mainly to the rise in linear interest rate risk and elevated of one year and a confidence level of 99.9 %, to € 205 m (31 Deincremental risk. cember 2017: € 166 m). The analysis as at the reporting date Group MaR by risk type in € m Total risk Interest rate risk Currency risk Equities risk 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Total 64 45 58 39 0 1 6 5 Trading book 18 15 17 13 0 0 1 2 Banking book 51 39 45 35 0 0 6 4 All risk measuring systems are based on a modified variance-­ Market risk in the trading book covariance approach or a Monte Carlo simulation. The latter is All market risks are calculated daily on the basis of the end-ofused in particular for mapping complex products and options. day position of the previous trading day and the current market Non-linear risks in the currency field, which are of minor signifparameters. Helaba also uses the parameters prescribed by the icance at Helaba, are monitored using sensitivity analyses. regulatory authorities for internal risk management. Chart 3 shows the MaR for the trading book (Helaba Bank) for the 2018 Internal model in accordance with the Capital financial year. The average MaR for 2018 as a whole was € 19 m ­Requirements Regulation (CRR) (2017 as a whole: € 19 m), the maximum MaR was € 25 m (2017 Helaba calculates the regulatory capital required for the general as a whole: € 32 m) and the minimum MaR was € 14 m (2017 as interest rate risk using an internal model in accordance with the a whole: € 14 m). The increase in risk in 2018 resulted primarily CRR . This model, which consists of the risk measurement sysfrom linear interest rate risk but was also attributable to heighttems MaRC ² (linear interest rate risk) and ELLI (interest option ened volatility in the bond markets at the end of May/beginning risk), has been approved by the banking regulator. of June 2018 caused by the formation of the new government in Italy as well as a normal level of reallocated exposures. 49 Daily MaR of the trading book in financial year 2018 Chart 3 in € m 40 35 30 € 25 m max. M aR 25 20 € 19 m ø M aR 15 € 14 m min. M aR 10 5 0 Jan. Febr. March April May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Helaba’s international branch offices plus Frankfurter Bank­ form right across the Group in a top-down process. This arrangegesellschaft (Schweiz) AG and Frankfurter Sparkasse make the ment means that risk quantification can be performed not just most recent business data from their position-keeping systems centrally at headquarters, but also locally at the sites. available to Group headquarters in a bottom-up process so that consolidated MaR figures can be calculated for the Group. The The summary below shows the average daily MaR amounts for market parameters, in contrast, are made available in a standard the trading book. Average MaR for the trading book in financial year 2018 Ø MaR in € m Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Interest rate risk 13 26 18 15 20 13 17 12 17 17 Currency risk 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 Equities risk 2 2 2 2 1 2 1 2 2 2 Total risk 16 28 19 18 21 16 19 15 19 19 Number of trading days: 250 (2017: 250) 50 Group Management Report Risk Report The annual average MaR for the trading book for Frankfurter The internal model for the general interest rate risk produced Sparkasse and Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG retwo negative outliers in 2018 in regulatory mark-to-market mains unchanged at € 0 m in each case. back-testing (2017: no negative outliers). The cause in both instances was the uncertainty in the bond markets associated with Back-testing the process to form a new government in Italy, which caused Helaba carries out clean back-testing daily for all market risk spreads to widen. types to check the forecasting quality of the risk models. This involves determining the MaR figure for a holding period of one Stress test programme trading day with a one-tailed confidence level of 99 % and a A proper analysis of the effects of extraordinary but not unrealhistorical observation period of one year. The forecast risk figure istic market situations requires the use of stress tests in addiis then compared with the hypothetical change in the net value tion to the daily risk quantification routine. Various portfolios of the trading book, which represents the change in the value of are remeasured regularly under the assumption of extreme the portfolio over one trading day for an unchanged position market scenarios. Portfolios are selected for stress testing on and on the basis of new market prices. Any case in which the the basis of the level of exposure (significance) and the presence decrease in the net value of the trading book exceeds the poor absence of risk concentrations unless specific banking regutential risk figure constitutes a back-testing outlier. latory provisions apply. Stress tests are carried out daily on Helaba’s options book. The results of the stress tests are inChart 4 shows the back-testing results of the Helaba risk models cluded in market risk reporting to the Board of Managing Direcfor the trading book across all types of market price risk in finantors and are taken into consideration in the limit allocation cial year 2018. Two negative outliers occurred (2017: no nega­process. tive outliers). One was due to the uncertainty in the bond markets associated with the process to form a new government in Methods available for use in stress testing include historical Italy, which caused spreads to widen. The other resulted from simulation, Monte Carlo simulation, a modified variance-­ increases in spreads as a consequence of sharp price falls for covariance approach and a variety of scenario calculations – financials. ­including those based on the main components of the correlation matrix. Helaba also performs stress tests to simulate extreme spread changes. The stress tests for market risks are Back-testing for the trading book in financial year 2018 supplemented by inverse stress tests and stress tests across risk Chart 4 types conducted in the course of Helaba’s calculation of risk-bearing capacity. Market risk (including interest rate risk) in the banking book Helaba employs the MaR approach used for the trading book to map the market risks in the banking book. The risk figures calNet change in assets culated using this approach are supplemented with maturity gap analyses calculated daily, from which the maturity structure of the positions taken out can be ascertained. Regular stress tests with holding periods of between ten days and twelve months back up the daily risk measurement routine for the banking book. The quantification of interest rate risks in the banking book is also subject to regulatory requirements, which stipulate a risk computation based on standardised interest shocks. The comMaR putation examines the effects of a rise and fall of 200 basis points in interest rates in line with the requirements of the banking regulator. As of the end of 2018, such an interest rate shock 51 would, in the unfavourable scenario, have resulted in a negative companies report their liquidity risks regularly to Helaba as part change of € 501 m in the value of the Helaba Group banking of Group-wide risk management, allowing a Group-wide aggrebook (31 December 2017: € 277 m). Of this figure, € 480 m gated view. (31 December 2017: € 258 m) is attributable to local currency and € 21 m (31 December 2017: € 19 m) to foreign currencies. The Bank draws a distinction in liquidity risk management beThe change compared with the position at the end of 2017 arose tween short-term and structural liquidity management. Overall mainly because of the implementation of modified requireresponsibility for short-term solvency and for structural liquidity ments imposed by the banking supervisory authorities in relamanagement with regard to the funding of new lending busition to interest rate risk in the banking book. Helaba carries out ness (maintaining the balanced mediumand long-term liquidan interest rate shock test at least once every quarter. ity structure) rests with Asset/Liability Management. The same unit is also tasked with the central management of the liquidity Performance measurement buffer for both regulatory purposes (to maintain the LCR ) and Risk-return comparisons are conducted at regular intervals to for collateral management. assess the performance of individual organisational units. Other aspects, including qualitative factors, are also included The Risk Controlling unit reports daily on the short-term liquidin the assessment in acknowledgement of the fact that the ity situation to the relevant managers and reports monthly in short-term generation of profits is not the sole objective of the the Risk Committee on the overall liquidity risks assumed. trading offices. ­Reporting also includes various stress scenarios such as increased drawings on liquidity lines, no availability of interbank liquidity in the financial markets and the possible impact on Liquidity and Funding Risk Helaba of a significant rating downgrade. The stress scenarios encompass both factors specific to the bank and broader market Ensuring liquidity so as to safeguard its short-term solvency and influences. Inverse stress tests are also conducted. Additional avoid cost risks in procuring medium-term and long-term fundad hoc reporting and decision-making processes for extreme ing is a top priority at Helaba, which accordingly employs a commarket situations are in place. prehensive set of constantly evolving tools to record, quantify, contain and monitor liquidity and funding risks. The processes, Short-term liquidity risk tools and responsibilities in place for managing liquidity and Helaba maintains a highly liquid portfolio of securities (liquidity funding risks have clearly demonstrated their value over recent buffer) that can be used to generate liquidity as required in years in the face of the global crisis in the financial markets and order to assure its short-term liquidity. The current liquidity sitthe resultant turmoil in the money and capital markets. Helaba’s uation is managed with reference to a short-term liquidity status liquidity was once again fully assured at all times in 2018. indicator that is based on a proprietary economic liquidity risk model and is determined daily, which compares expected liquidA liquidity transfer pricing system ensures that all liquidity costs ity requirements for the next 250 trading days against the availassociated with Helaba’s various business activities (direct fundable liquidity from the liquid securities portfolio. The available ing costs and liquidity reserve costs) are allocated transparently. liquidity is established taking account of markdowns so that The processes of containing and monitoring liquidity and fundunexpected market developments affecting individual securiing risks are combined in the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Asties can also be considered. Securities that are used for collateral sessment Process (ILA AP) and comprehensively validated on a purposes (for example repos and pledges) and are thus earregular basis. marked for a specific purpose are deducted from the free liquid securities portfolio. The same applies in respect of securities Containment and monitoring maintained as a liquidity buffer for intra-day liquidity manageThe Helaba Group operates a local containment and monitoring ment. The main currency for short-term liquidity at Helaba is the policy for liquidity and funding risks under which each company euro, with the US dollar also significant. has responsibility for ensuring its own solvency, for potential cost risks associated with funding and for independently monitoring those risks. The corresponding conditions are agreed with Helaba. The subsidiaries falling within the narrow Group 52 Group Management Report Risk Report The short-term liquidity status concept has been chosen to Credit agreements, in particular those of consolidated property allow various stress scenarios to be mapped. The process incompanies, may include credit clauses that can result in distrivolves comparing the net liquidity balance (liquidity needed) bution restrictions or even in the agreements being terminated. with the available liquidity. The defined limits are five days up The Group faces no significant liquidity risk even if such a termito one year depending on the specific scenario. Monitoring the nation should threaten in individual cases. limits is the responsibility of the Risk Controlling unit. The utilisation rate in the most relevant scenario (solvency) was 30 % Structural liquidity risk and market liquidity risk as at the reporting date (31 December 2017: 11 %) as a result of The Asset/Liability Management unit manages the liquidity risks the excellent level of liquidity adequacy. This increased to 32 % in Helaba’s commercial banking activities, which consist essen(31 December 2017: 16 %) when Frankfurter Sparkasse was intially of lending transactions including floating-interest roll-over cluded. The average utilisation rate in 2018 was 3 % (2017: 9 %), transactions, securities held for the purpose of safeguarding reflecting the excellent liquidity situation. liquidity and mediumand long-term financing, via the central asset/liability management system (ZDS). Funding risk is manThe Bank manages short-term liquidity in accordance with the aged on the basis of liquidity gap analyses where liquidity misregulatory LCR requirements in parallel with the economic matches are limited. The Bank prevents concentrations of risk model and has achieved the minimum ratio of 100 % applicable from arising when obtaining liquidity by diversifying its sources since the start of this year in full ever since 2017. The LCR stood of funding. Market liquidity risk is quantified in the MaR model at 126 % (31 December 2017: 159 %) on 31 December 2018. for market risks. A scenario calculation using a variety of holding periods is carried out. The scaled MaR suggested no significant Money market staff borrow/invest in the money market (intermarket liquidity risk as at 31 December 2018, as was also the bank and customer business, commercial paper) and make use case at 31 December 2017. Market liquidity is also monitored on of ECB open market operations and facilities in performing the the basis of the margin between bid and offer prices. operational cash planning tasks necessary to ensure short-term liquidity. Intraday liquidity planning is carried out in the Cash The Board of Managing Directors defines the risk tolerance for Management unit. liquidity and funding risk at least annually. This covers the limit applicable for short-term and structural liquidity risk (funding Off-balance sheet loan and liquidity commitments are regularly risk), liquidity building for off-balance sheet liquidity risks and reviewed with regard to their drawing potential and features of the definition of the corresponding models and assumptions. relevance to liquidity and are integrated into liquidity manageA comprehensive plan of action in the event of any liquidity ment. Guarantees and warranties are similarly reviewed. Helaba shortage is maintained and tested for all locations. determines and plans the liquidity to be held available using a scenario calculation that includes a market disturbance. A total of € 1.6 bn in liquidity commitments had been drawn down for the securitisation platform initiated by Helaba as of the reporting date. This represents an increase of € 0.1 bn as compared with the previous year. No liquidity had been drawn down from stand-by lines in US public finance business as of the reporting date (as was the case at the end of 2017). 53 Operational Risk Ongoing development of the tool kit Helaba pursued ongoing development and standardisation Principles of risk containment work in the area of non-financial risks (NFR ) in 2018 in recogniHelaba identifies, contains and monitors operational risks using tion of the increasing prominence of NFR in risk management. an integrated management approach introduced for this purThe associated activities included combining operational risk pose in line with the regulatory requirements. and its existing risk sub-types in a complete framework for the containment and monitoring of non-financial risks centred on a The approach taken by Helaba provides for the disciplinary and comprehensive three lines of defence model with a minimum of organisational segregation of operational risk containment and overlap. monitoring. Risk management is accordingly a local respon­ sibility discharged by Helaba’s individual units, which are supRisk monitoring ported in this task by central containment units. Central responThe risk reporting system keeps the bodies responsible, the sibility for operational risk monitoring rests with the Risk Risk Committee, the management group created for non-­ Controlling unit. financial risk and the units responsible for risk management at the local level informed of the risk situation, of any losses inTools curred and of containment actions derived as a result. Helaba uses the standardised method to calculate its regulatory capital backing. The Bank’s risk profile is updated as part of an annual review. The risk profiles of the subsidiaries are added to create the Operational risks are contained and monitored using a risk manGroup risk profile. agement system that identifies, records and presents risks and losses in a structured manner. This makes it possible to compare Losses attributable to operational risks that have materialised and cross-check risks and loss data systematically and contain are reported regularly at the local level by Helaba’s specialist them with appropriate measures. units. The subsidiaries submit reports concerning losses incurred, in principle on a quarterly basis, and these enable the Operational risks are classified systematically with reference to losses situation in the Group to be presented. External losses Helaba’s proprietary risk model, which is based on the Basel from the VöB data syndicate are added to the loss data pool for event categories. The view of risk used for internal risk assessinternal management purposes. ment purposes is thus fully congruent with that of the regulator. The quantification methodology is based on a modelling approach that encompasses internal and external losses plus risk scenarios created by the business units and plausibility-checked by the Risk Controlling unit. Technical assistance to help facilitate the management of operational risks is provided in the form of a web-based application that supports local data access and a central database along with a central application for risk reporting. Operational risks are avoided or limited using insurance arrangements that cover specific losses up to agreed maximum limits and also by means of established measures in internal processes and other workflows. 54 Group Management Report Risk Report Quantification erational risks that originate from risk sub-categories (including Operational risks are quantified for Helaba, Frankfurter Sparkasse legal, outsourcing, information security, IT and project risks). The and Helaba Invest using an internal model based on a loss distrisummary below shows the risk profile as at the end of 2018 for bution approach, which considers risk scenarios and internal and Helaba, Frankfurter Sparkasse, Helaba Invest and the other comexternal losses to calculate economic risk exposure. This also panies of the Helaba Group that are included in risk management includes internal loss events and risk scenarios arising from opat the level of individual risks: Operational risks – risk profile Economic risk exposure in € m Reporting date 31.12.2018 Reporting date 31.12.20171) VaR 99.9 % VaR 99.9 % Helaba Bank 229 212 Frankfurter Sparkasse, Helaba Invest and other companies included in risk management at the level of individual risks 94 94 Total 323 306 1) Using the methodology of the internal economic perspective introduced for the calculation of risk-bearing capacity as at 1 January 2018 The analysis as at the reporting date using the internal ecoThe legal aspects of major undertakings are coordinated with nomic perspective for the calculation of risk-bearing capacity the Legal Services unit. Legal Services provides specimen texts shows an economic risk exposure of € 323 m (31 December 2017: and explanations for contracts and other declarations with par€ 306 m) for the Group from operational risks. The increase in ticular legal relevance where expedient as a contribution to prethis figure can be traced essentially to the updating of the risk ventive risk management. The lawyers of the Legal Services unit scenarios. have to be involved in the event of any deviations or new rulings. If the services of external legal experts are sought either in GerDocumentation system many or elsewhere, their involvement in principle proceeds The documentation system lays down details of the internal under the management of Legal Services. control procedures and the due and proper organisation of business. The defined framework for action is marked out in the docThe Legal Services unit drafts agreements, general business umentation system in the form of regulations governing activiconditions and other relevant legal declarations as part of its ties and processes. legal counselling support services in co-operation with the other units of the Bank. The Legal Services unit is involved in the exClear responsibilities have been defined within Helaba for the amination and negotiation of any legal texts submitted by third creation and continuous updating of the various components of parties. the documentation system. The Process Management department assists the specialist units responsible for the activities If any mistakes or unexpected developments detrimental to the and processes to create and publish the regulations. Bank are encountered, the lawyers help to identify and remedy the problems and avoid any recurrence in future. They assume Legal risk responsibility for examining and evaluating events for factors of The Legal Services unit is responsible for monitoring legal risks. particular legal significance and conduct any proceedings It is represented on the Risk Committee of the Bank with an launched. This applies in particular in respect of countering any advisory vote and reports on the legal risks that have become claims asserted against the Bank. quantifiable as ongoing or imminent court proceedings involving the Bank or its subsidiaries. 55 Legal Services reports on legal risks by making submissions to detrimental impact on its ability to operate. The management the Board of Managing Directors, documenting ongoing and group for non-financial risk also receives regular reports conimminent court proceedings and coordinating on a formalised cerning IT and IS risks. basis with other units. Business continuity management Outsourcing risk Helaba’s units and branch offices have drawn up business conOutsourcing Governance defines the framework for the monitinuity plans for the critical business processes as part of busitoring and containment of Helaba Group outsourcing arrangeness continuity management activities. These business contiments, including the associated roles and responsibilities. The nuity plans are subject to tests and exercises to verify their actual monitoring and management of outsourcing arrangeeffectiveness and are updated and enhanced on a regular basis ments is performed directly by the entities responsible. Corpoto ensure that emergency operation and the restoration of norrate Sourcing Management defines the framework for the opermal operation both proceed properly. ational implementation of containment and monitoring. This includes developing and regularly updating methodologies and Where IT services are outsourced to or procured from external tools. Corporate Sourcing Management monitors the local imservice providers, the related contractual documents contain plementation and application of the methods and procedures provisions relating to preventive measures and measures to in the entities responsible in its capacity as the central supervilimit risks. Specialist units of Helaba work together with IT sersory authority. Corporate Sourcing Management additionally vice providers to conduct regular tests of the documented proprovides executive management with a regular consolidated cedures for safeguarding operation and the technical restoreport on outsourcing arrangements in place. The overarching ration of data processing. objectives, scope and guiding principles applicable within the scope are set out in Helaba’s outsourcing strategy. Accounting process The objective of Helaba’s internal control and risk management Information security and IT risk system in relation to the accounting process is to ensure proper Helaba’s defined information security strategies and regulaand reliable financial reporting. The Helaba Group’s accounting tions provide the basis for an appropriate internal controlling process involves individual reporting units that maintain process and for the secure utilisation of information processing. self-contained posting groups and prepare local (partial) finanThe level of information security maintained and the extent to cial statements in accordance with HGB and IFRS . Helaba’s rewhich it is appropriate given the applicable circumstances are porting units comprise the Bank (Germany), the branch offices monitored and adapted continuously through the information outside Germany, LBS , WIBank, all consolidated companies and security management system (ISMS). Key systems are subject sub-groups and all companies and sub-groups accounted for to constant surveillance as part of monitoring activities, moreusing the equity method. over, and important processes and procedures and key outsourcing arrangements are checked in regular information seHelaba’s Accounting and Taxes unit consolidates the partial ficurity audits. nancial statements from the reporting units to produce both the single entity financial statements under HGB and the consoliMandatory requirements concerning information security and dated accounts under IFRS . Accounting and Taxes also analyses security policies for application development and IT operation and prepares the closing data and communicates it to the Board aim to ensure that risks are detected at an early stage and that of Managing Directors. appropriate measures to minimise these risks are defined and implemented. These documents are the subject of continuous ongoing development. Helaba also actively manages information technology and information security risks (IT and IS risks). IT and IS risks and the associated security measures and checks are reviewed, periodically and on an ad hoc basis, monitored, and contained. The Bank thus takes proper account of all three aspects of information security – availability, integrity (which includes authenticity) and confidentiality – in order to avoid any 56 Group Management Report Risk Report The components of the internal control and risk management The procedure to be followed in accounting is set out in a numsystem for the purposes of the accounting process are as ber of different complementary forms of documentation. ­follows: ­Accounting manuals for HGB and IFRS define stipulations for the accounting methods to be used and also contain provisions on ■■ Control environment group accounting. The latter relate in particular to the parent ■■ Risk assessment company of the Group and the sub-groups included. Rules con■■ Controls and reconciliations cerning organisational factors and the preparation process are ■■ Monitoring of the controls and reconciliations included in addition to the stipulations on approach, measure■■ Process documentation ment, reporting and disclosure requirements that apply ■■ Communication of results throughout the Group. The individual reporting units have direct responsibility for incorporating stipulations in varying degrees The components of Helaba’s control environment for the acof detail concerning the procedure to be applied in the various counting process include appropriate staffing of the units inprocesses and subprocesses followed in the preparation of the volved, in particular Accounting and Taxes, with properly qualifinancial statements. Employees are able to access accounting fied personnel. Regular communication ensures that the manuals and work instructions at any time via the Bank’s individual employees receive all of the information they need ­intranet. for their work promptly. Any failures that occur despite all of the checks in place are addressed and remedied in a defined proAccounting and Taxes performs analytical audit steps on the cess. The IT system landscape used in the accounting process results of financial reporting (the closing figures determined). is subject to IT security strategies and rules that ensure compliThis entails plausibility checking the development of the figures ance with the German generally accepted accounting principles over the course of the year. The closing figures are also cross(GoB) / German principles for the proper maintenance and archecked against planning outputs, expectations and extrapolachiving of books, records and documents in electronic form and tions based on business progress. Finally, the figures are for data access (GoBD). checked for consistency with analyses prepared independently elsewhere within Helaba. Primary and deputy responsibilities Helaba focuses primarily on the probability of occurrence and are assigned for this purpose at the Group level for each reportthe extent of any potential error when assessing risks in the ing unit and each entry in the Notes. The figures are discussed accounting process. The impact on the closing statements (comregularly with the Board of Managing Directors following this pleteness, accuracy, presentation, etc.) should the risk eventupreliminary analysis and validation. ate is also assessed. Tax risks The accounting process includes numerous controls and reconThe Bank operates a tax compliance management system ciliations in order to minimise its risk content. Extensive IT(TCMS ) to ensure that it always complies properly with its tax based controls and reconciliations are used in addition to the obligations. The TCMS came into force on 1 January 2018. The control measures (including the double verification principle) TCMS has been designed to take into account legal and business applied to ensure the accuracy of manual operations such as management principles, and focuses on complying with tax regdata entry and calculations. These IT-based controls include ulations and avoiding tax risks. Key components of the TCMS mechanisms for subsidiary ledger/general ledger reconciliation are processes for identifying, monitoring and containing tax checks and HGB /IFRS consistency checks. The controlling and risks. Risk-related tasks, processes and control requirements reconciliation processes are themselves monitored by means of are integrated into the Bank’s business operating processes. statistical evaluations for the reconciliations and reviews of inThe TCMS also includes the foreign branches with effect from dividual validation measures. Internal Audit is involved in the 1 January 2019. controlling process and carries out regular audits of accounting. The overarching parameters are set out in Helaba’s tax strategy, which forms an integral part of the business strategy. All units are under an obligation to comply with the tax strategy requirements in their operating activities. 57 The Taxes department is responsible for monitoring the tax risks The analysis as at the reporting date under the internal ecoin Helaba’s business operations. The monitoring activities are nomic perspective shows a risk of € 112 m (31 December 2017: carried out by a central tax risk manager in conjunction with tax € 91 m using the methodology of the internal economic perspeccompliance coordinators in the individual departments. tive introduced on 1 January 2018) from real estate projects and real estate portfolios. This risk figure has increased as a result The Taxes department is also responsible for the system of of the inclusion in risk reporting of the land bank and land detax-related instructions, which includes the overarching control velopments of a Group company active in the residential real requirements. It is the duty of the individual departments to estate segment. These risks continue to be fully covered by the implement the control requirements and any resulting improveexpected income from the associated transactions. ment measures. A reporting system covering the regular submission of informaSummary tion on tax risks has been put in place. The controlled acceptance of risks plays a central role at Helaba in the management of the company. We accept and manage risks Other Risk Types on the basis of our comprehensive risk identification, quantification, containment and monitoring system. Although they are Business risk already very highly evolved and satisfy all statutory and superRisk containment in respect of business risks encompasses all of visory requirements, we refine our methods and systems conthe measures implemented in order to reduce, limit and avoid tinuously. Our fundamental organisational principles put in risks and to keep intentional risk exposure compliant with the risk place the structures necessary to ensure successful implemenstrategy and the specified limits adopted by the Board of Managtation of the risk strategy defined. Helaba, in conclusion, has at ing Directors. Operational and strategic risk containment is the its disposal a stock of proven and effective methods and sysresponsibility of the Bank’s front office units and the managetems with which to master the risks it chooses to accept. ment of the respective equity investments. The Risk Controlling unit quantifies the business risks for the purposes of the calculation of risk-bearing capacity and analyses their development. The analysis as at the 31 December 2018 reporting date under the internal economic perspective for the calculation of risk-bearing capacity shows a slight (+ € 156 m) year-on-year increase in business risks (31 December 2017: € 150 m using the methodology of the internal economic perspective introduced on 1 January 2018). Real estate risk The Real Estate Management unit handles risk containment for the real estate projects and real estate lending portfolios together with the Group companies. Risk containment encompasses all of the measures implemented in order to reduce, limit and avoid risks and to keep intentional risk exposure compliant with the risk strategy and the specified limits adopted by the Board of Managing Directors. The Risk Controlling unit’s activities in relation to real estate risks focus on risk quantification and risk monitoring. Risk quantification includes determining the capital necessary to ensure that risk-bearing capacity is maintained. 58 Group Management Report Non-Financial Statement Non-Financial Statement and in selected international markets. Key features of Helaba’s strategy are a conservative risk profile, close interconnection with the real economy and integration into the S-Group. Helaba’s business model is described in detail in the section “Basic InformaUnder Section 340i (5) of the German Commercial Code (HGB), tion About the Group”. Helaba is under an obligation to prepare a non-financial statement in which it describes the main effects of its business activWith a view to minimising negative effects on the environment ities in certain non-financial areas. and society and preventing reputational risk, Helaba drew up guiding sustainability guidelines applicable for the Group. These In a structured analysis process, the subjects credit finance, proguidelines include standards of conduct approved by the Board vision of financial services, residential management, anti-­ of Managing Directors for business activities, business operacorruption, employer branding and employee retention were tions, employees and corporate social responsibility. The corpoidentified as being material to Helaba’s business activity. The rate values adopted by Helaba in 2018 under the “Values with concepts described here generally apply to the Group. If there impact” slogan underline its aspirations to make a positive conis any variation from basic principle, this is indicated separately tribution to society and to strengthen Germany as a business in the text. location. In preparing the non-financial statement, Helaba used the GerHelaba also signed the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. man Sustainability Code (DNK ) as orientation, and also put toWith this step, the Bank recognises international standards for gether a “DNK Declaration of Conformity” featuring the Global environmental protection, human and labour rights, and anti-­ Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators used in the code. Helaba corruption measures. At both national and international levels, provides comprehensive reports online on its sustainability acHelaba applies the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and tivities (nachhaltigkeit.helaba.de). The declaration of conformity the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work in accordance with the DNK can also be accessed on this webissued by the International Labour Organization (ILO) as over­ site. arching principles for all its business activities. In the year under review and on the date of the report, and takResponsible for the management of institutional investors’ asing into account the risk management process at Helaba (net sets in the Helaba Group, Helaba Invest signed the international method), no material risks have been identifiable that have had Principles for Responsible Investment, or PRI , in 2018. In doing or are very likely to have a serious negative impact on the areas so, Helaba Invest reaffirmed its sustainability strategy of incorspecified above. porating environmental, social and governance-related criteria (ESG ) explicitly into its investment processes and products. In an The statements in the non-financial statement have been subinitial step, Helaba Invest will roll out from 2019 environmental, ject to a voluntary external business management audit in acsocial, and governance (ESG) screening for its retail equity funds. cordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised) in which limited assurance It will also examine all investment securities to determine the is provided by an independent auditor. References to details extent to which they comply with international sustainability outside the management report represent additional informastandards and conventions, such as the principles of the UN tion and do not form an integral part of the non-financial stateGlobal Compact. ment or the management report. Responsible Business Practices Business Model and Sustainable and Social Value Proposition Business Orientation There is an impact on environmental, social and human rights Helaba is a public-law credit institution with a mandate to operate issues from Helaba’s business activities as a bank, from the in the public interest and has always embraced non-financial conhousing portfolios of the GWH subsidiary in the real estate busicerns, in addition to financial considerations, as part of its fundaness, and from the private customer business operated by the mental identity. The business model enjoys strong regional roots subsidiary Frankfurter Sparkasse. and has a long-term focus. Helaba operates throughout Germany 59 Helaba does not believe it has any material impact on the enviprojects relating to climate change by financing energy-efficient ronment from its business operations in office buildings or its and environmentally friendly technologies as well as renewable operational ecology. Nevertheless, Helaba is committed to reenergy sources. The sector-specific guidelines are published ducing its ecological footprint on a continuous basis. For examon Helaba’s website and are therefore also visible to market ple, Helaba’s main office building (MAIN TOWER ) is officially players. designated as a sustainable and energy-efficient building, having received platinum certification – the highest category availHelaba reviews its risk strategies annually and will adjust or exable – in accordance with Leadership in Energy and Environmenpand sustainability criteria as required. In the 2018 update protal Design (LEED ) standards. Helaba relies on electricity cess, the Bank decided to adopt animal welfare as a new audit generated from renewable sources for over 90 % of its electricity criterion from 2019 on. needs in office buildings. Helaba regularly monitors environmental indicators in relation to its operations and publishes the reThe containment of default risk is integrated into the risk mansults transparently on its website. agement system used throughout the Group. The basis is a comprehensive and universal risk strategy derived from the It also uses a risk-based approach when outsourcing activities business strategy. This risk strategy was drawn up on a binding and processes. In Helaba’s opinion, its supply chain has no mabasis in accordance with the German Minimum Requirements terial impact on human rights. Nevertheless, to ensure that this for Risk Management (Mindestanforderungen an das Risiko­ continues, Helaba verifies that preferred suppliers are committed management – M aRisk). The Board of Managing Directors is to respecting human rights and have documented this in the responsible for all of the risks to which Helaba is exposed as well form of binding codes of conduct. as for ensuring compliance with the risk strategy and execution of risk management throughout the Group. Credit finance Lending business is Helaba’s core activity. Therefore, there is a Provision of financial services risk that businesses or projects financed by Helaba could have Within the Helaba Group, private customer business is primarily negative effects on the environment or society. conducted by Frankfurter Sparkasse. Frankfurter Sparkasse’s Charter specifies that its mission is to promote saving and other Helaba has developed sustainability and exclusion criteria for forms of wealth accumulation and to satisfy the demand for lending with the aim of minimising negative effects from financcredit at local level. As the regional market leader in private cusing operations. These criteria have been integrated into the tomer business with the biggest branch network in Frankfurt am existing risk process and risk containment activities and apply Main, Frankfurter Sparkasse has significant influence over the throughout the Group. Accordingly, it has been set out in the provision of financial services in its territory. It discharges its specific risk strategy for default risk that it is prohibited to conresponsibility for the provision of access to financial services and sciously finance projects that could have a serious detrimental meets its mandate to operate in the public interest by ensuring environmental or social impact. This includes, but is not limited it has a broadly based presence in the territory, comprising to, violations of human rights, the destruction of cultural assets, 75 branches and advice centres, more than 20 self-service bankinfringements of employee rights, and environmental damage ing centres and around 200 automated teller machines (ATM s). such as the destruction of the natural habitats of threatened species. Frankfurter Sparkasse recognises financial inclusion as a key component of its mandate to operate in the public interest. These overarching principles in lending policies are compleTo ensure that access to banking services is available to all secmented by sector-specific guidelines applicable to sectors extors of the population, particularly economically and socially posed to heightened risk. Specific criteria have been adopted disadvantaged customers, Frankfurter Sparkasse offers various for the following sectors: energy, coal-fired power plants, dams types of basic account. As at 31 December 2018, 1,328 basic and hydroelectric power plants, nuclear power plants, mining, accounts were offered (2017: 1,033). Frankfurter Sparkasse oil and gas, agriculture and forestry, paper and pulp, and armamakes it easier for the blind and visually impaired to access its ments. This ensures that the funding of controversial, high-risk services by ensuring that each of its physical branches has at activities such as fracking or the extraction of oil from tar sands least one ATM with a headphone socket. The online branch of is ruled out. Helaba is gradually scaling back its current expothe Frankfurter Sparkasse offers completely barrier-free access sures in relation to coal-fired power plants and power station to its media operations, too. coal. What is more, it is stepping up its positive involvement in 60 Group Management Report Non-Financial Statement Frankfurter Sparkasse pursues a business policy that is consisIn addition to environmental effects, social issues related to the tently focused on customer needs. Regular staff training sesleasing and managing of housing are also of significance for sions on the sales philosophy of the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe tenants and society as a whole. Among other things, GWH is and on implementing guidelines and laws with a consumer involved in major housing schemes with wide-ranging socio­ focus are held. For example, qualitative targets are used as the cultural profiles. Around 25 % of the homes provided by GWH basis for 50 % of the measurement of the performance of cusare rent-controlled (subsidised); around 20 % of the homes are tomer advisors at Frankfurter Sparkasse in order to ensure that located in areas subject to special neighbourhood management the advice provided is of a high quality. In addition, within the from a social perspective. The objective of the neighbourhood framework of the S-Group Concept in Hesse and Thuringia, cusmanagement scheme is to implement a range of measures tomer satisfaction is regularly measured and reported to aimed at improving the residents’ quality of life and quality of S-Group bodies. Targets are then determined from the findings living, as well as bringing about a degree of social equality. For and incorporated in the S-Group strategy. instance, GWH makes premises available for example for social outreach purposes, including youth support schemes and comResidential management munity centres, and takes part in social projects. It supports GWH Immobilien Holding GmbH leases out and / or manages housing development residents by setting up help and advice some 50,000 homes in its real estate business and therefore offices, finding local caretakers, and employing welfare officers holds significant influence over environmental and social issues. as points of contact. The objectives it pursues are to provide high-quality, affordable homes for broad sections of the population and to reduce the GWH services the demand for housing with a continuous prodetrimental effects of real estate on the environment. There is gramme of new construction. For example, 257 homes for rent the risk of a housing shortage, particularly in urban centres such and 52 owner-occupied houses or apartments were completed as the Rhine-Main and Rhine-Neckar regions. GWH makes best in 2018. efforts to provide high-quality housing and maintain a trusting relationship with its tenants based on targeted capital investment, new construction projects and the provision of local help Combating Bribery and Corruption and advice offices. It is a fundamental principle at Helaba that the Group will comFrom an environmental perspective, GWH has established proply at all times with laws and regulations at local, national and cesses aimed at continuously optimising the energy and carbon international levels. The risk that legal provisions could be footprint of its residential buildings. For example, it invests on breached is considered legal risk and is managed as part of opan ongoing basis in improved insulation and more energy-­ erational risk (see Risk Report). efficient windows in its housing portfolio and uses its own energy service provider (Systeno GmbH) to ensure that an increasing In view of the nature of banking business, the prevention of proportion of its homes are supplied with heating energy from criminal economic activity through a compliance management energy-efficient combined heat and power (CHP) generation system with a preventive focus is of key importance at Helaba and renewable energy sources. It regularly checks that these in this context. One of the measures taken by Helaba has been activities have been successful by measuring the savings to set up the independent functions of the Money Laundering achieved in CO 2 emissions. According to the latest evaluations, and Fraud Prevention Compliance Office. This office, acting in its the total energy consumption in 2017 of 409,886 MW h was recapacity as the central authority for the purposes of Section 25h duced by approximately 1.54 % as a result of heat insulation KWG , develops internal principles and adequate transactionimprovements and the modernisation of heating systems, savand customer-related safeguards and checks to prevent money ing 1,272 tonnes of CO 2 (2016: 1,374 tonnes of CO 2). The slight laundering, the funding of terrorism, and other criminal acts fall in CO 2 savings compared with 2016 was mainly due to the such as fraud and bribery. fact that efficiency gains from the modernisation of heating systems had already largely been exhausted. In 2018, 88 % of the In order to cope with the steady rise in regulatory requirements, buildings received new energy certificates. At around today and in the future, Helaba created its new Compliance unit 124 kWh/m²/a, the average energy consumption of GWH ’s reson 1 July 2018, under which all existing compliance functions idential properties is below the German average of around 169 are to be subsumed. kWh/m²/a (last available value for 2015) as published by the nation’s energy agency. 61 Any kind of active or passive corruption is prohibited at Helaba. individual sites and at Frankfurter Sparkasse and by the body This is laid down in the code of conduct, which serves as an representing young trainees and the severely disabled. The overarching set of guidelines and framework of principles for all Human Resources Council takes part in activities at Helaba on employees. Procedural instructions set out binding rules and the basis of co-determination, involvement and consultation, regulations for a wide variety of activities, including the hanprimarily in relation to organisational, personnel and social dling of inducements and action to be taken if criminal economic matters. activity is suspected. In order to ensure that business decisions are taken objectively and transparently on the basis of a clear Helaba’s remuneration strategy and remuneration principles fact-based rationale, Helaba’s company regulations provide furset out the relationship between business strategy, risk stratther assistance and set standards for authorisation requireegy and remuneration. The remuneration for around 57 % of ments that ensure transparent handling. As part of the regulaemployees is collectively agreed, with the pay for more than tory requirements, Helaba holds regular training sessions, and 85 % of this proportion being set under the collective agreeit is mandatory for employees to attend these events every three ment for public-sector banks. Remuneration for the remaining years at least. 43 % is not subject to a collective salary agreement. The remuneration systems for the employees and the Board of Managing A whistle-blowing system is in place, enabling any employee to Directors of Helaba and Frankfurter Sparkasse satisfy the rereport potentially unlawful transactions. Employees can contact quirements specified in the German Regulation on the Superan external ombudsperson either anonymously or safe in the visory Requirements for Institutions’ Remuneration Systems knowledge that their identities will not be disclosed. (IV V ) and are published annually in the form of a separate report (remuneration report pursuant to section 16 IV V ). As part of the preventive approach, an annual Group risk analysis report is prepared and submitted to the responsible departEmployer brand and employee retention ment, the Board of Managing Directors and the Supervisory Helaba is a provider of specialist financial services in particular Board. In addition, Internal Audit conducts an independent asand has therefore set itself the enduring objective of attracting sessment of risk management and the checks every year; it resuitable, highly qualified employees and retaining these emports to the Board of Managing Directors on the efficiency of ployees over the long term. Demographic change is presenting tools and compliance with them. In 2018, no corruption proa particular challenge in that Helaba must be able to attract and ceedings were instigated against Helaba. retain young talent with a high degree of potential. Continuous developments in banking regulation and the ongoing digitalisation of business also mean changes to the requirements Appreciative Corporate Culture and Helaba must meet to maintain its appeal, primarily for a younger Sustainable HR Activities target group and to respond to shifting and/or new demands in terms of skill sets. The knowledge and experience of employees is key to the longThe requisite skill sets for each unit are set out in requirements term successful performance of Helaba as a bank in the finanprofiles. The targets to be set and performance to be assessed cial services sector. Around 95 % of employees work in Geragainst this background form part of the annual employee apmany. Relevant labour-law and health and safety regulations praisal carried out jointly by line managers and employees. The are applied and well-established processes ensure compliance. employee appraisal is a key management tool and core compoSome 95 % of employees have a permanent employment nent of HR development, allowing Helaba to express its appre­contract. ciation for the work carried out and providing support if there is a need for change. Based on an agreement on targets, managers As provided for in the Hessian Act concerning Personnel Repshould aim to establish the greatest possible degree of transresentation (HPVG ), the Human Resources Council (HRC ) repparency regarding the required tasks and the performance resents the interests of the employees and monitors compli­expected of employees, while at the same time fostering co-­ ance with the regulations intended to protect these interests. operation based on trust. As the representative body, the Human Resources Council is the first point of contact for senior management in all matters concerning employees. The General Human Resources Council at Helaba is supported by personnel representative bodies at 62 Group Management Report Non-Financial Statement As part of the cultural transformation process launched in 2017 and courses of study in business management. A separate under the title ‘move Helaba’, 2018 saw the Bank carry out furtrainee programme aims to attract young talent. An 18-month ther employee workshops covering topics such as appreciation programme lays the foundations for the subsequent profesand leadership, communications and discussion culture, co-­ sional development of trainees as specialists or managers operation and processes, and customer focus / efficiency. For within a pre-defined development path. example, it was decided to introduce a hospitation scheme as of 2019 in order to promote networking between employees and Helaba attaches particular importance to the greater advanceimprove interdepartmental collaboration. ment of women and to the development of HR tools that are differentiated by age in order to make the most of the potential A range of training and professional development offerings enpresented by all employees and exploit the long-term prospects sures that staff remain employable until they reach retirement available in the Group. To this end, a diversity management proage and enhances Helaba’s appeal as an employer. Helaba gramme has been set up; it develops strategies on the key toptherefore invested € 4.5 m in developing employee skills and ics of gender, age and integration. In the scope of the staff model qualifications in 2018. The needs-based range of seminars covorientated to life cycles, appropriate measures are implemented ering professional, personal, social and methodological develin order to recruit people, fill open positions, recognise potential opment helps managers and employees fulfil their day-to-day early on, develop staff and increase workplace appeal to better responsibilities. These offerings are complemented by foreign retain employees. language training, topic-specific seminars by external providers Diversity in the Helaba workforce, key figures 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Proportion of women 48.1 % 47.8 % 47.5 % Proportion of female managers 22.0 % 22.0 % 19.6 % Proportion of women on the Board of Managing Directors (Helaba Bank) 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Proportion of women on the Supervisory Board (Helaba Bank) 23.3 % 22.2 % 22.2 % Proportion aged >50 44.9 % 42.3 % 39.5 % Proportion aged 30-50 46.9 % 50.3 % 52.3 % Proportion aged < 30 8.2 % 7.4 % 8.2 % Proportion of employees with disabilities (as defined by § 2 SGB IX) 5.9 % 5.6 % 5.8 % 63 Occupational health management at Helaba focuses on promoting the health of employees in addition to complying with statutory health and safety requirements. Employees can obtain information on a regular basis and make use of offerings at events, presentations and seminars covering topics such as nutrition, movement, mental balance/relaxation and risk prevention. A company sports programme with a wide range of options is provided to promote physical fitness. Great importance is attached to mental as well as physical health. An employee welfare service offers skilled counselling to any employees with problems in their professional or personal lives. From 2019, this offer will also include advising for employees and managers as well as a work-life service. Overall, a low employee turnover rate of 3 % (departure initiated by the employee), an average period of service of 15.0 years and a low absenteeism rate of 4.8 % (absence caused by illness as evidenced by a doctor’s certificate) are testimony to a high degree of satisfaction and significant employee commitment. 64 Group Management Report Outlook and Opportunities Outlook and Opportunities Opportunities Helaba has long had a stable and viable strategic business model in place. Over the last few years, the Bank has therefore not only been able to consolidate its market position in its core Economic conditions areas of business but also – on the basis of good operating reAll told, the global economy is growing in 2019 at a rate compasults – service all subordinated liabilities, profit participation rable to the previous year. The heavyweights United States and rights and silent participations in full at all times and pay reguChina are losing momentum. In the United States, the tailwind lar dividends. The key factors behind Helaba’s success remain provided by the country’s fiscal policy is gradually diminishing, its conservative risk profile, backed up by effective risk managewhile ­China’s flatter growth trajectory appears to be continuing. ment, and the strategic business model for the Group as a whole That said, other regions of the world are exerting a stabilising based on the concept of a full-service bank with its own retail effect so that global growth will be only slightly lower than in business, a strong base in the region, a very close relationship the year before. with the Sparkassen and robust capital and liquidity adequacy. Helaba is valued by its customers as a reliable partner because With growth likely to reach 1.3 % in 2019, Germany will presumof its sound business model. This is reflected particularly in the ably grow almost as strongly as in 2018, with the pace set to long-term financing operations in real estate lending and corincrease as the year progresses. By then, the uncertainty over porate finance, in which the Bank is one of the leading providers Brexit and the trade disputes should have diminished. In the in Germany. light of positive employment figures and higher real incomes, domestic demand is again expected to be buoyant. The cycle of Helaba defines as opportunities the business potential that it investments is continuing in the light of the favourable environis able to leverage in its operating segments as a result of its ment for capital formation. The pace of construction activity is business model, market position or special expertise. By pursulikely to slacken, however; further increases will be difficult to ing targeted strategic growth initiatives in its lines of business, realise given the very high level of capacity utilisation. As in the Helaba has positioned itself to best exploit the potential opporprevious year, imports are anticipated to grow at a stronger rate tunities arising from the current market environment. than exports in 2019 so that German foreign trade is likely to make a slightly negative contribution to growth. Public finances In 2018, Helaba conducted a major customer survey in which are likely to show a somewhat smaller surplus in 2019 following 90 % of the participants stated that they were extremely satisthe surplus of 1.7 % of GDP in 2018. Although tax receipts will fied with the bank. This shows that Helaba’s values-based bankcontinue to rise, higher public-sector capital spending and ing business is meeting with a positive response from customgreater public-sector consumption will restrict the surpluses. ers and that the institution can bank on stable, enduring client relations going forward. The survey addressed virtually all the Diverse trends are apparent in the eurozone: in Italy, growth is bank’s client groups: target customers, real estate customers, likely to be well below average again in 2019 as the new governproduct customers of the Cash Management and Capital Marment is failing to tackle the nation’s competitive problems. Dekets units, and the Sparkassen. All in all, 500 telephone interspite the protests afflicting the nation, France could record views were carried out. growth on a par with Germany’s. Growth in Spain will remain above average but will fall. Long-term customer relationships combined with a sustainable business policy in the carefully selected domestic and internaSlowly but surely, the ECB is starting to turn. The first step totional target markets have formed the basis for the growth in wards a less expansionary monetary policy came at the end of new business in the Real Estate segment over the last few years. 2018, when the ECB discontinued its bond-buying programme. Even during periods of increasing competition and downward The next step in the second half of 2019 is likely to be a cautious pressure on margins, Helaba believes that there are good opadjustment of the key interest rates in response to the – by portunities for the Bank to assert and continue to consolidate then – improved economic backdrop, with the deposit rate likely its market position in real estate lending based on its product to rise from – 0.4 % to – 0.2 %. Although money market rates and expertise and on its well-established presence in the markets short-dated German government bonds are, for the most part, over many years. In real estate lending, Helaba will continue to still in negative territory, yields on medium and long maturities expand the syndication offering it extends to customers and are set to attain higher levels in positive territory. The yield curve will steepen overall in the course of the year. 65 investors. Syndication arrangements also allow Sparkassen to In the Retail & Asset Management segment, Frankfurter participate in lending transactions set up by Helaba experts and ­Sparkasse – the regional market leader in private customer busithus diversify their risk. ness – is benefiting from opportunities derived from its strong local roots. In December, it opened a new branch in Frankfurt’s The Corporates & Markets segment encompasses the customer-­ Europaviertel in response to the dynamic growth of this new driven business. In Corporate Finance, Helaba is broadening its housing and business quarter in the heart of the city. In addition, offering through targeted product initiatives, for example in appealing new solutions are being created – such as the Friends structured sales finance business, and expanding its supply in Banks online tool, the only of its kind in Germany: its queschain finance activities. In sales financing operations with contionnaire makes it possible to ideally match customers with sumers, Helaba is strengthening and extending its role as a advisors. The tool enhances the quality of on-site counselling source of funding. Thanks to its acquisition of DVB ’s rolling stock and our presence across a broad area. portfolio, Helaba can sustainably improve its market position for Land Transport funding as well as increase its business volFurther business potential can be leveraged with the subsidiary ume and new business operations. Helaba Invest through the even tighter integration within the Helaba Group. Among other things, this creates opportunities for The Metaplus Digital web application is leading to greater efficollaborating with Helaba on the real-estate loan fund, which alciency and more potential business in the Sparkasse lending lows Sparkassen to access Helaba’s diversified lending portfolio. business. With the help of interfaces to OSP lus at Sparkassen, customer and transaction data can be sent directly, which means Helaba believes that there is further growth potential for the that lending decisions can be made more quickly. Group from the business with high-net-worth customers via the Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (FBG) subsidiary. Frankfurter BankExport-oriented corporate customers expect their partner bank gesellschaft is the leading private bank in the S-Group collaboto offer a range of products that will help them with their internarating exclusively with the Sparkassen. After opening further tional activities. The Bank’s institutional roots in the Sparkassen-­ locations in Düsseldorf, Munich and Hamburg, Helaba believes Finanzgruppe and its extended customer base are enabling there is a very good chance that FBG will achieve its goal of Helaba to establish itself as a leading provider of international becoming one of the five most powerful private banking institrade finance and payment transactions in the Sparkassen-­ tutions in Germany. Finanzgruppe and lift business volumes and income in this ­segment. GWH has added a fund component to its four-pillar strategy of real estate management, real estate sales, project development/revitIn the payments business, Helaba continues to be one of Geralisation, and real estate services. The aim here is to create, sell many’s leading payment transaction clearing houses and a domand manage a residential property fund for Sparkassen. inant Landesbank in a market shaped by persistently high competitive pressure and regulatory requirements. The associated In the development business segment, the administration and opportunities are being systematically exploited with the aim financing of the Hessenkasse, which has a volume of around of generating fees and commissions to counter the ongoing sig€ 5 bn, presents significant business potential. nificant downward pressure on margins. By acquiring Dexia Kommunalbank Deutschland, Helaba can Helaba identified the fundamental processes of transformation consolidate its market position as a leading issuer of Pfandbriefe in the payments market at an early stage and in the last few and hone its competitive edge in municipal finance. Upon comyears has already developed various initiatives to take into acpletion of the transaction, Helaba will become Germany’s largest count the technical advances in digitalisation. In this context, issuer of public Pfandbriefe, with a joint outstanding volume of the Bank has made significant progress in implementing an public Pfandbriefe totalling some € 29 bn. instant payments system, as required under regulatory requirements. Helaba launched the system in the Sparkassen-FinanzDespite continuing uncertainty, the bank and its London branch gruppe in July 2018, thereby ensuring that this forward-looking are well prepared for Brexit. And despite the considerable polittechnology also forms part of a consistent approach in which ical uncertainty in the run-up to withdrawal, Helaba believes Helaba aims to maintain its strong position in the Sparkassen-­ that, even in the case of a no-deal Brexit, its loans portfolio will Finanzgruppe. not suffer substantial impairment in the short term, either in the UK or in continental Europe. The foreseeable impairments and 66 Group Management Report Outlook and Opportunities shifts in ratings are acceptable. Medium term trends in the UK Rating agencies Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s), Fitch Ratare countered by what is, even today, a highly selective lending ings (Fitch) and Standard & Poor’s (S&P) have awarded Helaba policy. Although we do envisage a slight increase in contribuissuer ratings of Aa3, A+ and A. The ratings for short-term liabiltions to loss allowances for loans and advances, and believe that ities are P-1, F-1+ and A-1. the change in interest and credit spreads – especially in the short term – could give rise to significant measurement losses, The ratings from Fitch and S&P are based on a joint S-Group even in low-risk portfolios, we do expect values to recover in the rating for the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe Hessen-Thüringen. The medium term. The bank is addressing these risk factors with a strategically significant funding instruments “public Pfandrisk-conscious approach applied both to new business on the briefe” and “mortgage Pfandbriefe” both have A A A ratings. loans side and to its daily monitoring and countering of market Thanks to its excellent standing among institutional and private risks. investors and its diversified product range, Helaba has consistently enjoyed direct access to the funding markets over the last In 2017, Helaba developed a future-focused digital agenda. The few years. Helaba’s status as part of a strong association of ficore component is the strategic digitalisation project, involving nancial institutions also underpins its ongoing ability to access digitalisation initiatives in a number of waves, in which mixed funding in the money and capital markets. teams comprising IT and other relevant specialists used agile development methodology to produce prototypes for applicaHelaba is firmly and permanently established as part of the Gertions at the customer interface and improvements to internal man Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe by virtue of the structure of its processes. The key development at the customer interface is owners (88 % of its shares are held by members of the SparkasHelaba’s customer portal, now in its third release, which has met sen organisation) and its central bank function for 40 % of Sparwith lively interest from both corporate and real estate customkassen in Germany. Further enhancing its position as a leading ers. This portal offers customers significant added value with S-Group bank for the German Sparkassen and permanently inthe personalised customer dashboard, which provides transpartegrating with the Sparkassen are among Helaba’s strategic ency of current products, and support functions – such as the objectives. The pressure on profitability created by the level of secure data room and the transparent process for new real escompetition in retail banking and exacerbated by the current tate loans that is trackable for both parties. The functionality will period of low interest rates will lead to greater task sharing be updated in 2019 once again based on customer feedback. within the S-Group. In this environment, opportunities may arise Process optimisation projects are also progressing as planned; for Helaba to strengthen and extend its position as a product the online portal for the jointly extended (meta) loans business and service provider to the Sparkassen and a platform for comwith Sparkassen went live in November 2018 in the scope of the bining tasks. Possible springboards include the joint lending OS Plus release update. Following initial successful tests with operations with Sparkassen for larger mid-sized clients, for exRobotic Process Automation (RPA ), further use cases have now ample, the international business, or high-end private banking been identified and these will be implemented in the course of through Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft. 2019. Helaba’s collaboration with the vc trade platform for promissory notes is developing in a very encouraging manner. Due to the challenging nature of the prevailing economic conIn 2018, Helaba and other players succeeded in placing several ditions, the banking sector finds itself in a continuous process billion euros worth of business via the platform. In addition, the of adjustment, with increasing pressure to consolidate. Against komuno digital platform for municipal loans went live in Septhis backdrop, portfolios are offered time and again on the martember 2018. komuno is the initial capital expenditure of Helaba ket. Helaba analyses such opportunities for acquisition in order Digital, an equity investment entity. Following successful testing to expand its business in line with its business model. and the first round of transactions between municipalities and Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe institutes, the platform has been Overall, Helaba finds itself well placed to meet the challenges of available since early 2019 to all interested financing providers. the future over the long term with its established strategic busiHelaba Digital is preparing further equity investments. ness model and sees additional development opportunities in the expansion of business with established target customers and of regional private customers and SME business, S-Group 67 business, public development and infrastructure business, and 2019. At € 9.3 bn, the total volume of new mediumand longin the closure of gaps in its client base and product range (at term lending business in 2019 in the Corporates & Markets segboth domestic and international levels) in wholesale business. ment is budgeted to be well above the level of the previous year. The Helaba Group’s objective in its profitability strategy is to further stabilise its sustainable earning power to strengthen its Customer business with capital market products will once again capital base while observing risk strategy requirements and face challenging conditions in 2019 on account of the low intertaking account of changes in the regulatory environment. est rates. What is more, low underlying credit spreads have a fundamentally detrimental effect on customer business and Probable development of the Group warehousing. The ECB ’s unwinding of quantitative easing has Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale (Helaba) is a credit led to expectations that credit spreads will widen and volatility institution organised under public law; its business model is increase. That said, this trend will give rise to opportunities in based on a strong regional focus, a presence in carefully sethe market and be accompanied by an expansion in business lected international markets and a very close relationship with volume. It is expected that customer business will improve over the Sparkasse organisation and therefore provides an excellent the course of 2019 and income will rise. foundation for the development of the business in 2019. The economic forecasts for 2019 predict solid economic trends with In the cash management business, Helaba is one of Germany’s continued growth. Coupled with interest rates that remain low leading payment transaction clearing houses and the leading in 2019, the large number of project activities will have an adlight in the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe. The number of transacverse impact on financial performance in 2019. The details of tions settled is set to surpass seven billion in 2019. The structhe forecast for 2019 are presented below. tural shift to digital and increasingly cut-throat competition are producing concentration processes, particularly for network In the Real Estate segment, 2019 will again see real estate lendoperators, and this may well result in a decline in mandates for ing – both in Germany and abroad – subject to intense compeHelaba’s account. The cash management business line expects tition and downward pressure on margins. Nonetheless, Helaba the positive trend in transaction volumes to generate a slight intends to use its robust market position to augment business increase in commissions – the most important source of involumes and income in this segment in 2019. The volume of new come – and that this will largely balance out the adverse impact mediumand long-term real estate lending business in 2019 is of low interest rates. therefore budgeted to be around 4 % higher than 2018 at € 10.2 bn. Syndication is to be temporarily reduced in order to Interest and fee and commission income in the Corporates & aid portfolio growth. Loss allowances for loans and advances in Markets segment is budgeted to rise by 2 % overall. In the capthe Real Estate segment will rise to € 54 m compared with the ital markets business, Helaba expects earnings to be well above very low prior-year level. In view of a slight rise in general and the previous year’s level, impacted as it was by negative meaadministrative expenses, profit before taxes for the segment is surement effects. In contrast, loss allowances for loans and adpredicted to drop year on year to € 211 m in 2019 (2018: vances are expected to rise in 2019 compared with the very low € 242 m). prior-year level. In view of ongoing increases in general and administrative expenses triggered by greater project costs and In the Corporates & Markets segment, corporate client business higher cost allocations for the structural costs of banking, profit is expected to grow in 2019 despite persistently intense combefore taxes for the segment is predicted to rise slightly year on petition. The acquisition of a rolling stock portfolio also plays a year to € 131 m in 2019 (2018: € 119 m). role in the planned growth. A continuous rise in earnings in both Sparkasse and municipal lending business is anticipated in In the Retail & Asset Management segment, Frankfurter ­Sparkasse will once again in 2019 contribute to positive earnings over the long term in its position as regional market leader. 68 Group Management Report Outlook and Opportunities Earnings performance is forecast, however, to be significantly in 2019 compared with the previous year. In 2019, the budgeted below the good level achieved in the previous year on account loss before taxes for the Other segment in 2019 is expected to of the ongoing adverse impact from low interest rates. Frankfall year-on-year to € 94 m (2018: loss of € 117 m). furter Sparkasse is predicting a moderate rise in loss allowances for loans and advances in 2019 and is, therefore, expecting profTotal new mediumand long-term lending business (including its to be significantly below the 2018 level (down 25 %) despite Frankfurter Sparkasse but excluding the WIBank development a slight drop in general and administrative expenses. business, which does not form part of the competitive market) is budgeted at € 20.4 bn for 2019, slightly above the previous Helaba Invest intends to further expand its product range in year’s level. Taking into account anticipated redemptions, loans 2019 and expects income to be slightly above the 2018 level. and advances to customers are expected to increase slightly. Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft is planning to increase its income The changes in total assets depend to a great extent on the considerably in 2019 by expanding both its family office busibalances as at the reporting date. Overall, another slight inness locations and its consulting capacities at its new FBG crease is anticipated in 2019. Deutschland locations in Düsseldorf and Munich. Despite the ongoing adverse impact in 2019 from low interest The low interest rate environment is impairing LBS’s business rates, net interest income in the Group is likely to rise by 5 % model both through lower returns on invested assets and beyear on year in 2019. Contributing factors will be the business cause lending business in the collective is subdued. As slightly initiatives and the resulting planned growth in customer loans rising income is offset by slightly rising costs, net income is exand advances. A continuous rise in net interest income is anticpected to be on a par year on year. ipated over the medium term. GWH expects profits for 2019 to reach the excellent prior-year Loss allowances for loans and advances in the two previous level. The anticipated continual increase in income from new years were impacted by a high level of reversals of portfolio loan products such as real estate funds will be offset in 2019 by loss allowances. Based on favourable macroeconomic trends, slightly higher expenses for the realisation of initiatives. loss allowances for loans and advances in 2019 are budgeted at € 120 m – yet still remain slightly below the long-term average Total earnings before loss allowances for loans and advances in of the past decade. In the medium term, there will probably be this segment are expected to be on a par with the previous year. a further slight rise in loss allowances for loans and advances. As a consequence of projected increases in loss allowances for loans and advances and in general and administrative expenses, Net fee and commission income has been budgeted at roughly profit before taxes in the segment is likely to fall by about 17 % 9 % higher than in the previous year, mainly because of the to € 169 m. growth in customer business. It is anticipated that net trading income will return to normal levels in 2019 and thus rise signifiFollowing the significant rise in the previous year due to the cantly compared with the previous year, which was characterised ‘Hessenkasse’ project, business volume in the WIBank segment by particularly high credit value adjustments (CVA s). Other net in 2019 is expected to stabilise at the current level. Interest operating income is projected to amount to € 275 m in 2019, ­income will rise slightly compared with 2018. In light of the andown on the previous year’s figure, which was shaped by gains ticipated moderate rise in general and administrative expenses, on disposals. profit before taxes in the segment is projected to be slightly below the average for previous years at € 16 m. Headcount throughout the Group is projected to remain largely unchanged. The main reason for the 1.5 % climb in personnel In the Other segment, income derived from investing own funds expenses is an increase in collective pay levels. Non-personnel is forecast to exceed the prior-year level. In contrast, treasury operating expenses (including depreciation, amortisation and contributions to earnings, which are recognised in this segment, impairment losses) are predicted to decline slightly by around will be below the prior-year level. The OFB Group is projecting 1.5 %, following a rise in 2018. Overall, general and administraearnings in 2019 to be on a level with the previous year. The tive expenses for the Group are budgeted to remain on a par general and administrative expenses of the central units not with the previous year’s value. allocated to the operating segments are expected to be lower 69 At € 444 m, profit before taxes for the Group is projected to be With the ECB winding down its asset-buying programme, it apon or around the previous year’s level. The amount of consolipears that the first step towards more normal interest rate levels dated net profit in 2019 and specific items in the income statehas now been taken. The risk remains, however, that the ECB ment will be affected by the anticipated inclusion of DKD in the may postpone the expected rise in interest rates to well beyond consolidated financial statements. It is expected that the transthe end of 2019 in response to lower growth figures and general action will be concluded in the second quarter of 2019. Group uncertainty in the eurozone. forecasts do not yet reflect the effects of DKD consolidation. In addition, Helaba’s membership in the institutional reserve Based on the budgeted profit, economic return on equity for fund of the Landesbanken and in the European bank levy can 2019 is expected to be around 5.4 % with a cost-income ratio of compel Helaba to make special payments in the case of indemapproximately 72 %. The budgeted CET 1 capital ratio for the nity and assistance measures – which in turn could result in Helaba Group is 13.5 %. A leverage ratio of around 4.8 % is anunforeseen adverse effects on Helaba’s net assets, financial ticipated for 2019. position, financial performance and liquidity position. Regulatory authorities stipulate that a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR ) of at least 100 % must be maintained (capacity). Risk appetite was set at 125 % for 2019, risk tolerance at 120 %. The net stable funding ratio (NSFR ) – a mediumand long-term ­liquidity ratio – will be introduced on a mandatory basis in 2021 at the earliest; Helaba is already taking this key indicator into account. In this respect, a figure of 100 % for risk appetite is budgeted for 2019. Risk tolerance has been set at 80 %. The Bank’s aim for 2020 is once again to launch strategic initiatives to continue developing its business divisions while increasing income from customer business. The adverse effects associated with the low interest rates should continue to dissipate with the expected return of interest rates to normal levels over the medium term. Supported by the growth initiatives that have been put in place, Helaba plans to lift earnings significantly over the medium term. Risks to the Bank’s earnings performance stem from political and macroeconomic trends. The ongoing negotiations on the form and date of the UK ’s withdrawal from the EU is causing uncertainty in the markets. Although Helaba’s business model is not directly affected by this, repercussions are possible for the real economy and the financial markets. In addition, the continuing uncertainty surrounding Italy’s political course and the associated budgetary discipline could well sow the seeds of destabilisation in the eurozone. In Germany, there is a risk that economic growth could be weaker than expected due to these overarching European issues. ­Continuing uncertainty surrounding the pending structural shift in the automotive and energy sectors could also subdue growth in Germany. 70 Group Management Report Outlook and Opportunities Overall assessment Despite the increasing competitive pressure and the multitude Against the backdrop of exacting market conditions, Helaba of regulatory requirements, Helaba is well placed to meet the generated profit before taxes of € 443 m (2017: € 447 m) in 2018, challenges of the future over the long term with its strategic which was a satisfactory outcome and in excess of the budgeted business model focused on the needs of the real economy and figure. In this context, the performance of the operating busithe Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe. It sees additional development ness was likewise satisfactory. While the volume of new business opportunities in the expansion of regional private customers increased, net interest income and net fee and commission inand SME business, S-Group business, public development and come generally moved sideways compared with the previous infrastructure business, and in the closure of gaps in its client year. Against the background of positive economic trends, loss base and product range (at both domestic and international allowances for loans and advances resulted in a net reversal (i.e. levels) in wholesale business. The Helaba Group’s long-term income) for the year, even with the continuation of the Bank’s objective in its profitability strategy is to further stabilise its conservative risk provisioning policy. In the prior year, both net sustainable earning power to strengthen its capital base while trading income and net income from hedge accounting were observing risk strategy requirements and taking account of significantly impacted by temporary remeasurement effects. changes in the regulatory environment. The rise in other net operating income had a positive effect. General and administrative expenses rose as a consequence of Frankfurt am Main/Erfurt, 25 February 2019 higher IT and consulting expenses in connection with the implementation of regulatory and business-driven requirements. Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale The net profit generated in financial year 2018 allows Helaba to service all subordinated debt, profit participation rights and The Board of Managing Directors ­silent participations, pay a dividend to shareholders and make appropriations to reserves. Grüntker Groß Dr. Hosemann Kemler Schmid Dr. Schraad Consolidated Financial Statements 72 Consolidated Income Statement 73 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 74 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 76 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 77 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 80 Notes 298 Responsibility Statement 299 Country by Country Reporting Pursuant to Section 26a KWG 303 Independent Auditor’s Report 309 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report 72 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Income Statement for the period 1 January to 31 December 2018 2018 20171) Change Notes in € m in € m in € m in % Net interest income (7), (22) 1,072 1,069 3 0.3 Interest income 3,525 3,683 – 158 – 4.3 thereof: Calculated using the effective interest method 2,311 2,351 – 40 – 1.7 Interest expenses – 2,453 – 2,614 161 6.2 Loss allowances (7), (9), (23) 45 56 – 11 – 19.6 Net interest income after loss allowances 1,117 1,125 –8 – 0.7 Dividend income (7), (25) 36 26 10 38.5 Net fee and commission income (7), (26) 349 354 –5 – 1.4 Fee and commission income 464 494 – 30 – 6.1 Fee and commission expenses – 115 – 140 25 17.9 Net trading income (7), (27) 32 268 – 236 – 88.1 Gains or losses on other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (7), (28) 21 – 215 236 > 100.0 Gains or losses on financial instruments designated voluntarily at fair value (7), (29) –8 88 – 96 > – 100.0 Net income from hedge accounting (7), (10), (30) – –9 9 100.0 Gains or losses on derecognition of financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss (7), (31) 6 24 – 18 – 75.0 thereof: From financial assets measured at amortised cost 1 –1 2 > 100.0 Share of profit or loss of equity-accounted entities (32) 13 19 –6 – 31.6 Other net operating income (33) 317 115 202 > 100.0 General and administrative expenses (34) – 1,363 – 1,276 – 87 – 6.8 Depreciation and amortisation (35) – 77 – 72 –5 – 6.9 Profit before taxes 443 447 –4 – 0.9 Taxes on income (36) – 165 – 191 26 13.6 Consolidated net profit 278 256 22 8.6 thereof: Attributable to non-controlling interests 2 –6 8 > 100.0 thereof: Attributable to shareholders of the parent 276 262 14 5.3 1) The prior-year figures have been reclassified in accordance with the new structure of the income statement. Figures have not been restated. Please refer to Note (1). 73 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period 1 January to 31 December 2018 2018 2017 Change in € m in € m in € m in % Consolidated net profit according to the income statement 278 256 22 8.6 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement: 5 82 – 77 – 93.9 Remeasurement of net defined benefit liability 10 116 – 106 – 91.4 Change in fair value of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 3 n.a. n.a. – Credit risk-related change in fair value of financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value – 11 n.a. n.a. – Taxes on income on items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 3 – 34 37 > 100.0 Items that will be subsequently reclassified to the income statement: – 83 – 63 – 20 – 31.7 Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets1) n.a. – 66 35 53.0 Measurement gains (+) or losses (–) on availablefor-sale financial assets n.a. – 43 30 69.8 Gains (–) or losses (+) reclassified to the income statement upon disposal n.a. – 23 5 21.7 Change in fair value of debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income – 89 n.a. n.a. – Unrealised gains (+) / losses (–) recognised in the period under review – 85 n.a. n.a. – Gains (–) or losses (+) reclassified to the income statement in the reporting period –4 n.a. n.a. – Gains / losses from currency translation of foreign operations 8 – 20 28 > 100.0 Unrealised gains (+) / losses (–) recognised in the period under review 10 – 20 30 > 100.0 Gains (–) or losses (+) reclassified to the income statement in the reporting period –2 – –2 – Gains or losses from fair value hedges of currency risk – 42 n.a. n.a. – Unrealised gains (+) / losses (–) recognised in the period under review – 42 n.a. n.a. – Taxes on income on items that will be reclassified to the income statement 40 23 17 73.9 Other comprehensive income after taxes – 78 19 – 97 > – 100.0 Comprehensive income for the reporting period 200 275 – 75 – 27.3 thereof: Attributable to non-controlling interests 2 – 2 – thereof: Attributable to shareholders of the parent 198 275 – 77 – 28.0 1) These amounts relate to equity instruments and debt instruments classified as AfS in accordance with IAS 39. 74 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2018 Assets in € m Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) 1.1.20171) Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances with central banks and banks (38) 7,342 10,478 4,322 Financial assets measured at amortised cost (5), (39) 106,755 100,046 105,985 Trading assets (5), (40) 16,989 16,100 20,341 Other financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (5), (41) 3,911 2,369 3,271 Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value (5), (42) 377 2,307 2,444 Positive fair values of hedging derivatives under hedge accounting (10), (43) 608 551 753 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (5), (44) 22,494 22,191 23,839 Shares in equity-accounted entities (3), (45) 45 45 25 Investment property (46) 2,420 2,239 2,163 Property and equipment (47) 438 427 435 Intangible assets (48) 80 66 113 Income tax assets (50) 593 483 522 Current income tax assets 103 68 96 Deferred income tax assets 490 415 426 Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale (49) 42 – – Other assets (51) 874 933 940 Total assets 162,968 158,235 165,153 1) Prior-year figures have been reclassified in accordance with the new structure of the statement of financial position. Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the transition to the new structure of the statement of financial position. 75 Equity and liabilities in € m Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) 1.1.20171) Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (5), (52) 125,222 122,537 122,010 Trading liabilities (5), (53) 12,763 12,277 18,703 Negative fair values of non-trading derivatives (5), (54) 1,791 2,191 3,756 Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value (5), (55) 11,480 10,312 9,607 Negative fair values of hedging derivatives under hedge accounting (5), (56) 490 89 161 Provisions (57) 2,087 2,089 2,319 Income tax liabilities (50) 157 268 184 Current income tax liabilities 141 252 174 Deferred income tax liabilities 16 16 10 Other liabilities (58) 516 438 563 Equity (59) 8,462 8,034 7,850 Subscribed capital 2,509 2,509 2,509 Capital reserves 1,546 1,546 1,546 Additional Tier 1 capital instruments 354 – – Retained earnings 4,414 4,225 4,053 Accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) – 360 – 243 – 256 Non-controlling interests –1 –3 –2 Total equity and liabilities 162,968 158,235 165,153 1) Prior-year figures have been reclassified in accordance with the new structure of the statement of financial position. Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the transition to the new structure of the statement of financial position. 76 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the period 1 January to 31 December 2018 in € m Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent company Cumula­ tive other Sub­ Additional compre­ Nonscribed Capital Tier 1 capital Retained hensive controlling Total capital reserves instruments earnings income1) Subtotal interests equity As at 31.12.2016 2,509 1,546 – 3,521 276 7,852 –2 7,850 Adjustments due to IAS 8 532 – 532 – – As at 1.1.2017 2,509 1,546 – 4,053 – 256 7,852 –2 7,850 Changes in the basis of consolidation – –1 –1 Dividend payment – 90 – 90 – 90 Comprehensive income for the reporting period 262 13 275 – 275 thereof: Consolidated net profit 262 262 –6 256 thereof: Other comprehensive income after tax 13 13 6 19 As at 31.12.2017 2,509 1,546 – 4,225 – 243 8,037 –3 8,034 Adjustments due to IFRS 9 3 – 39 – 36 – 36 As at 1.1.2018 2,509 1,546 – 4,228 – 282 8,001 –3 7,998 Issue of additional Tier 1 capital instruments 354 354 354 Dividend payment – 90 – 90 – 90 Comprehensive income for the reporting period 276 – 78 198 2 200 thereof: Consolidated net profit 276 276 2 278 thereof: Other comprehensive income after tax – 78 – 78 – – 78 As at 31.12.2018 2,509 1,546 354 4,414 – 360 8,463 –1 8,462 1) The revaluation reserve and the currency translation reserve are reported within accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI). Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the reconciliation from the old to the new structure for equity. 77 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the period 1 January to 31 December 2018 in € m 2018 20171) Consolidated net profit 278 256 Non-cash items in consolidated net profit and reconciliation to cash flow from operating activities: Loss allowances and modifications in respect of financial assets; depreciation, amortisation, impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses in respect of non-financial assets 37 346 Additions to and reversals of provisions outside the scope of application of IFRS 9 – 11 224 Other non-cash expense / income – 128 – 399 Gains or losses from the derecognition of non-financial assets and financial instruments – 58 – 55 Other adjustments – 909 – 906 Subtotal – 791 – 534 Changes in assets and liabilities from operating activities after adjustment for non-cash items: Loans and receivables measured at amortised cost: – 6,687 7,038 Trading assets / liabilities – 338 – 2,295 Other loans and receivables mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss – 66 n.a. Loans and receivables designated voluntarily at fair value 220 – 33 Loans and receivables measured at fair value through other comprehensive income – 482 n.a. Other assets / liabilities from operating activities 269 – 2,006 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 3,348 1,404 Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value 1,157 – 216 Interest received 3,494 3,702 Interest paid – 2,457 – 1,712 Dividends and profit distributions received 36 – Income tax payments – 198 – 82 Cash flow from operating activities – 2,495 5,266 1) Prior-year figures restated. In accordance with the new structure of the statement of financial position, the cash flow from changes in loans and advances to banks, and loans and advances to customers, was allocated to the new line items “Loans and receivables measured at amortised cost”, and “Loans and receivables ­designated voluntarily at fair value”. The adjustments of cash and cash equivalents made to match the new structure of the statement of financial position resulted in a decline of the cash flow from operating activities of € 661 m. 78 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Cash Flow Statement in € m 2018 20171) Proceeds from the disposal of: Financial assets measured at amortised cost excluding loans and receivables 29 – Other financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss excluding loans and receivables 11 n.a. Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income excluding loans and receivables 3,435 6,165 Investment property 90 26 Property and equipment 29 60 Intangible assets – – Payments for the acquisition of: Other financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss excluding loans and receivables – 30 n.a. Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income excluding loans and receivables – 3,495 – 4,972 Investment property – 291 – 146 Property and equipment – 31 – 40 Intangible assets – 30 – 66 Effect of changes in basis of consolidation: Payments received from the disposal of subsidiaries 61 19 Other effects from changes in bases of consolidation – 25 – Cash flow from investing activities – 247 1,046 Payments received from the issue of additional Tier 1 capital instruments 354 – Dividend payments – 92 – 90 Change in cash and cash equivalents from other financing activities (subordinated liabilities)2) – 630 – 110 Cash flow from financing activities – 368 – 200 79 in € m 2018 20171) Cash and cash equivalents as at 1.1. 10,478 4,322 Cash flow from operating activities – 2,495 5,266 Cash flow from investing activities – 247 1,046 Cash flow from financing activities – 368 – 200 Effect of exchange rate changes, measurement changes and changes in basis of consolidation – 26 44 Cash and cash equivalents as at 31.12. 7,342 10,478 thereof: Cash on hand 93 89 thereof: Demand deposit balances with central banks and banks 7,249 10,389 1) Prior-year figures restated. In accordance with the new structure of the statement of financial position, the cash flow from changes in loans and advances to banks and loans and advances to customers was allocated to the new line items “Loans and receivables measured at amortised cost”, and “Loans and receivables ­designated voluntarily at fair value”. The adjustments of cash and cash equivalents made to match the new structure of the statement of financial position resulted in a decline of the cash flow from operating activities of € 661 m. 2) Non-cash changes in subordinated liabilities amounted to an increase of € 5 m (31 December 2017: decrease of € 3 m) and were attributable to accrued interest and measurement effects. The cash flow statement shows the composition of and changes The cash flow from financing activities comprises proceeds and to cash and cash equivalents in the financial year. The changes repayments related to subordinated capital as well as proceeds in cash and cash equivalents are attributable to operating activfrom capital contributions and repayments from equity. The divities, investing activities and financing activities. idends paid out in the financial year and the servicing of the silent participations reported as equity are also recognised The cash flow from operating activities comprises proceeds from under this cash flow category. Please refer to Note (59) for furand payments for loans and receivables, financial liabilities, ther information on equity increases due to additional Tier 1 trading assets/liabilities and other assets or liabilities. The incapital instruments. terest and dividend payments resulting from operating activities are shown separately. Other adjustments relate to net interest Cash and cash equivalents correspond to the cash reserve, income, dividend income and taxes on income excluding dewhich comprises cash on hand and demand deposit balances ferred taxes. with central banks as well as demand deposits and overnight money balances with banks. The cash flow from investing activities comprises proceeds and payments relating to bonds and other fixed-income securities, Given the generally limited informative value of the cash flow equity shares and other variable-income securities, shareholdstatement for banks, it is considered of minor importance for the ings, investment property, property and equipment, intangible Helaba Group, and is not used to manage the Group’s liquidity assets as well as proceeds and payments in connection with the levels or structure the statement of financial position. sale or acquisition of subsidiaries. Further disclosures concerning the consolidated companies purchased or sold are set out in Note (4). 80 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Notes 82 Accounting Policies 82 (1) Basis of Presentation 129 (11) Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 100 (2) Disclosures on the Initial Application of IFRS 9 130 (12) Accounting Treatment of Leases ­Financial Instruments 130 (13) Currency Translation 110 (3) Principles of Consolidation 130 (14) Investment Property 112 (4) Basis of Consolidation 132 (15) Property and Equipment 114 (5) Financial Instruments 132 (16) Intangible Assets 117 (6) Classes of Financial Instruments 133 (17) Non-Current Assets and Disposal Groups Classified 120 (7) Recognition of Financial Instruments and of Income as Held for Sale and Expenses 133 (18) Other Assets and Other Liabilities 122 (8) Fair Values of Financial Instruments 133 (19) Provisions for Employee Benefits 125 (9) Impairment of Financial Assets, Loan Commitments 134 (20) Other Provisions and Financial Guarantees 135 (21) Taxes on Income 128 (10) Hedge Accounting 136 Income Statement Disclosures 136 (22) Net Interest Income 143 (30) Net Income from Hedge Accounting 138 (23) Loss Allowances 144 (31) Gains or Losses on Derecognition of Financial 139 (24) Gains or Losses from Modification of Contractual ­Instruments Not ­Measured at Fair Value Through Cash Flows Profit or Loss 139 (25) Dividend income 145 (32) Share of Profit or Loss of Equity-Accounted Entities 140 (26) Net Fee and Commission Income 146 (33) Other Net Operating Income 141 (27) Net Trading Income 147 (34) General and Administrative Expenses 142 (28) Gains or Losses on Other Financial Instruments 148 (35) Depreciation and Amortisation Mandatorily Measured at Fair Value Through Profit 148 (36) Taxes on Income or Loss 151 (37) Segment Reporting 143 (29) Gains or Losses on Financial ­Instruments ­Designated Voluntarily at Fair Value 155 Statement of Financial Position Disclosures 155 (38) Cash on Hand, Demand Deposits and Overnight 167 (45) Shares in Equity-Accounted Entities Money Balances with Central Banks and Banks 169 (46) Investment Property 156 (39) Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost 171 (47) Property and Equipment 158 (40) Trading Assets 173 (48) Intangible Assets 160 (41) Other Financial Assets Mandatorily Measured at 175 (49) Non-Current Assets and Disposal Groups Fair Value Through Profit or Loss ­Classified as Held for Sale and Liabilities 162 (42) Financial Assets Designated ­Voluntarily at Fair Related to Non­-Current Assets and Disposal Value Groups Classified as Held for Sale 164 (43) Positive Fair Values of Hedging Derivatives Under 175 (50) Income Tax Assets and Liabilities Hedge Accounting 177 (51) Other Assets 165 (44) Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value Through 178 (52) Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortised Cost Other Comprehensive Income 180 (53) Trading Liabilities 81 182 (54) Negative Fair Values of Non-Trading Derivatives 184 (57) Provisions 182 (55) Financial Liabilities Designated Voluntarily at 193 (58) Other Liabilities Fair Value 193 (59) Equity 183 (56) Negative Fair Values of Hedging Derivatives Under Hedge Accounting 196 Further Disclosures on Financial Instruments 196 (60) Provision of Collateral 208 (67) Fair Values of Financial Instruments 198 (61) Transfer of Financial Assets without Derecognition 220 (68) Disclosures relating to Finan­cial Instruments to 199 (62) Transfer of Financial Assets with Derecognition which the Fair Value Option is applied 199 (63) Disclosures on Offsetting Assets and Liabilities in 222 (69) Subordinated Assets and Liabilities the Statement of Financial Position 223 (70) Disclosures relating to Issuing Activities 201 (64) Foreign Currency Volumes 223 (71) Risk Management Disclosures 202 (65) Breakdown of Maturities 224 (72) Credit Risks attributable to Financial Instruments 204 (66) Derivatives 252 (73) Hedge Accounting 255 Off-Balance Sheet Transactions and Obligations 255 (74) Contingent Liabilities and Other 256 (75) Letters of Comfort Off-Balance Sheet Obligations 257 (76) Fiduciary Transactions 258 Other Disclosures 258 (77) Leasing Disclosures 275 (83) Auditors’ Fees 260 (78) Disclosures on Revenue from Contracts with 276 (84) Employee Disclosures ­Customers 277 (85) Members of the Supervisory Board 262 (79) Capital Management and 279 (86) Members of the Board of Managing Directors Regulatory Ratio Disclosures 280 (87) Positions on Supervisory Boards 264 (80) Report on Business Relationships with and Other Executive Bodies Structured Entities 281 (88) Report on Events After the Reporting Date 267 (81) Significant Restrictions on Assets or on the 282 (89) List of Shareholdings of Landesbank Hessen-­ Transfer of Funds Thüringen Girozentrale in Accordance with Section 268 (82) Related Party Disclosures 315a in Conjunction with Section 313 (2) HGBB 82 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Notes Accounting Policies the year. See Note (3) for further details on estimation uncertainty arising from consolidated entities, and Note (9) for further details on estimation uncertainty arising from the determination of impairments for financial assets, loan commitments and (1) Basis of Presentation financial guarantees in connection with the Expected Credit Loss method. Basis of accounting The consolidated financial statements of the Helaba Group for IFRSs applied for the first time the year ended 31 December 2018 have been prepared pursuant The 2018 financial year was the first year in which mandatory to Section 315a (1) of the German Commercial Code (Handelsapplication was required for the following IFRS s and IFRIC s adgesetzbuch, HGB) and Regulation (EC ) No. 1606/2002 of the opted by the EU and of significance for Helaba: European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 (IAS Regulation) in accordance with the International Financial ■■ IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Reporting Standards (IFRS s) as published by the International IFRS 9 introduces new rules for classifying and measuring Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and adopted by the Eurofinancial assets in businesses, requires changes to the acpean Union (EU). counting treatment of effects from changes to an entity’s own credit risk in connection with financial obligations classified The consolidated financial statements comprise the consoliat fair value, replaces the rules governing the impairment of dated income statement, the consolidated statement of comfinancial assets and amends hedge accounting requirements. prehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial Entities also have to provide comprehensive disclosures in position, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the the notes. The impact on the consolidated financial stateconsolidated cash flow statement and the notes. The segment ments is described in Note (2). reporting is included within the notes. The group management report in accordance with Section 315 HGB includes a separate ■■ Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – Prepayment report on the opportunities and risks of future development features with negative compensation (opportunity and risk report) in which the risk management sysThe amendments to IFRS 9 have been adopted by the EU and tem is also explained. were to be applied on a mandatory basis only in financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Helaba nevertheThe reporting currency of the consolidated financial statements less opted to apply these amendments at an earlier date. is the euro (€). Euro amounts are generally rounded to the nearUnder the previous IFRS 9 requirements in the currently apest million. plicable version of the standard, the SPPI (solely payments of principal and interest) condition is not met if the lender has The IFRS s and International Financial Reporting Standards Into make a settlement payment in the event of termination by terpretations (IFRIC s) that were in force as at 31 December 2018 the borrower (also referred to as early repayment gain). The have been applied in full. The relevant requirements of German new rules amend the existing requirements in IFRS 9 regardcommercial law as specified in Section 315a HGB have also been ing termination rights in order to allow measurement at amobserved. ortised cost (or, depending on the business model, at fair value through other comprehensive income) even in the case The necessary assumptions, estimates and assessments in conof negative compensation payments. Under the amendnection with recognition and measurement are applied in accorments, it is not relevant whether the settlement amount is dance with the relevant standard, are continuously reviewed and positive or negative. In other words, depending on the interare based on past experience and other factors, such as planest rate prevailing at the time of termination, a payment may ning, expectations and forecasts of future events. Estimation also be made in favour of the contracting party effecting the uncertainty arises in particular in connection with credit risks, early repayment. impairment of assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, the determination of fair values for certain financial assets and liabilities, and the recognition of deferred tax assets, provisions and other obligations. These assumptions, estimates and assessments affect the assets and liabilities reported as at the reporting date and the income and expenses reported for 83 ■■ IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers come items. According to the interpretation, the amendment Under IFRS 15 , revenue is recognised when control over the may be applied prospectively or retrospectively. Helaba apagreed goods and/or services is passed to the customer and plied the prospective approach. the customer can obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from the goods and/or services involved. The revenue ■■ Annual Improvements to IFRS s – 2014-2016 Cycle must be measured in the amount of consideration to which The annual improvements include changes to IFRS s with an the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring impact on recognition, measurement and reporting of transthe promised goods or services to the customer. The new actions, and also terminology and editorial adjustments. model sets out a five-step framework for determining revenue Some of the new stipulations must be applied retrospectively. recognition. The scope of the disclosure requirements is also The following standards were affected by the improvements extended under IFRS 15 . The provisions and definitions in in this cycle: IFRS 15 replace the content of both IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts as well as that of the associated ■■ IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial interpretations; however, they will not have any impact on the ­Reporting Standards recognition of revenue arising in connection with financial ■■ IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities instruments that fall within the scope of IFRS 9. ■■ IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures As a rule, Helaba has used the modified retrospective With the exception of IFRS 9, the adoption of the new or method in the transition to IFRS 15 . In this method, cumuamended standards and interpretations had little or no impact lative adjustment amounts were recognised on 1 Januon the consolidated financial statements. ary 2018. New financial reporting standards for future There has been no impact on equity from initial application. financial years ■■ IFRS 16 Leases ■■ Amendment of IAS 40 Investment Property – Change in Use The basic thrust of this new standard is that lessees will genThis amendment of IAS 40 refers to the disclosure of investerally have to recognise all leases and the associated contracment property under construction or development. As a gentual rights and obligations in the statement of financial posieral rule, transfers to, or from, investment property must be tion. From the perspective of the lessee, the previous made when, and only when, there is a change in use accorddistinction between finance and operating leases as specified ing to IAS 40 . IAS 40 .57 provides a list of examples for such by IAS 17 will no longer be required in the future. changes in use. Given that this list was considered exhaustive, the disclosure requirements for investment property In respect of all leases, the lessee must recognise in the stateunder construction or development were ambiguous. The ment of financial position a lease liability for the obligation amendment of IAS 40 clarifies that investment property to make future lease payments. At the same time, the lessee under construction or development is covered by the stanmust recognise an asset representing the right to use the dard’s general rule. Moreover, the list of examples featured underlying asset. The amount of the right-of-use asset must in IAS 40 .57 has now explicitly been made non-exhaustive. generally equate to the present value of the future lease payAccording to the standard, the amendment may be applied ments plus directly assignable costs. During the term of the prospectively or retrospectively. Helaba applied the prospeclease, the lease liability will be reduced in accordance with tive approach. the principles of financial mathematics in a manner similar to that specified for finance leases in IAS 17 whereas the right■■ IFRIC 22 “Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance of-use asset will be amortised. Exemptions from this account­Consideration” ing treatment will be available for short-term leases and lowIFRIC 22 clarifies what exchange rate shall be applied to the value leased assets. initial recognition of transactions denominated in foreign currencies to make the translation into the functional curIn contrast, the rules for lessors in the new standard largely rency of the reporting entity if the entity receives or pays correspond to the existing provisions in IAS 17. Leases will advance consideration for the related assets, expense or incontinue to be classified either as finance or operating leases. Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred must be classified as finance leases; all 84 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes other leases are classified as operating leases. The classifica■■ Leases with lease terms ending no later than twelve tion criteria in IAS 17 have been carried over and included in months after the date of first-time application (i.e. expiring IFRS 16 . 31 December 2019) are not recognised in the statement of financial position. Such leases are accounted for as shortIFRS 16 also includes a range of other provisions covering term leases in the 2019 financial year. recognition, disclosures in the notes and sale-and-leaseback ■■ When determining lease liabilities as a lessee, Helaba transactions. takes into account whether future purchase or extension options or early termination options will be exercised; The new provisions, which have been adopted by the EU , such considerations have been based on the knowledge must be applied in annual reporting periods beginning on or as at the date of first-time application of IFRS 16 . after 1 January 2019. Earlier application is permitted provided that IFRS 15 is also applied. No early application is ■■ IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments planned. This interpretation is to be applied to the determination of taxable profit (tax loss) when there is uncertainty over income As part of a project to implement the requirements of IFRS 16 , tax treatments under IAS 12 . It does not apply to taxes or fees Helaba performed a contract inventory and introduced new outside the scope of application of IAS 12 , and does not prosoftware to measure leases. At Helaba, the new lease reportvide any regulations regarding interest and late payment ing standard will have an impact in particular on the reporting fines in connection with uncertain tax treatments. The interof leased-in commercial real estate. Overall, it is anticipated pretation provides guidance particularly for the following that there will be an increase in assets (as a result of the recissues: ognition of right-of-use assets) and an increase in lease lia■■ decision whether an entity shall consider uncertain tax bilities of around € 200 m in each case. As a lessee, Helaba treatments independently; uses the following exemption or exception rules provided ■■ assumptions for taxation authorities’ examinations; under IFRS 16 : ■■ determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, ■■ no recognition of right-of-use assets or lease liabilities for ­unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates; short-term leases or for leases of low value assets; ■■ effect of changes in facts and circumstances. ■■ no application of IFRS 16 to leases of intangible assets; ■■ no separation of individual lease and non-lease compoAn entity is required to use judgement to determine whether nents in multiple-element arrangements. each uncertain tax treatment should be considered independently or whether some uncertain tax treatments should The introduction of IFRS 16 at Helaba follows the modified be considered together. The decision should be based on retrospective approach. This means that all IFRS 16 regulawhich approach provides better predictions of the resolution tions are applied to the latest reporting period (2019), while of the uncertainty. The new provisions, which have been adcomparative periods are not adjusted retrospectively. No opted by the EU , must be applied retrospectively in annual impact on equity is expected. At first-time application, Helaba reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Howhas applied the following simplification provisions: ever, the interpretation provides some rules for transition ■■ The present value of leases existing at the date of transirelief. tion that were previously recognised as operating leases is determined by discounting all lease payments outstandHelaba will apply the interpretation at the effective date. Even ing as at 1 January 2019 with the incremental borrowing though Helaba operates in a multinational tax environment, rate applicable at the same date. there are currently no indications that the application of the ■■ The right-of-use asset is measured at the present value of interpretation could have an impact on the consolidated the lease liability. While Helaba recognised provisions for ­financial statements. anticipated losses in line with IAS 37 in the past, such provisions are netted with the right-of-use asset according to the new regulations. 85 The standards and interpretations listed below were issued by income taxes and deferred income taxes on the face of the statethe IASB and IFRS IC , but have only been partially adopted by ment of financial position. Previously, separate figures were not the EU and will only become mandatory in later financial years, reported on the face of the statement of financial position for and have thus not been applied early by Helaba, nor is any early reasons of materiality (see numbers 15) and 30) of the table application planned. These standards and interpretations are notes relating to the changes in the presentation of the stateexpected to have little or no impact on the consolidated financial ment of financial position). In addition, other assets and other statements: liabilities have now been netted to adjust the presentation of ancillary rental costs in line with the standard reporting ap■■ Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations – proach used by the sector (see numbers 16) and 31) of the table Definition of a Business notes relating to the changes in the presentation of the state■■ IFRS 17 Leases ment of financial position). ■■ Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Reclassifications or adjustments have additionally been applied Estimates and Errors – Definition of Materiality to prior-year figures within the disclosures in Notes (22), (26), ■■ Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits – (34), (45), (65), (69), (74) and (82). Please refer to the relevant Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement Notes for details. ■■ IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures – Long-term Interests The prior-year figures in the income statement have been re■■ Annual Improvements to IFRS s – 2015–2017 Cycle stated in line with the new structure. This included the separate ■■ Revised Conceptual Framework and Adjustments of Links disclosure of interest income determined using the effective in IFRS s interest method in accordance with IAS 1 .82(a). The changes to the reporting structure have not had any impact on the consolidated net profit or on comprehensive income. Amendments to recognised amounts, changes to ­estimates, restatement of prior-year figures In the income statement disclosures, the income and expenses In the 2018 financial year, Helaba has adjusted the structure of for the period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 are therefore its statement of financial position, statement of changes in eqcompared with the equivalent prior-year figures for the period uity, income statement, statement of comprehensive income 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 in the new structure. The and cash flow statement. Previously, figures were presented in reclassifications arising from the initial application of IFRS 9 a format based on the standard form prescribed under the Geronly came into effect from 1 January 2018 and were therefore man Regulation on the Accounting of Banks and Financial Sernot yet reported in the income statement for the period 1 Janvices Institutions (Verordnung über die Rechnungslegung der uary 2017 to 31 December 2017. Kreditinstitute und Finanzdienstleistungsinstitute, RechKredV); the new presentation format is based on IFRS 9 measurement To ensure that the figures for the current reporting period can categories. The objective of the change is to bring about greater be compared with the prior-year figures, the income statement harmonisation with regulatory requirements (Financial Reportfor the period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 has been ing, FINREP). This will make it easier to compare the consolireconciled to the new structure as follows: dated financial statements with the IFRS -based regulatory reports and the associated reports published by the supervisory authority. The fair values of exchange-traded derivatives are reported after netting with variation margins. No netting was applied previously for reasons of materiality (see numbers 6) and 21) of the table notes relating to the changes in the presentation of the statement of financial position). Income tax assets and income tax liabilities are now reported with separate figures for current 86 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Gains or losses on financial inCurrent income struments to from equity Gains or losses which the fair Gains or instruments, on the sale of value option is losses on Income statement AfS and FVO loans and applied (excludnon-trading Old structure 31.12.2017 (dividends) ­receivables ing dividends) derivatives Notes 1) 2) 3) 4) Net interest income 1,094 – 26 1 – – Interest income 3,709 – 26 Interest expense – 2,615 1 Allowances for losses on loans and advances 56 Net interest income after allowances for losses on loans and advances 1,150 – 26 1 – – 26 Net fee and commission income 354 Fee and commission income 494 Fee and commission expenses – 140 Net trading income 268 Gains or losses on non-trading derivatives and financial instruments to which the fair value option is applied – 118 – 88 206 – 206 88 Net income from hedge accounting –9 Net income from financial investments 16 –1 Share of profit or loss of equityaccounted entities 19 Other net operating income 79 General and administrative expenses – 1,312 Profit before taxes 447 Taxes on income – 191 Consolidated net profit 256 thereof: Attributable to non-controlling interests –6 thereof: Attributable to shareholders of the parent company 262 87 in € m Gains or losses on the sale or Depreciation, Gains or losses impairment amortisation on the sale of of equity and impairment 31.12.2017 Income statement AfS bonds instruments losses restated New structure 5) 6) 7) Notes – – – 1,069 Net interest income 3,683 Interest income – 2,614 Interest expense 56 Allowances for losses on loans and advances Net interest income after allowances for losses on – – – 1,125 loans and advances 26 Dividend income 354 Net fee and commission income 494 Fee and commission income – 140 Fee and commission expenses 268 Net trading income Gains or losses on other financial instruments mandatorily –9 – 215 measured at fair value through profit or loss Gains or losses on financial instruments designated 88 voluntarily at fair value –9 Net income from hedge accounting –6 – 10 Gains or losses on derecognition of financial instruments not 6 19 24 measured at fair value through profit or loss 19 Share of profit or loss of equity-accounted entities 36 115 Other net operating income 36 – 1,276 General and administrative expenses – 72 – 72 Depreciation and amortisation 447 Profit before taxes – 191 Taxes on income 256 Consolidated net profit –6 thereof: Attributable to non-controlling interests 262 thereof: Attributable to shareholders of the parent company 88 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes 1) The dividend income previously reported in net interest with IAS 39 – is now included in the line item “Gains or income, together with income from profit transfer agreelosses on derecognition of financial instruments not meaments and expenses from the absorption of losses, is recsured at fair value through profit or loss”. Impairment losses ognised as a separate line item. on equity instruments previously recognized under net income from financial investments are now included in the 2) Gains or losses on the sale of loans and receivables in the “Gains or losses on other financial instruments mandatorily LaR measurement category that were previously reported measured at fair value through profit or loss” item because under net interest income are now recognised under gains the impairment losses relate to an adjustment of the fair or losses on derecognition of financial instruments not value of equity instruments previously measured at cost measured at fair value through profit or loss. under the simplification rules in IAS 39 ; under IFRS 9 it is mandatory to classify these equity instruments as mea3) Gains or losses on financial instruments to which the fair sured at fair value. value option is applied previously included in the item “Gains or losses on non-trading derivatives and financial 7) Depreciation of investment property, which was previously instruments to which the fair value option is applied” are reported in other net operating income, and amortisation now reported under the “Gains or losses on financial instruof intangible assets and depreciation of property and ments designated voluntarily at fair value” item. equipment, which were previously recognised under general and administrative expenses, are now shown in the new 4) Gains or losses on non-trading derivatives previously inline item “Depreciation and amortisation”. cluded in the item “Gains or losses on non-trading derivatives and financial instruments to which the fair value opThe following tables show the relationships between the old and tion is applied” are now reported under the “Gains or losses new items in the consolidated statement of financial position as on other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016: value through profit or loss” item. 5) Net income from financial investments – where such net income relates to gains or losses on disposal of debt instruments classified as available for sale (AfS ) in accordance with IAS 39 – is now included in the line item “Gains or losses on derecognition of financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss”. In 2017, there were no impairment losses, reversals of impairment losses or direct write-offs in respect of debt instruments in the AfS measurement category. 6) Net income from financial investments – where such net income relates to gains or losses on disposal of equity instruments classified as available for sale (AfS) in accordance 89 90 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Assets Financial assets Financial assets LaR (IAS 39) HfT (IAS 39) Cash on Switch hand, to net demand Demand method deposits deposits for exBonds IAS 39 structure Loans Bonds and and overand changeNonand other of statement of and other fixednight overnight traded trading Loans and fixedfinancial position receivincome Trade remoney money derivaderivareceivincome Old structure 31.12.2017 ables securities ceivables balances balances tives tives ables securities Notes 1) 2) 3) 4) 5) 6) 7) 8) 9) Cash reserve 9,913 – 1,014 – 8,899 1,372 9,106 Loans and advances to banks 11,034 – 10,676 – 358 Loans and advances to customers 90,230 – 89,719 – 32 – 479 Allowances for losses on loans and advances – 401 401 99,994 32 21 –1 Trading assets 16,319 – 207 – 12 Positive fair values of non-trading derivatives 2,924 – 2,924 –4 2,373 479 1,758 551 Financial investments 24,019 – 1,758 Shares in equity-­ accounted entities 45 Investment property 2,239 Property and equipment 427 Intangible assets 66 Income tax assets 483 Other assets 1,051 – 21 Total assets 158,349 – – – – – – 17 – – – 91 in € m Financial assets Financial assets FVO (IAS 39) AfS (IAS 39) Non-financial assets Receivables Equity Equity from the shares Bonds and shares purchase and other other and other of endowvariablefixedvariableEquity ment Other IAS 39 structure of income income income investinsurance Income reporting 31.12.2017 statement of financial position securities securities securities ments policies tax assets changes restated New structure 10) 11) 12) 13) 14) 15) 16) Notes Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight 10,478 money balances with central banks and banks – 100,046 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 16,100 Trading assets Other financial assets mandatorily measured at 2,369 fair value through profit or loss 70 2,307 Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value Positive fair values of hedging derivatives under 551 hedge accounting – 70 – 21,930 – 40 – 109 – 112 Financial assets measured at fair value through 21,930 40 109 112 22,191 other comprehensive income 45 Shares in equity-accounted entities 2,239 Investment property 427 Property and equipment 66 Intangible assets 483 Income tax assets 68 68 Current income tax assets 415 415 Deferred income tax assets – 97 933 Other assets – – – – – – – 97 158,235 Total assets 92 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Equity and liabilities Financial liabilities Financial liabilities Financial liabilities OL (IAS 39) HfT (IAS 39) FVO (IAS 39) Switch to net method IAS 39 structure for Nonof statement of DeposSubordiexchangetrading SecuriSubordifinancial position its and Securitised nated Trading traded derivaDeposits tised nated Old structure 31.12.2017 loans liabilities capital liabilities derivatives tives and loans liabilities capital Notes 17) 18) 19) 20) 21) 22) 23) 24) 25) Liabilities due to banks 31,514 – 31,015 – 499 Liabilities due to customers 49,521 – 45,922 – 3,599 Securitised liabilities 48,155 – 41,987 – 6,168 76,937 41,987 3,464 153 –4 Trading liabilities 12,289 – 12 Negative fair values of non-trading derivatives 2,281 –1 – 89 4,098 6,168 46 89 Provisions 2,129 Income tax liabilities 268 Other liabilities 648 – 153 Subordinated capital 3,510 – 3,464 – 46 Equity 8,034 – – – – – – – – – Subscribed capital 2,509 Capital reserves 1,546 Retained earnings 3,775 Revaluation reserve 197 Currency translation reserve 10 Attributable to non-controlling interests –3 Total equity and liabilities 158,349 – – – – – 17 – – – – 93 in € m Equity Non-financial liabilities Remeasurement reserve for AfS finanCurrency Employee IAS 39 structure of cial instruActuarial translation benefits due Income tax Other report31.12.2017 statement of financial position ments losses reserve in short term liabilities ing changes restated New structure 26) 27) 28) 29) 30) 31) Notes – 122,537 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 12,277 Trading liabilities 2,191 Negative fair values of non-trading derivatives Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at 10,312 fair value Negative fair values of hedging derivatives 89 under hedge accounting – 40 2,089 Provisions 268 Income tax liabilities 252 252 Current income tax liabilities 16 16 Deferred income tax liabilities 40 – 97 438 Other liabilities – – – – – – 8,034 Equity 2,509 Subscribed capital 1,546 Capital reserves 450 4,225 Retained earnings Accumulated other comprehensive income 197 – 450 10 – 243 (OCI) – 197 – 10 –3 Attributable to non-controlling interests – – – – – – 97 158,235 Total equity and liabilities 94 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Assets Financial assets Financial assets LaR (IAS 39) HfT (IAS 39) Cash on hand, Switch to demand Demand net methdeposits deposits od for Bonds and IAS 39 structure of Loans Bonds and and overand exchangeNonother statement of and other fixednight overnight traded trading Loans and fixed-­ financial position receivincome Trade remoney money derivaderivareceivincome Old structure 31.12.2016 ables securities ceivables balances balances tives tives ables securities Notes 1) 2) 3) 4) 5) 6) 7) 8) 9) Cash reserve 3,096 – 1,296 – 1,800 2,375 1,947 Loans and advances to banks 15,235 – 14,155 – 1,079 –1 Loans and advances to customers 93,078 – 92,477 – 89 – 512 Allowances for losses on loans and advances – 772 772 105,860 89 36 Trading assets 20,498 – 147 – 10 Positive fair values of non-trading derivatives 4,024 – – 4,024 3,271 512 1,863 753 Financial investments 25,771 – 1,863 Shares in equityaccounted entities 25 Investment property 2,163 Property and equipment 435 Intangible assets 113 Income tax assets 522 Other assets 976 – 36 Total assets 165,164 – – – – – – 11 – – – 95 in € m Financial assets Financial assets FVO (IAS 39) AfS (IAS 39) Non-financial assets Receivables Equity Equity from the shares Bonds and shares purchase and other other and other of endowvariable-­ fixed-­ variable-­ Equity inment inOther IAS 39 structure of income income income vestsurance Income reporting 1.1.2017 statement of financial position securities securities securities ments policies tax assets changes restated New structure 10) 11) 12) 13) 14) 15) 16) – Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances with central 4,322 banks and banks – – – 105,985 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 20,341 Trading assets – Other financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or 3,271 loss Financial assets designated voluntarily 69 2,444 at fair value Positive fair values of hedging derivatives 753 under hedge accounting – 69 – 23,523 – 59 – 125 – 132 – Financial assets measured at fair value 23,523 59 125 132 23,839 through other comprehensive income 25 Shares in equity-accounted entities 2,163 Investment property 435 Property and equipment 113 Intangible assets 522 Income tax assets 96 96 Current income tax assets 426 426 Deferred income tax assets 940 Other assets – – – – – – – 165,153 Total assets 96 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Equity and liabilities Financial liabilities Financial liabilities Financial liabilities OL (IAS 39) HfT (IAS 39) FVO (IAS 39) Switch to net method IAS 39 structure of DeSubfor NonSecuriSubstatement of posits ordiexchangetrading tised ordifinancial position and Securitised nated Trading traded deriDeposits liabilinated Old structure 31.12.2016 loans liabilities capital liabilities derivatives vatives and loans ties capital Notes 17) 18) 19) 20) 21) 22) 23) 24) 25) Liabilities due to banks 30,138 – 29,755 – – 383 Liabilities due to customers 46,824 – 43,285 – 3,539 Securitised liabilities 50,948 – 45,362 – 5,586 73,040 45,362 3,524 84 Trading liabilities 18,713 – 10 Negative fair values of non-trading derivatives 3,918 –1 – 161 3,922 5,586 99 161 Provisions 2,319 Income tax liabilities 184 Other liabilities 647 – 84 Subordinated capital 3,623 – 3,524 – 99 Equity 7,850 – – – – – – – – – Subscribed capital 2,509 Capital reserves 1,546 Retained earnings 3,521 Revaluation reserve 246 Currency translation reserve 30 Attributable to non-controlling interests –2 Total equity and liabilities 165,164 – – – – – 11 – – – – 97 in € m Equity Non-financial liabilities Remeasurement reserve for AfS financial Currency Employee Other instruActuarial translation benefits due Income tax reporting 1.1.2017 IAS 39 structure of statement of financial ments losses reserve in short term liabilities changes restated position New structure 26) 27) 28) 29) 30) 31) 122,010 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 18,703 Trading liabilities 3,756 Negative fair values of non-trading derivatives Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at 9,607 fair value Negative fair values of hedging derivatives 161 under hedge accounting 2,319 Provisions – 184 184 Income tax liabilities 174 174 Current income tax liabilities 10 10 Deferred income tax liabilities 563 Other liabilities – – – – – 7,850 Equity 2,509 Subscribed capital 1,546 Capital reserves 532 4,053 Retained earnings Accumulated other comprehensive income 246 – 532 30 – 256 (OCI) – 246 – 30 –2 Attributable to non-controlling interests – – – – – – 165,153 Total equity and liabilities 98 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes 1) Going forward, the loans and receivables in the LaR meathe non-trading derivatives used for economic hedging pursurement category reported in the previous structure of the poses as part of hedge management. In the new structure statement of financial position according to counterparty in of the statement of financial position, the hedge accounting the “Loans and advances to banks” and “Loans and adderivatives are presented in a separate line whereas other vances to customers” line items will now be reported in the non-trading derivatives are recognised as part of other “Financial assets measured at amortised cost” line item at ­financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value. their net carrying amounts (gross carrying amount less cumulative loss allowances). 8) Loans and advances to which the fair value option is applied previously reported under the “Loans and advances to cus2) Bonds in the old LaR measurement category were previtomers” item in the statement of financial position will in ously also included in loans and advances to customers, but future be reported under the “Financial assets designated henceforward will be reported at their net carrying amounts voluntarily at fair value” item. in “Financial assets measured at amortised cost”. 9) Bonds and other fixed-income securities to which the fair 3) Previously, the “Other assets” line item in the statement of value option is applied were previously reported under fifinancial position also included trade accounts receivable nancial investments, but from now on will be included in the in the LaR measurement category. These receivables will “Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value” item. now be reported in the “Financial assets measured at amortised cost” line item. 10) Equity shares and other variable-income securities to which the fair value option is applied were previously reported 4) In the previous structure, cash on hand together with deunder financial investments, but from now on will be inmand deposits and overnight money balances with central cluded in the “Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair banks and banks in the LaR measurement category were value” item. presented separately in the “Cash reserve” and “Loans and advances to banks” line items. Henceforward, they will be 11) Bonds and other fixed-income securities in the AfS meaaggregated and reported in the “Cash on hand, demand surement category were previously reported under financial deposits and overnight money balances with central banks investments, but henceforward will be reported in the and banks” line item. ­“Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income” line item. 5) Demand deposit balances with central banks and banks in the Hf T measurement category have previously been in12) Equity shares and other variable-income securities in the cluded in trading assets but they will now be reported in the AfS measurement category were previously reported under “Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balfinancial investments, but henceforward will be reported in ances with central banks and banks” line item. the “Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income” line item. 6) Positive fair values of trading derivatives within trading ­assets and positive fair values of non-trading futures deriv13) Shares in unconsolidated affiliated companies, shares in atives will be reported after netting with the associated non-equity-accounted joint ventures, shares in non-­equity­liabilities from variation margins. Before the changes, the accounted associates and other equity investments in the gross amount was reported for reasons of materiality. AfS measurement category were previously included in financial investments but are now recognised as part of the 7) In the previous structure of the statement of financial posi“Financial assets measured at fair value through other comtion, the “Positive fair values of non-trading derivatives” prehensive income” line item. line item included both hedge accounting derivatives and 99 14) Receivables from the purchase of endowment insurance 21) Negative fair values of trading derivatives within trading policies in the AfS measurement category were previously assets and negative fair values of non-trading futures dereported under financial investments, but henceforward will rivatives will be reported after netting with the associated be reported in the “Financial assets measured at fair value assets from variation margins. Before the changes, the through other comprehensive income” line item. gross amount was reported for reasons of materiality. 15) In the old structure, separate lines for current and deferred 22) In the previous structure of the statement of financial posiincome tax assets were not reported on the face of the statetion, the “Negative fair values of non-trading derivatives” ment of financial position for reasons of materiality. The new line item included both hedge accounting derivatives and structure now shows both of these lines individually. the non-trading derivatives used for economic hedging purposes as part of hedge management. In the new structure 16) In the fully consolidated GWH subgroup, any operating exof the statement of financial position, the hedge accounting penses arising in the reporting period that are to be borne derivatives are presented in a separate line whereas other by the tenant (“Other assets” line item) are reported after non-trading derivatives remain in the item used hitherto. netting with any advance payments received in respect of ancillary rental costs (“Other liabilities” line item) in accor23) Deposits and loans to which the fair value option is applied dance with common accounting practice in the real estate are now reported separately from the deposits and loans in sector. Previously the figures were reported gross. the OL measurement category in the “Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value” line item. 17) From now on, deposits and loans are no longer reported by counterparty, but by measurement category. As a result of 24) Securitised liabilities to which the fair value option is apthis change, liabilities due to banks and liabilities due to plied are now reported separately from the securitised liacustomers in the OL measurement category are now rebilities in the OL measurement category in the “Financial ported in the “Financial liabilities measured at amortised liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value” line item. cost” line item. 25) Subordinated liabilities to which the fair value option is ap18) Securitised liabilities will also be reported according to plied are now reported separately from the subordinated measurement category going forward. As a consequence, liabilities in the OL measurement category in the “Financial securitised liabilities in the OL measurement category are liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value” line item. now reported in the “Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost” line item. 26) The previous revaluation reserve for financial instruments in the AfS measurement category will be reported from now 19) Subordinated capital used to be shown separately in the on as a component of accumulated other comprehensive statement of financial position. However, subordinated income (OCI) in a separate line within equity that includes ­liabilities are now recognised according to measurement all OCI components. category and class. 27) Actuarial gains and losses from the remeasurement of pen20) Previously, the “Other liabilities” line item in the statement sion obligations are now reported in accumulated OCI of financial position also included trade accounts payable rather than as a component of retained earnings. in the OL measurement category. These payables will now be reported under “Financial liabilities measured at amor28) The cumulative gains or losses on currency translation of tised cost”. foreign operations previously reported in the currency translation reserve line item within equity and the cumulative reserves from the hedging of a net investment in a foreign operation are now reported within accumulated OCI . 100 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes 29) Provisions also previously included employee benefits due (2) Disclosures on the Initial for payment within the next twelve months. In the new structure, these benefits will no longer be included in the ­Applic­ation of IFRS 9 Financial provisions but will be reported as employee benefits due in Instruments the short term within the “Other liabilities” line item. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was published in July 2014 and 30) In the old structure, separate lines for current and deferred must be applied for the first time to reporting periods that begin income tax liabilities were not reported on the face of the on or after 1 January 2018. Helaba has been applying the restatement of financial position for reasons of materiality. The quirements in IFRS 9 since 1 January 2018. new structure now shows both of these lines individually. Generally speaking, first-time application must be retrospective, 31) Please refer to number 16) of the table notes for information but various simplification options are available. These include on the reporting of a net figure at GWH for operating exthe option not to restate comparative figures for prior periods. penses within “Other assets” and advance payments Helaba has utilised these simplification options. The non-­ ­received in respect of ancillary rental costs within “Other restated figures as at 31 December 2017 are reported as comliabilities”. parative figures. There has been no impact on the figures for consolidated net Please refer to Notes (5) and (6) for disclosures on the proceprofit or equity from the restated figures referred to above. Total dures used to classify and measure financial instruments with assets as at 31 December 2017 have declined marginally by the application of IFRS 9. € 114 m as a result of the changes described in numbers 6), 16), 21) and 31) above. Please refer to Note (2) for information on the impact on equity of the initial application of IFRS 9. 101 As a general rule, all financial assets and liabilities recognised in line with IAS 39 have been transferred into the corresponding measurement categories of IFRS 9. The following table provides an overview of the IFRS 9 measurement categories, including the corresponding former IAS 39 categories: Measurement categories (IFRS 9) Measurement categories (IAS 39) Financial assets measured at amortised cost Loans and receivables Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Other liabilities Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value Financial instruments under fair value option Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value Financial instruments under fair value option Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Financial assets available for sale Other financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value Held for trading Other financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value Held for trading The reconciled figures in the statement of financial position as at 1 January 2018 include both the reclassification of financial assets and the remeasurement effects from adjustments to fair value resulting from the reclassification of financial assets previously measured at amortised cost to measurement categories based on measurement at fair value, together with the effects from the application of the impairment model specified in IFRS 9. The rules in IFRS 9 have not led to any reclassification of financial liabilities. The initial application of the hedge accounting requirements in IFRS 9 did not have any impact on the statement of financial position or equity as at 1 January 2018. The assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2017 were reclassified into the measurement categories in accordance with IFRS 9 using the principles described in Note (5) as shown in the following reconciliation table: 102 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Assets Reclassifications Bonds and other fixedincome securities, equity shares and other variable-income securities, equity investBonds and ments, receivables Loans and other fixed-income from endowment receivables securities insurance policies From From From IAS 39 structure of LaR to From AfS to FVO to statement of financial position 31.12.2017 FVTPL From LaR LaR to From AfS FVTPL FVTPL New structure restated MAND to FVTOCI FVTOCI to AC MAND MAND Notes 1) 2) 3) 4) 5) 6) Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances with central banks and banks 10,478 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 100,046 – 134 – 420 – 15 15 Trading assets 16,100 Other financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 2,369 134 223 1,709 Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value 2,307 – 1,709 Positive fair values of hedging derivatives under hedge accounting 551 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 22,191 420 15 – 15 – 223 Shares in equity-accounted entities 45 Investment property 2,239 Property and equipment 427 Intangible assets 66 Income tax assets 483 Current income tax assets 68 Deferred income tax assets 415 Other assets 933 Total assets 158,235 – – – – – – 103 Remeasurements in € m Accumulated depreciBonds and Equity ation and Loans and other fixed-income investimpairment Deferred receivables securities ments losses taxes From LaR to From From From From AfS FVTPL LaR to LaR to AfS to to FVTPL Financial IFRS 9 structure of statement of MAND FVTOCI FVTOCI AC MAND assets AC 1.1.2018 financial position 7) 8) 9) 10) 11) 12) 13) Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances with central 10,478 banks and banks Financial assets measured at amortised – 35 99,457 cost 16,100 Trading assets Other financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or 9 1 4,445 loss Financial assets designated voluntarily 598 at fair value Positive fair values of hedging 551 derivatives under hedge accounting Financial assets measured at fair value 3 1 22,392 through other comprehensive income 45 Shares in equity-accounted entities 2,239 Investment property 427 Property and equipment 66 Intangible assets – 13 470 Income tax assets 68 Current income tax assets – 13 402 Deferred income tax assets 933 Other assets 9 3 1 – 1 – 35 – 13 158,201 Total assets 104 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Equity and liabilities Bonds and other fixedLoans and receivables income securities IAS 39 structure of statement of financial position 31.12.2017 From LaR to From LaR to From LaR to New structure restated FVTPL MAND FVTOCI FVTOCI From AfS to AC Notes 14) 15) 16) 17) Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 122,537 Trading liabilities 12,277 Negative fair values of non-trading derivatives 2,191 Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value 10,312 Negative fair values of hedging derivatives under hedge accounting 89 Provisions 2,089 Income tax liabilities 268 Current income tax liabilities 252 Deferred income tax liabilities 16 Other liabilities 438 Equity 8,034 9 3 1 – Subscribed capital 2,509 Capital reserves 1,546 Retained earnings 4,225 9 Accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) – 243 3 1 Non-controlling interests –3 Total equity and liabilities 158,235 9 3 1 – 105 in € m Accumulated Liabilities to depreciation which the fair Equity investand impairment value option is ments losses Deferred taxes applied From AfS to Credit-riskFVTPL Financial assets related change IFRS 9 structure of statement of MAND AC and FVTOCI Deferred taxes in fair value 1.1.2018 financial position 18) 19) 20) 21) Notes 122,537 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 12,277 Trading liabilities 2,191 Negative fair values of non-trading derivatives Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at 10,312 fair value Negative fair values of hedging derivatives 89 under hedge accounting 12 2,101 Provisions – 10 258 Income tax liabilities 252 Current income tax liabilities – 10 6 Deferred income tax liabilities 438 Other liabilities 1 – 47 –3 – 7,998 Equity 2,509 Subscribed capital 1,546 Capital reserves 47 – 48 –3 –2 4,228 Retained earnings Accumulated other comprehensive income – 46 1 2 – 282 (OCI) – –3 Non-controlling interests 1 – 35 – 13 – 158,201 Total equity and liabilities 106 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes 1) The reclassifications from the loans and receivables (LaR ) 6) The reclassification of financial investments relates to inmeasurement category relate to loans and advances to cusvestment units and bonds to which the fair value option tomers that do not satisfy the SPPI (solely payments of (FVO) was previously applied because these items were principal and interest) criterion and consequently may not managed on a fair value basis. With the initial application be measured at amortised cost. Loans and advances to cusof IFRS 9, the units in special institutional funds and retail tomers with a net carrying amount of € 134 m as at 31 Defunds held by the Helaba Group are no longer included in cember 2017 have been transferred to the measurement the FVO but are reported under the FVTPL MAND category category of financial assets mandatorily measured at fair because the SPPI criterion is generally not satisfied (as value (FVTPL MAND). Please refer to number 7) in these there is a right to payment of a residual amount from the table notes for information on the effects from the first-time net assets). In the case of consolidated special institutional measurement at fair value. funds and retail funds, an assessment is made of the financial assets and liabilities held within the funds on a look2) The business model in which the aim is to hold an asset with through basis. The assets are also allocated to the FVTPL a view to selling it (“hold to collect and sell”) has been specMAND category because they form part of a business model ified for loans and advances to customers in the form of in which the priority is on management on a fair value basis. promissory note loans with a net carrying amount of The carrying amounts of these assets came to € 1,709 m as € 420 m as at 31 December 2017. As a result, these financial at 31 December 2017. No measurement effects arose from assets are reported under “Financial assets measured at fair this reclassification. value through other comprehensive income” (F V TOCI ). Please refer to number 8) in these table notes for informa7) The effect from the adjustment of the net carrying amount tion on the effects from the first-time measurement at fair in line with the fair value of financial assets mandatorily value. measured at fair value through profit or loss amounted to € 9 m. 3) The reclassification of financial instruments from the LaR measurement category to the FVTOCI measurement cate8) The effect from the initial fair value measurement of promgory relates to asset-backed securities that need to be meaissory note loans measured at fair value through other comsured at fair value because they form part of the “hold to prehensive income amounted to € 3 m. collect and sell” business model. Please refer to number 9) of these table notes for information on the effects on equity. 9) The effect from the initial fair value measurement of asset-backed securities measured at fair value through other 4) The reclassification of financial instruments from AfS to the comprehensive income amounted to € 1 m. measurement category of financial instruments measured at amortised cost (AC ) relates to bonds that need to be mea10) The reversal of the measurement at fair value through other sured at amortised cost because they form part of the busicomprehensive income applied in the past to bonds reness model in which the aim is to hold the asset and collect duced accumulated OCI by € 0.3 m. No amount is disclosed the contractual cash flows (“hold to collect”). Please refer to in the table above because of the effect of rounding and the number 10) of these table notes for information on the efpresentation of figures in millions of euros. fects on equity. 11) The measurement of a non-strategic equity investment at 5) Equity instruments and receivables from the purchase of fair value gave rise to an effect of € 1 m. endowment insurance policies amounting to € 223 m have been reclassified from AfS to the FVTPL MAND measure12) The effect from the first-time application of the IFRS 9 imment category. Please refer to number 11) of these table pairment model on the financial assets measured at amornotes for information on the measurement effects. tised cost was a reduction in value of € 35 m. This effect included an increase in the loss allowance of € 64 m and a countervailing effect from the increase in the gross carrying amounts of non-interest-bearing loans and advances of € 29 m. 107 13) The remeasurements give rise to a reduction in deferred 21) Credit-risk-related changes in fair value in respect of the income tax assets of € 13 m. Group’s own liabilities in the FVO measurement category amounting to € 2 m (previously recognised through profit 14) The effect from the initial fair value measurement of finanor loss) were reclassified from retained earnings to accumucial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through lated OCI . profit or loss increased retained earnings by € 9 m. As part of the initial application of IFRS 9, demand deposit bal15) The first-time fair value measurement of promissory note ances with central banks amounting to € 8,911 m were reclassiloans was reflected in accumulated other comprehensive fied from the Hf T measurement category to the AC measureincome (OCI) in an amount of € 3 m. ment category. The reclassification did not lead to any change in the reported figure. No measurement gains or losses were 16) The first-time measurement of asset-backed securities avoided by this reclassification. measured at fair value through accumulated other comprehensive income increased OCI by € 1 m. The changes in the loss allowances in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost and financial assets measured at 17) The reversal of the measurement at fair value through other fair value through other comprehensive income as a consecomprehensive income applied in the past to bonds requence of reclassifications and the initial application of the duced accumulated OCI by € 0.3 m. No amount is disclosed IFRS 9 requirements were as follows: Under IAS 39, loss allowin the table above because of the effect of rounding and the ances were determined using the incurred credit loss model, presentation of figures in millions of euros. while the expected credit loss model is applied under IFRS 9. 18) The reclassification of equity instruments from the AfS measurement category to the FVTPL MAND measurement category resulted in a reclassification of gains and losses on these equity instruments recognised in accumulated other comprehensive income from OCI to retained earnings in an amount of € 46 m. Retained earnings also increased by € 1 m as a result of the fair value measurement of a non-strategic equity investment. 19) The effect from the initial application of the impairment model under IFRS 9 on provisions for loan commitments and financial guarantees amounted to € 12 m (increase in the provisions and reduction in retained earnings). In addition, accumulated OCI increased by € 1 m as a result of the effect on financial instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income from the application of the impairment model. The effects from the adjustment of the loss allowances in respect of financial instruments in the AC measurement category (see Note [12] reduced retained earnings by € 35 m. Overall, retained earnings declined by € 48 m as a consequence of the initial application of the impairment model specified by IFRS 9. 20) Deferred income tax liabilities dropped by € 10 m. The adjustments to deferred taxes led to an overall decrease in retained earnings of € 3 m. 108 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Changes in the loss allowances as a result of the reclassification of the underlying assets: in € m Cumulative loss allowances as at Reclassification of cumulative Reclassification of cumulative 31.12.2017 loss allowances from LaR to loss allowances from AfS to SLLA GSLLA PLLA Total FVTPL FVTOCI AC FVTPL FVTOCI AC Cumulative loss allowances for loans and ­receivables, LaR – 239 – 37 – 125 – 401 – 35 – – 366 – – – Cumulative loss allowances for bonds and other fixed-income ­securities, LaR – – – – – – – – – – Write-offs of bonds and other fixed-income securities, AfS – – – – – – – – – – Total – 239 – 37 – 125 – 401 – 35 – – 366 – – – 109 Changes in the loss allowances as a result of remeasurements arising from the application of the IFRS 9 impairment model (expected credit loss, ECL , model): in € m Cumulative loss Remeasurement allowances before as a result of Cumulative loss allowances ECL application application of ECL 1.1.20181) Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Cumulative loss allowances for bonds and other fixed-income securities, AC – –1 – –1 – –1 Cumulative loss allowances for loans and receivables, AC – 366 – 63 – 33 – 133 – 263 – 429 Cumulative loss allowances for bonds and other fixed-income securities, FVTOCI – –1 –1 – – –1 Cumulative loss allowances for loans and receivables, FVTOCI – – – – – – Total – 366 – 65 – 34 – 134 – 263 – 431 1) Figures adjusted: The cumulative loss allowances for bonds and other fixed-income securities in the AC category were reported under Stage 1 in the half-yearly ­financial report; they are now appropriately reported under Stage 2. The table below shows the changes in the provisions for loan commitments and financial guarantees caused by the initial application of IFRS 9 : in € m Remeasurement as a result of appliProvisions for off-balance sheet liabilities cation of Cumulative provisions, IFRS 9 as at 31.12.2017 ECL 1.1.2018 EWB pEWB PoWB Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Provisions for loan commitments 10 – 5 15 7 9 6 7 22 Provisions for financial guarantees 6 6 1 13 5 3 3 12 18 Total 16 6 5 28 12 12 9 19 40 110 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (3) Principles of Consolidation the relevant activities because this investor can control the majority of the voting rights for the key activities or because Helaba Under the provisions specified in IFRS 10 , an investor controls is only acting as a (de facto) agent on behalf of another investor an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns within the meaning of IFRS 10 . A review is also conducted to from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to establish whether there are joint management arrangements affect those returns through its power over the investee. All and, as a result, the opportunity for control is limited. present facts and circumstances must be used as the basis for establishing whether control exists. An investor must continuIn the same way, Helaba carries out an assessment in cases in ously monitor the situation and reassess whether it controls an which the Helaba Group does not hold a majority of the voting investee if facts and circumstances change. rights but in which it has the opportunity in practice to unilaterally direct the relevant activities or in which another investor is With regard to establishing whether an entity qualifies as a subonly acting as a (de facto) agent within the meaning of IFRS 10 sidiary, the Helaba Group will, if there are material circumstances on behalf of the Helaba Group. In circumstances other than one indicating such a likelihood, review whether Helaba can directly in which Helaba holds a general majority of the voting rights, or indirectly exercise power of control over the relevant activities this ability to control may arise, for example, in cases in which of the entity concerned. In such a review, Helaba will contractual agreements give the Helaba Group the opportunity to direct the relevant activities of the entity or potential control ■■ determine the purpose and design of the entity concerned, over voting rights. ■■ identify the relevant activities,; ■■ determine whether Helaba, on the basis of its rights, has the If there are options or similar rights relating to voting rights, opportunity to direct the relevant activities; these are taken into account in the assessment of whether any ■■ assess the extent of the risk from the entity or the extent of party is able to exercise control through voting rights, proits participation in the returns generated by the entity; and vided that such options or similar rights are considered sub■■ assess whether Helaba has the ability to exploit its power of stantive. Such assessment takes into account any conditions control to influence the level of its participation in the returns. or exercise periods and also evaluates the extent to which the exercise of such options or similar rights would be economiThe review includes an evaluation of voting rights and also an cally advantageous. analysis of other rights and circumstances that in substance could lead to an opportunity for control. The review also considThe test as to whether, regardless of any legal basis, there is an ers indicators as to whether there is a de facto agency relationopportunity to exercise control in substance involves the check ship in accordance with IFRS 10 . to establish whether a formal holder of voting rights or the holder of a right that could lead to control over an entity is acting If an entity meets the criteria for cellular structures (silos), each as a (de facto) agent within the meaning of IFRS 10 . In this case, step in the review is carried out for each one of these identified in an analysis of the substance of the arrangement, the (de facto) structures. Such a structure is deemed to be in existence if, agent is deemed to be acting on behalf of another investor if the within a legal entity, an asset or group of assets is segregated agent does not have any material business interests of its own such that it is considered, in substance and for the purposes of in the entity concerned. This scenario may also arise if this other IFRS 10 , as a self-contained asset and there is little or no interinvestor does not have any direct rights to issue instructions but connected risk between the asset concerned and other assets the circumstances are so geared to the requirements of the inor groups of assets in the legal entity in question. vestor in practice that the investor is exposed to most of the variability of returns from the entity. If the outcome of the process for determining the purpose and design of the entity, and for identifying the relevant activities, A threshold value for participation in the expected variability of is that the voting rights are a critical factor in the assessment of returns is used as an initial indicator for the existence of a (de the opportunity for control, it will generally be assumed that the facto) agent within the meaning of IFRS 10 . If, from a legal perHelaba Group has control over the entity where the Group, dispective, the Helaba Group has the opportunity to direct the rectly or indirectly, has or can control more than half of the votrelevant activities of an entity, a threshold value is used as the ing rights in the entity. Notwithstanding the above, it must be basis for assessing whether there is any indicator that an interassumed that the Helaba Group does not have any opportunity est should be assigned to third parties; Helaba Group’s consolfor control if another investor has the ability in practice to direct idation duties in accordance with IFRS 10 are also determined 111 on this basis. Such an assignment of control applies, for into the extent of the voting rights to assess whether the Helaba stance, to the securities investment funds managed by Helaba Group can exercise a significant influence in practice over entiInvest on behalf of third parties. ties in other scenarios. These parameters and circumstances include, for example, employee representation on the manageIf it is unclear whether the Helaba Group has the opportunity to ment or supervisory bodies of the entity or, where applicable, direct the relevant activities of an entity and the Helaba Group the existence of consent requirements for key decisions to be is exposed to approximately 90 % or more of the variability of made by the entity concerned. If such factors are identified returns, an individual in-depth review is carried out to establish during the course of the review, the Helaba Group may be whether Helaba has the opportunity to exercise control over the deemed to have a significant influence in such cases even entity. though its equity investment is equivalent to less than 20 % of voting rights. An in-depth analysis is carried out covering all The checks described above are carried out periodically for all opportunities for the exercise of influence and the relationships cases exceeding a materiality threshold. A new assessment is between the shareholders. carried out if there are any material changes in the basis of the assessment or if the materiality threshold is exceeded. A multiThe review of the existence of joint control or associate relationstage process is used in which an initial assessment is carried ships is regularly carried out as part of the process for identifyout on the basis of checklists by the local units with customer ing subsidiaries subject to consolidation. or business responsibility. This initial procedure consists of an analysis of the opportunities to exercise influence based on All material subsidiaries and other entities directly or indirectly legal structures and an assessment of indicators of the exposure controlled by Helaba are fully consolidated in the consolidated to the variability of returns from the entity concerned. Variability financial statements. Material joint ventures and investments in of returns takes into account all expected positive and negative associates are recognised and measured using the equity contributions from the entity that in substance are dependent method as specified in IAS 28 . In individual cases where the on the performance of the entity and subject to fluctuation as a entity concerned is only of minor significance in the context of result. the economic circumstances of the Group from both individual and overall perspectives, the entity concerned has not been IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements sets out the rules for the accountconsolidated or been recognised and measured using the equity ing treatment of joint ventures or joint operations if two or more method. Materiality is reviewed and decided upon by comparing parties exercise joint control over an entity. The existence of the volume of total assets (assessed as being long term) and joint control must be reviewed if the relevant facts and circumlevel of profit for the entity concerned against threshold values. stances change. The threshold values are determined on the basis of the average total assets and levels of profit for the Group over the last five To establish whether there is joint control, the first step is to years. Insignificant investments are recognised under “Other determine who exercises power of control over the relevant acfinancial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through tivities, a procedure that is similar to that used in the case of profit or loss”. subsidiaries. If this control is exercised collectively by two or more parties on a contractual basis, a joint arrangement is Entities are consolidated for the first time on the date of acquideemed to be in existence. To date, the review of the cases insition, or on the date an opportunity for control arises as defined volving joint arrangements has regularly led to a classification in IFRS 10 , using the acquisition method. The assets and liabilof these arrangements as joint ventures. The review takes into ities are measured at the fair value on the date of this first-time account separate agreements on joint decision-making or on consolidation. Any positive differences arising from this initial the exercise of voting rights, the minimum number of votes necacquisition accounting process are recognised as goodwill essary for decisions, the number of shareholders and associated under intangible assets on the face of the statement of financial proportions of voting rights, possible (de facto) agent relationposition. This goodwill is subject to an impairment test at least ships and, on a case-by-case basis, consent requirements under once a year (see Note [16]). If any negative goodwill arises from other contractual relationships. this initial consolidation, the fair values are first reviewed before the resulting amount is recognised immediately in profit or loss. In an existing shareholding, there is generally a significant influence if at least 20 % of the voting rights are held. Other parameters and circumstances are taken into account in addition 112 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Any shares in subsidiaries not attributable to the parent comInvestments in associates and joint ventures are recognised in pany are reported as a share of equity attributable to non-­ the statement of financial position at their acquisition cost from controlling interests within the consolidated equity; the equivthe date on which significant influence is obtained or the date alent net profit and comprehensive income is reported on which joint control is established. The carrying amount is respectively as net profit attributable to non-controlling interremeasured in subsequent years taking into account pro rata ests on the face of the consolidated income statement and comchanges in equity and the amortisation of identified hidden reprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests on serves and charges. The pro rata net profit or loss for the year the face of the statement of comprehensive income. Non-­ from such investments, any impairment losses and other loss controlling interests are determined at the time of initial recogallowances are reported under share of profit or loss of equity-­ nition on the basis of the fair values of the assets and liabilities accounted entities on the face of the consolidated income stateattributable to these non-controlling interests. ment. The share of other comprehensive income of equity-­ accounted entities is reported as a separate line item in the In the case of a business combination achieved in stages (step consolidated statement of comprehensive income. acquisition), the entity is consolidated from the date on which control is obtained. Any investments acquired prior to the date If the recoverable amount of an investment accounted for using on which control is obtained are remeasured at fair value on the the equity method is less than the current carrying amount, an date of acquisition and used as the basis for acquisition accountimpairment loss is recognised. If the reasons for a previously ing. The difference between the carrying amounts of these prerecognised impairment loss no longer exist, the impairment loss viously recognised investments and the fair value is recognised is reversed, but only up to a maximum of the pro rata carrying in profit or loss after recycling any components of the carrying amount that would have been recognised, including any amoramounts hitherto recognised in other comprehensive income tisation, if the impairment loss had not been applied. (resulting from remeasurement or because the assets are designated as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income). (4) Basis of Consolidation If entities that have previously been consolidated or accounted In addition to the parent company Helaba, a total of 117 entities for using the equity method no longer have to be included in are consolidated in the Helaba Group, as was the case at the the consolidation, they are deconsolidated with recognition in previous reporting date. Of this total, 81 (31 December 2017: 84) profit or loss, or no longer accounted for using the equity entities are fully consolidated and 36 entities are included using method, on the date on which the consolidation requirement no the equity method (31 December 2017: 34). The fully consolilonger applies. Any recognition of remaining investments in dated companies are subsidiaries and special purpose entities accordance with IFRS 9 or using the equity method is at fair in accordance with IFRS 10 , including collective investment value through other comprehensive income for strategic equity ­undertakings. investments, or at fair value through profit or loss for non-­ strategic equity investments. The consolidated financial statements do not include 33 subsidiaries, 19 joint ventures and ten associates that are of minor If investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates are significance for the presentation of the financial position and intended for disposal in the short term, and the other relevant financial performance of the Helaba Group. The shares in these criteria are satisfied, these investments are measured in accorentities are reported under financial assets measured at fair dance with IFRS 5 and the assets, liabilities and share of net value through other comprehensive income if they constitute profit / loss reported under a separate item on the face of the material strategic equity investments; otherwise, they are reconsolidated statement of financial position and consolidated ported under financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value income statement. through profit or loss. Any intercompany balances between consolidated entities and The changes in the basis of consolidation during the reporting any income and expenses arising between such entities are period were related to the subsidiaries shown below. eliminated. Intercompany profits and losses arising on transactions between consolidated entities are also eliminated. 113 Changes in the group of fully consolidated entities Additions GWH WertInvest GmbH, Frankfurt am Main Entity established, initial consolidation as from October 2018 Helaba Digital GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main Entity established, initial consolidation as from March 2018 Kalypso Projekt GmbH & Co. KG , Frankfurt am Main This entity was established in prior years and has now become material with the implementation of project development activities; initial consolidation: January 2018 Disposals FRAWO Frankfurter Wohnungsund Siedlungs-Gesellschaft mbH, Absorbed by GWH Wohnungsgesellschaft mbH Hessen, Frankfurt am Main Frankfurt am Main in August 2018 Kornmarkt Arkaden Erste GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main Shares disposed in October 2018 Kornmarkt Arkaden Zweite GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main Shares disposed in October 2018 Kornmarkt Arkaden Dritte GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main Shares disposed in October 2018 Kornmarkt Arkaden Vierte GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main Shares disposed in October 2018 LB (Swiss) Investment AG , Zurich, Switzerland Shares disposed in April 2018 The deconsolidation of LB (Swiss) Investment AG gave rise to a idation gain relating to Kornmarkt Arkaden Dritte GmbH & Co. gain of € 17 m. The deconsolidation of Kornmarkt Arkaden Erste KG and Kornmarkt Arkaden Vierte GmbH & Co. KG amounted to GmbH & Co. KG and Kornmarkt Arkaden Zweite GmbH & Co. KG a total of approximately € 1 m. These figures are reported under resulted in gains of € 10 m and € 8 m respectively. The deconsolother net operating income. Changes in the group of equity-accounted entities Additions G & O MK 14.3 GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main Entity established in December 2018 G & O MK 17.7 Nord GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main Entity established in December 2018 G & O MK 17.7 Süd GmbH & Co. KG , Frankfurt am Main Entity established in December 2018 Disposals GOB Projektentwicklung E & A GmbH & Co. Siebte Rhein-Main KG , Shares disposed in October 2018 Frankfurt am Main 114 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (5) Financial Instruments Classification of financial assets On initial recognition, financial assets are allocated to a meaRecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities surement category, which then serves as a basis for subsequent Under IFRS 9, all financial assets and financial liabilities, includmeasurement. The classification of debt instruments is detering all derivatives, must be reported in the statement of financial mined by the allocation to a business model (business model position. These instruments are initially measured at cost, which criterion) and by an assessment as to whether the asset satisfies equates to the value of the assets given or received at the time the SPPI (solely payments of principal and interest) criterion. of transfer. Transaction costs are generally recognised as acquisition ancillary costs. In the case of cash transactions, non-­ To determine the underlying business model, an assessment derivative financial instruments are recognised for the first time must be carried out at portfolio level to establish whether the in the statement of financial position on the settlement date, cash flows for the financial instruments to be classified are to be and derivatives on the trade date. generated by collecting the contractual cash flows (“hold to collect” business model) or also by selling the financial instrument Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights (“hold to collect and sell” business model), or whether a differassociated with an asset expire or are transferred such that subent business model is involved. Examples of different business stantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are models are an intention to trade or management on the basis passed to another party or when the control or power over the of the fair value. In the first step, financial instruments are clasasset is transferred to another party. If substantially all the risks sified according to the business models used for these portfoand rewards incidental to ownership are not transferred or conlios. Financial instruments are allocated to the “hold to collect” trol or power over the asset is not passed to another party, the business model if financial instruments in the portfolio conremaining economic involvement in the financial instrument cerned are only expected to be sold rarely or in small volumes. (“continuing involvement”) is recognised in accordance with The assessment does not into take into account the sale of such IFRS 9. In addition, financial assets of the AC and FVOCI categofinancial instruments shortly before the maturity date or in the ries are derecognised if they have been substantially modified, event of a rise in default risk on the part of the borrower. Any i.e. if the contractual cash flows have been modified or the legal other non-material disposals (i.e. unrelated to the frequency or position affecting the cash flows has changed such that, de volume criteria) lead to a review of the business model criterion facto, there is a new transaction in place. for future classifications of financial instruments. Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liabilities are A financial instrument is reviewed on an individual transaction settled. The same applies to financial obligations in the AC meabasis to assess whether the SPPI criterion is satisfied. The SPPI surement category in the case of substantial modifications leadcriterion is deemed to be satisfied if the contractual cash flows ing to new obligations. from the financial instrument are exclusively the same as those in a lending relationship (i.e. from an economic perspective, Within the Helaba Group, financial instruments of the AC measolely payment of principal and interest). Other components of surement category as well as financial assets of the FVOCI catcash flows that represent other risks (such as market risk and egory are considered modified substantially if specific qualitaleverage effects) rather than just interest for the term of the loan tive criteria are fulfilled in the context of contract adjustments; and the credit quality of the borrower generally mean that the this includes, for instance, borrower changes, currency changes, SPPI criterion under IFRS 9 is not satisfied. Only contractual or the subsequent stipulation of contractual components not in components of very minor financial significance (for example, line with the SPPI criteria. In the case of financial assets in because they are very unlikely to materialise or only have a very stages 1 and 2, and in the case of financial liabilities, a quantimarginal impact on the cash flows) can be compatible with the tative test is also carried out: if the present value of the cash requirements of the SPPI criterion. flows after modification (determined by discounting using the original effective interest rate) varies by more than 10 % from Subsequent measurement at amortised cost (AC) the present value of the originally agreed cash flows, then the Financial assets in the “hold to collect” business model that satfinancial instrument concerned is also deemed to have been isfy the SPPI criterion and for which the fair value option has not substantially modified. been exercised (see FVTPL measurement category) are measured at amortised cost. Therefore, only debt instruments can be measured subsequently at amortised cost; this method cannot be used for equity instruments or derivatives because they 115 do not satisfy the SPPI criterion. At Helaba, such debt instruDebt instruments in the FVTOCI (recycling) measurement catments include bonds, other fixed-income securities and loans egory are also subject to the IFRS 9 impairment model. Please and receivables. refer to Note (9) for further disclosures. Subsequent measurement at amortised cost is applied by upSubsequent measurement at fair value through other dating the carrying amount of the financial asset with the esticomprehensive income without recycling (FVTOCI mated cash flows (up to the maturity date of the financial asset [non-recycling]) concerned) distributed over the residual term of the asset and Generally speaking, equity instruments do not satisfy the SPPI discounted with the effective interest rate. The resulting gross criterion and have to be measured at fair value through profit or carrying amount must then be reduced by the impairment loss loss. However, IFRS 9 offers an irrevocable election option at the as required by the IFRS 9 impairment model, the final amount time of initial recognition whereby equity instruments as dethen being the net carrying amount. fined in IAS 32 may be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if such instruments are acquired for Within hedge accounting, the carrying amounts of financial asnon-trading purposes. In the FVTOCI (non-recycling) measuresets in the AC measurement category that form the hedged ment category, all measurement gains and losses accumulated items in micro fair value hedges are adjusted for the changes in up to the point at which the equity instrument is derecognised the fair value corresponding to the hedged risk. are recognised in accumulated other comprehensive income. In contrast to the treatment of financial instruments in the FVTOCI Please refer to Note (9) for information on the inclusion of the (recycling) measurement category, even when financial instruimpairment model in connection with credit risks arising on ments in the FVTOCI (non-recycling) measurement category are ­financial assets in the AC measurement category. derecognised, no impairment losses, reversals of impairment losses or accumulated gains or losses are reclassified to profit Subsequent measurement at fair value or loss (i.e. there is no recycling). However, the changes in fair through other comprehensive income with value accumulated in other comprehensive income up to the recycling (FVTOCI [recycling]) point of derecognition are reclassified to retained earnings The FVTOCI (recycling) measurement category encompasses within the statement of changes in equity. financial assets that are allocated to the “hold to collect and sell” business model and for which the SPPI criterion is satisfied, proHelaba has elected to apply this option (to recognise gains or vided that the fair value option is not exercised. Again, this mealosses on the remeasurement of equity instruments in other surement category can only be used for debt instruments becomprehensive income) for identified strategic equity investcause equity instruments and derivatives do not satisfy the SPPI ments. criterion. At Helaba, such debt instruments include bonds and other fixed-income securities. They are generally measured at It is not possible to use this option for shares in collective infair value. Gains and losses on remeasurement at fair value are vestment undertakings because the issuer’s obligation to acreported – after taking into account deferred taxes – in a sepacept the return of the shares/ units in the fund(s) means that rate line item in other comprehensive income (accumulated such shares do not qualify as equity instruments as defined by OCI). If a financial asset in the FVTOCI (recycling) measurement IAS 32 . category forms part of a hedge subject to hedge accounting, the portion of the remeasurement gains or losses attributable to Subsequent measurement at fair value through profit the hedged risk is recognised under net income from hedge or loss (FVTPL) accounting. Interest income from financial instruments in the The measurement at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL ) FVTOCI (recycling) measurement category is calculated using measurement category is used for all financial assets that do not the effective interest method and recognised in net interest inmeet the SPPI condition or that are not allocated to either the come under interest income from financial assets measured at “hold to collect” or “hold to collect and sell” business models. fair value through other comprehensive income. Business models other than “hold to collect” and “hold to collect and sell” therefore cover all other portfolios and include, for example, portfolios of financial assets and liabilities held for trading purposes or managed on the basis of fair value To ensure that the importance of trading activities is properly reflected in financial statements, a further breakdown is applied to the 116 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes FVTPL measurement category for the purposes of reporting in Subsequent measurement at amortised cost (AC) the statement of financial position and income statement. This This measurement category consists of non-derivative financial breakdown consists of two subcategories: held for trading liabilities that are not intended for trading and for which the FVO (FVTPL Hf T ) and other financial assets mandatorily measured has not been exercised. The liabilities are measured at amorat fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL MAND). tised cost. By applying the fair value option (FVO) voluntarily, it is possible Derivative components embedded in financial liabilities within to use the FVTPL (FVO subcategory) measurement category for this measurement category must be evaluated to assess financial assets that would otherwise be allocated to the AC or whether there is a bifurcation requirement. If there is a bifurcaFVTOCI (recycling) measurement categories based solely on the tion requirement, the derivative must be classified and acbusiness model criterion or SPPI condition. However, IFRS 9 counted for separately (normally in the FVTPL MAND measureonly permits use of the FVO for financial assets to avoid accountment category). The host contract is classified independently ing mismatches. Helaba uses the FVO in individual cases in (excluding any separated derivative components) and can be which there is an economic relationship between the financial allocated to the AC measurement category. assets concerned and other financial instruments – for example in an economic hedge where hedge accounting is not applied – Please refer to the procedure described for financial assets (AC ) and these other financial instruments need to be measured at for information on determining amortised cost. fair value in accordance with IFRS 9. Subsequent measurement at fair value through profit Derivative financial instruments always have to be allocated to or loss (FVTPL) the FVTPL measurement category because they do not satisfy The FVTPL measurement category consists of three subcategothe SPPI criterion. Within the FVTPL category, derivatives held ries. Non-derivative financial liabilities held for trading on initial for trading purposes are allocated to the Hf T subcategory, and recognition are allocated to the F V TPL Hf T subcategory. non-trading derivatives to the F V TPL MAND subcategory. Non-trading derivatives are allocated to the FVTPL MAND sub­Generally speaking, equity instruments do not satisfy the SPPI category. In addition, financial liabilities can be voluntarily allocriterion and have to be measured at fair value. Where the opcated to this measurement category (FVTPL FVO subcategory). tion for measurement at fair value through other comprehensive Financial liabilities allocated to the FVTPL measurement cateincome is not exercised (and is in any case only permissible for gory are measured at fair value through profit or loss. equity instruments as defined in IAS 32), these financial instruments are also allocated to the FV TPL MAND measurement Financial liabilities held for trading are instruments acquired or category. Likewise, derivatives forming part of a hedge are alloheld for the purpose of selling and generating profits from shortcated to the FVTPL MAND measurement category. term fluctuations in prices or trader margins. Classification of financial liabilities The FVO can be exercised to measure financial liabilities at On initial recognition, financial liabilities are allocated to a meafair value through profit or loss if one of the following criteria is surement category, which then serves as a basis for subsequent satisfied: measurement. Generally, all financial liabilities are allocated to the AC measurement category unless they are intended for trad■■ The financial liability is managed on a fair value basis. ing, they are derivatives or the FVO is exercised. ■■ The financial liability is a structured product and, if the FVO were not applied, the host contract and the embedded derivative would have to be accounted for separately. ■■ There is an economic relationship between the financial ­liability and other financial instruments and the application of the FVO avoids an accounting mismatch in the income statement. 117 Helaba uses the FVO particularly for structured products within Loans and receivables financial liabilities. All non-derivative debt instruments not classified as bonds or other fixed-income securities are treated as loans and receivWhen the FVO is applied, changes in the fair value of financial ables. In addition to (current account) loans and deposits repayliabilities are generally recognised through profit or loss. Howable on demand, such instruments include fixed-term loans, ever, the portion of a change in fair value attributable to changes credit card receivables, trade accounts receivable, finance lease in Helaba’s own credit quality is recognised in accumulated receivables and reverse repos. other comprehensive income. Cumulative changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income are not reclassified The Helaba Group enters into securities repurchase agreements to profit or loss, even in the event of early derecognition of in the form of standardised repo or reverse repo deals in which ­financial liabilities prior to maturity. However, the changes in fair Helaba is either the seller/borrower (repo) or buyer/lender (revalue accumulated in other comprehensive income up to the verse repo). Such arrangements are a contractual agreement to point of derecognition are reclassified to retained earnings transfer securities accompanied by a simultaneous agreement within equity. to repurchase the transferred (or equivalent) securities on a specified date in the future in return for the payment of an amount agreed in advance. (6) Classes of Financial Instruments As the risks and rewards associated with the securities involved The following classes of financial assets and financial liabilities, in the transaction remain entirely with the seller despite the which have different characteristics, are used for the financial transfer, such transactions are considered “genuine” repurchase instrument disclosures in the notes. In some of the disclosures, agreements in which the derecognition criteria specified in these classes are broken down into sub-classes. The definition IFRS 9 are not satisfied. The transferred securities therefore of these classes is based on the classes of instruments specified continue to be reported in the seller’s statement of financial by the FINREP financial reporting framework developed by the position and measured in accordance with the original measureEuropean Banking Authority (EBA ). ment category. Bonds and other fixed-income securities The financial assets reported as reverse repos in the loans and This class comprises debt instruments in the form of securities receivables class are in effect Helaba’s entitlement to repayment held by the Helaba Group. Certain characteristics, such as the of the cash it paid out as the buyer in return for the transfer of nature of the collateral, subordination or the existence of a comsecurities. This class is also used to report cash collateral furpound instrument, have no bearing on the classification. nished by Helaba, as borrower, in connection with securities lending transactions. A distinction is made between money market instruments and mediumand long-term bonds based on the original maturity Under IFRS 9, securities lending is subject to the same accountof the security concerned. All bonds and other fixed-income seing requirements as those applicable to repos and reverse repos curities, regardless of what they are actually called, are deemed with the result that the transfer of securities under securities to be money market instruments if their original maturity is one lending agreements does not result in the derecognition of the year or less. Examples of money market instruments are comsecurities by the lender. Only the cash collateral furnished and mercial paper and certificates of deposit. received is recognised by the parties: by the collateral provider as loans and receivables, and by the collateral recipient as deposits and loans. Positive and negative fair values of derivatives A derivative is a financial instrument or other contract in which the value is derived from a certain interest rate, price or index, for the purchase of which little or no initial payment is required, and the settlement of which will take place at a later point in 118 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes time. A derivative may be an asset or a liability depending on Shares in any other entities are reported as other equity investwhether the fair value of the derivative is positive or negative. ments if they are intended to serve Helaba’s own business opThe Helaba Group holds derivatives for trading (trading book) erations by establishing a lasting relationship and the entities and for hedging purposes (banking book). In the case of derivconcerned are not otherwise classified as subsidiaries, joint atives held for hedging purposes, a distinction is made between ventures or associates. derivatives used for economic hedging as part of hedge management for which the formal documentation requirements Receivables from the purchase of endowment specified in IFRS 9 are not satisfied (economic hedges) and deinsurance policies rivatives used in qualifying hedging relationships in accordance This class consists of endowment insurance policies purchased with IFRS 9. on the secondary market by a subsidiary. Equity shares and other variable-income securities Securitised liabilities This class comprises equity instruments and other securities for Securitised liabilities comprise the debt instruments issued by which no fixed interest payments have been agreed. The class Helaba as securities. The class brings together issued money largely consists of shares or participation documents evidencmarket instruments, medium-/long-term bonds and equity/index ing a share in the assets of a public limited company or entity certificates, reflecting the composition of the bonds and other with a similar legal structure, provided that the involvement is fixed-income securities asset class. This class of liabilities also not intended to support Helaba’s own business operations by includes subordinated bearer bonds, profit-participation certifestablishing a lasting relationship (in which case the securities icates and silent participation certificates issued by Helaba. must be allocated to the shareholdings class). This class also includes shares/units in securities investment funds in the form Deposits and loans of special institutional funds and retail funds (such as equity The definition of deposits and loans is based on the definition funds, fixed-income funds, mixed funds and real estate funds). of the term “Deposits” in Part 2 of Annex II of Regulation (EU) No 1071/2013 of the European Central Bank of 24 September Shareholdings 2013 concerning the balance sheet of the monetary financial The shareholdings class comprises equity shares in unconsoliinstitutions sector. dated affiliated companies, joint ventures not measured at ­equity, associates not measured at equity, and other equity The deposits and loans class comprises amounts invested with ­investments. Helaba by creditors except amounts arising from the issue of negotiable securities. The class includes deposits on savings Affiliated companies include subsidiaries that are not fully conaccounts, overnight deposit accounts and term deposit accounts solidated in the Helaba consolidated financial statements beas well as (promissory note) loans taken out by Helaba. For the cause they are of minor significance. purposes of the aforementioned Annex, deposits and loans are further subdivided into deposits and loans repayable on deA joint venture is a joint agreement between two or more partmand (overnight deposits), deposits and loans with agreed maner entities in which the partner entities jointly share the manturity, deposits and loans redeemable at notice and repurchase agement of the venture and have rights to the net assets of the agreements (repos). venture under the agreement. Financial liabilities reported as repos represent the obligation Entities in which Helaba is able to exercise significant influence, to repay the cash received by Helaba (as seller / borrower) in either directly or indirectly, on the basis of its shareholding and ­return for the transfer of securities and /or the cash collateral that do not constitute either a subsidiary or a joint venture of received by Helaba in connection with securities lending transHelaba are reported as associates. There is a (rebuttable) preactions (see the section on loans and receivables above). sumption of significant influence if Helaba holds 20 % or more of the voting rights. 119 Liabilities arising from short-selling of securities commitments in which the party making the commitment can If, during the term of a securities lending transaction or repo, legally withdraw from the commitment unilaterally and unconHelaba sells borrowed securities to third parties, its obligation ditionally at any time and in which therefore no default risk to return the securities to the original lender or seller is recarises. ognised as a liability arising from short-selling of securities. Loan commitments that constitute derivatives or for which the Other financial liabilities fair value option was exercised on initial recognition are meaOther financial liabilities comprise all financial liabilities that are sured at fair value both on initial measurement and in any subnot classified as negative fair values of derivatives, securitised sequent remeasurement. liabilities, deposits and loans or liabilities arising from short-selling of securities. Financial guarantees A financial guarantee is a contract in which the guarantor is Examples of other financial liabilities include dividends to be obliged to make a specified payment that compensates the bendistributed, charges under executory contracts, trade payables eficiary of the guarantee for a loss incurred. Such a loss arises and operating lease liabilities. because a specified debtor fails to meet contractual payment obligations in relation to a debt instrument. The guarantor’s Hedging derivatives obligation arising in connection with a financial guarantee is Derivatives that have been designated as hedging instruments recognised on the date the contract is signed. Helaba recogas part of hedge accounting are reported as hedging derivatives. nises financial guarantees in which it is the guarantor at fair value, which is zero when the contract is signed if the expected Hedging derivatives are measured at fair value and are reported payments (present value of the obligation) are the same as the under either “Positive fair values of hedging derivatives under consideration in the form of premium instalments paid in arhedge accounting” or “Negative fair values of hedging derivarears and on an arm’s-length basis (present value of premiums). tives under hedge accounting”, depending on the fair value as at the reporting date. When a financial guarantee is subsequently remeasured in accordance with the rules under IFRS 9 for recognising impairment Loan commitments losses, a provision is recognised for anticipated losses that may Loan commitments are firm obligations entered into by Helaba arise from a claim under the guarantee. to provide a loan to a potential borrower on the basis of terms and conditions contractually established in advance. Loan comFinancial guarantees for which the fair value option was exermitments also include forward loans in which Helaba enters into cised on initial recognition are measured at fair value both on an irrevocable agreement with a potential borrower to issue a initial measurement and in any subsequent remeasurement. loan at a future point in time on the basis of terms specified when the agreement is signed (forward interest rate). Sundry obligations This class encompasses all other off-balance sheet liabilities The loan commitments covered by this class comprise solely that do not fall within the scope of IFRS 9 and are therefore subloan commitments to which the impairment rules under IFRS 9 ject to the requirements specified in IAS 37. Such obligations apply. When a loan commitment is subsequently remeasured in include warranty bonds, placement/margin /contribution payaccordance with the rules under IFRS 9 for recognising impairment obligations and obligations to purchase non-financial ment losses, a provision is recognised for anticipated losses that assets. may arise from a drawdown under the loan commitment. Loan commitments that do not fall within the scope of the impairment requirements under IFRS 9 are classified as sundry obligations and reported under sundry obligations (within the scope of IAS 37 ). Examples of such loan commitments are loan 120 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (7) R  ecognition of Financial Instruthe amortised cost and the repayment amount of the hedged item at the time the hedge is established is reversed using the ments and of Income and Expenses effective interest method. The recognition of financial instruments is first based on their Interest income on impaired financial assets in stage 3 and on measurement category in accordance with IFRS 9. For the purpurchased or originated credit-impaired (POCI) financial assets poses of the disclosures in the notes, they are grouped into is not recognised on the basis of the gross carrying amount. In classes of financial instruments as described in Note (6). the case of the former, it is determined by applying the effective interest method with the original effective interest rate to the The sole exception is the “Cash on hand, demand deposits and amortised cost, i.e. net carrying amount (gross carrying amount overnight money balances with central banks and banks” line less cumulative impairment losses); in the case of POCI financial item. This item is used to report cash balances denominated assets, it is determined by applying the original credit-adjusted in euros and foreign currencies. These balances are measured effective interest rate to the amortised cost (taking into account at their nominal amounts. The item also includes deposits with the expected credit loss on initial recognition). the European Central Bank and other central banks repayable on demand or no later than on the following business day as Depending on the measurement category concerned, interest well as demand deposits and overnight money with other income from demand deposits and overnight money balances banks. Longer-term financial investments and overdrafts on with central banks and banks is reported within net interest incurrent accounts held by other banks are reported as loans and come as interest income from other assets (AC ) or within net receivables in accordance with their IFRS 9 measurement trading income (Hf T ). ­category. Net interest income also includes the net interest income or Income and expenses from financial instruments are also reexpense from pension obligations and the interest cost arising ported according to the IFRS 9 measurement category applifrom the unwinding of the discount on non-current provisions cable to the financial instrument in question and then accordand other liabilities recognised at present value. ing to the class of financial instrument concerned. Reporting interest anomalies Net interest income The breakdown of interest anomalies (negative interest on fiThe net interest income item encompasses the interest arising nancial assets and/or positive interest on financial liabilities) is from financial assets and liabilities with the exception of interest shown in the table in Note (22). Helaba reports positive interest in connection with financial instruments held for trading, which on financial liabilities under interest income, and negative inis reported as part of net trading income. Net interest income terest on financial assets under interest expense. Cash flows includes both interest on debt instruments and the interest on resulting from interest anomalies in connection with derivatives non-trading derivatives in the banking book and on hedge are offset against each other and reported either in interest in­accounting derivatives. Existing premiums, discounts and come or interest expense in the same way that cash flows for ­transaction costs are allocated over the residual maturity of the each derivative are netted in a normal interest rate environment. financial instrument using the effective interest method (amortisation) and recognised in profit or loss under net interest inLoss allowances come in addition to the contractually agreed nominal interest. The “Loss allowances” item in the income statement includes all Helaba also uses the net interest income item to recognise impairment expenses and income in relation to debt instru­financial instrument fees and commissions that form an integral ments in the measurement categories AC (including trade acpart of the effective interest rate of financial instruments in accounts receivable (IFRS 15) and lease receivables) and FVTOCI cordance with IFRS 9. (recycling) and in relation to loan commitments and financial guarantees where such commitments and guarantees are subNet interest income additionally includes pull-to-par effects ject to the IFRS 9 impairment requirements. This includes addifrom hedge accounting derivatives when an underlying asset is tions to cumulative loss allowances, reversals, direct writeretrospectively designated as part of a hedge (after initial recdowns, recoveries on loans and receivables previously written ognition of the asset). In this process, the difference between off as well as necessary adjustments to loss allowances in the case of modifications of stage 3 financial assets (or POCI assets). 121 Cumulative loss allowances on debt instruments in the AC meaNet fee and commission income surement category are deducted from the gross carrying In the Helaba Group, the definition of net fee and commission amounts on the assets side of the statement of financial posiincome is based on Section 30 of the RechKredV, and comprises tion. In the case of debt instruments in the FVTOCI (recycling) income and expenses from the service business. This item in the measurement category, they are reported within accumulated income statement is used to report fee and commission income OCI . The cumulative provisions for losses on loan commitments and expenses according to the nature of the activity concerned. and financial guarantees are reported separately as a provision Fee and commission income and expenses from trading-related for off-balance sheet liabilities under provisions on the liabilities activities are reported within net trading income. Income from side of the statement of financial position. Impairment losses non-banking services is recognised as sundry income within and reversals of impairment losses are recognised as additions other net operating income. to, and reversals of, this provision. Net trading income Gains or losses from modification of contractual Net trading income includes disposal and remeasurement gains cash flows or losses on derivative and non-derivative financial instruments This item consists of gains or losses from non-substantial modheld for trading, interest and dividends resulting from trading ifications of financial assets in stages 1 and 2 and financial liaassets as well as fees and commissions in connection with tradbilities in the AC measurement category. ing activities. All gains and losses from the currency translation of financial assets and liabilities, regardless of measurement If the contractual cash flows in connection with financial assets category, are recognised as currency gains and losses within net or financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are renegotitrading income. ated or otherwise modified, and such renegotiation or modification is substantial, the financial instrument must be derecognised Gains or losses on other financial instruments mandaand a new transaction recognised. If the modification is not subtorily measured at fair value through profit or loss stantial, the gross carrying amount of the financial instrument is The gains or losses from the fair value measurement and from recalculated as the present value of the renegotiated or modified the derecognition of financial instruments not held for trading contractual cash flows discounted using the original effective in the FVTPL MAND measurement category are reported under interest rate. Gains or losses from non-substantial modifications this item. The unrealised remeasurement gains or losses result are reported in this item if they arise from financial assets in from the non-exchange-rate-related change in fair value, disrestages 1 or 2 or from financial liabilities. Gains or losses from the garding accrued interest (changes in clean fair value). Currency-­ modification of financial assets in stage 3 or of POCI financial related changes in fair value are reported as currency gains or assets are reported under loss allowances. losses within net trading income. Current and accrued interest, premiums and discounts as well as other components of the Dividend income effective interest rate on debt instruments and derivatives manDividend income is recognised as soon as a legal entitlement to datorily measured at fair value through profit or loss are repayment is established. Dividend income from equity instruported in net interest income; dividends on equity instruments ments mandatorily measured at fair value and from equity inin this measurement category are recognised under dividend struments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. income on the basis of the FV TOCI option is reported in the “Dividend income” line item. Dividend income from equity inGains or losses on financial instruments designated struments allocated to the trading book is recognised as part of voluntarily at fair value net trading income. Dividend income includes dividends from This line item in the income statement is used to report the republic limited companies, profit distributions from other comalised and unrealised gains or losses on financial assets and panies, income under profit transfer agreements and distribufinancial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value (FVO). In tions from special institutional funds and retail funds. the case of financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value, the item only includes changes in clean fair value (i.e. excluding currency-related changes) in the same way as the item for financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss. Currency-related changes in fair value are reported as currency gains or losses in net trading income. In the case of the measurement of financial liabilities, changes in fair value 122 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes attributable to changes in Helaba’s own credit risk are not recrameters, the day-one profit or loss must be recognised in profit ognised in this income statement item, but in accumulated OCI or loss over the maturity of the asset concerned. In such cases, instead. Current and accrued interest, premiums and discounts a deferral item is recognised under the same item as the transas well as other components of the effective interest rate for action responsible for the day-one profit or loss. The reversal debt instruments are recognised in net interest income. of the deferral item and recognition in profit or loss depends on the underlying transaction. In the case of interest-bearing Net income from hedge accounting ­financial instruments, the day-one profit or loss is amortised The changes in value of the hedged items and hedging instruover the life of the instrument using the effective interest ments included in hedging relationships and relating to the method; in the case of equity instruments, the deferred item is hedged risk (interest rate risk, currency risk) are reported under only reversed and recognised in profit or loss on derecognition net income from hedge accounting. Please refer to Note (10) for of the instrument. It may also be appropriate to amortise daydisclosures on hedge accounting. one profit or loss on a straight line basis. On derecognition of a financial asset or financial liability, any related day-one profit Gains or losses on derecognition of financial or loss that has not yet been amortised is recognised immediinstruments not measured at fair value through ately in profit or loss. profit or loss This income statement item consists of the net gains or losses from the early derecognition (as a result of disposal or substan(8) Fair Values of Financial Instruments tial modification) of financial assets and financial liabilities ­measured at amortised cost (AC measurement category) and of Fair value is defined as the amount for which an asset could be financial assets measured at fair value through other compreexchanged or a liability settled between knowledgeable, willing hensive income (FVTOCI measurement category). parties in an arm’s-length transaction (except in the case of emergency settlement). The recognition of the financial assets disposal or modification gain or loss is based on the stage under the impairment model Measurement methods at the time of derecognition. In the case of financial assets in When selecting the measurement method for financial instrustage 1, the cumulative loss allowances previously recognised ments, the Helaba Group distinguishes between those financial under loss allowances in the income statement are first reinstruments that can be measured directly using prices quoted versed. A net gain or loss on derecognition in the amount of the in an active market and those measured using standard valuadifference between the selling price and the gross carrying tion techniques. In this process, of all the markets to which amount is then recognised. For instruments in stage 2, the cuHelaba has access, the market with the highest level of activity mulative loss allowances are first utilised and the difference is generally assumed to be the relevant market (primary marbetween the selling price and gross carrying amount after utilket). If no primary market can be determined for individual isation is then recognised as a net gain or loss on derecognition. ­financial instruments, the most favourable market is selected. In the case of impaired financial assets in stage 3, the main factor determining value is the credit risk in a sale transaction. The The fair value of financial instruments listed in active markets is cumulative loss allowances are therefore first adjusted until the determined on the basis of quoted prices. A market is deemed selling price equates to the net carrying amount. Generally to be active if, for relevant or similar financial instruments, there speaking, the same system is used for financial assets measured are market prices that satisfy minimum requirements, particuat fair value through other comprehensive income. In addition, larly in relation to price spread and trading volume. The minithe non-credit-risk-related changes in fair value accumulated up mum requirements are specified by Helaba and subject to a to that point in accumulated OCI are recycled to profit or loss. regular review. Day-one profit or loss In the case of financial instruments for which no quoted prices In the case of financial instruments measured at fair value, difare available in active markets on the reporting date, the fair ferences may arise between the transaction price and the fair value is determined using generally accepted valuation techvalue (day-one profit or loss). Any day-one profit or loss is norniques. The financial instruments are measured on the basis of mally recognised immediately in profit or loss. If the calculation the cash flow structure, taking into account estimated future of the fair value is not based on observable measurement pacash flows, discount rates and volatility. These approaches use 123 modelling techniques such as the discounted cash flow method The inputs for the models are usually observable in the market. or established option pricing models. Models with greater difIf no market information is available for the required model inferentiation that use more detailed inputs such as correlations puts, these are derived from other relevant information sources, are used for more complex financial instruments. such as prices for similar transactions or historical data. The following table provides an overview of the measurement models used for the financial instruments: Financial instruments Measurement models Key inputs Interest-rate swaps and interest-rate options Discounted cash flow method, Black / Normal Yield curves, interest-rate volatility, correlations Black model, Markov functional model, SABR model, replication model, bivariate copula models Interest-rate futures Discounted cash flow method Yield curves Currency futures Discounted cash flow method Exchange rates, yield curves Equity / index options Black model, local volatility model Equity prices, yield curves, equity volatilities, dividends Currency options Black model, skew barrier model Exchange rates, yield curves, FX volatilities Commodity options Black model, Turnbull / Wakeman Commodity prices, yield curves, commodity volatilities / correlations Credit derivatives Black model Yield curves, credit spreads, credit volatilities Loans Discounted cash flow method Yield curves, credit spreads Money market instruments Discounted cash flow method Yield curves Securities repurchase transactions Discounted cash flow method Yield curves Promissory note loans Discounted cash flow method Yield curves, credit spreads Securities, forward securities transactions Discounted cash flow method Yield curves, credit spreads, securities prices Fund units / shares Fund valuation Fair values of fund assets Shareholdings Dividend discount method, Discount rate, expected cash flows net asset value method With reference to fund units/ shares in the equity shares and Adjustments other variable-income securities measurement category, the fair Adjustments may be required in some cases, and these adjustvalues used are mainly determined by the fund management ments form an additional part of the measurement process. companies and made available to the unitholders/shareholders. Depending on the complexity of the financial instrument inIf the latest fair value was determined as at a date other than the volved, the use of a model to measure a financial instrument reporting date, such value is extrapolated to the reporting date. could involve some uncertainty in the selection of a suitable model, for example regarding the numeric implementation or In the case of purchased rights under endowment insurance the parametrisation/calibration of the model. When measuring policies, the fair value is measured on the basis of the surrender a financial instrument using fair value principles, this uncervalue notified by the insurance company. This value is then adtainty is taken into account by applying model adjustments, justed for contributions and other changes in value up to the which can be subdivided into deficiency adjustments and comreporting date. plexity adjustments. 124 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The purpose of a deficiency adjustment is to reflect model-­ Validation and control related measurement uncertainty. Model uncertainty arises if a The measurement process is subject to continuous validation financial instrument is measured using a model that is uncomand control. In the trading business, part of the process of meamon (or no longer common) or if there is a lack of clarity caused suring exposures independently of the trading activity is to enby an inadequate calibration process or by the technical implesure that the methods, techniques and models used for the mentation. Complexity adjustments are taken into account if measurement are appropriate. there is no market consensus regarding the model to be used or the parametrisation for the model cannot be clearly derived New measurement models are generally subject to comprehenfrom the market data. The problems in such cases are referred sive initial validation before they are used for the first time. The to as model risk. The measurement markdowns resulting from models are then regularly reviewed depending on materiality, the various adjustments are taken into account in the form of a the extent to which they are established in the market and on model reserve. the complexity of the model in question. Ad hoc reviews are also carried out if, for example, significant changes are made to the Generally speaking, derivatives are currently measured in model. front-office systems on a risk-free basis. In other words, it is specifically assumed that the counterparties involved will reA process of independent price verification is also carried out to main in place until the contractual maturity of the outstanding ensure that the inputs used for measuring the financial instrutransactions. The credit value adjustment (CVA ) reflects the ments are in line with the market. imputed loss risk to which the Helaba Group believes it is exposed in respect of its counterparty, based on a positive fair Level 1 value from Helaba’s perspective. If the counterparty were to The market price is the best indicator of the fair value of financial ­default, it would only be possible to recover a fraction of the fair instruments. If an active market exists, observable market prices value of the outstanding transactions in any insolvency or liquiare used to measure the financial instruments recognised at fair dation process (recovery rate). The exposure over time is estivalue. These are normally prices quoted on a stock exchange or mated using a Monte Carlo simulation. A debit value adjustment market prices quoted on the interbank market. These fair values (DVA ) mirrors the CVA and is defined as that imputed part of a are reported as Level 1. negative fair value (from the perspective of the Group) that would be lost if the counterparty were to default. The CVA and Level 2 DVA amounts are taken into account in the form of a measureIf an observable market price does not exist for a financial inment adjustment. strument, recognised and customary valuation techniques are used for measurement purposes, with all input data being based A funding valuation adjustment (FVA ) is necessary to ensure on observable market data and taken from external sources. that the measurement of derivative financial instruments takes These valuation techniques are normally used for OTC derivainto account the funding costs implied by the market. Funding tives (including credit derivatives) and for financial instruments costs are incurred in connection with the replicated hedging of that are recognised at fair value and not traded on an active unsecured customer derivatives with secured hedging derivamarket. In such cases, the fair values are reported as Level 2. tives in the interbank market. Whereas the volume to be funded is derived from an exposure simulation, the funding rates are set in line with the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (Euribor). Similar to a CVA / DVA , there are two types of FVA . A funding benefit adjustment (FBA ) is applied in the case of a negative exposure, and a funding cost adjustment (FCA ) for a positive exposure. 125 Level 3 Loss allowances at stage 1 In those cases in which not all input parameters are directly obWhen a financial instrument is first recognised, it is normally servable on the market, the fair values are calculated using reallocated to stage 1 regardless of its initial credit risk. Excepalistic assumptions based on market conditions. This approach tions are financial instruments that need to be classified as POCI is required in particular for complex structured (derivative) basassets because there is already objective evidence of impairket products where correlations not directly observable in the ment at the time of initial recognition, and lease receivables, market are significant to the measurement. If no market prices and contract assets in accordance with IFRS 15, which are always are available for non-derivative financial instruments, arranger allocated to stage 2 in application of the simplified approach prices are used. Inputs that cannot be observed, particularly the under IFRS 9. surpluses derived from corporate planning, are also used to measure unlisted shareholdings recognised at fair value and to The loss allowance at stage 1 is recognised in an amount equal test goodwill for impairment. In the case of investment property, to the twelve-month expected credit loss (12M ECL ). This fair values are determined on the basis of expected income and amount is derived from the lifetime expected credit losses and expenses, with the result that these fair values are also classified comprises the portion of the losses resulting from default as Level 3. events anticipated in the twelve months following the reporting date. If an input material to the measurement of a financial instrument can no longer be classified under the same level used in the Loss allowances at stage 2 previous measurement, the instrument is reallocated to the relFinancial instruments for which the credit risk has increased evant level. significantly compared with the credit risk expected on initial recognition are allocated to stage 2. Lease receivables, and contract assets as specified in IFRS 15 are also allocated to stage 2. (9) I mpairment of Financial Assets, IFRS 9 offers an option whereby financial instruments with a Loan Commitments and Financial very low absolute credit risk can be left in stage 1 regardless of any relative deterioration since initial recognition. Helaba only Guarantees exercises this option for bonds and other fixed-income investment-grade securities. The investment-grade range covers all Helaba applies the three-stage IFRS 9 impairment model to the rating classes up to, and including, rating class 11 of the internal following financial instruments and measurement categories: credit rating scale. Please refer to Note (72) for a reconciliation of the internal rating classes to the ratings provided by external ■■ Financial assets in the AC measurement category rating agencies. ■■ Debt instruments in the F V TOCI Recycling measurement ­category To assess whether there has been a significant increase in credit ■■ Lease receivables risk since initial recognition, Helaba uses a relative quantitative ■■ Receivables as specified in IFRS 15 (including contract transfer criterion based on the established internal rating pro­assets) cess. In this approach, the latest probability of default over the ■■ Loan commitments within the scope of IFRS 9 and financial residual maturity of the financial instrument is compared with guarantees not measured at fair value through profit or loss the probability of default anticipated for this period at the time of initial recognition. The predicted default risk will be deterIn accordance with the expected credit loss model, a loss allowmined using rating-module-specific migration matrices and a ance is recognised in the amount of the expected credit loss for distribution assumption (quantile), such that a rating threshold all financial instruments falling within this scope, depending on value can be established as a quantitative transfer criterion for the allocation of the financial instrument concerned to the releach financial instrument. The probability of default is adjusted evant stage in the model. using macroeconomic factors if strong economic changes are expected which were previously not sufficiently reflected. The transfer of an instrument to loan workout will also be used as a qualitative criterion for assessing whether the instrument needs to be moved to stage 2. This is required, for example, if payments are overdue for more than 30 days. If a payment is over126 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes due for more than 30 days, this is considered a major credit includes both expected unscheduled repayments as well as event affecting creditworthiness, which means that the correcancellation probabilities for transactions where the cancelsponding item is automatically transferred to stage 2. lation before the end of the contract term is considered possible. Both parameters are calculated as average values of The definition of default event used to determine probabilities historical data. of default corresponds to the regulatory definition in accordance ■■ Credit conversion factor (CCF ): the CCF is taken into account with Article 178 of the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR ). as part of the EAD calculation in the context of loan commitments. The CCF represents the projected drawdown of the The criteria for a transfer from stage 1 to stage 2 apply in the provided credit line if a default occurs within the next year. same way for a transfer back to stage 1: a financial instrument Based on historical and economic customer behaviour, the can be transferred back to stage 1 if the credit risk associated CCF is calculated as the ratio between the loan amount to be with the financial instrument has reduced again to the extent drawn until the default event, and the provided credit line as that the criterion of a significant increase in credit risk is no at the respective reporting date. In order to be able to deterlonger satisfied. mine the provided credit line for more than one period in the event of a default, a life CCF (LCCF ) must be taken into conAt stage 2, a loss allowance is recognised in an amount equal to sideration. The LCCF represents the expected drawdown of a the lifetime expected credit losses (lifetime ECL s) for the finanprovided credit line over time provided that no counterparty cial instrument concerned. default occurs. The LCCF is calculated from historical data: it is the percentage of drawdowns of the overall credit line in The lifetime ECL is generally determined for each individual the respective period. ­financial instrument. A portfolio approach is only used to take ■■ Loss given default (LGD): the LGD is calculated for the secured into consideration information not previously reflected at and unsecured portions of the EAD. The calculation of the sub-portfolio level in the ECL calculation models and that should secured EAD portion includes estimated changes in the fair be factored into the recognition of loss allowances. Currently, value of collateral; these estimates might be adjusted if prothis approach is used in relation to the shipping loan portfolio nounced macroeconomic fluctuations are anticipated. Iniand the anticipated impact from the recalibration of the Intertially, the LGD is calculated for twelve months. In order to national Real Estate rating module, which is only gradually calculate LGD s covering more than one year, both the EAD being reflected in the re-rating process. and the collateral value are extrapolated over future periods. IFRS 9 requires reporting entities to make estimates reflectThe following main parameters, assumptions and estimation ing their expectations; to fulfil this requirement, Helaba does methods are used to establish lifetime ECL : not take into account any downturn components or collateral margins considered inappropriately high for economic pur■■ Probability of default (PD): The lifetime PD represents the poses. Moreover, the consideration of collateral is also based borrower’s probability of default for the entire remaining term on economic criteria. For instance, all recoverable collateral of the transaction concerned. The calculation of the lifetime is taken into account irrespective of its eligibility for regulaPD is based on migration matrices available for every rating tory purposes. module. The migration matrices describe the probability that ■■ When determining the remaining term of financial instrua borrower will migrate from one rating class into another ments, the Helaba Group bases its calculations on the maxiwithin the next twelve months. They can be used to determum contractual term, taking into account borrowers’ remine both the one-year PD and – based on matrix multiplicanewal options. In the case of combined financial instruments, tion – the lifetime PD. The migration probabilities are mainly i.e. financial instruments consisting of a combination of loan derived from historical experience, but also take information and revolving credit (such as current account overdrafts), the on the current situation as well as forward-looking informacontractual term is generally an inadequate reflection of the tion into account. The migration probabilities may be adactual term – therefore, an estimated term is used for these justed by macroeconomic factors. The necessary adjustments scenarios. are based on three macroeconomic scenarios (negative, positive and basic). All parameters used to determine the ECL are subject to estima■■ Exposure at default (EAD): the EAD is mainly based on the tion uncertainty, meaning that the actual losses incurred at expected present value of the projected and extraordinary Helaba may deviate from the expected losses recognised in loss cash flows during the remaining term of the transaction. This allowances. The wider the time frame used for ECL projection 127 purposes, the higher the estimation uncertainty. The list of facestablished period of good conduct applies, taking regulatory tors influencing loss allowances includes, for instance, the exrequirements into account. During the period of good conduct, pected credit rating of the borrower, economic conditions and all exposures remain in stage 3. changes in the value of the collateral held by Helaba. All factors used to determine the ECL are subject to regular validation The amount of the loss allowance to be recognised for financial ­processes. instruments in stage 3 is also equivalent to the lifetime ECL . In the case of significant loans (exposures of € 3 m or more), the Loss allowances at stage 3 loss allowance is then calculated on the basis of individual cash A financial instrument is allocated to stage 3 if there is objective flow estimates, taking into account various scenarios and the evidence of impairment, as follows: probability of such scenarios materialising. In the case of loans not classified as significant, the lifetime ECL as determined at ■■ significant financial difficulty on the part of the issuer or the stage 2 is used, but with the given default probability of 100 %. borrower; ■■ failure of the issuer or borrower to make interest payments Uncollectible loans and receivables in which it is virtually certain or repayments of principal in accordance with contract; that there will be no further receipt of payments after recovery ■■ concessions by the lender that have only been granted beof all collateral and receipt of other proceeds are derecognised cause of the financial difficulties of the issuer or borrower taking into account recognised loss allowances, or through (forbearance); profit or loss (direct write-offs). ■■ significant probability that the issuer or borrower will become insolvent or have to undergo financial restructuring; POCI assets ■■ disappearance of an active market for the asset because of Financial instruments for which there is already objective evithe issuer’s or borrower’s financial difficulties; dence of impairment on initial recognition are subject to a sep■■ observable data indicating a measurable decline in estimated arate measurement approach known as the purchased or origfuture cash flows from a group of financial assets even though inated credit-impaired (POCI) approach. With reference to newly a decline cannot yet be identified for the individual asset issued financial instruments and financial instruments after ­concerned. substantial modifications, Helaba verifies upon initial recognition whether all contractually agreed payments can be expected In this context, Helaba has harmonised its definition of indicato be received without the potential recovery of collateral. If a tors constituting objective evidence with the regulatory definifinancial instrument is classified as a POCI asset on initial rection of a default event in accordance with article 178 CRR . ognition, this classification must be maintained until the finanA ­financial asset is therefore deemed to be in default and is cial instrument is derecognised, regardless of any change in the ­allocated to stage 3 if one of more of the following criteria are associated credit risk. POCI financial assets are therefore not satisfied: subject to the transfer criteria in the general three-stage model. ■■ Repayment by the borrower in full, without recourse by the Modifications lender to recovery of collateral, is unlikely. According to IFRS 9, contract modifications of financial instru■■ A significant liability of the borrower to the Helaba Group is ments comprise both the adjustment of contractual cash flows more than 90 days past due. as well as changes in the legal situation with an effect on the cash flows associated with the financial instrument. However, However, in individual cases, the connection between stage 3 unlike forbearance measures, the exercise of a provision or opand the regulatory definition of a default event may no longer tion stipulated in the original contract is not considered a conapply where Helaba has granted substantial modifications or tract modification within the meaning of IFRS 9. In addition, originated new primary business with defaulted borrowers who modifications in line with IFRS 9 are considered independently are already in a period of good conduct. The new business is from any financial difficulties of the borrower. allocated to stage 1 provided it is not classified as a POCI asset. The modification rules apply to financial instruments measured If the objective evidence of impairment no longer applies, the at amortised cost, financial assets measured at fair value instrument is transferred back from stage 3 into stage 2 or stage through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI recycling cate1. The objective evidence of impairment no longer applies as gory) as well as loan commitments and financial guarantees soon as the default event is over. Simultaneously, an internally within the scope of application of impairment regulations. 128 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes A distinction must be made between substantial and non-­ Two hedge accounting models are used in the Helaba Group: substantial modifications. Substantial modifications of stage 1 and stage 2 financial assets mean that the asset in question is ■■ Fair value hedges for interest rate risk derecognised through profit or loss and that another financial Fair value hedge accounting is used for interest rate swaps asset – with amended contract conditions – is initially recand those cross-currency swaps with a fixed and variable ognised. Non-substantial modifications do not lead to the ­interest-bearing component to offset in the income statederecognition of the assets concerned; instead, the gross carryment the changes in the fair value of the designated swaps ing amount of the asset is adjusted through profit or loss to the against the interest-rate-related changes in fair value of present value of the modified cash flows in a calculation using fixed-interest issues, loans or securities on the assets side of the original effective interest rate. With reference to stage 3 fithe statement of financial position. Hedged banking book nancial assets and POCI , modification effects are recognised by transactions are allocated to each swap individually (micro utilising loss allowances. If the allowances for credit losses must hedges). Interest-rate-related changes in the fair value of be adjusted for modification effects, the risk provisioning result hedged items are deemed to be those changes in fair value may be affected as well. that arise from changes in the currency-specific interest rate swap curves with the predominant variable market interest If a stage 2 or stage 3 financial instrument is not substantially rate basis (hedged risk). Together with any gains or losses modified, it is transferred back to stage 1 in line with the general from currency translation in connection with foreign currency provisions. Regarding quantitative transfer criteria, the extransactions, these interest-rate-related changes in fair value pected default probability at initial recognition (i.e. not at the make up the majority of the market-risk-related changes in modification date) is taken into account. the fair value of hedged items. As the hedging relationships do not involve any basis risk that could be systematically countered through a hedge ratio, one unit of hedge always (10) Hedge Accounting hedges one unit of hedged item in the designated hedges (and the hedge ratio is therefore always 1:1). Nevertheless, The Helaba Group enters into derivatives for both trading and the resulting offsetting in the income statement (net income hedging purposes. If derivatives are demonstrably used to from hedge accounting) is not perfect; a certain degree of hedge risks, special hedge accounting rules can be applied hedging ineffectiveness is to be expected, particularly for the under IFRS 9, subject to certain preconditions, in order to elimfollowing reasons: inate accounting mismatches (in annual financial statements) that could arise from differences between the measurement of ■■ Differences in the discounting for hedged items and hedghedging instruments and that of hedged items. ing instruments resulting from the fact that, unlike hedged items, derivative hedging instruments backed by cash Please refer to the Helaba Group’s general risk strategy and specollateral are measured on the basis of overnight index cific risk strategies in the management report for a description swap (OIS ) yield curves (OIS discounting) of the overarching risk management strategy for managing mar■■ Interest rate measurement gains or losses from the variket risk in the banking book. The Helaba Group applies hedge able side of derivative hedges (which cannot be offset by accounting on a selective basis for the derivatives used in the any corresponding measurement gains or losses on context of managing market risk in the banking book. It is not fixed-interest hedged items) necessary to apply hedge accounting to all banking book derivatives because the risk exposures in connection with some of the banking book derivatives balance each other out and, in addition, some of the hedged banking book transactions are themselves measured at fair value through profit or loss. 129 No sources of ineffectiveness arose in the reporting period If cross-currency basis swaps are derecognised, the cumulaother than the anticipated sources described above. tive cross-currency basis spread elements recognised in OCI are recycled in the income statement. The same applies in the ■■ Fair value hedges for currency risk case of a de-designation of a formerly designated cross-­ Cross-currency basis swaps are used as instruments in fair currency basis swap. Over the maturity of the hedge, the value hedges of currency risk. Changes in the fair value of the cross-currency basis spread element in OCI decreases as a swaps arising from a change in the currency basis element result of the residual maturity effect. Other measurement are reported as hedge costs under other comprehensive inchanges relating to hedges are recognised under hedging come in the statement of comprehensive income (change gains or losses. from the fair value hedges of currency risk) and, on a cumulative basis, in the reserve for fair value hedges of currency In the Helaba Group, prospective effectiveness is determined risk, which is a component of accumulated OCI . The remainusing regression analysis; the critical terms match method is ing change in the fair value of the designated cross-currency used for currency risks. basis swaps is recognised in net income from hedge accounting together with the spot-rate-related change in the fair If ineffectiveness is identified, the hedge is terminated, even if value of the hedged items (hedged risk). Together with any the ineffectiveness is predominantly attributable to credit-­riskinterest-rate-related changes in fair value in fixed-rate transrelated fair value fluctuations. actions, these spot-rate-related changes in the fair value of hedged items make up the majority of the market-risk-related changes in the fair value of hedged items. As the hedging (11) Offsetting Financial Assets and relationships do not involve any basis risk that could be sysFinancial Liabilities tematically countered through a hedge ratio, one unit of hedge always hedges one unit of hedged item (and the hedge ratio is therefore always 1:1). Nevertheless, the resulting offUnder IAS 32 , an entity may offset a financial asset and a finansetting in the income statement is not completely perfect cial liability and present the net amount in the statement of fibecause the interest rate measurement gains and losses from nancial position if the entity has a legally enforceable right at the floating rates on both sides of the cross-currency basis any time to set off the recognised amounts and intends either swaps are not matched by any corresponding measurement to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liagains or losses in the hedged items, which are only measured bility simultaneously. The right must be legally enforceable as at spot rates. For this reason (and other reasons of minor part of normal business operations and cannot be restricted significance), a certain degree of hedge ineffectiveness is alsuch that it only comes into being if certain circumstances occur. ways anticipated. The disclosures in Note (63) describe the extent of the net presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities in the stateNo sources of ineffectiveness arose in the reporting period ment of financial position. The information also includes details other than the anticipated sources described above. of conditional offsetting opportunities that do not meet the requirements for offsetting under IAS 32 . Hedged items are not allocated individually to the cross-­ currency basis swaps. Rather, a group hedge is designated for each currency. Each group hedge consists of the swaps and the primary banking book transactions in the currency concerned. 130 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (12) Accounting Treatment of Leases All monetary items denominated in foreign currency and equity instruments (equity shares and other variable-income securiA lease is classified as an operating lease if substantially all the ties, equity investments) measured at fair value in foreign currisks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased asset rency are translated at the closing rate (the spot rate on the remain with the lessor. On the other hand, leases in which subreporting date). Non-monetary items measured at amortised stantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the cost (such as property and equipment) are translated using the leased asset are transferred to the lessee are classified as fiexchange rate applicable on initial recognition. Currency transnance leases. lation differences, with the exception of differences resulting from equity instruments measured at fair value through other Leases in which the Helaba Group is the lessor comprehensive income, are recognised in profit or loss. Where the Helaba Group enters into operating leases, the beneficial ownership in the asset used for leasing remains with the In order to translate financial statements prepared in foreign Group company concerned. The assets used for leasing are reccurrency for operations included in the consolidated financial ognised in the statement of financial position under property statements (subsidiaries, branch offices), the temporal method and equipment or under investment property. The assets used is used initially to translate from the foreign currency into the for leasing are recognised in accordance with the principles defunctional currency where these currencies are different. Figures scribed for the categories concerned. The lease income is recare then translated into the reporting currency (euros) using the ognised in profit or loss under other net operating income on a modified closing-rate method. In this method, all monetary and straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless an alternanon-monetary assets and liabilities are translated into the retive distribution of the income is appropriate in individual cases. porting currency using the ECB reference rate on the reporting If a lease is classified as a finance lease, a receivable due from date. Income and expenses for the reporting period are transthe lessee in an amount equivalent to the value of the net inlated using the average rate for the period. All resulting currency vestment in the lease on the date of inception is recognised translation differences are recognised in a separate equity item under financial assets measured at amortised cost. The lease (currency translation reserve) until the foreign operation is instalments received are split into an interest component recderecognised or discontinued. ognised in profit or loss and a component covering repayment of principal. The interest component is reported in net interest income. (14) Investment Property Leases in which the Helaba Group is the lessee Investment property is defined as property held to generate Lease instalments paid under operating leases are reported rental income in the long term or for capital appreciation, or under general and administrative expenses. In the year under both. review, there were no contractual arrangements classified as finance leases. With regard to the classification of mixed-use property, in other words property in which some areas are rented out and other areas are used by Helaba itself, a check is first performed to (13) Currency Translation determine whether the individual components can be sold or rented out separately and whether there is an active market for The provisions in IAS 21 are applied in translating transactions these components. If it is not possible for the property to be denominated in foreign currency in the financial statements of split, the property is only classified as investment property if the the companies included in the consolidated financial stateowner-occupancy area is insignificant in relation to the overall ments and in translating the financial statements of foreign size of the property. Property in which Helaba Group companies operations with a functional currency that is different from the themselves occupy a significant area is recognised in accorreporting currency. dance with IAS 16 and reported under property and equipment. 131 Investment property is measured at amortised cost. Subsequent The following details were determined and applied on the basis additional costs are only capitalised if they give rise to a further of the resulting clusters: economic benefit. In contrast, maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Borrowing costs are capitalised as part of the acqui■■ Annual rates of increase for rent sition costs in accordance with the provisions in IAS 23 . Build■■ Non-allocatable operating costs ings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their esti■■ Effective vacancy rates mated useful life. The component approach is used if material ■■ Discount rates parts of the property differ significantly in terms of useful life. The following details were determined and applied on the basis The bands used for useful lives are as follows, depending on the of the properties: type of property usage in each case: ■■ Market rent as at the valuation date ■■ Residential and commercial property 40 – 80 years ■■ Maintenance, management and other expenses ■■ Office buildings, other office and ■■ Trends in the rent per square metre of rentable area based on business premises 40 – 60 years an extrapolation of market rents and current rents ■■ Special property 20 – 60 years ■■ Trends in vacant property levels based on cluster-specific ­assumptions regarding target vacancy level Any additional reductions in value are recognised through im■■ Trends in expenses for maintenance, management, non-­ pairment losses. An impairment loss is reversed if the reason for allocatable operating costs, other costs and any ground rent the original impairment loss no longer exists. The cash flow is determined in two stages. The first stage comRental income, gains and losses on disposals, impairment prises a detailed forecast period of ten years in which the cash losses and other expenses directly attributable to investment inflows from the current target rent based on full occupancy are property are reported in other net operating income. reduced by the effect of the current vacancy level in the first year and then the assumed structural vacancy levels in years two to Depreciation is recognised as a separate item. ten. The resulting amount reduced by management costs, non-allocatable operating costs, maintenance and repair costs The fair values for property disclosed in Note (46) have been and ground rent produces the available cash flow (before taxes determined using internationally recognised valuation techand debt servicing) which can then be discounted. In the elevniques. The vast majority of the residential buildings, commerenth year, the methodology assumes a hypothetical disposal of cial properties, parking facilities and undeveloped land areas in the property and the sale price is used as a residual value in the the Group’s portfolio are valued by independent experts on the calculation. The total of the present values from the cash flows basis of market values, mainly by using the discounted cash flow in the detailed forecast period and from the hypothetical resale method. In this method, the fair value is calculated by determinof the property represent the fair value of the property concerned. ing the present value of the rental income achievable over the long term, taking into account management costs and forecast The discount rate comprises a risk-free interest rate together property vacancy rates. with mark-ups and discounts for existing property, location and market risks. For the purposes of the calculation, the properties are structured according to a location and property appraisal and subdivided into clusters. This is based on the following parameters: market (macro location), site (micro location), property and cash flow quality. Properties are thus grouped, each of the properties within a particular group sharing similar characteristics. The groups differ in terms of position, quality of management unit and therefore also in terms of their respective risk. 132 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (15) Property and Equipment (16) Intangible Assets Property and equipment comprises assets used by the Helaba The main items reported under intangible assets are goodwill Group itself, including the following: land and buildings, operarising from acquisition accounting, software and intangible ating and office equipment, properties under construction (proassets acquired as part of a business combination. vided that they are not being constructed or developed for future use as investment property) and assets leased out to third Goodwill is subject to an impairment test at least once a year parties under operating leases. and additionally if there are any indications of impairment. The impairment test is carried out for every cash-generating unit to Property and equipment is measured at amortised cost. This which goodwill has been allocated. Goodwill is allocated to the cost comprises the purchase price and all directly assignable identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows largely costs incurred in order to bring the asset to working condition. independently of the cash flows from other assets or groups of Subsequent additional costs are only capitalised if they give rise assets and that are intended to derive benefit from the synerto a further economic benefit. In contrast, maintenance costs for gies generated by the business combination. Various factors property and equipment are expensed as incurred. (including the nature of the control over the business activity exercised by the management) are involved in determining Where applicable, property and equipment is depreciated on a whether an asset or a group of assets generates cash inflows straight-line basis over its normal useful life with due regard to that are largely independent of those generated by other assets legal and contractual restrictions. This does not apply to lowor groups of assets. In the impairment test, the recoverable value assets, which are written off in full in the year of acquisiamount is compared against the net carrying amount of the tion. cash-generating unit including the carrying amounts of the allocated goodwill. The recoverable amount is the higher of value The range of anticipated useful lives is as follows: in use and fair value less costs to sell. If there are no recent comparable transactions or observable market prices available, ■■ Buildings 25 – 80 years the value is generally determined using a discounted earnings ■■ Operating and office equipment 1 – 30 years model which calculates the present value of anticipated future ■■ Assets used for leasing 3 – 25 years income surpluses. Income forecasts are taken from budgets and individual assumptions regarding growth trends in revenue and Impairment losses are recognised if there are indications of imcosts. To cover the period beyond the period covered by corpopairment and the carrying amount of an item of property or rate planning, the planning figures are used to determine a susequipment is greater than the higher of value in use and fair tainable rate of net income that can then be used in an annuity value less costs to sell. If the reasons for an impairment loss no model. The present value is calculated using current local longlonger exist in subsequent years, the impairment loss is reterm discount rates including a risk supplement comprising a versed up to a maximum of the carrying amount that would have market risk premium and a beta factor. If the goodwill is derived been recognised including depreciation if the impairment loss from an asset-related special purpose entity, the present value had not been recognised. can also be calculated in relation to the specific asset. An asset is impaired if the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit Depreciation on property and equipment is recognised as a sepexceeds the recoverable amount. In this case, an impairment arate item. Impairment losses and gains or losses on the disloss in the amount of the difference is recognised. This impairposal of assets are reported under other net operating income. ment loss is reported in other net operating income. 133 Software is measured at amortised cost. Such assets are amorOther assets and other liabilities are used for reporting any tised in most cases over a period of three years. Acquired orders other assets or liabilities that, viewed in isolation, are of minor on hand are amortised according to contractual maturity. Amorsignificance and that cannot be allocated to any other item in tisation expenses related to software and other intangible asthe statement of financial position. sets are included in amortisation. Impairment losses and gains or losses on disposals are recognised under other net operating income. (19) Provisions for Employee Benefits Pensions and similar defined benefit obligations (17) N  on-Current Assets and Disposal Company pension arrangements in the Helaba Group comprise Groups Classified as Held for Sale various types of benefit plans. There are both defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. Non-current assets held for sale, subsidiaries already acquired In the case of defined contribution plans, fixed contributions are with a view to onward disposal, disposal groups as defined by paid to external pension providers. No provisions are generally IFRS 5 and the liabilities associated with these assets are rerecognised in connection with these defined contribution plans ported in a separate item on the face of the statement of finanbecause the Group is not subject to any further payment oblicial position. In the case of subsidiaries already acquired with a gations. The ongoing contributions for defined contribution view to onward disposal, the income and expenses associated plans are recognised in general and administrative expenses. with this item (including changes in deferred taxes) are recognised in profit or loss under net profit after tax from disconAs regards defined benefit plans, Helaba operates a number of tinued operations. schemes involving total benefit commitments, final salary schemes and pension module schemes. Some of the pension If non-current assets and disposal groups are to be recognised obligations are covered by assets that represent plan assets as in this way in accordance with IFRS 5, it must be highly probable defined by IAS 19. These plan assets are offset against the penthat the assets and disposal groups concerned will actually be sion obligations. If this gives rise to an asset surplus, the carrysold within twelve months. ing amount of the net defined benefit asset (net DBA ) is limited to the present value of the associated economic benefits availUntil the relevant criteria are satisfied, the assets are measured able to the Group during the term of the pension plan or followin accordance with the general recognition and measurement ing settlement of the obligations (asset ceiling). Economic benprovisions. As soon as the criteria under IFRS 5 are satisfied, the efits may be available, for example, in the form of refunds from assets are measured from then on at the lower of the carrying the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. amount and fair value less costs to sell. The defined benefit obligations (DBO) are determined annually by external actuaries. The obligations are measured using the (18) Other Assets and Other Liabilities projected unit credit method based on biometric assumptions, salary and pension increases expected in the future, and a curOther assets include property held for sale as part of ordinary rent market discount rate. This discount rate is based on the business activities. These assets comprise properties, both coupon for investment-grade corporate bonds in the same curcompleted and under construction, that Helaba is itself develrency with a maturity matched to the weighted average maturity oping and marketing. The properties are measured at the lower for the payment obligations. In Germany, a reference discount of cost and fair value less cost to sell, i.e. the estimated recoverrate is applied that takes into account a large number of A A able sales proceeds less anticipated remaining costs for comrated bonds and has been adjusted for statistical outliers. pletion and sale. Borrowing costs are capitalised provided that Helaba determines this discount rate largely on the basis of the relevant criteria are satisfied. Income and expenses in conMercer’s discount rate recommendation. The actual discount nection with property held for sale are reported under other net rate used is in a range covered by 0.5 percentage points, within operating income. which three expected scenarios are calculated. Based on Mercer’s rate recommendation, Helaba uses the discount rate from 134 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes the scenario deemed to be the best estimate taking into account Any variances between the actuarial assumptions at the start of the duration and discount rate recommendations from other the period and actual trends during the financial year, together actuaries. This procedure is intended to avoid positive or negawith any updates made to the measurement parameters at the tive outliers. end of the financial year, result in remeasurement effects, which are then reported in other comprehensive income. In accordance with IAS 19, the defined benefit expense to be recognised in profit or loss is largely determined right at the If the Helaba Group is involved in joint defined benefit plans with start of a financial year. The pension expense to be recognised a number of other employers and these defined benefit plans in the income statement includes mainly the net interest comcannot be recognised as such because there is insufficient reliponent and the current service cost. able information available, the plans are reported as defined contribution plans accompanied by supplementary information. The net interest component comprises both the expense arising from unwinding the discount on the present value of the penOther employee benefits due in the long term sion obligation and the imputed interest income on the plan Provisions for other employee benefits due in the long term are assets. The net interest is determined by multiplying the net recognised for employee benefits that are not entirely payable defined benefit liability (present value of the defined benefit within twelve months after the reporting period. These items obligation less plan assets) at the start of the period by the apmainly comprise provisions for long-service awards, early retireplicable discount rate, taking into account any changes in the ment agreements, partial retirement agreements and deferred net defined benefit liability during the period as a result of conbonuses. Such items are measured in line with IAS 19, although tribution and benefit payments. If a surplus of plan assets arises, using a simplified method, according to which remeasurements the net interest component also includes the net interest on the of the net obligation are recognised through profit or loss. effect of the asset ceiling. The net interest expense is included as part of the net interest income figure reported in the income statement. (20) Other Provisions The current service cost represents the increase in pension obOther provisions are recognised in accordance with IAS 37 if the ligations attributable to the service provided by employees in Helaba Group has incurred a present obligation (legal or conthe financial year; it is reported under general and administrastructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that settletive expenses. ment will result in an outflow of resources and the amount can be reliably estimated. The timing or amount of the obligation is If the present value of a defined benefit obligation changes as a uncertain. The amount recognised as a provision is the best result of the amendment or curtailment of a plan, the resulting possible estimate as at the reporting date of the expense that effects are recognised in profit or loss under general and adminwill be necessary to settle the obligation. Non-current proviistrative expenses as a past service cost. The amount concerned sions are recognised at present value if the effect of discounting is recognised on the date the amendment or curtailment occurs. is material. Provisions are discounted using a standard market Any gain or loss arising from the settlement of defined benefit discount rate commensurate with the risk involved. obligations is treated in the same way. Provisions for off-balance sheet liabilities include provisions for loan commitments and financial guarantees, which are measured according to the IFRS 9 impairment model. Please refer to Note (9). 135 (21) Taxes on Income Taxes on income are recognised and measured in accordance with the provisions in IAS 12 . Current income tax assets and ­liabilities are calculated using the latest tax rates that will be applicable when the tax concerned arises. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are generally recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position in accordance with IFRS and those in the corresponding tax base. They are measured using the tax rates that have been enacted as at the reporting date and that will be relevant for the date on which the deferred taxes are realised. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for temporary differences that will result in a tax expense when the differences reverse. If a tax refund is anticipated on reversal of temporary differences and it is probable that this refund can be utilised, then deferred tax assets are recognised. Deferred tax assets are only recognised for tax loss carry­ forwards if it is sufficiently probable that they will be able to be utilised in the future. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted provided that they relate to the same type of tax, tax authority and maturity. They are not discounted. Deferred taxes on temporary differences in other comprehensive income are also recognised in other comprehensive income (OCI). Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are reported separately in the disclosures within the notes relating to the income tax asset and liability items. 136 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Income Statement Disclosures (22) Net Interest Income in € m 2018 20171) Interest income from 3,525 3,683 financial assets measured at amortised cost 2,192 2,295 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 1 2 Loans and receivables 2,191 2,293 Non-trading financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 755 774 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 28 n.a. Loans and receivables 9 n.a. Derivatives not held for trading 718 774 Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value 11 48 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 3 31 Loans and receivables 8 17 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 212 213 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 207 213 Loans and receivables 5 – Hedging derivatives under hedge accounting 220 246 Financial liabilities (negative interest) 67 45 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 67 45 Other 68 62 Cash on hand and demand deposit balances 4 – Commitment fees 64 62 137 in € m 2018 20171) Interest expense on – 2,453 – 2,614 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost – 1,310 – 1,411 Securitised liabilities – 439 – 393 Deposits and loans – 871 – 1,018 Derivatives not held for trading – 720 – 728 Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value – 189 – 194 Securitised liabilities – 77 – 70 Deposits and loans – 112 – 124 Hedging derivatives under hedge accounting – 121 – 190 Financial assets (negative interest) – 76 – 57 Financial assets measured at amortised cost – 76 – 57 Provisions and other liabilities – 37 – 34 Unwinding of discount on provisions for pension obligations – 34 – 33 Unwinding of discount on other provisions –1 –1 Other liabilities –2 – Total 1,072 1,069 1) Prior-year figures adjusted: € 18 m reclassified from interest income from financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value to interest expenses from financial ­liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value. Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. An amount of € 2,094 m calculated using the effective interest method was included in interest income from financial assets measured at amortised cost; an amount of € 212 m calculated using the effective interest method was included in interest income from financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Interest income not calculated using the effective interest method largely consisted of early redemption fees and non-recurring loan fees. Interest income and expenses on trading activities are reported under net trading income. 138 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (23) Loss Allowances in € m 2018 20171) Related to financial assets measured at amortised cost 43 50 Loans and receivables 43 50 Additions to cumulative loss allowances – 220 – 171 Reversals of cumulative loss allowances 262 196 Direct write-offs –8 –4 Recoveries on loans and receivables previously written off 9 29 Related to financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income – – Bonds and other fixed-income securities – – Additions to cumulative loss allowances –1 – Reversals of cumulative loss allowances 1 – Loan commitments – 1 Additions to provisions – 36 – 11 Reversals of provisions 36 12 Financial guarantees 2 5 Additions to provisions – 19 – 10 Reversals of provisions 21 15 Total 45 56 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. 139 (24) G  ains or Losses from Modification of Contractual Cash Flows In the period under review, gains or losses from the modification of contractual cash flows were less than € 1 m. (25) Dividend income in € m 2018 20171) Related to equity instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 34 n.a. Equity shares and other variable-income securities 28 n.a. Shares in unconsolidated affiliates 1 n.a. Other equity investments 5 n.a. Related to equity instruments measured voluntarily at fair value n.a. 4 Equity shares and other variable-income securities n.a. 4 Related to equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 2 22 Equity shares and other variable-income securities – 14 Shares in non-consolidated affiliates – 1 Shares in non-equity-accounted joint ventures – 1 Other equity investments 2 6 Total 36 26 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. Dividend income from shares in unconsolidated affiliates encompasses dividends as well as income from profit and loss transfer agreements. Dividend income on trading activities is recognised under net trading income. Of the dividend income from equity instruments for which the option of measurement through other comprehensive income has been exercised, no income was derived from assets derecognised during the reporting period. 140 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (26) Net Fee and Commission Income in € m 2018 20171) Lending and guarantee business 52 58 Account management and payment transactions 109 107 Asset management 96 93 Securities and securities deposit business 41 44 Management of public-sector subsidy and development programmes 38 38 Other fees and commissions 13 14 Total 349 354 1) Prior-year figures restated: Fees and commissions in connection with placement and underwriting obligations in an amount of € 21 m were reported in the previous year. These fees and commissions are now reported under fees and commissions from lending and guarantee business. The corresponding figure for the year ended 31 December 2018 was € 18 m. In the prior year, a fee and commission expense of € 7 m relating to the payments business had been reported under other fees and commissions; this has been reclassified to account management and payment transactions. A fee and commission income of € 2 m related to collection charges, which had been included in the prior year under the net fee and commission income from account management and payment transactions, is now ­reported under other fees and commissions. Fees and commissions on trading activities are reported under net trading income. Please refer to Note (78) for disclosures on revenue from contracts with customers in accordance with IFRS 15 . 141 (27) Net Trading Income in € m 2018 2017 Equity/ index-related transactions 1 3 Equity shares and other variable-income securities – 22 8 Equities – 22 8 Equity / index certificates 18 5 Issued equity / index certificates 5 – 10 Interest-rate-related transactions 27 198 Bonds and other fixed-income securities – 14 31 Loans and receivables 25 17 Repayable on demand and at short notice 2 – Other fixed-term loans 23 14 Other receivables not classified as loans – 3 Short-selling of securities – –1 Issued money market instruments –2 –1 Deposits and loans 2 8 Payable on demand 1 – Securities repurchase transactions (repos) 1 – With an agreed term – 8 Interest-rate derivatives 16 144 Currency-related transactions 11 90 Foreign exchange 50 220 FX derivatives – 39 – 130 Credit derivatives 4 – 10 Commodity-related transactions 7 6 Net fee and commission income or expense – 18 – 19 Total 32 268 142 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (28) G  ains or Losses on Other Financial Instruments Mandatorily Measured at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss in € m 2018 20171) Derivatives not held for trading 63 – 206 Equity / index certificates –4 8 Interest-rate derivatives 74 – 144 Cross-currency derivatives (FX derivatives) –7 – 71 Credit derivatives – 1 Bonds and other fixed-income securities – 37 n.a. Loans and receivables –2 n.a. Equity shares and other variable-income securities – 10 n.a. Shareholdings 3 –9 Shares in non-consolidated affiliates 2 – Other equity investments 1 –9 Receivables from the purchase of endowment insurance policies 4 n.a. Total 21 – 215 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. 143 (29) G  ains or Losses on Financial ­Instruments Designated Voluntarily at Fair Value in € m 2018 20171) Bonds and other fixed-income securities 6 – 50 Equity shares and other variable-income securities n.a. 1 Loans and receivables –2 –9 Securitised liabilities – 21 49 Deposits and loans 9 97 Total –8 88 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. (30) Net Income from Hedge Accounting The net income from hedge accounting comprises the re­ measurement gains or losses on the hedged items and hedging instruments under hedge accounting. in € m 2018 2017 Fair value hedges – micro 1 –9 Remeasurement gains (losses) on hedged items – 83 44 Remeasurement gains (losses) on hedging instruments 84 – 53 Fair value hedges – group hedges –1 n.a. Remeasurement gains (losses) on hedged items 429 n.a. Remeasurement gains (losses) on hedging instruments – 430 n.a. Total – –9 Only interest rate risks are hedged using micro hedges. Group hedges are used to hedge currency risk. 144 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (31) G  ains or Losses on Derecogni­tion of Financial Instruments Not ­Measured at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss in € m 2018 20171) Related to financial assets measured at amortised cost 1 –1 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 1 – Loans and receivables – –1 Related to financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 4 25 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 4 6 Equity shares and other variable-income securities n. a. 1 Shareholdings n. a. 18 Related to financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (AC) 1 – Deposits and loans 1 – Total 6 24 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. The gains and losses from the derecognition of financial assets measured at amortised cost consisted of gains from the derecognition of asset-backed securities (ABS s) that were sold as part of a product portfolio review. 145 (32) Share of Profit or Loss of EquityAccounted Entities The share of profit or loss of equity-accounted entities comprises the earnings contributions of equity-accounted joint ventures and associates, which are recognised in the income statement. in € m 2018 2017 Share of profit or loss of equity-accounted joint ventures 9 14 Share of profit or loss 11 1 Impairments or impairment reversals –2 13 Share of profit or loss of equity-accounted associates 4 5 Share of profit or loss 4 5 Total 13 19 146 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (33) Other Net Operating Income in € m 2018 20171) Gains (+) or losses (–) from the disposal of non-financial assets 52 50 Investment property 18 28 Property and equipment – –1 Inventories 34 23 Impairment losses (–) or reversals of impairment losses (+) on non-financial assets –5 – 129 Investment property – –1 Property and equipment – –3 Intangible assets – – 99 Inventories –5 – 26 Additions (–) to or reversals (+) of provisions 11 20 Provisions for off-balance sheet liabilities (excluding loan commitments and financial guarantees) 1 – Restructuring provisions –9 –7 Provisions for litigation risks and tax proceedings – 3 Sundry provisions 19 24 Income from the deconsolidation of subsidiaries 36 – Other net operating income 197 181 Investment property 180 167 Property and equipment 12 14 Inventories 5 – Rental income under non-cancellable subtenancy arrangements 3 3 Income from non-banking services 29 33 Profit transfer expenses –1 –3 Sundry other operating income and expenses –5 – 40 Total 317 115 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. 147 The main components of other net operating income are income and expenses attributable to investment property. The breakdown is as follows: in € m 2018 2017 Income from investment property 358 352 Rental and lease income 334 324 Gains on disposals 18 28 Other income 6 – Expenses from investment property – 160 – 158 Operating and maintenance expenses for investment property – 157 – 156 thereof: From property leased to third parties – 157 – 156 Impairment losses – –1 Miscellaneous expenses –3 –1 Total 198 194 (34) G  eneral and Administrative Expenses in € m 2018 20171) Personnel expenses – 655 – 646 Wages and salaries – 523 – 511 Social security – 75 – 73 Expenses for pensions and other benefits – 57 – 62 Other administrative expenses – 708 – 630 Business operating costs – 114 – 102 Audit and consultancy services – 127 – 110 IT expenses – 262 – 222 Expenses for business premises – 62 – 58 Cost of advertising, public relations and representation – 38 – 34 Mandatory contributions – 105 – 104 Total – 1,363 – 1,276 1) Prior-year figures restated: In the prior year, insurance premiums had been reported under mandatory contributions but are now shown under business operating costs. Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. 148 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The mandatory contributions included the portion of contributions to the European Single Resolution Fund subject to recognition in profit or loss amounting to € 40 m (2017: € 38 m). (35) Depreciation and Amortisation in € m 2018 20171) Investment property – 38 – 36 Buildings leased out – 38 – 36 Property and equipment – 20 – 22 Owner-occupied land and buildings – 10 – 10 Operating and office equipment – 10 – 12 Intangible assets – 19 – 14 Purchased software – 19 – 14 Total – 77 – 72 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. (36) Taxes on Income in € m 2018 2017 Current taxes – 198 – 189 Deferred taxes 33 –2 Total – 165 – 191 The current tax expense incurred in the reporting period was The deferred tax income recognised in the reporting period reprimarily attributable to the Bank in Germany (€ 122 m; 2017: lated mainly to the occurrence and reversal of temporary differ€ 90 m), Frankfurter Sparkasse (€ 48 m; 2017: € 27 m) and the ences amounting to € 33 m (2017: deferred tax expense of New York branch (€ 23 m; 2017: € 34 m). It included expenses € 2 m). This included deferred tax income relating to prior years relating to prior years amounting to € 129 m (2017: € 8 m). of € 190 m (2017: € 9 m). There was no material tax expense arising from changes in tax rates in the reporting year. The net As in the previous year, the current tax expense in the period outcome from new tax loss carryforwards and the utilisation of under review was not material due to the utilisation of tax losses such carryforwards in the reporting period was a deferred tax previously not taken into account. income of € 9 m (2017: deferred tax expense of € 6 m). 149 The reconciliation statement is based on the applicable tax rate for the parent company. This is a rate of 32 %, the rounded income tax rate applicable to Helaba Bank in Germany. in € m 2018 2017 Profit before taxes 443 447 Applicable income tax rate in % 32 32 Expected income tax expense in the financial year – 142 – 143 Effect of variance in tax rates 8 –3 Effect of changes in the tax rate 2 – 11 Effect of prior-period taxes recognised in the financial year 8 –9 Tax-exempt income and trade tax reduction 15 31 Non-deductible operating expenses and trade tax addition – 34 – 31 Goodwill impairment losses – – 21 Impairment losses and adjustments – 13 1 Other effects –9 –5 Income tax expense – 165 – 191 150 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes In addition to income taxes recognised in the income statement, other deferred taxes are recognised in relation to components of other comprehensive income. The following table shows a breakdown of the gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income and the related deferred taxes. in € m Before tax Taxes After tax 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement: 2 116 3 – 34 5 82 Remeasurement of net defined benefit liability 10 116 – – 34 10 82 Change in fair value of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 3 n.a. – n.a. 3 n.a. Credit risk-related change in fair value of financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value – 11 n.a. 3 n.a. –8 n.a. Items that will be subsequently reclassified to the income statement: – 123 – 86 40 23 – 83 – 63 Change in fair value of availablefor-sale financial assets1) n.a. – 66 n.a. 23 n.a. – 43 Change in fair value of debt instruments measured at fair ­value through other comprehensive income – 89 n.a. 26 n.a. – 63 n.a. Gains / losses from currency translation of foreign operations 8 – 20 – – 8 – 20 Changes from fair value hedges of currency risk – 42 n.a. 14 n.a. – 28 n.a. Total – 121 30 43 – 11 – 78 19 1) These amounts relate to equity instruments and debt instruments classified as AfS in accordance with IAS 39. 151 (37) Segment Reporting In 2017, Helaba reviewed and refined its business model. In this regard, a number of process adjustments were carried out. Approval was also given to changes to the organisational structure, which will be implemented from 2018. In this context, Helaba has also reviewed its segment structures. The outcome is that the new segment breakdown has largely been based on the Bank’s products and reduced from five to four operating segments. The structure has also been amended in line with the changes to the presentation of the income statement compared with the prior year. Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures relating to the modification of the income statement. The prior-year figures in the segment report have been restated accordingly. in € m Retail & Real Estate Corporates & Markets Asset Management WIBank 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Net interest income 386 394 384 399 268 269 51 48 Loss allowances – 14 2 – – 68 –4 –4 – – Net interest income after loss allowances 372 396 384 331 264 265 51 48 Net fee and commission income 17 16 117 118 183 184 40 40 Net trading income – – 54 222 – 4 – – Net income from hedge accounting and other financial instruments measured at fair value (not held for trading) – – –7 – –6 4 –1 –1 Share of profit or loss of equityaccounted entities – – – –4 3 4 – – Other net income / expense –1 – 24 33 37 291 266 1 1 Total income 388 388 581 704 735 727 91 88 General and administrative expenses – 146 – 134 – 462 – 443 – 530 – 507 – 72 – 69 Profit before taxes 242 254 119 261 205 220 19 19 Assets (€ bn) 30.2 29.1 71.1 70.3 30.6 29.6 23.5 16.8 Risk-weighted assets (€ bn) 16.4 14.7 20.8 19.7 6.6 5.8 1.2 1.2 Allocated capital (€ m) 2,007 1,971 2,513 2,616 2,384 2,019 145 151 Return on allocated capital (%) 12.1 12.9 4.7 10.0 8.6 10.9 13.2 12.5 Cost-income ratio 36.3 34.7 79.5 57.4 71.7 69.3 78.9 78.4 152 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes in € m Consolidation / Other reconciliation Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Net interest income 31 – 24 – 48 – 17 1,072 1,069 Loss allowances 64 128 –1 –2 45 56 Net interest income after loss allowances 95 104 – 49 – 19 1,117 1,125 Net fee and commission income –7 –5 –1 1 349 354 Net trading income – – – 22 42 32 268 Net income from hedge accounting and other financial ­instruments measured at fair value (not held for trading) 5 – 97 22 – 42 13 – 136 Share of profit or loss of equity-accounted entities 10 19 – – 13 19 Other net income / expense 71 – 78 – 36 – 37 359 165 Total income 174 – 57 – 86 – 55 1,883 1,795 General and administrative expenses – 291 – 259 61 64 – 1,440 – 1,348 Profit before taxes – 117 – 316 – 25 9 443 447 Assets (€ bn) 21.8 22.3 – 14.2 – 9.9 163.0 158.2 Risk-weighted assets (€ bn) 9.3 8.4 – – 54.3 49.8 Allocated capital (€ m) 1,110 1,110 – – 8,158 7,866 Return on allocated capital (%) – – – – 5.4 5.7 Cost-income ratio – – – – 78.3 77.5 The segment report is broken down into the four operating seg­Finance and Tax Engineering. The Bank’s activities in the ments explained below. Sparkasse Lending Business division concentrate on supporting Sparkassen and their customers with financing arrange■■ Products related to financing major commercial projects and ments based on credit standing and cash flow (primarily existing properties are Helaba’s particular speciality in the jointly extended loans). Activities in the Banks and InternaReal Estate segment. The product range includes traditional tional Business division focus on trade finance and documenreal estate loans in Germany and abroad, financing for opentary business. The Sales Public Authorities division provides ended real estate funds as well as development / portfolio advice and products for municipal authorities and their cor­financing. Office buildings, retail outlets and residential portporations. In addition to the lending products, this segment folios make up the bulk of the business in this area, although also includes the trading and sales activities from the Capital the segment also provides finance for retail parks and logisMarkets division and payment services from the Cash Mantics centres. agement division. ■■ In the Corporates & Markets segment, Helaba offers products ■■ The Retail & Asset Management segment encompasses retail for all customer groups. The Corporate Finance division probanking, private banking, Landesbausparkasse Hessen-­ vides specially tailored finance for companies, structured and Thüringen and asset management activities. Frankfurter arranged to specific customer requirements, through its conSparkasse offers the conventional products of a retail bank. stituent product groups Corporate Loans, Project Finance, The Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft Group rounds off the range Transport Finance, Foreign Trade Finance, Acquisition of private banking products available from Helaba. The asset ­Finance, Asset Backed Finance, Investment and Leasing management products at Helaba Invest Kapitalanlage­ 153 gesellschaft mbH also include traditional asset management General and administrative expenses comprise the costs directly and administration, the management of special and retail assignable to the segments plus the costs of internal services funds for institutional investors and support for master inprovided by other units. The costs of these services are allocated vestment trust clients. The Settlement/Custody Services busion the basis of arm’s-length pricing agreements or volume drivness complements the traditional asset management value ers according to the user-pays principle. The final component is chain by providing a custodian bank function. The Real Estate the allocation of corporate centre costs, generally also based on Management business, including the real estate subsidiaries the user-pays principle. such as the GWH Group and Helicon KG , also forms part of this segment. The range of products is broad, covering supAssets included in the statement of financial position are report for third-party and own real estate, project development ported under assets, and equity and liabilities under equity and and facility management. liabilities of the respective units. Contribution margin account■■ The WIBank segment mainly comprises the Wirtschaftsund ing is used for allocating these items to the operating segments. Infrastrukturbank Hessen (WIBank) business line. In its caThe risk exposure item comprises the risk exposure of the bankpacity as the central development institution for Hesse, ing and trading book, including the market risk exposure in acWIBank administers development programmes on behalf of cordance with the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR ). The the State of Hesse. This segment therefore brings together average equity stated in the statement of financial position for the earnings from the public-sector development and infrathe divisions is distributed based on risk exposures and allostructure business in the fields of housing, municipal and cated for the subsidiaries and equity investments in relation to urban development, public infrastructure, business/enterthe equity stated in the statement of financial position (alloprise and employment promotion, agriculture and environcated capital). mental protection. The return ratios reflect the profit before taxes expressed as a In line with management reporting, the segment information is percentage of the allocated capital. The cost-income ratio is the based on internal management (contribution margin accountratio of general and administrative expenses to profit before ing) and also on external financial reporting. taxes net of general and administrative expenses and of loss allowances. For internal management purposes, net interest income in the lending business is calculated using the market interest rate The Other segment contains the contributions to income and method from the difference between the customer interest rate expenses that cannot be attributed to the operating segments. and the market interest rate for an alternative transaction with In particular, this column includes the net income from centrally a matching structure. Gains or losses on maturity transformaconsolidated equity investments such as the OFB Group as well tion are reported as net interest income in Asset / Liability as the costs of the central units that cannot be allocated to the ­Management. individual segments in line with the user-pays principle. The net income or expense from Treasury activities in the Asset/Liability The net trading income, gains or losses on non-trading derivaManagement business, from central own funds investing activtives and financial instruments to which the fair value option is ities, from strategic planning decisions and from the centrally applied, net income from hedge accounting, gains and losses held liquidity securities is also recognised under this segment. on bonds measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, gains and losses on debt instruments and equity instruEffects arising from consolidation and intragroup adjustments ments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss between the segments are reported under consolidation/reconand share of profit or loss of equity-accounted entities are deciliation. Effects that arise from the reconciliation between the termined in the same way as the figures for external financial segment figures and the consolidated income statement, in reporting under IFRS s. particular in relation to net interest income, are also reported under consolidation/reconciliation. Since the contribution marOther net income/expense consists of dividend income, other gin statement shows net interest income on the basis of the net operating income and gains or losses on derecognition of market interest rate method, differences also result in the case financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit of non-recurring income and net interest income attributable to or loss. other periods. 154 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Income after loss allowances is attributable to products and services as follows: in € m Income after loss allowances 2018 20171) Real estate lending 388 388 Property management and development 268 268 Corporate loans 335 258 Municipal lending business 34 32 Treasury products 133 – 66 Trading products 106 301 Loans to financial institutions 28 32 Fund management / asset management 141 120 Home savings business 38 32 Sparkasse lending business 29 26 Public development and infrastructure business 91 88 Retail 348 360 Other products / reconciliation – 56 – 44 Group 1,883 1,795 1) Prior-year figures restated: The presentation of the products and services has also been revised as part of the adjustment of the segment structure. Income amounts have also changed as a result of the new reporting structure. Please refer to Note (1) for further information. The breakdown by region is as follows: in € m Income after loss allowances 2018 20171) Germany 1,636 1,567 Europe (excluding Germany) 106 99 Rest of world (excluding Europe) 141 129 Group 1,883 1,795 1) Income amounts have changed as a result of the new reporting structure. Please refer to Note (1) for further information. 155 Statement of Financial Position Disclosures (38) C  ash on Hand, Demand Deposits and Overnight Money Balances with Central Banks and Banks in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Cash on hand 93 89 Demand deposit balances with central banks 6,613 9,836 With Deutsche Bundesbank 5,767 9,118 Financial assets measured at amortised cost category 5,767 219 Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value category – 8,899 With other central banks 846 718 Financial assets measured at amortised cost category 846 706 Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value category – 12 Demand deposits and overnight money balances with banks 636 553 Financial assets measured at amortised cost category 346 358 Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value category 290 195 Total 7,342 10,478 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. 156 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (39) Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Bonds and other fixed-income securities 4 32 thereof: Listed 4 32 Mediumand long-term bonds 4 32 Loans and receivables 106,751 100,014 Repayable on demand and at short notice 5,820 6,083 Trade accounts receivable, including factoring 3,057 2,839 Receivables from finance leases 2 3 Other fixed-term loans 97,805 91,055 thereof: Forwarding loans 7,406 6,853 Other receivables not classified as loans 67 34 Total 106,755 100,046 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. Please refer to Note (72) for disclosures on the stages of impairment of financial assets measured at amortised cost. 157 The following table shows the financial assets measured at ­amortised cost by region and counterparty: in € m European Union World (excluding Germany (excluding Germany) European Union) Total 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Bonds and other fixedincome securities – – 4 32 – – 4 32 Corporates – – 4 32 – – 4 32 Loans and receivables 71,078 65,549 22,505 22,667 13,168 11,798 106,751 100,014 Central giro institutions 455 291 – – – – 455 291 Sparkassen 6,410 5,454 – – – – 6,410 5,454 Other banks 1,376 2,026 2,265 2,176 716 729 4,357 4,931 Other financial corporations 5,671 5,647 3,440 3,864 865 347 9,976 9,858 Non-financial corporations 28,963 29,565 16,101 15,843 11,367 10,537 56,431 55,945 Government 20,964 17,644 675 763 47 47 21,686 18,454 Households 7,239 4,922 24 21 173 138 7,436 5,081 Total 71,078 65,549 22,509 22,699 13,168 11,798 106,755 100,046 The following table shows a breakdown of the other fixed-term loans by financing purpose: in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Commercial real estate loans 32,209 29,668 Residential building loans 5,942 5,443 Consumer loans to private households 189 133 Infrastructure loans 18,614 15,092 Asset finance 6,281 5,554 Leasing funding 3,976 3,905 Import / export finance 17 13 Other financing purposes 30,577 31,247 Total 97,805 91,055 1) Prior-year figures restated: In the prior year, residential building loans in an amount of € 1,500 m had been reported under commercial real estate loans. 158 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (40) Trading Assets in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Positive fair values of trading derivatives 8,994 9,308 thereof: Traded OTC 8,984 9,293 thereof: Exchange-traded 10 15 Equity/ index-related transactions 427 182 Interest-rate-related transactions 7,629 8,054 Currency-related transactions 907 1,013 Credit derivatives 31 57 Commodity-related transactions – 2 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 6,570 5,324 thereof: Listed 6,152 5,284 Money market instruments 52 – Mediumand long-term bonds 6,518 5,324 Loans and receivables 1,395 1,355 Repayable on demand and at short notice 3 4 Securities repurchase transactions 134 22 Other fixed-term loans 1,258 1,329 Equity shares and other variable-income securities 30 113 thereof: Listed 30 113 Equities 30 113 Total 16,989 16,100 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. The financial instruments under trading assets are measured at fair value and assigned exclusively to the measurement category FVTPL Hf T. Loans and receivables held for trading mainly comprise promissory note loans and, to a lesser extent, repos and money trading transactions. 159 The following table comprises the trading assets by regions and counterparties: in € m European Union World (excluding Germany (excluding Germany) European Union) Total 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Positive fair values of ­ derivatives held for trading 6,571 6,565 2,341 2,662 82 81 8,994 9,308 Central giro institutions 374 152 – – – – 374 152 Sparkassen 871 523 – – – – 871 523 Other banks 947 1,491 1,775 2,047 27 24 2,749 3,562 Other financial corporations 141 169 69 94 – – 210 263 Non-financial corporations 1,080 1,130 497 520 55 57 1,632 1,707 Government 3,076 2,991 – – – – 3,076 2,991 Households 72 85 – – – – 72 85 Exchange-traded derivatives 10 24 – 1 – – 10 25 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 1,458 1,052 3,687 3,093 1,425 1,179 6,570 5,324 Central giro institutions 111 128 – – – – 111 128 Other banks 821 484 3,456 2,845 1,256 1,170 5,533 4,499 Other financial corporations 60 6 55 65 130 6 245 77 Non-financial corporations 108 55 66 26 4 2 178 83 Government 358 379 110 157 35 1 503 537 Loans and receivables 1,036 887 339 397 20 71 1,395 1,355 Central banks 28 – – 10 – 2 28 12 Sparkassen 150 – – – – – 150 – Other banks 287 5 24 137 – 38 311 180 Other financial corporations – – 3 2 – – 3 2 Non-financial corporations 83 130 312 248 20 31 415 409 Government 488 752 – – – – 488 752 Equity shares and other variable-income securities 26 112 4 1 – – 30 113 Other banks 3 103 – – – – 3 103 Other financial corporations 2 – 4 – – – 6 – Non-financial corporations 21 9 – 1 – – 21 10 Total 9,091 8,616 6,371 6,153 1,527 1,331 16,989 16,100 160 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (41) O  ther Financial Assets Mandatorily Measured at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Positive fair values of non-trading derivatives 2,046 2,369 thereof: Traded OTC 2,046 2,369 Interest-rate-related transactions 1,976 1,993 Currency-related transactions 70 376 Bonds and other variable-income securities 1,525 n.a. thereof: Listed 1,287 n.a. Mediumand long-term bonds 1,525 n.a. Loans and receivables 64 n.a. Other fixed-term loans 61 n.a. Other receivables not classified as loans 3 n.a. Equity shares and other variable-income securities 110 n.a. thereof: Listed 3 n.a. Investment units 110 n.a. Shareholdings 71 n.a. Shares in unconsolidated affiliates 18 n.a. Shares in non-equity-accounted joint ventures 4 n.a. Shares in non-equity-accounted associates 5 n.a. Other equity investments 44 n.a. Receivables from the purchase of endowment insurance policies 95 n.a. Total 3,911 2,369 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. The non-trading derivatives recognised in this item are derivative financial instruments used for economic hedging as part of hedge management (economic hedges); the documentation requirements for hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9 are not satisfied. 161 The following table shows the other financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss by region and counterparty: in € m European Union World (excluding Germany (excluding Germany) European Union) Total 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Positive fair values of non-trading derivatives 927 1,066 1,111 1,294 8 9 2,046 2,369 Central giro institutions 35 42 – – – – 35 42 Other banks 713 757 1,024 1,293 6 7 1,743 2,057 Other financial corporations 3 33 87 1 – 2 90 36 Non-financial corporations 2 1 – – – – 2 1 Government 174 233 – – – – 174 233 Households – – – – 2 – 2 – Bonds and other fixed-income securities 116 – 872 – 537 – 1,525 – Other banks 12 – 41 – 28 – 81 – Other financial corporations 29 – 326 – 146 – 501 – Non-financial corporations 73 – 493 – 328 – 894 – Government 2 – 12 – 35 – 49 – Loans and receivables 38 – 7 – 19 – 64 – Other banks – – – – 3 – 3 – Other financial corporations 38 – 2 – 16 – 56 – Non-financial corporations – – 5 – – – 5 – Equity shares and other variable-income securities 82 – 13 – 15 – 110 – Other financial corporations 81 – 13 – 15 – 109 – Non-financial corporations 1 – – – – – 1 – Shareholdings 71 – – – – – 71 – Other banks 1 – – – – – 1 – Other financial corporations 37 – – – – – 37 – Non-financial corporations 33 – – – – – 33 – Receivables from the purchase of endowment insurance policies 95 – – – – – 95 – Other financial corporations 95 – – – – – 95 – Total 1,329 1,066 2,003 1,294 579 9 3,911 2,369 162 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (42) F  inancial Assets Designated ­Voluntarily at Fair Value in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Bonds and other fixed-income securities 124 1,758 thereof: Listed 3 1,576 Mediumand long-term bonds 124 1,758 Loans and receivables 253 479 Other fixed-term loans 252 479 Other receivables not classified as loans 1 – Equity shares and other variable-income securities n.a. 70 thereof: Listed n.a. 60 Investment units n.a. 70 Total 377 2,307 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. 163 The following table shows the financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value by region and counterparty: in € m European Union World (excluding Germany (excluding Germany) European Union) Total 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 121 497 3 715 – 546 124 1,758 Central giro institutions – 1 – – – – – 1 Other banks – 24 3 37 – 24 3 85 Other financial corporations – 14 – 257 – 81 – 352 Non-financial corporations – 73 – 381 – 263 – 717 Government 121 385 – 40 – 178 121 603 Loans and receivables 253 479 – – – – 253 479 Other financial corporations 1 2 – – – – 1 2 Non-financial corporations 16 24 – – – – 16 24 Government 236 453 – – – – 236 453 Equity shares and other variable-income securities – 60 – – – 10 – 70 Other financial corporations – 60 – – – 10 – 70 Total 374 1,036 3 715 – 556 377 2,307 164 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (43) P  ositive Fair Values of Hedging Derivatives Under Hedge Accounting in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Derivatives in fair value hedges – micro 471 551 thereof: Traded OTC 471 551 Interest-rate-related transactions 471 551 Derivatives in fair value hedges – group hedges 137 n.a. thereof: Traded OTC 137 n.a. Currency-related transactions 137 n.a. Total 608 551 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. 165 (44) F  inancial Assets Measured at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Bonds and other fixed-income securities 21,965 21,930 thereof: Listed 21,254 20,754 Money market instruments 474 567 Mediumand long-term bonds 21,491 21,363 Loans and receivables 488 – Other fixed-term loans 488 – Equity shares and other variable-income securities – 40 thereof: Listed – 4 Equities – 1 Investment units – 39 Shareholdings 41 109 Shares in non-consolidated affiliates 5 25 Shares in non-equity-accounted joint ventures – 3 Shares in non-equity-accounted associates – 6 Other equity investments 36 75 Receivables from the purchase of endowment insurance policies n. a. 112 Total 22,494 22,191 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. Financial assets recognised in shareholdings are equity instruments classified as fair value through other comprehensive income without recycling (FVTOCI [non-recycling]). 166 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income by region and ­counterparty: in € m European Union World (excluding Germany (excluding Germany) European Union) Total 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 6,309 7,560 10,406 9,138 5,250 5,232 21,965 21,930 Central giro institutions 402 253 – – – – 402 253 Other banks 1,780 1,828 8,673 7,514 4,620 4,523 15,073 13,865 Other financial corporations 15 13 300 131 230 501 545 645 Non-financial corporations 51 53 67 67 81 1 199 121 Government 4,061 5,413 1,366 1,426 319 207 5,746 7,046 Loans and receivables 268 – 167 – 53 – 488 – Other financial corporations – – 99 – – – 99 – Non-financial corporations 263 – 68 – 53 – 384 – Government 5 – – – – – 5 – Equity shares and other variable-income securities – 8 – 4 – 28 – 40 Other financial corporations – 7 – 4 – 20 – 31 Non-financial corporations – 1 – – – 8 – 9 Shareholdings 41 107 – 2 – – 41 109 Other banks 20 18 – – – – 20 18 Other financial corporations 21 43 – 1 – – 21 44 Non-financial corporations – 46 – 1 – – – 47 Receivables from the purchase of endowment insurance policies – 112 – – – – – 112 Other financial corporations – 112 – – – – – 112 Total 6,618 7,787 10,573 9,144 5,303 5,260 22,494 22,191 No equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income were derecognised in the reporting ­period. 167 (45) Shares in Equity-Accounted Entities In the reporting period, a total of 34 (31 December 2017: 31) joint ventures and 2 (31 December 2017: 3) associates were accounted for using the equity method. The breakdown of equity-accounted investments is shown below: in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Investments in joint ventures 39 36 Non-financial corporations 39 36 Investments in associates 6 9 Other financial corporations 3 6 Non-financial corporations 3 3 Total 45 45 1) In the previous year, investments in joint ventures in an amount of € 2 m were reported under investments in associates; this has been corrected in the prior-year figures. There are no listed companies among the equity-accounted ­entities. The share of losses of equity-accounted entities not recognised for the reporting period amounted to € 1 m (2017: € 0 m); the cumulative total of such unrecognised losses amounted to € 2 m as at 31 December 2018 (31 December 2017: € 1 m). The tables below contain summarised financial information about equity-accounted joint ventures and associates based on the Helaba Group’s equity-accounted interest in the assets, liabilities, profit or loss from continuing operations and comprehensive income. 168 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Investments in joint ventures – total Total assets 469 432 Total liabilities 388 386 Profit or loss from continuing operations 16 –8 Comprehensive income 16 –8 Investments in joint ventures – proportionate Total assets 265 224 Total liabilities 223 193 Profit or loss from continuing operations 8 –2 Comprehensive income 8 –2 in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Investments in associates – total Total assets 21 27 Total liabilities 1 1 Profit or loss from continuing operations 15 8 Comprehensive income 15 8 Investments in associates – proportionate Total assets 6 9 Profit or loss from continuing operations 4 2 Comprehensive income 4 2 169 (46) Investment Property in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Land and buildings leased to third parties 2,174 2,114 Undeveloped land 44 55 Vacant buildings 2 2 Investment property under construction 200 68 Total 2,420 2,239 Real estate held by the GWH Group accounted for € 2,231 m (31 December 2017: € 2,149 m) of the total investment property. 170 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The table below shows the changes in investment property: in € m 2018 2017 Cost As at 1.1. 2,636 2,530 Additions 291 147 Disposals – 32 – 40 Transfers – 49 –1 Transfers to the portfolio of owner-occupied land and buildings –1 –1 Transfers to non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale – 48 – As at 31.12. 2,846 2,636 Accumulated depreciation As at 1.1. – 387 – 358 Depreciation – 38 – 36 Disposals 3 7 As at 31.12. – 422 – 387 Cumulative impairment losses As at 1.1. – 10 –9 Impairment losses – –1 Transfers 6 – Transfers to non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 6 – As at 31.12. –4 – 10 Carrying amounts as at 31.12. 2,420 2,239 The contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop The fair values of the properties as at the reporting date came investment property in the GWH Group amounted to € 306 m to a total of € 4,099 m (31 December 2017: € 3,491 m) and were (31 December 2017: € 239 m). allocated to Level 3. 171 (47) Property and Equipment in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Owner-occupied land and buildings 381 372 Operating and office equipment 53 52 Machinery and technical equipment 4 3 Total 438 427 Some parts of the owner-occupied land and buildings are leased out. The proportion attributable to the parts of such land and buildings leased out (under operating leases) amounts to € 73 m for the Group. 172 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The changes in property and equipment were as follows: in € m OwnerMachinery occupied land Operating and and technical and buildings office equipment equipment Ships and aircraft Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cost As at 1.1. 571 557 216 212 3 1 – 17 790 787 Changes due to currency translation 1 –2 – –1 – – – – 1 –3 Additions 16 29 13 10 1 1 – – 30 40 Disposals – – 14 – 13 –5 – – – – 17 – 13 – 36 Transfers – 1 – – – – – – – 1 Transfers from the portfolio of investment property 1 1 – – – – – – 1 1 Other adjustments 1 – –1 – – 1 – – – 1 As at 31.12. 589 571 215 216 4 3 – – 808 790 Accumulated depreciation As at 1.1. – 195 – 192 – 164 – 157 – – – – – 359 – 349 Changes due to currency translation – 1 –1 1 – – – – –1 2 Depreciation – 10 – 10 – 10 – 12 – – – – – 20 – 22 Disposals – 6 13 4 – – – – 13 10 Other adjustments 1 – – – – – – – 1 – As at 31.12. – 204 – 195 – 162 – 164 – – – – – 366 – 359 Cumulative impairment losses As at 1.1. –4 –3 – – – – – – –4 –3 Impairment losses – –1 – – – – – –3 – –4 Reversals of impairment losses – – – – – – – 1 – 1 Disposals – – – – – – – 2 – 2 As at 31.12. –4 –4 – – – – – – –4 –4 Carrying amounts as at 31.12. 381 372 53 52 4 3 – – 438 427 173 (48) Intangible Assets in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Software 80 66 thereof: Purchased 79 66 thereof: Internally generated 1 – Total 80 66 With the exception of goodwill, the Helaba Group’s intangible assets are amortised over their finite useful lives. 174 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The intangible assets changed as follows: in € m Internally Goodwill Purchased software generated software Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cost As at 1.1. 144 144 267 204 – – 411 348 Changes in basis of consolidation – – –1 – – – –1 – Changes due to currency translation – – 1 –3 – – 1 –3 Additions – – 32 66 1 – 33 66  Additions from internal development – – 2 – 1 – 3 – Other additions – – 30 – – – 30 – Disposals – – –4 – – – –4 – As at 31.12. 144 144 295 267 1 – 440 411 Accumulated amortisation As at 1.1. – – – 170 – 159 – – – 170 – 159 Changes in basis of consolidation – – 1 – – – 1 – Changes due to currency translation – – –1 3 – – –1 3 Amortisation – – – 19 – 14 – – – 19 – 14 Disposals – – 4 – – – 4 – Other adjustments – – – – – – – – As at 31.12. – – – 185 – 170 – – – 185 – 170 Accumulated impairment losses As at 1.1. – 144 – 76 – 31 – – – – 175 – 76 Impairment losses – – 68 – – 31 – – – – 99 As at 31.12. – 144 – 144 – 31 – 31 – – – 175 – 175 Carrying amounts as at 31.12. – – 79 66 1 – 80 66 As in the previous year, there were no contractual obligations to acquire intangible assets. 175 (49) N  on-Current Assets and DispoThe entire sale of shares in four investment funds (mandatorily measured through profit or loss) that had been reported as held sal Groups Classified as Held for for sale at 30 June 2018 gave rise to a loss of € 1 m. The sale took Sale and Liabilities Related to place in the fourth quarter of 2018. Non­-Current Assets and Disposal Groups Classified as Held for Sale (50) Income Tax Assets and Liabilities The assets held for sale in an amount of € 42 m relate to a comThe deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the folmercial property. The carrying amount of this asset is below the lowing items: fair value less costs to sell. A sale and purchase agreement has already been signed; the asset will be derecognised after completion of the property in 2019. in € m Deferred income tax assets Deferred income tax liabilities 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 469 169 289 19 Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and trading assets and trading liabilities 1,066 1,089 1,139 1,331 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 16 5 96 34 Other assets 67 67 28 24 Provisions for employee benefits 309 308 5 1 Other provisions 42 29 5 1 Other liabilities 54 156 8 27 Tax loss carryforwards 22 13 – – Deferred tax assets and liabilities, gross 2,045 1,836 1,570 1,437 Netted against deferred tax liabilities / assets – 1,555 – 1,421 – 1,555 – 1,421 Total 490 415 16 16 thereof: Non-current 358 254 32 8 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been offset in accordance with IAS 12 .74. 176 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the deferred taxes recognised in ­association with items in other comprehensive income: in € m Before tax Taxes After tax 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement: – 631 – 633 187 183 – 444 – 450 Remeasurement of net defined benefit liability – 623 – 633 183 183 – 440 – 450 Change in fair value of equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 1 – 1 – 2 – Credit risk-related change in fair value of financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value –8 n.a. 2 n.a. –6 n.a. Items that will be subsequently reclassified to the income statement: 118 282 – 34 – 75 84 207 Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets1) n.a. 46 n.a. –1 n.a. 45 Change in fair value of debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 142 226 – 48 – 74 94 152 Gains / losses from hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation – 17 – 17 – – – 17 – 17 Gains / losses from currency translation of foreign operations 35 27 – – 35 27 Gains or losses from fair value hedges of currency risk – 42 n.a. 14 n.a. – 28 n.a. Total – 513 – 351 153 108 – 360 – 243 1) These cumulative amounts relate to equity instruments and debt instruments classified as AfS in accordance with IAS 39. The calculation of deferred tax assets for the domestic and forOn the basis of the multi-year planning, the Bank has concluded eign reporting units was based on individual tax rates. Given an that the deferred tax assets are recoverable and can be justified average municipality trade tax multiplier of 452 %, the comfor the period covered by the multi-year planning because sufbined income tax rate for the Bank in Germany in 2018 was ficient taxable income will be available. 31.7 %, which was unchanged compared with the prior year. As at the reporting date, Helaba had recognised deferred tax In the case of deferred tax assets, the recovery of which depends assets of € 10 m (31 December 2017: € 3 m) in respect of corpoon future taxable profits that extend beyond the impact on earnrate income tax loss carryforwards of € 65 m (31 December 2017: ings from the reversal of taxable temporary differences in exis€ 21 m) and deferred tax assets of € 12 m (31 December 2017: tence on the reporting date, the Helaba Group only recognises € 10 m) in respect of trade tax loss carryforwards of € 74 m such deferred tax assets to the extent that it is reasonably cer(31 December 2017: € 93 m). tain they could be utilised. If the deferred tax assets are to be utilised, there must be sufficient taxable profits in the foreseeOverall, no deferred tax assets had been recognised in respect able future against which the associated tax loss carryforwards of corporate income tax loss carryforwards of € 18 m (31 Decemcan be offset. In this regard, the Helaba Group generally uses a ber 2017: € 39 m) and in respect of trade tax loss carryforwards planning horizon of five years. of € 130 m (31 December 2017: € 53 m) because Helaba did not believe there was sufficient probability of taxable profits in the 177 foreseeable future against which these tax loss carryforwards The current income tax liabilities include provisions for tax risks. could be used. There is no time limit for the utilisation of loss These provisions are determined on the basis of the most likely carryforwards. amount required to settle the liability. In the reporting period, the Bank recognised impairment losses The Bank has not reported any contingent liabilities in respect on € 7 m of deferred tax assets in respect of loss carryforwards. of tax risks. (51) Other Assets in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Inventories 458 442 Property held for sale 456 441 Other inventories / work in progress 2 1 Advance payments and payments on account 149 123 Other taxes receivable 7 8 Other assets 260 360 Total 874 933 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. 178 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (52) F  inancial Liabilities Measured at Amortised Cost in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Securitised liabilities 45,455 43,514 Issued money market instruments 4,099 5,265 Commercial paper (CP) 2,137 1,729 Certificates of deposit (CD) 1,221 2,771 Asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) 741 765 Mediumand long-term bonds issued 41,356 38,249 Mortgage Pfandbriefe 10,309 8,111 Public Pfandbriefe 10,657 11,468 Structured (hybrid) bonds 1,676 1,438 Other mediumand long-term bonds 18,714 17,232 Deposits and loans 79,540 78,870 Payable on demand 34,753 34,909 With an agreed term 38,200 37,194 With an agreed period of notice 6,524 6,767 Securities repurchase transactions (repos) 63 – Other financial liabilities 227 153 Total 125,222 122,537 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. For detailed disclosures on issuance activities see Note (70). 179 The following table shows the financial liabilities measured at amortised cost by region and counterparty: in € m European Union World (excluding Germany (excluding Germany) European Union) Total 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Deposits and loans 75,026 73,506 2,240 2,544 2,274 2,820 79,540 78,870 Central banks 2,191 2,201 – – – – 2,191 2,201 Central giro institutions 788 641 – – – – 788 641 Sparkassen 9,460 6,296 – – – – 9,460 6,296 Other banks 18,340 19,623 425 812 939 1,702 19,704 22,137 Other financial corporations 14,617 14,896 729 691 250 361 15,596 15,948 Non-financial corporations 6,144 8,528 723 663 825 541 7,692 9,732 Government 3,967 3,998 230 253 3 2 4,200 4,253 Households 19,519 17,323 133 125 257 214 19,909 17,662 Other financial liabilities 227 151 – – – 2 227 153 Sparkassen 2 3 – – – – 2 3 Other banks 1 – – – – – 1 – Other financial corporations 21 21 – – – – 21 21 Non-financial corporations 141 110 – – – 2 141 112 Government 6 – – – – – 6 – Households 56 17 – – – – 56 17 Total 75,253 73,657 2,240 2,544 2,274 2,822 79,767 79,023 180 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (53) Trading Liabilities in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Negative fair values of trading derivatives 7,505 7,935 thereof: Traded OTC 7,455 7,915 thereof: Exchange-traded 50 20 Equity/ index-related transactions 417 178 Interest-rate-related transactions 6,222 6,768 Currency-related transactions 838 925 Credit derivatives 27 61 Commodity-related transactions 1 3 Securitised liabilities 853 652 Issued money market instruments 822 612 Commercial paper (CP) 350 612 Certificates of deposit (CD) 472 – Issued equity / index certificates 31 40 Deposits and loans 4,353 3,669 Payable on demand 1,073 438 With an agreed term 3,280 3,231 Liabilities arising from short-selling 52 21 Total 12,763 12,277 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. For detailed disclosures on issuance activities see Note (70). Trading liabilities consist solely of financial instruments held for trading purposes and measured mandatorily at fair value through profit or loss. 181 The following table shows the financial liabilities measured at amortised cost by region and counterparties: in € m European Union World (excluding Germany (excluding Germany) European Union) Total 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Negative fair values of derivatives held for trading 2,827 3,159 4,486 4,586 192 190 7,505 7,935 Central banks – – 1 3 – – 1 3 Central giro institutions 157 143 – – – – 157 143 Sparkassen 445 354 – – – – 445 354 Other banks 948 1,143 4,168 4,235 135 148 5,251 5,526 Other financial corporations 74 106 131 139 – – 205 245 Non-financial corporations 369 436 186 209 57 42 612 687 Government 784 956 – – – – 784 956 Exchange-traded derivatives 50 21 – – – – 50 21 Deposits and loans 4,189 3,365 147 263 17 41 4,353 3,669 Sparkassen 1,381 753 – – – – 1,381 753 Other banks 66 410 44 8 17 33 127 451 Other financial corporations 1,518 992 103 98 – – 1,621 1,090 Non-financial corporations 36 83 – 157 – 8 36 248 Government 1,185 1,127 – – – – 1,185 1,127 Households 3 – – – – – 3 – Liabilities arising from short-selling 52 – – – – 21 52 21 Other banks 26 – – – – 5 26 5 Other financial corporations – – – – – 16 – 16 Government 26 – – – – – 26 – Total 7,068 6,524 4,633 4,849 209 252 11,910 11,625 182 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (54) Negative Fair Values of Non-Trading Derivatives in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Negative fair values of non-trading derivatives 1,791 2,191 thereof: Traded OTC 1,790 2,190 thereof: Exchange-traded 1 1 Equity/ index-related transactions 1 1 Interest-rate-related transactions 1,738 1,808 Currency-related transactions 52 382 Total 1,791 2,191 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. The non-trading derivatives recognised in this item are derivative financial instruments used for economic hedging as part of hedge management (economic hedges); the documentation requirements for hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9 are not satisfied. (55) F inancial Liabilities Designated Voluntarily at Fair Value in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Securitised liabilities 7,062 6,168 Mediumand long-term bonds issued 7,062 6,168 Public Pfandbriefe 77 109 Structured (hybrid) bonds 2,368 1,696 Other mediumand long-term bonds 4,617 4,363 Deposits and loans 4,418 4,144 With an agreed term 4,418 4,144 Total 11,480 10,312 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. For detailed disclosures on issuance activities see Note (70). 183 The following table shows the financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value by region and counterparty: in € m European Union World (excluding Germany (excluding Germany) European Union) Total 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Deposits and loans 4,438 4,126 – 18 – 20 – 4,418 4,144 Sparkassen 353 219 – – – – 353 219 Other banks 207 281 – 18 – – 207 299 Other financial corporations 3,464 3,207 – – – – 3,464 3,207 Non-financial corporations 243 233 – – – 20 – 223 233 Government 171 186 – – – – 171 186 Total 4,438 4,126 – 18 – 20 – 4,418 4,144 (56) N  egative Fair Values of Hedging Derivatives Under Hedge Accounting in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Derivatives in fair value hedges – micro 66 89 thereof: Traded OTC 66 89 Interest-rate-related transactions 66 89 Derivatives in fair value hedges – group hedges 424 n.a. thereof: Traded OTC 424 n.a. Currency-related transactions 424 n.a. Total 490 89 184 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (57) Provisions in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Provisions for employee benefits 1,806 1,799 Pensions and similar defined benefit obligations 1,732 1,718 Other employee benefits due in the long term 74 81 Other provisions 281 290 Provisions for off-balance sheet liabilities 39 29 Provisions for loan commitments and financial guarantees 39 28 Provisions for other off-balance sheet liabilities – 1 Restructuring provisions 18 17 Provisions for litigation risks 24 32 Sundry provisions 200 212 Total 2,087 2,089 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. 185 The changes in provisions for pensions and similar obligations reported in the statement of financial position were as follows: in € m Net defined benefit DBO Plan assets obligations 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 As at 1.1. 2,098 2,185 – 380 – 346 1,718 1,839 Total pension cost 88 89 –7 –5 81 84 Interest expense (+) / interest income (–) 41 38 –7 –5 34 33 Current service cost 47 52 – 47 52 Past service cost – –1 – – –1 Total gains or losses on remeasurement – 21 – 112 11 –4 – 10 – 116 Actuarial gains (–) / losses (+) on financial assumptions – 22 – 101 – – 22 – 101 Actuarial gains (–) / losses (+) on demographic assumptions 16 – – 16 – Experience adjustment gains (–) / losses (+) – 15 – 11 – – 15 – 11 Gains or losses on remeasurement of plan assets 11 –4 11 –4 Employee contributions 3 3 –3 –3 – – Employer contributions – – –8 – 37 –8 – 37 Benefits paid – 65 – 58 16 9 – 49 – 49 Changes due to currency translation 2 –9 –2 6 – –3 As at 31.12. 2,105 2,098 – 373 – 380 1,732 1,718 The main defined benefit plans (in the form of direct commitThe retirement benefit system in place between 1986 and 1998 ments) at Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen are as follows: is a scheme based on final salary with a split pension benefits formula. The annual pension benefits are linked to a certain perIn the case of employees who joined the Bank on or before centage of pensionable remuneration earned for each year of 31 December 1985 and who are eligible for pension benefits, service depending on the contribution assessment ceiling in the there is a fully dynamic comprehensive defined benefit plan, in statutory pension insurance scheme (salary components above which the annual benefits payable under the plan are up to a the ceiling being weighted differently from those below the ceilmaximum of 75 % of the pensionable remuneration on retireing). The plan is based on a maximum of 35 years of service and ment date, subject to deduction of third-party pension entitlepension benefits rise in line with pay-scale increases during the ments. During the period in which a pension is drawn, pension period in which the benefits are drawn. The existing beneficiabenefits are increased in line with any pay-scale increases. The ries are predominantly current employees and individuals who existing beneficiaries are primarily retirees and surviving dehave left the Bank but have vested rights. pendants. However, there is also a small proportion of beneficiaries who are still active or who have left the Bank but have retained vested entitlements. 186 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes For the defined benefit plan in force since 1999, the retirement There is also an employee-funded pension plan in the form of a pension is calculated by adding all the pension credits accrued deferred compensation scheme in which the benefits comprise during the pensionable period of service. The pension credits lump-sum capital payments. In this case, investment fund units are determined by multiplying the pensionable remuneration are purchased for each amount of deferred compensation and for the respective calendar year by an age-dependent factor. an age-dependent capital component is calculated for the emDuring the period in which the pension is drawn, the benefits ployee concerned. Upon retirement, the employee is paid the are subject to an annual increase of 1 %. The plan is open to new higher of the total capital components or the fund assets. The members. The current members of the scheme are almost exdeferred compensation scheme offered to employees is curclusively active employees and individuals who have left the rently being revised and adjusted in line with changes to the Bank but have vested rights. legal framework. In addition, the Helaba Group has individual commitments to At Frankfurter Sparkasse, employees who joined the bank before pay annual pension benefits. These commitments for the most 31 December 2014 are entitled to a pension from the Frankfurter part involve comprehensive defined benefit plans similar to Sparkasse pension fund. This is a regulated pension fund, and those used by the civil service in Germany in which the benefits the pension fund’s obligation to regularly adjust the lifetime represent the difference between a target pension and the statbenefits is implemented in the form of a direct commitment by utory pension entitlement and in which the pension benefits are Frankfurter Sparkasse. Under the subsequent arrangements, increased in line with pay-scale increases during the period in there is a defined contribution plan funded by both the emwhich pensions are drawn. The existing beneficiaries under ployer and employees; the pension is provided through BV V these plans are mainly retirees, surviving dependants and indiVersicherungsverein des Bankgewerbes a.G. Employees of the viduals who have left the Bank but still have vested rights. Howformer Stadtsparkasse Frankfurt are entitled to a pension from ever, the plans remain open to new members. Zusatzversorgungskasse der Stadt Frankfurt (ZVK Frankfurt), which Helaba identified as an obligation during the course of its As a result of the takeover of the S-Group Bank business, the acquisition of Frankfurter Sparkasse and recognises in its statetransfer of the business unit in accordance with Section 613a ment of financial position. There are also individual commitBGB meant that the pension obligations of Portigon AG to the ments, largely in the form of comprehensive defined benefit new employees were also transferred to Helaba. plans (in which the benefits represent the difference between a target pension and third-party pension entitlements) and an Employees who, as a result of the break-up of Westdeutsche employee-funded pension plan. Landesbank Girozentrale into the public-law Landesbank NRW (currently NRW.Bank) and the private-law WestLB AG (currently Employees at the London branch are members of a defined benPortigon AG ) in 2002, were assigned to NRW.Bank were put on efit plan, although the plan is now closed to new entrants. This special leave so that they could enter into a second employment plan is a pension fund that follows local measurement arrangerelationship with Portigon AG (VBB dual contract holders). The ments. It is reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that it meets pension commitments are maintained by NRW.Bank without the requirements for external financing. In 2018, the vested change. Economically, however, the costs are charged to Helaba rights were determined for the members of the pension scheme because NRW.Bank has to be reimbursed for the pension payand future services are being funded through a matching plan ments it has to make. in the form of a defined contribution plan via an external pension provider. For the vested pension rights of the other employees, the accrued entitlement was determined at the time of transfer of the At the subsidiary Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG , the business unit and the corresponding obligation was transferred statutory requirements related to occupational pensions are to Helaba. The externally funded vested pension rights vis-à-vis satisfied by a separate pension scheme linked to a collective BVV Versorgungskasse des Bankgewerbes e. V., Berlin, were exarrangement under the auspices of a third-party provider. empted from contributions as from the date of the transfer of the business unit. As from the date of transfer of the business unit, the employees were registered with Helaba’s company pension scheme under the service agreement in force since 1999. 187 The following table shows the funding status of the pension plans as at 31 December 2018: in € m Net defined benefit DBO Plan assets obligations 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Domestic defined benefit plans 1,980 1,956 – 281 – 285 1,699 1,671 Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen 1,382 1,369 – 36 – 38 1,346 1,331 Comprehensive defined benefit plans 774 796 – – 774 796 Defined benefit plan up to 1985 651 677 – – 651 677 Individual commitments 82 80 – – 82 80 VBB dual contract holders 41 39 – – 41 39 Final salary plans (Retirement pension scheme 1986-1998) 219 212 – – 219 212 Pension credit system (Retirement pension scheme from 1999) 270 245 – – 270 245 Other plans 119 116 – 36 – 38 83 78 Frankfurter Sparkasse 531 520 – 236 – 238 295 282 Frankfurter Sparkasse pension fund 262 255 – 234 – 236 28 19 Pension fund adjustment obligation 93 90 – – 93 90 ZVK Frankfurt 96 96 – – 96 96 Individual commitments 70 69 – – 70 69 Other plans 10 10 –2 –2 8 8 Other Group companies 67 67 –9 –9 58 58 Foreign defined benefit plans 125 142 – 92 – 95 33 47 Total 2,105 2,098 – 373 – 380 1,732 1,718 188 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the breakdown of plan assets: in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Plan assets quoted in active markets 316 295 Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances with central banks and banks 5 3 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 202 190 Equity shares and other variable-income securities 110 102 Plan assets not quoted in active markets 57 85 Loans and receivables 7 35 Qualifying insurance contracts 51 50 Fair values of plan assets 373 380 The plan assets do not include any of the Group’s own assets ■■ Inflation risk – pension adjustment (31 December 2017: € 31 m of assets in the form of the Group’s The Helaba Group applies the principles in the German Ocown transferable financial instruments). cupational Pensions Act (Betriebsrentengesetz, BetrAVG ) when determining adjustments as part of benefit reviews for For the next financial year, Helaba expects to make contributions its defined benefit plans. The more recent schemes, which are to plan assets of € 7 m (2017: € 9 m). structured as pension credit systems, are subject to fixed adjustment rates and thus are largely independent of the inflaPension obligations for which there are no plan assets in accortion rate and future pay-scale increases. dance with IAS 19 are funded for the most part by long-term special funds with an investment focus on bonds. ■■ Inflation risk – salary increases, pay scale increases, increases in civil servant remuneration The Helaba Group’s pension obligations are exposed to various In most of the older pension arrangements (comprehensive risks. This exposure is attributable to general market volatility defined benefit plan up to 1985 and final salary plan), Helaba and also specific risks. However, there are no extraordinary risks increases pensions in line with pay-scale trends in both priarising in connection with pension obligations. vate and public-sector banks. Increases in pay scales covering pensionable salaries therefore have an effect on the level of Risks from general market volatility mostly involve risks arising current pension benefits. Individual defined benefit plans from changes in the inflation rate and market interest rates. provide for the adjustment of pensions on the basis of civil Other risks include the risk of longevity. service pay in accordance with the regulations in the federal state concerned (Hesse, Thuringia, North Rhine-Westphalia). ■■ General market volatility The main impact from general market volatility on the level of the defined benefit obligations is through changes in the discount rate. Over the last few years there has already been a noticeable increase in pension provisions as a result of the general fall in discount rates. The principal reason why discount rates have such a significant impact on defined benefit obligations is the length of the maturities involved in these obligations. 189 ■■ Risk of longevity (adjustments related to pay-scale increases or increases in civil Given that by far the most common form of benefit is an anservant pay), there are other influences subject to variation benuity, Helaba bears the risk that the beneficiaries will live yond the control of Helaba. This is particularly true in the case longer than the period estimated in the actuarial calculations. of changes to statutory pensions and other externally funded Normally, this risk balances out across all the beneficiaries as pensions, which are offset as part of the comprehensive defined a whole and only becomes material if general life expectancy benefit plans. Helaba must bear the risk in this regard. turns out to be higher than forecast. The principal actuarial assumptions on which the measurement As far as specific risks are concerned, it is worth mentioning that of the defined benefit obligations is based are shown in the foldefined benefit obligations are to a certain extent dependent on lowing table (weighted average rates): external factors. In addition to the factors already referred to in % 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Discount rate 2.0 2.0 Salary trend 2.1 2.2 Pension trend 1.5 1.5 In the reporting period, the probability of invalidity and death Changes in the main actuarial assumptions would have the folin Germany was based on the 2018 generation mortality tables lowing effects on the present value of all the defined benefit published by Professor Dr. Heubeck (31 December 2017: 2005 obligations: generation mortality tables from Professor Dr. Heubeck). The application of the new generation mortality tables resulted in actuarial losses of € 19 m. in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Discount rate (decreased by 50 basis points) 206 209 Salary trend (increased by 25 basis points) 65 62 Pension trend (increased by 25 basis points) 78 75 Life expectancy (improved by 10 %) 76 77 The sensitivity analysis shown above reflects the change in one tions that lead to an increase in the liability. The relevant present assumption, all the other assumptions remaining as in the origvalue of the obligations arising from changes to key actuarial inal calculation. In other words, the analysis does not factor in assumptions that lead to a reduction in the liability can be exany possible correlation effects between the individual assumptrapolated approximately from the calculated values by looking tions. This analysis only takes into account changes in assumpat the figures symmetrically. 190 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The impact on the obligations from a change to an actuarial As at 31 December 2018, the weighted average maturity of the assumption is calculated precisely on the basis of the projected defined benefit obligations was 19.2 years (31 December 2017: unit credit method. Approximation methods have not been 19.6 years). The following table shows the maturity structure of used. The absolute change in assumptions in terms of basis the forecast pension payments: points in each case is based on the average long-term changes that have occurred in the recent past and on potential future changes, and is therefore estimated as a mean change. in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Forecast pension payments with maturities of up to one year 64 62 Forecast pension payments with maturities of one year to five years 281 274 Forecast pension payments with maturities of five years to ten years 430 412 The Helaba Group participates in multi-employer defined benThere are also defined contribution plans arising from Helaba’s efit plans. These plans are treated as if they were defined conmembership of BV V Versicherungsverein des Bankgewerbes a. tribution plans. They involve membership of pay-as-you-go G. Curtailment of the benefits under the pension terms will be pension schemes in the form of regulated pension funds that offset by additional contributions on the part of the employer. switched to an “as funded” basis on 1 January 2002. The funds Further defined contribution plans are externally funded concerned are the regional supplementary pension funds and through direct insurance with insurers subject to public law. As Versorgungsanstalt des Bundes und der Länder, all of which far as possible, these arrangements are through SV Sparkassenhave similar statutes in terms of content. With the switch to the Versicherung and Provinzial Lebensversicherung AG . The for“as funded” basis, the existing defined benefit obligations were eign branches in London and New York also have their own deconverted to a defined contribution system. The statutes authofined contribution plans funded through external pension rise the collection of additional contributions if necessary in providers. The total expenses in the reporting period for defined order to fund agreed benefits; alternatively, benefits can be recontribution plans were € 3 m (2017: € 3 m). duced if there is insufficient cover in the fund (recovery money, recovery clause). There is no allocation of assets and liabilities The employer subsidy for pension insurance in 2018 amounted according to originator. The pension fund publishes information to € 35 m (2017: € 34 m). on its business performance and risk trends solely in an annual report. It does not disclose any further information. As in the previous year, expenses amounting to € 1 m were incurred in connection with these plans. 191 The changes in other provisions were as follows: in € m Provisions for other Provisions for other long-term employee off-balance sheet Restructuring benefits obligations provisions 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 As at 1.1. 81 131 1 14 17 13 Changes in basis of consolidation – – – – – – Changes due to currency translation – –2 – –2 – – Use – 30 – 70 – – –1 –1 Reversals –1 –3 –1 –6 – –3 Reclassifications 10 2 – –5 –7 –2 Interest cost – – – – – – Additions 14 62 – 6 9 10 Other adjustments – – 39 – –6 – – As at 31.12. 74 81 – 1 18 17 in € m Provisions for litigation risks Sundry provisions 2018 2017 2018 2017 As at 1.1. 32 45 212 248 Changes in basis of consolidation – – – – 31 Changes due to currency translation – – – 11 Use –8 – 13 – 112 – 181 Reversals –1 –3 – 19 – 21 Reclassifications – – – – Interest cost – – 1 1 Additions 1 3 118 185 Other adjustments – – – – As at 31.12. 24 32 200 212 The provisions for other long-term employee benefits relate primarily to provisions for partial and early retirement, long-­ service awards and deferred bonuses for employees. 192 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Provisions for other off-balance sheet liabilities result from The provisions for litigation risks are reviewed quarterly to en­liabilities outside the scope of application of the IFRS 9 impairsure they are appropriate. The provisions may be increased or ment model that are subject to the recognition and measurereversed on the basis of management assessments taking into ment regulations of IAS 37. Please refer to Note (72) for further account the legal situation. The final costs incurred in connecinformation on provisions for loan commitments and financial tion with litigation risks could differ from the recognised proviguarantees within the scope of application of the IFRS 9 impairsions because an assessment of probability and the determinament model. tion of figures for uncertain liabilities arising from litigation to a large degree requires measurements and estimates that could The restructuring provisions largely relate to the reorganisation prove to be inaccurate as litigation proceedings progress. programme at LBS (“LBS -EVOL ution”) initiated in 2017 against the background of the generally low level of interest rates (in Cases that do not meet the criteria for the recognition of proviwhich the core objective is to achieve a long-term improvement sions are reviewed to establish whether they need to be in earnings by 2021) and to the “Helaba PRO ” cost optimisation ­disclosed under contingent liabilities and, where appropriate, program launched in 2013. are included in the information disclosed in Note (74). Claims are pursued against Helaba before the courts and in arThe sundry provisions mainly relate to obligations in connection bitration proceedings. Provisions for litigation risks have been with share transactions, flat-rate employment taxes, interest on recognised if it is estimated that the probability of a successful retrospective tax payments as well as risks related to the reimclaim is greater than 50 %. bursement of loan processing fees. The amount of the provision is the amount that the Bank is likely Additions to and reversals of provisions for other long-term emto have to pay in the event of a successful claim. The provisions ployee benefits are normally recognised under personnel exfor litigation risks recognised by Helaba also take into account penses; those relating to other off-balance sheet liabilities, to amounts to cover litigation costs (court costs and other exrestructuring provisions and to provisions for litigation expenses in connection with litigation, such as legal and other penses are reported under other net operating income. Addifees). tions to sundry provisions are normally included in general and administrative expenses but reversals of these provisions are Helaba has recognised provisions for litigation risks mainly to recognised under other net operating income. The interest cost cover lawsuits brought by investors in closed funds. Investors (from unwinding of discount) is reported under net interest who believe that their expectations with regard to a particular ­income. investment have not been met base their claims on non-­ compliance with consumer protection regulations. Depending Of the total for other provisions, current provisions accounted on the circumstances in each individual case, the Bank will exfor € 145 m (31 December 2017: € 177 m). amine the possibility of settling a claim in terms of the nature and scope of a potential settlement. Helaba will not provide a detailed description here of individual cases or proceedings, nor a breakdown of the overall amount for the provision for litigation risks. Claimants could otherwise draw conclusions about the Bank’s litigation and settlement strategy. 193 (58) Other Liabilities in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Advance payments / payments on account 211 273 Tax liabilities, other taxes 28 35 Employee benefits due in short term 75 68 Other liabilities 202 62 Total 516 438 1) Please refer to Note (1) for disclosures on the restatement of the prior-year figures in line with the new structure. (59) Equity The subscribed capital of € 2,509 m comprises the share capital As at 31 December 2018, the share capital was attributable to of € 589 m paid in by the owners in accordance with the Charter the owners as follows: and the capital contributions of € 1,920 m paid by the Federal State of Hesse. in € m Share in % Sparkassenund Giroverband Hessen-Thüringen 405 68.85 State of Hesse 48 8.10 Rheinischer Sparkassenund Giroverband 28 4.75 Sparkassenverband Westfalen-Lippe 28 4.75 Fides Beta GmbH 28 4.75 Fides Alpha GmbH 28 4.75 State of Thuringia 24 4.05 Total 589 100.00 194 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The capital reserves comprise the premiums from issuing share The retained earnings amounting to € 4,414 m (31 Decemcapital to the owners. ber 2017: € 4,225 m) comprise the profits retained by the parent company and the consolidated subsidiaries as well as amounts In 2018, the Helaba Group issued Additional Tier 1 (AT 1) capital from the amortised results of acquisition accounting and other through registered bonds in the amount of € 354 m. All AT 1 consolidation adjustments. Retained earnings include reserves bonds are unsecured subordinated Helaba bonds. The servicing provided for by the Charter of € 294 m. If it is necessary to use of these bonds is based on an interest rate applied to the rethese reserves to cover losses, the net profit generated in subspective nominal amount. These bonds provide fixed interest sequent years is used in full to restore the reserves required by rates for the period between the issue date and the first possible the Charter to the required level. early repayment date. Afterwards, interest rates will be established for another period of ten years. According to the bond terms, Helaba may be obliged, but also has extensive rights, to take the sole decision to suspend interest payments at any time. Interest payments are not cumulative, which means that suspended interest payments will not be paid out in subsequent periods. These bonds have no maturity date, and may be terminated by Helaba at specific dates. If Helaba does not terminate a bond, it has additional termination options every ten years. Early terminations may be permissible provided that all tax-­ related and regulatory conditions are met. Every termination is subject to approval from the competent supervisory authority. The repayment as well as the nominal amount of the bonds may be impaired if a triggering event occurs. The decline of Helaba Group’s Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) capital ratio to under 5.125 % on a consolidated basis would be a triggering event. After the occurrence of a triggering event, any impaired bond amounts may be recovered under specific conditions. According to the applicable settlement stipulations, the competent supervisory authority may exercise a series of rights; for instance, the supervisory authority may decide to wholly or partially impair capital payment claims and/or to convert such claims into CET 1 instruments. As at 31 December 2018, the bond amounts recognised in the statement of financial position stood at € 354 m. 195 The following table shows the changes in the individual components of accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) in the reporting period: in € m Accumulated other compreItems that will not be reclassified to the Items that will be reclassified to the hensive ­income statement, after taxes income statement, after taxes income Change in fair Change in value of fair value of equity instrufinancial ments Credit risk-­ ­instruments measured at related change measured at Net gain or Net gain or Remeasurefair value in fair value of fair value loss from loss from Net gain or ment of through financial liabilthrough hedging net currency loss from fair net defined other comities designatother cominvestments translation value hedges benefit prehensive ed voluntarily prehensive in foreign of foreign of currency ­liability income at fair value income operations operations risk As at 31.12.2016 – – – 246 – 17 47 – 276 Adjustments due to IAS 8 – 532 – – – – – – – 532 As at 1.1.2017 – 532 – – 246 – 17 47 – – 256 Other comprehensive income for the reporting period 82 – – – 49 – – 20 – 13 As at 31.12.2017 – 450 – – 197 – 17 27 – – 243 Adjustments due to IFRS 9 – –1 2 – 40 – – – – 39 As at 1.1.2018 – 450 –1 2 157 – 17 27 – – 282 Other comprehensive income 10 3 –8 – 63 – 8 – 28 – 78 As at 31.12.2018 – 440 2 –6 94 – 17 35 – 28 – 360 1) These gains and losses relate to equity instruments and debt instruments classified as AfS in accordance with IAS 39; they were previously reported in the ­revaluation reserve. The gains and losses in respect of equity instruments reported for 2017 were recyclable to the income statement during this period. 196 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Further Disclosures on Financial Instruments (60) Provision of Collateral Assets pledged as security allowances) had been pledged or transferred as collateral for The collateral is provided on terms which are customary for the Helaba’s own liabilities (for details on the transfer of financial relevant repo, securities and financing transactions. As at the assets without derecognition, please refer to Note [61]): reporting date, the following assets (carrying amounts after loss in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Financial assets 9,218 8,374 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 3,379 3,305 Loans and receivables 3,379 3,305 Trading assets 1,489 1,502 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 1,489 1,499 Loans and receivables – 3 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 4,350 3,567 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 4,350 3,567 Non-financial assets 1,399 1,205 Investment property 1,188 1,035 Property and equipment 168 170 Property held for sale 43 – Total 10,617 9,579 197 Financial assets (securities and cash collateral) were provided as collateral in connection with the following business trans­ actions: in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Collateral for funding transactions with central banks 3,618 2,200 Securities collateral for transactions via exchanges and clearing houses 1,572 1,312 Cash collateral for exchange-traded derivative transactions 57 26 Cash collateral for OTC derivative transactions incl. central counterparties 3,322 3,282 Securities provided as collateral for funding transactions with the European Investment Bank (EIB) 492 1,433 Collateral provided for other purposes 157 121 Total 9,218 8,374 The collateral provided for other purposes was mainly related to Assets Received as Collateral securities collateral furnished in accordance with Section 202b Collateral is received on terms that are customary for the releof the New York Banking Law, which was a precondition for the vant repo, securities and financing transactions. operation of banking business by the US branch. The fair value of collateral received in connection with repurSecurities are pledged as collateral in connection with repos and chase agreements (repos), which permit Helaba to sell on or securities lending transactions (with cash collateral) and may be pledge such collateral even if the party providing the collateral re-sold or pledged as collateral to others by the recipient even does not default, amounted to € 133 m (31 December 2017: if Helaba (as the original provider of the collateral) is not in de€ 21 m). Such collateral with a fair value of € 102 m (31 Decemfault. The disposal or pledge of such collateral is subject to stanber 2017: € 21 m) has been sold on, or has been the subject of dard contractual conditions. Please refer to Notes (6) and (61) onward pledging. for further information on the definition and structure of repos and securities lending transactions. As a result of these transPlease refer to Note (72) for disclosures on collateral received in actions, as in the previous year, no financial assets were furconnection with lending operations. Please refer to Note (63) for nished as collateral in which the recipient of the collateral had a disclosures on collateral and offsetting agreements. contractual right to re-sell the assets or pledge them to other parties as collateral even if Helaba were not in default. In connection with Helaba’s Pfandbrief business, there are arrangements in which loans and advances eligible for the collatIn addition, the Bank holds loans and advances backed by properal pool, including the rights to the corresponding collateral, erty charges and municipal authority loans and advances as well are also legally transferred to Helaba but the beneficial owneras other cover assets in its collateral pool in accordance with ship of the loans and advances remains with the transferring Sections 12 and 30 of the German Pfandbrief Act (Pfandbriefgebank in accordance with the terms and conditions of the transfer setz, PfandBG). As at 31 December 2018, cover assets amounted agreement. The transferring bank continues to account for these to € 33,986 m (31 December 2017: € 33,838 m) with mortgage loans and advances to the customers concerned, which are enand public Pfandbriefe of € 26,710 m in circulation (31 Decemtered in the cover register. As at 31 December 2018, Helaba’s ber 2017: € 26,107 m). These also included registered securities, collateral pool included such legal transfers with a nominal value which are reported under liabilities due to banks and liabilities of € 866 m (31 December 2017: € 183 m). due to customers. 198 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (61) T  ransfer of Financial Assets The liabilities from securities repurchase transactions result from the amount paid by the transferee for the transferred Without Derecognition bonds and other fixed-income securities. This amount corresponds to the fair value of the transferred securities less a safety In connection with “genuine” repo and securities lending transmargin on the date on which the transaction is entered into. actions, Helaba Group transfers bonds and other fixed-income When the bonds and other fixed-income securities are transsecurities, but retains the main credit, interest rate and currency ferred back at the end of the term of the securities repurchase risks as well as the opportunities for capital appreciation assoagreement, this amount, plus agreed interest, must be repaid ciated with the ownership of these financial assets. Thus, the to the transferee. The liabilities from securities repurchase requirements for derecognition in accordance with IFRS 9 are transactions are recognised under trading liabilities or under not fulfilled, and the financial assets continue to be recognised financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. in the consolidated statement of financial position and measured in accordance with the corresponding measurement catThe corresponding liabilities in connection with securities lendegory, provided the items are bonds and other fixed-income ing transactions arise out of the obligation to repay the cash securities owned by the Helaba Group. collateral received. The main counterparties in the Helaba Group’s securities lending transactions comprise affiliated and In the context of securities repurchase and lending transactions, non-affiliated Sparkassen. Cash collateral for lent bonds and securities accepted from third parties as part of reverse repos other fixed-income securities are generally only required from or borrowed bonds and other fixed-income securities, which counterparties outside the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe. However, may not be recognised in the consolidated statement of finanas at the reporting date the Helaba Group has only entered into cial position, may also be transferred. unsecured securities lending transactions. The transferee or borrower, as the case may be, may sell on or Given that bonds and other fixed-income securities are displedge the transferred securities at any time. Nevertheless, the closed in the Hf T and FVTOCI measurement categories, respecHelaba Group generally continues to receive the contractually tively, the carrying amounts of the transferred items represent agreed cash flows from these securities. their fair values. The transactions are settled using standard framework contracts, and do not contain any limitations. The liquidity from bonds and other fixed-income securities transferred in connection with repurchase transactions, or from cash collateral received in connection with securities lending transactions, is recognised in financial liabilities (see Note [6]). 199 The following table shows the carrying amounts after loss allowances of the transferred assets owned by Helaba Group that do not qualify for derecognition as well as the corresponding liabilities: in € m Carrying amount Fair value 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Bonds and other fixed income securities pledged in connection with repo transactions 10 – 10 – Liabilities associated with repo transactions – 10 – – 10 – Net value – – – – (62) T  ransfer of Financial Assets with Helaba has also entered into master netting agreements with Derecognition counterparties in the derivatives and securities repurchase business. These agreements include conditional netting rights. If the conditions are met – for example if a counterparty defaults Contracts for the sale and acquisition of shares in companies for reasons related to its credit rating – the transactions are set(equity investments and affiliates) include the warranties custled on a net basis. tomary with such transactions, in particular in respect of the tax and legal position. Provisions of € 16 m (31 December 2017: Cash collateral items do not include any other conditional off€ 18 m) have been recognised for such warranties. setting options under property charges or in connection with other loan collateral not covered by master netting agreements. (63) D  isclosures on Offsetting Assets and Liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position In accordance with the disclosure requirements in IFRS 7 relating to offsetting financial instruments, the tables below show a reconciliation from the gross to the net risk exposure for financial instruments. The disclosures relate both to financial instruments that have been offset and also to those that are subject to a master netting agreement. Offsetting in derivatives transactions involves the positive and negative values of derivatives as well as the associated cash collateral, which is reported under loans and advances to customers or liabilities due to customers. 200 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes These agreements resulted in the following net amounts as at 31 December 2018: in € m Conditional netting rights on basis of Actual netting master netting agreements Gross Net amount amount of after taking financial Collateral in into account Gross instruments form of conditional before netted Carrying financial Cash netting netting in SoFP amount instruments collateral rights Financial assets Positive fair values of derivatives 14,206 – 2,558 11,648 – 5,607 – 1,681 4,360 Securities repurchase transactions 134 – 134 – 105 – 29 Current account receivables 9,380 – 3,669 5,711 – – 5,711 Total 23,720 – 6,227 17,493 – 5,712 – 1,681 10,100 Financial liabilities Negative fair values of derivatives 12,245 – 2,459 9,786 – 5,607 – 3,249 930 Securities repurchase transactions 63 – 63 – 63 – – Current account payables 4,297 – 3,768 529 – – 529 Total 16,605 – 6,227 10,378 – 5,670 – 3,249 1,459 201 The following tables show the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Conditional netting rights on basis of Actual netting master netting agreements Net amount Gross after amount of taking into financial Collateral in account Gross instruments form of conditional before netted in Carrying financial Cash netting netting SoFP amount instruments collateral rights Financial assets Positive fair values of derivatives 14,421 – 2,193 12,228 – 6,423 – 1,890 3,915 Securities repurchase transactions 22 – 22 – 21 – 1 Current account receivables 20,677 – 11,751 8,926 – – 8,926 Total 35,120 – 13,944 21,176 – 6,444 – 1,890 12,842 Financial liabilities Negative fair values of derivatives 12,312 – 2,097 10,215 – 6,423 – 3,070 722 Securities repurchase transactions – – – – – – Current account payables 12,769 – 11,847 922 – – 922 Total 25,081 – 13,944 11,137 – 6,423 – 3,070 1,644 (64) Foreign Currency Volumes in € m Foreign currency assets Foreign currency liabilities 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 USD 15,174 14,188 8,200 8,722 GBP 5,594 5,810 1,423 1,609 CHF 1,149 1,062 274 254 JPY 419 390 426 394 Other currencies 1,229 1,206 482 510 Total 23,565 22,656 10,805 11,489 202 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The foreign currency assets and liabilities shown under this item (65) Breakdown of Maturities relate to non-derivative financial instruments. The foreign currency exposures are hedged by corresponding derivatives. The maturity structure of the financial liabilities as at 31 December 2018 was as follows: in € m Less than Three One year Payable on three months to to five More than demand months one year years five years Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 34,550 11,078 14,731 40,220 30,057 Securitised liabilities 257 5,559 6,070 21,822 13,181 Deposits and loans 34,143 5,475 8,631 18,397 16,876 Other financial liabilities 150 44 30 1 – Trading liabilities 8,630 1,755 2,347 – 31 Negative fair values of derivatives HfT 7,505 – – – – Securitised liabilities – 720 102 – 31 Deposits and loans 1,073 1,035 2,245 – – Liabilities arising from short-selling 52 – – – – Other financial liabilities – – – – – Negative fair values of derivatives HfT – 148 189 785 646 Negative fair values of hedging derivatives under hedge accounting – 70 140 745 425 Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value – 1,170 2,982 3,186 4,591 Securitised liabilities – 977 2,601 1,498 2,073 Deposits and loans – 193 381 1,688 2,518 Other financial liabilities – – – – – Loan commitments 25,036 517 301 1,408 348 Financial guarantees 6,687 1 15 17 – Total 74,903 14,739 20,705 46,361 36,098 203 The following tables show the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Three Payable Less than months One year More on dethree to one to five than five mand1) months1) year1) years1) years1) Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 34,922 11,005 14,413 40,281 26,967 Securitised liabilities 1 6,170 5,504 23,301 8,588 Deposits and loans 34,921 4,835 8,756 16,980 18,379 Other financial liabilities – – 153 – – Trading liabilities 8,395 1,328 2,514 – 40 Negative fair values of derivatives HfT 7,924 – – – – Securitised liabilities – 113 499 – 40 Deposits and loans 471 1,215 2,015 – – Negative fair values of derivatives HfT – 151 291 1,216 823 Negative fair values of hedging derivatives under hedge accounting – 11 17 43 29 Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value – 992 2,152 4,069 3,590 Securitised liabilities – 882 2,085 2,051 1,258 Deposits and loans – 110 67 2,018 2,332 Loan commitments 23,059 528 25 17 – Financial guarantees 6,002 – – – – Total 72,378 14,015 19,412 45,626 31,449 1) Prior-year figures restated: In the case of irrevocable loan commitments and financial guarantees, some of the figures have been based on the contract maturity rather than earliest possible drawdown or call. For the breakdown of the remaining terms of financial liabilities, The non-derivative financial liabilities presented under trading the undiscounted cash flows were allocated to the individual liabilities have been included in the maturities breakdown with maturity buckets in accordance with the contractually agreed their carrying amounts, and the loan commitments have been maturity dates. If there was no fixed contractual agreement for included at their nominal value. Trading derivatives were allothe date of repayment, the earliest possible time or termination cated with their carrying amounts to the shortest maturity date was used. This applies in particular to overnight money bucket; the loan commitments were allocated to the earliest raised and sight deposits as well as savings deposits with an bucket in which the commitment could be drawn down. Liabiliagreed period of notice. ties from warranties and guarantee agreements in accordance with Note (74) can generally become payable at any time up to the maximum guaranteed amount. 204 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (66) Derivatives The notional amounts reflect the gross volume of all purchases and sales. This figure is used as a reference for determining muThe Helaba Group uses derivative financial instruments for both tually agreed compensation payments; however, they are not trading and hedging purposes. receivables or liabilities that can be shown in the statement of financial position. Derivatives can be entered into in the form of standard contracts on an exchange or individually negotiated as OTC derivatives. The notional and fair values of derivatives as at 31 December 2018 were as follows: 205 in € m Notional amounts Positive fair values Negative fair values 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Equity/ index-related transactions 5,413 4,575 427 182 418 179 OTC products 4,764 3,605 417 167 367 158 Equity options 4,764 3,605 417 167 367 158 Purchases 2,562 2,039 417 167 – – Sales 2,202 1,566 – – 367 158 Exchange-traded products 649 970 10 15 51 21 Equity / index futures 76 197 – – – – Equity / index options 573 773 10 15 51 21 Interest-rate-related transactions 439,790 422,045 10,076 10,598 8,026 8,665 OTC products 428,017 409,124 10,076 10,598 8,026 8,665 Forward rate agreements – 25 – – – – Interest-rate swaps 373,288 354,445 9,193 9,600 5,583 6,310 Interest rate options 54,229 54,501 883 997 2,441 2,355 Purchases 20,591 21,025 785 897 46 56 Sales 33,638 33,476 97 100 2,395 2,299 Other interest rate contracts 500 153 – 1 2 – Exchange-traded products 11,773 12,921 – – – – Interest rate futures 11,591 12,921 – – – – Interest rate options 182 – – – – – Currency-related transactions 62,526 60,688 1,114 1,389 1,314 1,307 OTC products 62,526 60,688 1,114 1,389 1,314 1,307 Currency spot and futures contracts 38,012 38,914 411 457 499 546 Cross-currency swaps 24,041 21,232 698 923 809 752 Currency options 473 542 5 9 6 9 Purchases 234 268 5 9 – – Sales 239 274 – – 6 9 Credit derivatives 6,808 5,206 31 57 27 61 OTC products 6,808 5,206 31 57 27 61 Commodity-related transactions 58 121 – 2 1 3 OTC products 58 121 – 2 1 3 Commodity swaps 2 48 – 2 – 2 Commodity options 56 73 – – 1 1 Total 514,595 492,635 11,648 12,228 9,786 10,215 206 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Notional amounts broken down by term to maturity: in € m Equity/ index-related Interest-rate-related Currency-related transactions transactions transactions 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Up to three months 295 342 40,050 26,020 26,903 22,982 More than three months and up to one year 762 800 41,290 41,741 15,145 15,277 More than one year and up to five years 4,015 3,194 193,313 194,900 15,910 17,412 More than five years 341 239 165,137 159,384 4,568 5,017 Total 5,413 4,575 439,790 422,045 62,526 60,688 in € m Commodity-related Credit derivatives transactions Total 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Up to three months 50 120 33 43 67,330 49,507 More than three months and up to one year 844 519 25 42 58,066 58,379 More than one year and up to five years 5,777 4,448 – 36 219,015 219,990 More than five years 137 119 – – 170,184 164,759 Total 6,808 5,206 58 121 514,595 492,635 207 Derivatives have been entered into with the following ­counterparties: in € m Notional amounts Positive fair values Negative fair values 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Central banks and banks in Germany 77,002 72,752 2,995 3,045 2,228 2,282 Central banks and EU banks (excluding Germany) 107,983 109,828 3,044 3,482 5,453 5,557 Central banks and banks in the rest of the world (excluding EU) 2,381 3,195 36 34 150 173 Governments, Germany 26,891 29,214 3,514 3,511 1,008 1,211 Other counterparties in Germany 32,146 36,702 1,339 1,465 443 574 Other counterparties in the EU (excluding Germany) 254,457 225,842 653 616 394 349 Other counterparties (rest of world, excluding EU) 1,313 1,211 57 60 59 48 Exchange-traded derivatives 12,422 13,891 10 15 51 21 Total 514,595 492,635 11,648 12,228 9,786 10,215 208 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (67) Fair Values of Financial Instruments The breakdown of financial instruments on the assets side measured at fair value according to the hierarchy of the inputs used was as follows: 209 in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances with central banks and banks – 290 – 290 – 9,106 – 9,106 Balances with central banks – – – – – 8,911 – 8,911 Demand deposits and overnight money balances with banks – 290 – 290 – 195 – 195 Trading assets 6,375 10,193 421 16,989 5,173 10,787 140 16,100 Positive fair values of derivatives 10 8,697 287 8,994 15 9,155 138 9,308 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 6,335 213 22 6,570 5,045 279 – 5,324 Loans and receivables – 1,283 112 1,395 – 1,353 2 1,355 Equity shares and other variable-income securities 30 – – 30 113 – – 113 Other financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 1,455 2,215 241 3,911 – 2,355 14 2,369 Positive fair values of derivatives – 2,031 15 2,046 – 2,355 14 2,369 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 1,447 73 5 1,525 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Loans and receivables – 43 21 64 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Equity shares and other variable-income securities 8 68 34 110 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Shareholdings – – 71 71 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Receivables from the purchase of endowment insurance policies – – 95 95 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value 3 301 73 377 1,582 626 99 2,307 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 3 121 – 124 1,582 171 5 1,758 Loans and receivables – 180 73 253 – 394 85 479 Equity shares and other variable-income securities n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. – 61 9 70 Positive fair values of hedging derivatives under hedge accounting – 608 – 608 – 551 – 551 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 21,221 875 398 22,494 20,830 1,104 245 22,179 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 21,221 737 7 21,965 20,829 1,101 – 21,930 Loans and receivables – 138 350 488 – – – – Equity shares and other variable-income securities – – – – 1 3 36 40 Shareholdings – – 41 41 – – 97 97 Receivables from the purchase of endowment insurance policies n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. – – 112 112 Financial assets 29,054 14,482 1,133 44,669 27,585 24,529 498 52,612 210 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The breakdown of financial liabilities on the liabilities side measured at fair value was as follows: in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Trading liabilities 134 12,341 288 12,763 82 12,056 139 12,277 Negative fair values of derivatives 51 7,166 288 7,505 21 7,775 139 7,935 Securitised liabilities 31 822 – 853 40 612 – 652 Deposits and loans – 4,353 – 4,353 3,669 – 3,669 Liabilities arising from short-selling 52 – – 52 21 – – 21 Negative fair values of trading derivatives 1 1,778 12 1,791 1 2,177 13 2,191 Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value – 10,759 721 11,480 – 9,808 504 10,312 Securitised liabilities – 6,379 683 7,062 – 5,703 465 6,168 Deposits and loans – 4,380 38 4,418 – 4,105 39 4,144 Negative fair values of hedging derivatives under hedge accounting – 490 – 490 – 89 – 89 Financial liabilities 135 25,368 1,021 26,524 83 24,130 656 24,869 211 The following tables show transfers from Level 1 and Level 2 to other levels as a result of a change in fair value quality. Other changes are attributable to additions, disposals or measurement changes. in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 From Level 1 to From Level 2 to From Level 1 to From Level 2 to Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 3 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 3 Trading assets 9 – 25 – 50 – 19 – Bonds and other fixed-income securities 9 – 25 – 50 – 19 – Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value – – – – 17 – – –  Bonds and other fixed-income securities – – – – 17 – – – Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 61 – 112 15 55 – 10 – Bonds and other fixed-income securities 61 – 112 – 55 – 10 –  Loans and receivables – – – 15 – – Total 70 – 137 15 122 – 29 – As in the prior-year period, there were no transfers of financial liabilities from Levels 1 or 2 to another level in the reporting period. The following tables show the changes in the portfolio of financial instruments measured at fair value and allocated to Level 3, on the basis of class of financial instrument regardless of measurement category. Transfers to or from Level 3 from/to other levels in the measurement hierarchy were made at the carrying amount on the date on which the transfer was carried out. The allocations to the various levels are reviewed quarterly. The tables show the gains and losses as well as the cash flows that have occurred since the beginning of the year or since the allocation to Level 3. 212 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The tables also show the net gains or losses on remeasurement of the financial instruments still held in the portfolio as at 31 December 2018: in € m Equity Receivables Bonds and shares and from endowPositive fair other fixedvariablement values of income Loans and income Shareinsurance derivatives securities receivables securities holdings policies Fair value at 1.1.2018 152 20 402 45 109 112 Gains or losses recognised in the income statement 223 – –5 –8 –2 6 Net trading income 221 – 1 – – – Gains or losses on non-trading financial instruments measured at FVTPL 2 – –6 –8 –2 6 Gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income – – 9 – 2 – Additions 7 52 419 13 1 – Disposals / liquidations – 28 – 30 – 285 –9 –2 – 23 Changes due to scope of consolidation – – – – 4 – Changes due to currency translation – – 1 – – – Transfers from Level 2 – – 15 – – – Transfers to Level 2 – 50 –7 – –7 – – Other changes in the portfolio –2 – – – – – Fair value at 31.12.2018 302 35 556 34 112 95 Gains or losses on financial assets in the portfolio recognised in the income statement 208 – –3 –5 –3 4 213 in € m Negative fair values of Securitised Deposits derivatives liabilities and loans Fair value at 1.1.2018 152 465 39 Gains or losses recognised in the income statement 218 –2 –1 Net trading income 220 – – Gains or losses on non-trading financial instruments measured at FVTPL –2 –2 –1 Gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income – 1 – Additions 12 243 – Disposals / liquidations – 29 – 24 – Changes in accrued interest –2 – – Amortisation of premiums / discounts – 2 – Transfers from Level 2 – – – Transfers to Level 2 – 49 –2 – Other changes in the portfolio –2 – – Fair value at 31.12.2018 300 683 38 Gains or losses on financial liabilities in the portfolio recognised in the income statement – 204 2 1 214 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the changes during the prior-year period: in € m Equity Receivables Bonds and shares and from Positive fair other fixedvariableendowment values of income Loans and income Shareinsurance derivatives securities receivables securities holdings policies Fair value at 1.1.2017 113 5 138 77 95 132 Gains or losses recognised in the income statement 28 – –3 – – – Net trading income 33 – – – – – Gains or losses on non-trading financial instruments measured at FVTPL –5 – –3 1 – – Gains or losses on derecognition of financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss –1 Gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income – – 2 Additions 5 10 1 – 1 Disposals / liquidations – 10 – –9 –8 – –7 Amortisation of premiums / discounts –4 – – – – – Transfers to Level 2 – 12 – – 35 – – – Fair value at 31.12.2017 120 15 91 69 95 128 Gains or losses on financial assets in the portfolio recognised in the income statement 36 – –2 –2 – – 215 in € m Negative fair values Securitised of derivatives liabilities Deposits and loans Fair value at 1.1.2017 97 450 58 Gains or losses recognised in the income statement 37 –9 –4 Net trading income 34 – – Gains or losses on non-trading financial instruments measured at FVTPL 3 –9 –4 Additions 5 53 Disposals / liquidations – 10 – 113 – 11 Changes due to currency translation – – –1 Transfers to Level 2 – 13 – – 42 Fair value at 31.12.2017 116 381 – Gains or losses on financial liabilities in the portfolio recognised in the income statement – 45 4 – Helaba’s model for measuring the Level 3 instruments used insumptions that would be used by market participants for pricing puts producing a price that knowledgeable market participants purposes. The following table provides an overview of the main would apply. In its model considerations, Helaba uses inputs inputs not observable in a market that were used in the relevant that are preferably observable in a market. In the case of inputs valuation techniques: that are not observable in a market, Helaba uses the same as216 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes in € m Level 3 Valuation Key inputs not Assets Liabilities technique observable in a market Range Derivatives 302 300 Equity/ index-related Dividend estimate with derivatives 212 213 Option pricing model remaining term > 3 years 0.04 – 121 66 65 Option pricing model Equity shares correlation – 35.5 % – 100 % Interest-rate derivatives 24 22 Option pricing model Interest correlation – 32.0 % – 100 % Equity shares and other variable-income securities 34 Private equity funds 34 Fund valuation Fair value n.a. Bonds and other fixedincome securities 34 DCF approach Credit spread 0.3 % – 3.3 % Securitised liabilities 683 Interest certificates 688 Option pricing model Inerest correlation – 32.0 % – 100 % Loans and receivables 556 Promissory note loans 535 DCF approach Credit spread 0.3 % – 3.3 % Mezzanine receivables 9 Fund valuation Fair value n.a. Others 12 Various n.a. n.a. Deposits and loans 38 Option pricing model Inerest correlation – 32.0 % – 100 % Shareholdings 112 Income capitalisation 45 approach Discount rate 6.4 % – 7.5 % Expected cash flows n.a. Net asset value 67 method Fair value n.a. Receivables from the purchase of endowment Insurance valuation insurance policies 95 model Surrender values n.a. Total 1,133 1,021 In the case of those market inputs used that are not directly ­parameters may impact fair values of financial instruments. The observable in a market, it is possible to use alternative inputs considerations are based either on sensitivities or recalculathat knowledgeable market participants can apply to identify tions of fair values. more advantageous or more disadvantageous prices. The following section describes how fluctuations of unobservable 217 Helaba uses correlations to measure derivatives, issued certifirity item provided that the valuation spread increases or decates, deposits, and loans. Correlations are unobservable marclines by the one-year standard deviation. This results in an ket parameters used in model calculations of fair values for increase or decline in the fair values of the respective items by ­financial instruments with more than one reference value. Cor€ 1 m. relations are used to describe the relation between reference values. A high degree of correlation means that there is a strong In the case of fund units/shares and mezzanine loans, fair values relation regarding the performance of the respective reference are predominantly determined by the fund management comvalues. Structured interest rate derivatives are typically entered panies on the basis of the fund assets and made available to the into exclusively to hedge structured interest rate issues in the unitholders/ shareholders. The latest available fair values are banking book, or to hedge structured customer transactions in adjusted up to the reporting date. If the input factors used are the trading book. Furthermore, structured equity or commodity increased or decreased by 10 %, the fair values determined derivatives – where correlations must be taken into account as using these input factors change by up to € 4 m. market parameters – are usually entered into exclusively in connection with the corresponding retail issues; such items are For investments in unlisted companies, fair values are deterclosed with back-to-back hedges. The value changes in the mined using the discounted earnings model; a premium, or hedging transaction and the hedged item, which are attributdiscount, of 10 % is applied to all discountable cash flows. This able to the relevant parameter (interest, equity share or comresults in an increase, or decline, of fair values by € 4 m (31 Demodity correlation), offset each other. cember 2017: € 3 m). If the discount rate were to be increased by one percentage point, the calculated fair values would fall by In the case of equity derivatives with underlyings involving div€ 6 m (31 December 2017: € 5 m); if the discount rate were lowidend distributions, future dividends are taken into account in ered by one percentage point, the fair values would rise by € 9 m the valuation. However, no dividend estimates are directly ob(31 December 2017: € 8 m). Furthermore, the fair value for some servable on the market for securities with a remaining term of investments in unlisted companies is determined using the net more than three years. To make dividend projections for items asset value method. The input factors used are subject to a prewith a remaining term of more than three years, including the mium, or discount, of 10 %. This results in alternative values that impact on the respective fair values, a premium, or discount, of are up to € 5 m (31 December 2017: € 6 m) above, or up to € 6 m 50 % was applied to the available dividend estimates. If the div(31 December 2017: € 6 m) below the disclosed amounts. idend estimate is increased, the fair value rises by € 1 m; if it is reduced, the fair value falls by € 1 m. The receivables from the purchase of endowment insurance policies are not deemed to be subject to any material sensitivity The credit spread is a key input in a model-based measurement because they are measured on the basis of the surrender values of the fair value of bonds and other fixed-income securities and supplied by the life insurance companies. of the promissory note loans reported under loans and receivables. Interest-bearing securities are allocated to Level 3 if it is There were no significant sensitivities evident in the other not (or not with reasonable assurance) possible to derive the Level 3 instruments. credit spread as an input parameter from market data. For this reason, the sensitivity analysis applied to interest-bearing securities includes verification of the potential impact from credit spread changes. Helaba determines credit spread standard deviations for all required sector-rating-combinations based on one-year history files of sector curves from the CDS or bond market. The determined standard deviations are allocated to Level 3 securities – based on sector and rating – and then multiplied with credit spread sensitivity of the respective security. The result will be the value adjustment for the respective secu218 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following overview compares the fair values of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost with their corresponding carrying amounts. in € m Fair value Carrying Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total amount Difference Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances with central banks and banks – 6,959 – 6,959 6,959 – Balances with central banks – 6,613 – 6,613 6,613 – Demand deposits and overnight money balances with banks – 346 – 346 346 – Financial assets measured at amortised cost 4 73,748 37,175 110,927 106,755 4,172 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 4 – – 4 4 – Loans and receivables – 73,748 37,175 110,923 106,751 4,172 Financial assets 4 80,707 37,175 117,886 113,714 4,172 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 3,955 112,042 11,021 127,018 125,222 1,796 Securitised liabilities 3,955 41,731 – 45,686 45,455 231 Deposits and loans – 70,232 10,871 81,103 79,540 1,563 Other financial liabilities – 79 150 229 227 2 Financial liabilities 3,955 112,042 11,021 127,018 125,222 1,796 219 The following table shows the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Fair value Carrying Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total amount Difference Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances with central banks and banks – 1,283 – 1,283 1,283 – Balances with central banks – 925 – 925 925 – Demand deposits and overnight money balances with banks – 358 – 358 358 – Financial assets measured at amortised cost – 67,578 36,963 104,541 100,046 4,495 Bonds and other fixed-income securities – – 32 32 32 – Loans and receivables 67,578 36,931 104,509 100,014 4,495 Financial assets – 68,861 36,963 105,824 101,329 4,495 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 2,727 111,844 10,320 124,891 122,537 2,354 Securitised liabilities 2,727 41,070 – 43,797 43,514 283 Deposits and loans – 70,621 10,320 80,941 78,870 2,071 Other financial liabilities – 153 – 153 153 – Financial liabilities 2,727 111,844 10,320 124,891 122,537 2,354 The portfolios reported under Level 3 involve types of business for which observable measurement parameters are not generally available for all the key inputs. The portfolios mainly consist of development and retail business as well as loans to and receivables from customers who do not have an impeccable credit standing. 220 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (68) D  isclosures Relating to Finan­cial For each of these financial instruments, the calculation is based on the difference between the latest measurement and the hisInstruments to Which the Fair torical measurement on the date of addition. This difference is Value Option is Applied then adjusted for any changes in value resulting from market factors not related to credit risk. The amounts concerned are Helaba determines the cumulative changes in carrying amounts shown in the following tables: attributable to credit risk for assets and liabilities classified as financial instruments to which the fair value option is applied. in € m Changes attributable to credit risk Carrying amount (fair value) Reporting period Cumulative 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 124 1,758 5 – 3 –2 Loans and receivables 253 479 1 1 –4 –5 Equity shares and other variableincome securities n.a. 70 n.a. – n.a. – Total 377 2,307 6 1 –1 –7 The decline in bonds and other fixed-income securities resulted from the reclassification carried out as part of the initial application of IFRS 9. in € m Carrying amount Cumulative changes (fair value) attributable to credit risk 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Securitised liabilities 7,062 6,168 –8 – 17 Deposits and loans 4,418 4,144 16 14 Total 11,480 10,312 8 –3 221 The following overview compares the settlement amounts for the liabilities to which the fair value option is applied and the carrying amounts of these liabilities: in € m Carrying amount Settlement amount (fair value) Difference 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Securitised liabilities 7,034 6,207 7,062 6,168 – 28 39 Deposits and loans 5,799 4,628 4,418 4,144 1,381 484 Total 12,833 10,835 11,480 10,312 1,353 523 222 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (69) S  ubordinated Assets and Liabilities in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Financial assets measured at amortised cost 113 175 Loans and receivables 113 175 Other financial assets measured mandatorily at fair value through profit or loss 2 – Loans and receivables 2 – Subordinated financial assets 115 175 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 2,837 3,464 Deposits and loans 1,385 1,937 Unsecuritised profit participation rights 61 196 Unsecuritised silent participations 34 453 Subordinated loans 1,290 1,288 Securitised liabilities 1,452 1,527 Profit participation certificates 20 20 Securitised silent participations 528 529 Subordinated bonds 904 978 Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value 47 46 Deposits and loans 47 46 Subordinated loans 47 46 Subordinated financial liabilities 2,884 3,510 1) Prior-year figures restated: The loans and receivables reported under financial assets measured at amortised cost had been understated by € 89 m in the prior year. Assets are reported as subordinated if, in the case of liquidation As a general rule, subordinated financial liabilities are classified or insolvency of the debtor, they can be repaid only after the as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. Micro fair claims of the other creditors have been satisfied. value hedges or fair value options are used for some subordinated liabilities in order to avoid accounting mismatches. Subordinated financial liabilities comprise unsecuritised and securitised profit participation issues, silent participations as well as subordinated loans and bonds, which must be classified as debt in accordance with the criteria specified in IAS 32 . 223 (70) D  isclosures Relating to Issuing Activities The following table provides an overview of changes in the Helaba Group’s securitised funding during the reporting period: in € m Securitised liabilities AC HfT FVO Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 As at 1.1. 43,514 46,894 652 1,675 6,168 5,581 50,334 54,150 Changes due to currency translation 243 – 725 6 – 22 1 –2 250 – 749 Additions from issues 92,323 70,663 1,215 660 1,687 2,020 95,225 73,343 Additions from reissue of previously repurchased instruments 1,046 795 – 6 16 29 1,062 830 Redemptions – 90,524 – 72,898 – 1,013 – 1,576 – 752 – 1,316 – 92,289 – 75,790 Repurchases – 1,239 – 1,035 –3 – 99 – 108 – 108 – 1,350 – 1,242 Changes in accrued interest – – 17 – – 4 –2 4 – 19 Changes in value recognised through profit or loss 92 – 163 –4 8 38 – 34 126 – 189 Credit-risk-related changes in fair value recognised in OCI – – – – 8 – 8 – As at 31.12. 45,455 43,514 853 652 7,062 6,168 53,370 50,334 As part of its issuing activities, the Helaba Group places short(71) Risk Management Disclosures term commercial paper, equities and index certificates, mediumand long-term bonds, and subordinated sources of funding on The Group’s risk strategy focuses on the assumption of risks the money and capital markets. with a view to making profits and takes account of the company’s economic and regulatory capital. The identified risks are continAdditions from issues and redemptions also include the placeuously measured and monitored for risk management purposes. ment volume of short-term commercial paper that could be reThe methods used are subject to constant improvement. With paid by as early as the end of the reporting period. The changes regard to the organisation of risk management, the individual in value recognised through profit or loss result from remeasurerisk types as well as risk concentrations, please refer to the risk ment gains or losses on financial liabilities held as at 31 Decemreport, which forms an integral part of the management report. ber 2018 that were either accounted for as hedged items or to which the fair value option was applied and from the amortisation of premiums and discounts. 224 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (72) C  redit Risks Attributable to Financial assets measured at amortised cost The following table shows a breakdown of the financial assets Financial Instruments measured at amortised cost and the cumulative loss allowances recognised in respect of these assets by IFRS 9 impairment The following section comprises the quantitative disclosures in model stage as at 31 December 2018: line with IFRS 7 required for financial instruments within the scope of application of IFRS 9. in € m Gross carrying amount Cumulative loss allowances Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Sim­ Sim­ General plified General plified Cash on hand, de­ mand deposits and overnight money balances at central banks and banks 6,959 – – – – – – – – – Loans and receivables 6,959 – – – – – – – – – Financial assets measured at amortised cost 103,056 3,378 20 586 14 – 46 – 65 –1 – 185 –2 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 4 – – – – – – – – – Loans and receivables 103,052 3,378 20 586 14 – 46 – 65 –1 – 185 –2 Total 110,015 3,378 20 586 14 – 46 – 65 –1 – 185 –2 225 As at 31 December 2017, the cumulative loss allowances recognised for financial assets measured at amortised cost were broken down into the following three loss allowance types in accordance with IAS 39 : in € m Gross carrying amount Cumulative loss allowances Specific allowances Not imSpecific on a group Portfolio paired Impaired allowances basis allowances Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances at central banks and banks 1,283 – – – – Loans and receivables 1,283 – – – – Financial assets measured at amortised cost 99,805 642 – 239 – 37 – 125 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 32 – – – – Loans and receivables 99,773 642 – 239 – 37 – 125 Total 101,088 642 – 239 – 37 – 125 226 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the changes (broken down by stage) in the period under review in the loss allowances recognised in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost: in € m Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Sim­ General plified Bonds and other fixed-income securities As at 1.1. – –1 – – – –1 Utilisations – 1 – – – 1 Utilisations from disposals – 1 – – – 1 As at 31.12. – – – – – – Loans and receivables As at 1.1. – 33 – 132 –1 – 245 – 18 – 429 Newly originated / acquired financial assets – 32 –3 – –2 – – 37 Total change in loss allowances due to transfers between stages –9 16 – –7 – – Transfer to stage 1 – 11 11 – – – – Transfer to stage 2 2 –2 – – – – Transfer to stage 3 – 7 – –7 – – Additions – 31 – 68 – – 70 – 11 – 180 Interest effects in stage 3 from updates of gross carrying amount – – – 3 – 3 Additions from stage transfers – – 23 – – 24 – – 47 Additions without stage transfers – 31 – 45 – – 49 – 11 – 136 Reversals 57 124 – 76 5 262 Reversals from stage transfers 11 1 – 5 – 17 Reversals without stage transfers 41 110 – 56 5 212 Reversals from redemptions (derecognition) 5 13 – 6 – 24 Reversals from disposals – – – 1 – 1 Reversals from modifications without derecognition – – – 8 – 8 Utilisations – – – 59 22 81 Utilisations from disposals – – – 1 – 1 Utilisations due to uncollectibility (write-offs) – – – 58 22 80 Other adjustments 2 –2 – 4 – 4 As at 31.12. – 46 – 65 –1 – 185 –2 – 299 227 The gross carrying amounts of the financial assets measured at amortised cost include the loans and receivables under cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances with central banks and banks. The changes in the gross carrying amounts in the reporting period were as follows: in € m Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Sim­ General plified Bonds and other fixed-income securities As at 1.1. 15 17 – – – 32 Redemptions incl. current principal repayments – 10 – – – – – 10 Disposals – – 17 – – – – 17 Changes in accrued interest –1 – – – – –1 As at 31.12. 4 – – – – 4 Loans and receivables As at 1.1. 106,779 2,640 26 627 24 110,096 Changes in basis of consolidation –5 – – – – –5 Newly originated / acquired financial assets 72,127 79 3 5 15 72,229 Change in current account balance – 2,711 5 – –7 – – 2,713 Transfers between stages – 1,979 1,808 – 171 – – Transfer to stage 1 970 – 849 – – 121 – – Transfer to stage 2 – 2,853 2,866 – – 13 – – Transfer to stage 3 – 96 – 209 – 305 – – Redemptions incl. current principal repayments – 70,178 – 1,255 –1 – 202 –2 – 71,638 Disposals – 22 – – –2 – – 24 Write-offs – – – – 80 –6 – 86 Interest effect from updating gross carrying amount of impaired assets – – – 5 – 5 Change in accrued interest 13 2 – 2 – 17 Amortisation of premiums and discounts – 37 –3 – – – – 40 Changes due to currency translation 504 30 – 5 – 539 Other adjustments 5,520 72 –8 62 – 17 5,629 As at 31.12. 110,011 3,378 20 586 14 114,009 228 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table provides an overview of the gross carrying amounts and cumulative loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised cost by counterparty sector and industry. in € m Gross carrying amount Cumulative loss allowances 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 4 32 – – Other financial corporations 4 32 – – Loans and receivables 114,009 101,698 – 299 – 401 Central banks 6,613 925 – – Central giro institutions 472 316 – – Sparkassen 6,531 5,667 – – Other banks 4,566 5,051 – –1 Other financial corporations 10,011 9,889 – 36 – 30 Non-financial corporations 56,656 56,279 – 225 – 333 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 3 11 – – Mining and quarrying 56 67 – – Manufacturing 4,052 3,789 – 21 – 30 Electricity, gas, steam and air-conditioning supply 4,956 4,648 – 10 – 11 Water supply, sewerage, waste management and remediation activities 2,345 2,424 –1 – Construction 528 560 –3 –5 Wholesale and retail trade; repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles 1,046 1,117 –3 –5 Transportation and storage 5,631 5,348 – 45 – 147 Accommodation and food service activities 87 155 – –1 Information and communication 2,851 2,568 –4 – 15 Real estate activities 29,235 29,522 – 87 – 34 Professional, scientific and technical activities 1,347 1,306 –5 – 31 Other service activities 1,536 1,540 –4 –6 Public administration, defence, social insurance 239 203 – – Education 396 427 – – Human health and social work activities 989 1,030 –2 –2 Arts, entertainment and recreation 378 408 –1 –1 Other service activities 981 1,156 – 39 – 45 Government 21,686 18,453 – – Households 7,474 5,118 – 38 – 37 Total 114,013 101,730 – 299 – 401 229 The following table shows the carrying amounts of financial assets measured at amortised cost, excluding instruments recognised under the simplified approach, by allocation to internal rating class as at the reporting date: in € m Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Bonds and other fixed-income securities Gross carrying amount 4 – – – 4 Internal classes 8 – 11 4 – – – 4 Cumulative loss allowances – – – – – Net carrying amount 4 – – – 4 Loans and receivables Gross carrying amount 110,011 3,378 586 14 113,989 Internal classes 0 – 3 47,729 2 – – 47,731 Internal classes 4 – 7 22,932 106 – – 23,038 Internal classes 8 – 11 27,919 744 – 2 28,665 Internal classes 12 – 15 8,616 1,358 – 5 9,979 Internal classes 16 – 20 513 766 – 4 1,283 Internal class 21 1,457 382 – – 1,839 Internal classes 22 – 24 (defaulted) 5 – 583 3 591 No allocation to an internal rating class 840 20 3 – 863 Cumulative loss allowances – 46 – 65 – 185 –2 – 298 Net carrying amount 109,965 3,313 401 12 113,691 230 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Helaba determines the credit rating using a 25-point rating scale. The following table shows the reconciliation from the rating classes to the ratings of S&P, Moody’s and Fitch: Mapping to external ratings S&P Moody’s Fitch Internal classes 0 – 3 A A A to A A – Aaa to A1 A A A to A A – Internal classes 4 – 7 A+ to A – A1 to A3 A+ to A – Internal classes 8 – 11 BBB + to BBB – Baa1 to Baa3 A – to BBB – Internal classes 12 – 15 BB + to BB – Ba1 to Ba3 BBB – to BB – Internal classes 16 – 20 B+ to B – B1 to B3 BB – to B – Internal class 21 CCC to C Caa to C CCC to C Internal classes 22 – 24 (defaulted) Default Default Default The internal rating classes 0 to 11 are designated “investment The following table provides an overview of all past due receivgrade”, while all other classes are designated “non-investment ables for which loss allowances were recognised under the simgrade”. plified approach as at the reporting date: in € m Past due Past due by more by more than one than three Past due Past due month and months by more Carrying by up to up to three and up to than one Total amount one month months one year year past due Trade accounts receivable (stages 2 and 3) EL rate (%) – 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gross carrying amount 18 1 1 – – 2 Lifetime EL –1 – – – – – Net carrying amount 17 1 1 – – 2 Finance lease receivables (stages 2 and 3) EL rate (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gross carrying amount 2 – – – – – Lifetime EL – – – – – – Net carrying amount 2 – – – – – 231 A financial asset is classified as past due if the party to the agreeThe following table shows the changes in allowances for losses ment fails to make the contractually agreed payments in respect on loans and advances during the prior-year period (IAS 39): of the financial instrument on time. Even if only certain contractually agreed part payments (interest or partial repayments of principal) are overdue, the asset is still considered past due. in € m Specific Specific allowances on a Portfolio allowances group basis allowances Total Loans and receivables As at 1.1.2017 453 46 273 772 Changes due to scope of consolidation – – –2 –2 Changes due to currency translation – 28 – –2 – 30 Reclassifications 8 – –3 5 Unwinding –9 – – –9 Additions 159 12 – 171 Reversals – 44 – 11 – 141 – 196 Utilisation – 300 – 10 – 310 As at 31.12.2017 239 37 125 401 No loss allowances were recognised for loans and receivables measured at amortised cost with a carrying amount of € 72 m that were past due at 31 December 2017. This was because Helaba had noted no material change in the rating of the debtors and still expected the outstanding amounts to be repaid. At the prior-year reporting date, financial assets measured at amortised cost with a balance of € 101,016 m were neither past due nor impaired. 232 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income The following table shows the carrying amounts of financial ­assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and the cumulative loss allowances recognised in respect of these assets during the period under review: in € m Carrying amount (fair value) Cumulative loss allowances (recognised in OCI) Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Bonds and other fixed-income securities 21,965 – – – –3 – – – Loans and receivables 488 – – – – – – – Total 22,453 – – – –3 – – – Cumulative loss allowances on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income remained largely unchanged compared with the position as at 1 January 2018. At 31 December 2017, no loss allowances were recognised in respect of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. 233 The following table shows the changes in the gross carrying amounts of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in the reporting period: in € m Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Bonds and other fixed-income securities As at 1.1. 21,700 5 – – 21,705 Changes in basis of consolidation –1 – – – –1 Newly originated / acquired financial assets 3,495 – – – 3,495 Redemptions incl. current principal repayments – 3,712 –5 – – – 3,717 Disposals – 692 – – – – 692 Changes in accrued interest –1 – – – –1 Amortisation of premiums and discounts – 83 – – – – 83 Changes due to currency translation 75 – – – 75 Other adjustments 1,050 – – – 1,050 As at 31.12. 21,831 – – – 21,831 Loans and receivables As at 1.1. 420 – – – 420 Newly originated / acquired financial assets 122 – – – 122 Transfers between stages –2 2 – – – Transfer to stage 2 –2 2 – – – Redemptions incl. current principal repayments – 57 –2 – – – 59 As at 31.12. 483 – – – 483 The carrying amount of debt instruments in the FVTOCI category is the same as the fair value, which comprises the gross carrying amount plus cumulative changes in fair value. Of the accumulated other comprehensive income as at 31 December 2018 for debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income amounting to € 142 m before tax (see Note [50]), € 139 m was attributable to cumulative changes in fair value. 234 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the carrying amounts and loss allowances recognised in OCI by counterparty sector and industry: in € m Carrying amount Cumulative loss allowance (fair value) (recognised in OCI) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 21,965 21,930 –3 – Central giro institutions 401 253 – – Other banks 15,074 13,865 –3 – Other financial corporations 546 645 – – Non-financial corporations 198 121 – – Government 5,746 7,046 – – Loans and receivables 488 n.a. – n.a. Other financial corporations 99 n.a. – n.a. Non-financial corporations 384 n.a. – n.a. Agriculture, forestry and fishing 2 n.a. – n.a. Mining and quarrying 5 n.a. – n.a. Manufacturing 185 n.a. – n.a. Electricity, gas, steam and air-conditioning supply 39 n.a. – n.a. Wholesale and retail trade; repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles 15 n.a. – n.a. Transportation and storage 37 n.a. – n.a. Information and communication 18 n.a. – n.a. Real estate activities 47 n.a. – n.a. Professional, scientific and technical activities 33 n.a. – n.a. Other service activities 3 n.a. – n.a. Government 5 n.a. – n.a. Total 22,453 21,930 –3 – 235 The following table shows the gross carrying amounts of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income by allocation to internal rating class as at the reporting date: in € m Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Bonds and other fixed-income securities Gross carrying amount 21,831 – – – 21,831 Internal classes 0 – 3 13,239 – – – 13,239 Internal classes 4 – 7 7,661 – – – 7,661 Internal classes 8 – 11 931 – – – 931 Cumulative loss allowances –3 – – – –3 Net carrying amount 21,828 – – – 21,828 Total fair value 21,965 – – – 21,965 Loans and receivables Gross carrying amount 483 – – – 483 Internal classes 0 – 3 15 – – – 15 Internal classes 4 – 7 208 – – – 208 Internal classes 8 – 11 255 – – – 255 Internal classes 12 – 15 5 – – – 5 Cumulative loss allowances – – – – – Net carrying amount 483 – – – 483 Total fair value 488 – – – 488 236 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Provisions for off-balance sheet liabilities The following table shows the nominal amounts of loan commitments and the maximum guarantee amounts of financial guarantees (subsequently referred to as nominal amount) as well as the related provisions as at 31 December 2018: in € m Nominal amount Provisions Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Loan commitments 27,154 410 45 1 8 6 8 – Financial guarantees 6,375 305 28 12 3 5 6 3 Total 33,529 715 73 13 11 11 14 3 The following tables show the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Nominal amount Provisions Specific allowances Specific on a group Portfolio Not impaired Impaired allowances basis allowances Loan commitments 23,619 10 10 – 5 Financial guarantees 5,987 15 6 6 1 Total 29,606 25 16 6 6 237 The following table shows the change in provisions for loan commitments during the period under review: in € m Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total As at 1.1. 9 6 7 – 22 New loan commitments originated 5 – – – 5 Total change in provision due to transfers between stages 1 –1 – – – Transfer to stage 1 1 –1 – – – Additions 3 12 16 – 31 Additions from stage transfers – 4 2 – 6 Additions without stage transfers 3 8 14 – 25 Reversals – 10 – 11 – 15 – – 36 Reversals from stage transfers –1 – – – –1 Reversals without stage transfers –5 – 10 – 13 – – 28 Utilisations (drawdown under loan commitment) –4 –1 –2 – –7 As at 31.12. 8 6 8 – 22 The following table shows the change in provisions for financial guarantees during the period under review: in € m Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total As at 1.1. 3 3 12 – 18 New financial guarantees originated – – – 3 3 Total change in provision due to transfers between stages 2 –3 1 – – Transfer to stage 1 2 –2 – – – Transfer to stage 3 – –1 1 – – Additions 1 7 8 – 16 Additions from stage transfers – 5 5 – 10 Additions without stage transfers 1 2 3 – 6 Reversals –4 –2 – 15 – – 21 Reversals from stage transfers –2 – –1 – –3 Reversals without stage transfers –2 –2 – 14 – – 18 Other adjustments 1 – – – 1 As at 31.12. 3 5 6 3 17 238 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the change in the nominal amounts of loan commitments in the period under review: in € m Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total As at 1.1. 26,304 310 28 1 26,643 New loan commitments originated 18,139 – – – 18,139 Change in current account balance – 175 7 13 – – 155 Transfers between stages – 58 53 5 – – Transfer to stage 1 6 –4 –2 – – Transfer to stage 2 – 61 61 – – – Transfer to stage 3 –3 –4 7 – – Drawdowns under loan commitments – 15,088 – 122 – 14 – – 15,224 Changes due to currency translation 231 5 – – 236 Other adjustments – 2,199 157 13 – – 2,029 As at 31.12. 27,154 410 45 1 27,610 The following table shows the changes in the nominal amounts of financial guarantees in the period under review: in € m Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total As at 1.1. 5,782 184 28 – 5,994 New financial guarantees originated 1,137 – – 12 1,149 Transfers between stages – 102 89 13 – – Transfer to stage 1 27 – 26 –1 – – Transfer to stage 2 – 113 115 –2 – – Transfer to stage 3 – 16 – 16 – – Changes due to currency translation 135 3 –1 – 137 Other adjustments – 577 29 – 12 – – 560 As at 31.12. 6,375 305 28 12 6,720 239 Helaba entered into loan commitments and financial guarantees with customers in the following counterparty sectors and industries: in € m Nominal amount Provisions 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Loan commitments 27,610 23,629 22 15 Central giro institutions 15 47 – – Sparkassen 426 405 – – Other banks 507 486 – – Other financial corporations 3,511 3,246 1 – Non-financial corporations 17,390 15,837 18 15 Government 4,358 2,414 – – Households 1,403 1,194 3 – Financial guarantees 6,720 6,002 17 13 Central giro institutions 3 3 – – Sparkassen 61 70 – – Other banks 182 150 – – Other financial corporations 2,741 2,641 – – Non-financial corporations 3,659 3,056 17 12 Government 66 66 – – Households 8 16 – 1 Total 34,330 29,631 39 28 240 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the nominal amounts of loan commitments by allocation to internal rating class as at the reporting date: in € m Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Internal classes 0 – 3 6,566 – – – 6,566 Internal classes 4 – 7 3,882 7 – – 3,889 Internal classes 8 – 11 3,763 46 – – 3,809 Internal classes 12 – 15 2,299 178 – – 2,477 Internal classes 16 – 20 35 48 – – 83 Internal class 21 117 2 – – 119 Internal classes 22 – 24 (defaulted) 2 – 45 1 48 No allocation to an internal rating class 10,490 129 – – 10,619 Total nominal amount of loan commitments 27,154 410 45 1 27,610 Provisions for loan commitments 8 6 8 – 22 The following table shows the nominal amounts of financial guarantees by allocation to internal rating class as at the reporting date: in € m Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Internal classes 0 – 3 335 – – – 335 Internal classes 4 – 7 3,892 8 – – 3,900 Internal classes 8 – 11 1,536 13 – – 1,549 Internal classes 12 – 15 571 160 – – 731 Internal classes 16 – 20 29 85 – – 114 Internal class 21 10 39 – – 49 Internal classes 22 – 24 (defaulted) – – 28 12 40 No allocation to an internal rating class 2 – – – 2 Total nominal amount of financial guarantees 6,375 305 28 12 6,720 Provisions for financial guarantees 3 5 6 3 17 241 The following table shows the changes in provisions for off-­ balance sheet commitments in the comparative period (IAS 39): in € m Provisions for financial loan commitments guarantees Total As at 1.1.2017 22 18 40 Changes due to currency translation –2 – –2 Reversals – 12 – 15 – 27 Reclassifications –3 – –3 Additions 10 10 20 As at 31.12.2017 15 13 28 Non-performing exposures and forbearance In 2018, Helaba harmonised the internal application of the In addition to the mandatory disclosures in accordance with terms “non-performing exposures” and “default event” in line IFRS 9, Helaba provides information on non-performing expowith Article 178 of the CRR . The harmonisation of the objective sures and forborne exposures (in accordance with EBA definievidence with the regulatory definition of a default event also tions) to provide a comprehensive picture of the credit risks. ensures that the requirements match the criteria for the allocaItems are designated non-performing exposures if one of the tion of an exposure to stage 3. However, in individual cases, this following criteria is met: standardised approach may no longer apply where Helaba grants substantial modifications or issues new financial instru■■ A material exposure is more than 90 days past due ments to defaulted borrowers who are already in a period of ■■ An exposure is unlikely to be repaid in full without the recovgood conduct. New business is allocated to stage 1 unless it has ery of collateral to be classified as a POCI asset. Please refer to Note (9) for information on the classification of instruments as POCI assets. Regardless of these criteria, exposures deemed to be defaulted Furthermore, if a POCI asset recovers, this may lead to differences in accordance with article 178 of the CRR are always classified between non-performing exposures and financial instruments in as non-performing exposures. The same materiality threshold default. POCI assets are always reported as non-­performing exrelating to the 90 day past due criterion is applied to both deposures in accordance with regulatory requirements. fault events in accordance with the CRR and non-performing exposures. An exposure is considered material if it exceeds Deferred or renegotiated loans and advances are determined in ­either an absolute threshold of € 100 or 2.5 % of the overall accordance with the definition of forborne exposures issued by credit line (in accordance with Section 16 of the German Solthe European Banking Authority (EBA ). A forborne exposure vency Regulation (Solvabilitätsverordnung, SolvV). A financial refers to debt instruments in connection with which forbearance asset is classified as past due if the party to the agreement fails action has been applied. Such action includes concessions or to make the contractually agreed (partial) payments in respect restructuring as a result of existing or anticipated financial difof the financial instrument on time. The past due period begins ficulties on the part of the debtor. Forbearance action includes on the day after the due date of the contractually agreed partial any rights agreed upon at contract inception enabling the payment. Besides the indicators listed in Article 178 of the CRR , debtor to amend the credit terms if such amendments are due the following indicators are used to identify exposures that will to (pending) financial difficulties of the debtor. Before a contract probably not be fully redeemed: ban on business operations may be classified as forborne, concessions to the debtor must issued by a supervisory authority, rating-related terminations, or the borrower’s loss of regular sources of income. 242 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes have been made. Please refer to Note (9) for further information in stage 3. If the forbearance action does not lead to a default on the conceptual differences between forbearance actions and event, the instrument is designated as “performing forborne” modifications. and transferred to stage 2 based on the qualitative transfer criterion. If the debt instrument recovers during the period of good For every forbearance action, Helaba verifies whether a default conduct to the extent that it is no longer deemed an exposure event has occurred regarding the respective debt instrument. If subject to workout and no longer constitutes a significant inthe forbearance action led to a default event, the respective increase in credit risk on the basis of the quantitative transfer strument is designated as “non-performing forborne” and transcriterion, it is transferred from stage 2 to stage 1. ferred to stage 3. If the objective evidence of impairment no longer applies, the instrument may be remedied. The objective The following table shows the financial assets measured at amevidence of impairment no longer applies as soon as the default ortised cost broken down into performing and non-performing event is over. Simultaneously, an internally established period exposures, together with the value of the debt instruments of good conduct applies, taking regulatory requirements into within these exposures that were in default or subject to foraccount. During the period of good conduct, exposures remain bearance action at the reporting date: in € m Gross carrying amount Cumulative loss allowances NonNonPerforming performing Performing performing exposures exposures exposures exposures Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances at banks 6,959 – – – Loans and receivables 6,959 – – – Financial assets measured at amortised cost 106,454 600 – 112 – 187 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 4 – – – Loans and receivables 106,450 600 – 112 – 187 thereof: Forborne exposures 704 359 – 13 – 127 thereof: Defaulted – 589 – – 187 Total 113,413 600 – 112 – 187 243 The following table shows the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Gross carrying amount Cumulative loss allowances NonNonPerforming performing Performing performing Exposures exposures exposures exposures Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances at banks 1,283 – – – Loans and receivables 1,283 – – – Financial assets measured at amortised cost 99,695 752 – 125 – 276 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 32 – – – Loans and receivables 99,663 752 – 125 – 276 thereof: Forborne exposures 327 511 –7 – 183 thereof: Defaulted 749 – 276 Total 100,978 752 – 125 – 276 The following table shows the financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income by classification as performing/non-performing, defaulted or forborne as at the reporting date: in € m Carrying amount Cumulative loss allowance (fair value) (recognised in OCI) NonNonPerforming performing Performing performing exposures exposures exposures exposures Bonds and other fixed-income securities 21,965 – –3 – Loans and receivables 488 – – – Total 22,453 – –3 – 244 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Carrying amount Cumulative loss allowance (fair value) (recognised in OCI) NonNonPerforming performing Performing performing exposures exposures exposures exposures Bonds and other fixed-income securities 21,930 – – – Loans and receivables n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Total 21,930 – – – The following table shows the performing status as well as the as at the reporting date. In accordance with the FINREP requireoccurrence of default events for off-balance sheet liabilities ments of the EBA , Helaba classifies off-balance sheet liabilities within the scope of application of the IFRS 9 impairment model by forbearance status only for loan commitments: in € m Nominal amount Provisions NonNonPerforming performing Performing performing exposures exposures exposures exposures Loan commitments 27,562 48 14 8 thereof: Forborne exposures 2 17 – 3 thereof: Defaulted – 48 – 9 Financial guarantees 6,680 40 8 9 thereof: Defaulted – 40 – 9 Total 34,242 88 22 17 245 The following table shows the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Nominal amount Provisions NonNonPerforming performing Performing performing exposures exposures exposures exposures Loan commitments 23,619 10 5 10 thereof: Forborne exposures 3 7 – – thereof: Defaulted – 10 – 10 Financial guarantees 5,987 15 1 12 thereof: Defaulted – 15 – 12 Total 29,606 25 6 22 Modifications modified in the reporting period and for which the cumulative Please refer to Notes (9) and (7) for details on the procedure for loss allowances on the date of contractual modification were adjusting contractual cash flows. measured in the amount of the lifetime ECL (stages 2 and 3) and, in cases where the simplified approach was used, in respect of The following table shows the amortised cost before modificafinancial assets that were more than 30 days past due. tion and the gains or losses arising from a contractual modification in respect of financial assets that were not substantially in € m Gains or losses on the Amortised cost before modification of contractual modification cash flows thereof: thereof: Total Simplified Total Simplified Financial assets measured at amortised cost 36 – – – Loans and receivables 36 – – – Total 36 – – – The IFRS 9 requirements relating to modifications had not yet portfolio does not contain any modified assets that were asbeen applied in the comparative period. signed to stages 2 and 3 at the date of modification, but transferred to stage 1 in the reporting period. Adjustments made to gross carrying amounts due to stage 3 modifications, accounted for as utilisations of loss allowances, are reported in the statement of changes in loss allowances. The 246 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Collateral In order to secure its loans, the Helaba Group holds, in particular, property charges in relation to real estate, guarantees and warranties as well as securities. Financial collateral arrangements that are customary in the industry are also used. Regular remeasurements and reviews to assess whether collateral can be recovered, used or applied to other purposes are carried out to ensure the quality of collateral held. The bulk of guarantees are provided by public-sector institutions, but guarantees are also received from the banking sector. The estimated fair value of the collateral is based on a valuation of that collateral. Depending on the type and volume of the loans in question, the collateral is constantly monitored and updated in accordance with the credit guidelines. The maximum amount of the collateral held that can be taken into account in a transaction is the fair value of the collateral, reduced to the carrying amount of the secured financial asset. The maximum amount of loan commitments and financial guarantees is derived by reducing the collateral value to the nominal amount or the maximum guarantee amount. If a financial instrument is covered by more than one item of collateral, the value reduction is applied to the collateral with the worst quality. Collateral in the form of a charge over real estate is considered to be the highest quality collateral available and is therefore always preferred; this is followed by cash collateral, Helaba’s own debt instruments and financial guarantees. The following values are used to determine the maximum exposure to credit risk within the meaning of IFRS 7.35K (a) as at the reporting date: for financial assets measured at amortised cost, the carrying amounts as presented in Notes (38) and (39); and for financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the fair value as presented in the statement of financial position. The maximum credit risk from loan commitments within the scope of application of the impairment regulations corresponds to the nominal amounts as disclosed in Note (72). The same applies to the maximum guarantee amounts of financial guarantees. 247 The following table shows the maximum amounts of the collateral held by Helaba as at the reporting date for financial instruments within the scope of application of the IFRS 9 impairment model: in € m Maximum amount of collateral or financial guarantees Gross to be taken into account carrying amount / nominal Cash collaOther debt amount / Cumulative Resiteral and instruFinancial maximum loss allowdential Commerown debt ments and guaranguarantee ances / provireal cial real instruother tees amount sions estate estate ments assets received Total Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances at central banks and banks 6,959 – – – – – – – Financial assets measured at amortised cost 107,054 – 299 8,803 21,273 808 3,063 4,565 38,512 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 4 – – – – – – – Loans and receivables 107,050 – 299 8,803 21,273 808 3,063 4,565 38,512 thereof: Stage 3 and POCI assets 600 – 187 43 101 3 29 21 197 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 22,314 –2 – – – – – – Bonds and other fixed-income securities 21,831 –2 – – – – – – Loans and receivables 483 – – – – – – – Loan commitments 27,610 – 22 155 210 8 104 415 892 thereof: Stage 3 and POCI assets 46 –8 – – – – – – Financial guarantees 6,720 – 17 – 29 16 6 10 61 thereof: Stage 3 and POCI assets 40 –9 – – – – – – Total 170,657 – 340 8,958 21,512 832 3,173 4,990 39,465 248 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Maximum amount of collateral or financial guarantees Gross to be taken into account carrying amount / nominal Cash collaamount / Cumulative Resiteral and Other debt Financial maximum loss allowdential Commerown debt instruguaranguarantee ances / proreal cial real instruments and tees amount viments estate estate ments other assets received Total Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances at central banks and banks 1,283 – – – – – – – Financial assets measured at amortised cost 100,447 – 401 9,249 17,091 449 6,860 1,327 34,976 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 32 – – – – – – – Loans and receivables 100,415 – 401 9,249 17,091 449 6,860 1,327 34,976 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income1) 21,930 – – – – – – – Bonds and other fixed-income securities 21,930 – – – – – – – Loan commitments 23,629 – 15 196 67 6 16 303 588 Financial guarantees 6,002 – 13 6 55 10 24 130 225 Total 153,291 – 429 9,451 17,213 465 6,900 1,760 35,789 1) For financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, fair values were reported as at 31 December 2017 as a reasonable approximation of the gross carrying amounts. 249 The following table shows the financial instruments within the scope of application of impairment regulations, for which no loss allowance was recognised due to sufficient collateralisation: in € m 31.12.2018 Gross carrying amount of financial assets measured at amortised cost 18,168 Loans and receivables 18,168 Nominal amount of loan commitments 869 Maximum guarantee amount of financial guarantees 24 Total 19,061 The following table shows the contractually agreed outstanding tion of outstanding amounts (legal enforcement). Legal enforceamount of financial assets that were wholly or partially ment measures are carried out until Helaba’s legal claims derecognised (direct write-offs) in the period under review due against the debtor have been extinguished, for instance by way to uncollectability; however, Helaba is still pursuing the collecof final settlement or external debt waivers. in € m 31.12.2018 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 42 Loans and receivables 42 Total 42 Credit risks and collateral in respect of financial instruments outside the scope of application of IFRS 9 impairment requirements9 As at the reporting date, the maximum exposure to credit risk within the meaning of IFRS 7.36 (a) corresponded to the carrying amount of the financial assets as disclosed in the statement of financial position, plus other obligations according to Note (74). These amounts do not factor in any deduction of collateral or other credit enhancements. 250 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss as well as other off-balance sheet commitments (fair values or nominal amounts) and the corresponding collateral including the maximum amounts to be taken into account as at 31 December 2018: in € m Maximum amount of collateral or financial guarantees to be taken into account Cash colla­ Other debt teral and instruFair value / Commer­ own debt ments and Financial nominal Residential cial real instruother as­ guarantees amount real estate estate ments sets received Total Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances at central banks and banks 290 – – – – – – Loans and receivables HfT 290 – – – – – – Trading assets 7,965 – 99 – 9 1 109 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 6,570 – – – – – – Loans and receivables 1,395 – 99 – 9 1 109 Financial assets measured mandatorily at fair value through profit or loss 1,684 – – – – – – Bonds and other fixed-income securities 1,525 – – – – – – Loans and receivables 64 – – – – – – Receivables from the purchase of endowment insurance policies 95 – – – – – – Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value 377 – – – – – – Bonds and other fixed-income securities 124 – – – – – – Loans and receivables 253 – – – – – – Total financial assets 10,316 – 99 – 9 1 109 Other obligations 3,486 1 884 4 1 – 890 251 The following table shows the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Maximum amount of collateral or financial guarantees to be taken into account Cash colla­ Other debt teral and instruFair value / Commer­ own debt ments and Financial nominal Residential cial real instruother as­ guarantees amount real estate estate ments sets received Total Cash on hand, demand deposits and overnight money balances at central banks and banks 9,106 – – – – – – Loans and receivables HfT 9,106 – – – – – – Trading assets 6,679 – – – – – – Bonds and other fixed-income securities 5,324 – – – – – – Loans and receivables 1,355 – – – – – – Financial assets measured mandatorily at fair value through profit or loss n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value 2,237 – – – – – – Bonds and other fixed-income securities 1,758 – – – – – – Loans and receivables 479 – – – – – – Total financial assets 18,022 – – – – – – Other obligations 3,383 771 6 9 3 3 792 Collateral for derivatives (cash collateral), master netting agreepected loss in the event of a default and the credit risk based on ments and the maximum exposure to credit risk for derivatives, market data, including CDS spreads. As at 31 December 2018, which equates to fair value, are presented in Note (63). the CVA s for both trading book and banking book derivatives with positive fair values amounted to € 121 m (31 DecemIn the case of OTC derivative transactions, Helaba applies a ber 2017: € 85 m). credit valuation adjustment (CVA ) for default risk in order to cover any expected losses in the lending business. This CVA is For further information on credit risks, please refer to the risk determined by assessing the potential credit risk for a given report, which forms an integral part of the management report. counterparty. This assessment takes into account any collateral held, any offsetting effects under master agreements, the ex252 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (73) Hedge Accounting The following table shows the notional amounts by remaining maturity of the hedging derivatives used in hedge accounting: in € m More than three More than one year Up to three months months Up to one year Up to five years More than five years 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Fair value hedges 2,585 536 5,584 2,185 33,546 24,558 19,306 6,902 Hedging of interest rate risk 2,289 536 4,135 2,185 23,519 24,558 14,998 6,902 Interest-rate swaps 2,289 536 4,135 2,185 23,464 24,558 14,998 6,902 Cross-currency swaps – – – – 55 – – – Hedging of currency risk 296 – 1,449 – 10,027 – 4,308 – Cross-currency swaps 296 – 1,449 – 10,027 – 4,308 – Total 2,585 536 5,584 2,185 33,546 24,558 19,306 6,902 The following table shows the positive and negative fair values of the hedging derivatives used in hedge accounting: in € m Notional amount Positive fair values Negative fair values 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Fair value hedges 61,021 34,181 608 551 490 89 Interest rate hedges 44,941 34,181 471 551 66 89 Interest-rate swaps 44,886 34,181 471 551 66 89 Cross-currency swaps 55 – – – – – Foreign currency hedges 16,080 – 137 – 424 – Cross-currency swaps 16,080 – 137 – 424 – Total 61,021 34,181 608 551 490 89 253 Hedging instruments are included in the items “Positive fair valhedging currency risks are disclosed in the accumulated other ues of hedging derivatives under hedge accounting” and “Negcomprehensive income (OCI). In the Helaba Group, currency risk ative fair values of hedging derivatives under hedge accounting” has only been hedged as part of hedge accounting since the shown on the face of the statement of financial position. 2018 financial year. The ineffective portions of hedges of interest rate and currency The following table comprises the carrying amounts of the risks are reported in the income statement under net income hedged items as well as the cumulative hedge adjustments refrom hedge accounting. The hedging costs associated with sulting from continued and discontinued hedges: in € m Cumulative hedge Cumulative hedge adjustments from Carrying amount adjustments discontinued hedges 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Interest rate hedges 44,931 35,585 655 474 277 317 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 5,304 2,018 100 26 64 78 Loans and receivables 5,304 2,018 100 26 64 78 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 13,014 11,994 165 146 1 2 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 13,014 11,994 165 146 1 2 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 26,613 21,573 390 302 212 237 Securitised liabilities 19,913 15,090 154 87 86 84 Deposits and loans 6,700 6,483 236 215 126 153 Foreign currency hedges 16,079 – – – – – Financial assets measured at amortised cost 14,640 – – – – – Loans and receivables 14,640 – – – – – Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,439 – – – – – Bonds and other fixed-income securities 1,439 – – – – – Total 61,010 35,585 655 474 277 317 254 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the ineffective portion of hedges ­reported in the income statement or in other comprehensive income (OCI): in € m Income statement Recognised ineffective Comprehensive income portion of hedges Recognised hedge costs 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Fair value hedges – –9 – 42 – Interest rate hedges 1 –9 – – Change in fair value of hedging derivatives in the reporting period 84 – 53 – – Interest-rate-related change in fair value of hedged items in the reporting period – 83 44 – – Foreign currency hedges –1 n.a. – 42 n.a. Change in fair value of hedging derivatives in the reporting period – 430 n.a. – 42 n.a. Spot-rate-related change in fair value of hedged items in the reporting period 429 n.a. – n.a. Total – –9 – 42 n.a. The ineffective portions of hedges of interest rate risk reported in the income statement resulted from interest rate swaps. The hedging costs from the hedging of currency risk recognised in comprehensive income resulted from cross-currency swaps. 255 Off-Balance Sheet Transactions and Obligations (74) Contingent Liabilities and Other Off-Balance Sheet Obligations The Helaba Group’s contingent liabilities and other obligations provided. The figures shown reflect potential liabilities and asare mainly potential future payment obligations of the Group sume that the credit lines extended are utilised in full and that attributable to credit lines that have been granted but have not the financial guarantees are called upon. yet been drawn down and to financial guarantees that have been in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Loan commitments 27,610 23,629 Financial guarantees 6,720 6,002 Other obligations 3,486 3,383 Liabilities from guarantees and warranty agreements (excluding financial guarantees) 207 302 Placement and underwriting obligations 2,587 2,575 Contribution obligations 81 42 Contractual obligations for the acquisition of property and equipment, intangible assets and other assets 144 168 Contractual obligations in connection with investment property 306 239 Litigation risk obligations 1 1 Sundry obligations 160 56 Total 37,816 33,014 1) To bring the presentation into line with FINREP requirements, revocable loan commitments are also reported in addition to the irrevocable loan commitments. The prior-year figures have been increased by € 3,340 m. Financial guarantees of € 1,245 m were previously reported under liabilities from guarantees and warranty agreements (excluding financial guarantees) and are now shown under financial guarantees. On the reporting date, € 78 m of the contribution obligations The Bank is also jointly liable for ensuring that other members was attributable to 15 commercial partnerships, while € 3 m was belonging to the Deutscher Sparkassenund Giroverband e.V. attributable to three corporations. No contribution obligations (DSGV ) meet their obligations to make additional contributions. existed in respect of affiliated companies. If a claim were made against a former guarantor of DekaBank under the grandfathering provisions applicable to the guarantor The Bank is a partner with unlimited liability in GLB GmbH & Co. liability in accordance with the Brussels Accord I, Helaba would OHG , Frankfurt am Main. be obliged to pay pro-rata internal liability compensation. The owners of DekaBank on 18 July 2005 are liable for the fulfilment of all liabilities of DekaBank existing at that date. For liabilities entered into on or before 18 July 2001, the owners are liable 256 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes without time limitation; with regard to liabilities entered into penalty factors. Sparkassenund Giroverband H ­ essen-Thüringen after this date and on or before 18 July 2005, they were liable will be liable to make up any shortfall should a claim be made only for liabilities whose term to maturity did not extend beyond against the fund before the full amount has been contributed in 31 December 2015. cash. The Bank is a member of the protection scheme of the Sparkassen-­ Certain banks affiliated with the Group have additional obligaFinanzgruppe through its membership of the reserve fund of the tions as members of protection schemes in accordance with the Landesbanken and Girozentralen in Germany. Frankfurter Sparprovisions applicable to such arrangements. kasse AG is a member of the Sparkassen Support Fund of the Sparkassenund Giroverband Hessen-Thüringen. The purpose If Sparkassen-Immobilien-Vermittlungs-GmbH or OFB Projekt­ of these protection schemes is to guarantee the institution, i.e. entwicklung GmbH becomes insolvent, Helaba has agreed to to protect the continued existence of the affiliated institutions make the compensation payments to the relevant supplemenas going concerns. With effect from 3 July 2015, the protection tary pension fund. scheme operated by the German Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe was adjusted in line with the requirements of the German Deposit As in the previous year, contingent liabilities of € 205 m may Protection Act (Einlagensicherungsgesetz, EinSiG). If the instiarise if capital contributions have to be repaid. tutional protection should fail in exceptional circumstances, the customer is entitled to reimbursement of his/her deposits up to The sundry obligations include obligations of € 32 m (31 Deceman amount of € 100,000. The relevant EinSiG provisions apply. ber 2017: € 25 m) to the European Single Resolution Fund. The If a situation should arise in which a scheme has to provide fiBank and Frankfurter Sparkasse have elected to fully utilise the nancial support or pay compensation, Helaba could be required option to make some of the annual contribution in the form of to pay additional or special contributions. an irrevocable payment undertaking backed in full by cash ­collateral. In addition, Helaba and Frankfurter Sparkasse are members of the reserve fund of the Sparkassenund Giroverband Hessen-­ The Reserve Fund of the Landesbanken and Girozentralen and Thüringen. This fund provides additional protection on top of the the deposit security reserve fund of the Landesbausparkassen existing protection schemes; it provides protection not only to also give their member banks an option to pay part of their coninstitutions but also to creditors. Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen tributions in the form of irrevocable payment undertakings and the Sparkassen will make gradual contributions to the fund backed by cash collateral. The Bank and the Landesbausparuntil 0.5 % of the assessment base (the banks’ risk assets) has kasse have utilised this option for contributions of € 20 m been reached. An institution’s obligation to pay contributions is (31 December 2017: € 13 m). established on the basis of risk, taking into account bonus and (75) Letters of Comfort Entity Registered offices Grundstücksgesellschaft Gateway Gardens GmbH Frankfurt am Main 257 (76) Fiduciary Transactions in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Trust assets Loans and advances to banks 405 322 Loans and advances to customers 313 491 Equity shares and other variable-income securities 197 197 Shareholdings 56 55 Other assets 14 14 Total 985 1,079 Trust liabilities Deposits and loans from banks 255 125 Deposits and loans from customers 421 648 Other financial liabilities 309 306 Total 985 1,079 The fiduciary transactions mainly involve development funding from the Federal Government, the Federal State of Hesse and from the Kf W provided in the form of trustee loans, trust funds invested with other credit institutions as well as shareholdings managed for private investors. 258 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Other Disclosures (77) Leasing Disclosures Leases in which the Helaba Group is the lessor The following table provides details of finance leases: in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Gross investment value 2 3 Up to one year 1 1 More than one year and up to five years 1 2 Net investment value 2 3 Up to one year 1 1 More than one year and up to five years 1 2 The gross investment value is equivalent to the sum of the minAs in the previous year, there were no cumulative loss allowimum lease payments from the finance lease and the non-­ ances in connection with finance leases. No contingent rental guaranteed residual values to which the lessor is entitled. The payments were recognised as income in the year under review, minimum lease payments include the guaranteed residual valas was also the case in the previous year. ues to be paid by the lessee. The unrealised financial income corresponds to the difference between the gross investment The following minimum lease payments are expected in the value and the net investment value. course of the next few years from non-cancellable operating leases: in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Up to one year 72 68 More than one year and up to five years 37 35 More than five years 47 47 Total 156 150 259 The operating leases mainly comprise subtenancy agreements The leased properties are predominantly office buildings used for space rented out in leased buildings as well as tenancy for banking operations, unless they are subject to different comagreements in which Helaba’s own land and buildings are leased mercial use as part of subtenancy arrangements. The tenancy out. No contingent rental payments were recognised as income agreements have fixed terms with current residual terms of up from operating leases in the year under review, as was also the to twelve years. Price adjustment clauses exist in various forms; case in the previous year. no contingent rental payments have been agreed. Leases in which the Helaba Group is the lessee The following minimum lease payments for non-cancellable opGeneral and administrative expenses included an amount of erating leases are expected to be made over the next few years: € 42 m (2017: € 44 m) relating to payments for operating leases in which Helaba is the lessee. This amount mainly relates to land and buildings as well as operating and business equipment. in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Up to one year 40 43 More than one year and up to five years 102 122 More than five years 40 49 Total 182 214 1) Prior-year figures adjusted because the recognition of minimum lease payments was duplicated in a Group company. As at the reporting date, future minimum rental payments of € 5 m were expected under non-cancellable subtenancy arrangements (31 December 2017: € 4 m). In the reporting period, income of € 4 m (2017: € 2 m) was generated from subtenancy agreements. This income is reported under other operating income. In the year under review, there were no finance leases in which the Helaba Group was the lessee. 260 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (78) D  isclosures on Revenue from Contracts with Customers Helaba applied IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The following table shows income items in the reporting period for the first time in the 2018 financial year. that included revenue as defined in IFRS 15 , broken down by type of service and segment: in € m Retail & Asset Real Estate Corporates & Markets ­Management WIBank 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fee and commission income 17 16 127 120 296 337 41 41 Lending and guarantee business 17 16 42 42 1 2 – – Account management and payment transactions – – 60 60 56 56 – – Asset management – – – – 118 155 – – Securities and securities deposit business – – 13 8 81 86 – – Management of publicsector subsidy and development programmes – – – – – – 38 38 Other – – 12 10 40 38 3 3 Revenue in accordance with IFRS 15 under other operating income – – – 3 34 33 – – Total 17 16 127 123 330 370 41 41 261 in € m Consolidation / Other reconciliation Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fee and commission income – – – 17 – 20 464 494 Lending and guarantee business – – – – 60 60 Account management and payment transactions – – – – 116 116 Asset management – – –6 –9 112 146 Securities and securities deposit business – – –9 – 10 85 84 Management of public-sector subsidy and development programmes – – – – 38 38 Other – – –2 –1 53 50 Revenue in accordance with IFRS 15 under other operating income 68 63 – 12 – 12 90 87 Total 68 63 – 29 – 32 554 581 As at 31 December 2018, Helaba had contractual liabilities of Standard customs and practice (in terms of invoicing and pay€ 2 m (31 December 2017: € 1 m) that are expected to crystallise ment methods) apply to parts of the service business: in the in 2019 with income of at least the same amount. leasing business, partial payments on account are collected for management activities and the onward charging of operating The balance of contractual liabilities at the beginning of the recosts; actual costs incurred are billed at least annually. In the porting period amounted to € 1 m and was recycled into the development business, fees may be paid in the form of one-time revenues during the 2018 financial year. payments or recurring payments, or may even be paid over a period of time. Individual agreements covering service fees are Revenue recognition in accordance with IFRS 15 made for individual types of services, especially in the payHelaba recognises revenue in its income statement when conments, securities, custody and asset management businesses. trol over goods has passed to the customer or a service has been These agreements may give rise to pricing adjustments, deperformed for a customer. In the case of performance obligapending on the frequency, volume and/or timing of the transactions related to a specific point in time, revenue is recognised tions. Flat-rate fees can also be applied, particularly in the retail at the time of performance; for services performed over a period business. of time, revenue is recognised in line with the pattern of ­performance. If revenue is based on the reimbursement of expenses by customers, the anticipated revenue is generally recognised as the Where services are performed on a recurring basis (either at expenses are incurred. If the rights to revenue are based on specific points in time or over periods of time), customer payparticular agreements with customers or if they are agreed retments arising from the rights to revenue are predominantly rospectively, revenue is recognised in accordance with the releprocessed on specific reference dates, i.e. monthly, quarterly or vant agreement. If, in substance, services constitute brokering at least once a year for the completed period. In the case of services and a third party bears responsibility for the variability non-recurring services or the sale of assets, invoicing and payarising in connection with the brokered service, Helaba generment are generally immediate or as soon as the service has been ates revenue from the performance of these services in a capacperformed or ownership of the assets has passed to the buyer. ity as agent. 262 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (79) C  apital Management and In addition, K WG requirements specify general and bank-­ specific capital buffers such as the capital conservation buffer, Regulatory Ratio Disclosures the countercyclical capital buffer and the buffers for global and other systemically important banks, which in each case relate to Helaba defines capital management as all processes directly or CET 1 capital and ultimately increase the minimum CET 1 capital indirectly involved in ensuring that it upholds its risk-bearing ratio for each bank by at least 2.5 %. capacity (both from a regulatory perspective in Pillar I and from an economic perspective in Pillar II) and that it is in a position to To add to these generally applicable requirements, the ECB lays monitor its capital adequacy in a timely manner. The main comdown further institution-specific requirements for institutions ponents of capital management in the Helaba Group are plansubject to the SSM . The minimum CET 1 capital ratio required to ning regulatory own funds and own funds ratios as part of the be maintained by the Helaba Group in 2018 under the Super­ planning process, allocating own funds, monitoring changes in visory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) decision taken by risk exposures and complying with regulatory and economic capthe ECB was 8.89 %. ital limits, monitoring the remaining capital buffer as well as recognising a projected cost of capital as part of contribution Within the risk appetite framework, the Board of Managing Dimargin accounting. The aim of capital management is to allocate rectors of Helaba sets internal targets for the minimum ratios capital over the various divisions of the Group, with due considthat include a sufficient buffer in respect of the regulatory mineration being given to risk and return aspects, and also in line imum requirements so that Helaba is able to operate at all times with the need to comply with regulatory requirements concernwithout any restrictions on its business activities. ing capital adequacy. The regulatory own funds of the Helaba banking group are deCapital management focuses on both regulatory own funds and termined in accordance with Regulation (EU ) No. 575 / 2013 internal capital from a complementary economic management (CRR ) and the complementary provisions in Sections 10 and 10a perspective. of the KWG . In accordance with the classification specified in the CRR , own funds comprise Common Equity Tier 1 capital, AddiThe minimum regulatory requirements that need to be taken into tional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. account include Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 (Capital Requirements Regulation, CRR ), the additional provisions in the German The regulatory own funds requirements and the capital ratios Banking Act (Kreditwesengesetz, KWG ) and also the requireare also determined in accordance with the provisions of the ments specified under the European Single Supervisory MechaCRR . nism (SSM). Article 92 of the CRR specifies that institutions must at all times have adequate own funds in relation to their riskweighted assets (RWA s). It makes a distinction between the following minimum ratios: ■■ Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) capital ratio: 4.5 % ■■ Tier 1 capital ratio (where Tier 1 capital is the total of CET 1 and additional capital): 6.0 % ■■ Total capital ratio (based on the total of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital): 8.0 %. 263 As at 31 December 2018, the breakdown of the own funds of the Helaba banking group was as follows (each amount shown after regulatory adjustments): in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Tier 1 capital 8,883 8,180 Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) 8,108 7,673 Additional Tier 1 capital 775 507 Tier 2 capital 2,288 2,667 Own funds, total 11,171 10,847 The following capital requirements and ratios were applicable as at 31 December 2018: in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Default risk (including equity investments and securitisations) 3,719 3,411 Market risk (including CVA risk) 338 284 Operational risk 285 291 Total own funds requirement 4,342 3,986 CET1 capital ratio 14.9 % 15.4 % Tier 1 capital ratio 16.4 % 16.4 % Total capital ratio 20.6 % 21.8 % The Tier 1 and total capital ratios comply with the target ratios of prudential supervision. The European Commission has still specified by Helaba in its capital planning. Helaba is complying to decide on the details. Helaba is already taking this ratio into with the regulatory requirements including the requirements of account in its management systems. the European SSM regarding capital adequacy. More detailed information on the structure and adequacy of The leverage ratio measures the ratio between regulatory capHelaba’s regulatory own funds, together with a reconciliation ital and the unweighted total of all on-balance sheet and off-­ to the own funds in the IFRS consolidated statement of finanbalance sheet asset items including derivatives. Currently, cial position, has been published in the Helaba Group’s banks must disclose the leverage ratio and report it to the su­disclosure report in accordance with Section 26a K WG pervisory authorities as an indicator for monitoring purposes. ­(offen­legung.helaba.de). A mandatory minimum ratio of 3.0 % is expected to apply when the leverage ratio migrates to Pillar 1 of the three-pillar model 264 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (80) R  eport on Business Relationships with Structured Entities The banking business and other operating activities of the Group companies give rise to various business relationships with structured entities within the meaning of IFRS 12 . A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that the exercise of voting or similar rights under company law is not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity as defined by IFRS 10 . The sponsorship of a structured entity as described in IFRS 12 .27 may arise as part of the banking functions provided for customers. This affects situations in which the Helaba Group has initiated a special purpose entity or service entity, has been involved in and supported the establishment and initiation of the entity, and in which the Group’s current business relationship with this unconsolidated structured entity is still so close that a third party would justifiably assume that the entity was affiliated with the Group. 265 Disclosures on unconsolidated structured entities The following table shows the loans and advances as at 31 December 2018 to unconsolidated structured entities within the meaning of IFRS 12 : in € m Securitisation special Asset Other purpose management structured entities entities entities Total Assets 2,583 398 3,798 6,779 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 2,552 281 3,797 6,630 Loans and receivables 2,552 281 3,797 6,630 Trading assets 2 9 – 11 Positive fair values of trading derivatives 2 9 – 11 Other financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 5 102 1 108 Positive fair values of nontrading derivatives – 1 – 1 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 5 – – 5 Equity shares and other variable-income securities – 101 1 102 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 24 – – 24 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 24 – – 24 Other assets – 6 – 6 Off-balance sheet liabilities 1,108 13 242 1,363 Loan commitments 1,078 13 242 1,333 Financial guarantees 30 – – 30 Size of structured entities 19,162 142,287 99,957 261,406 266 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Securitisation special Asset Other purpose management structured entities entities entities Total Assets 2,498 283 2,993 5,774 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 2,476 240 2,933 5,649 Bonds and other fixed-income securities Loans and receivables 2,476 240 2,933 5,649 Trading assets 1 7 – 8 Positive fair values of trading derivatives 1 7 – 8 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 21 29 60 110 Bonds and other fixed-income securities 21 – – 21 Equity shares and other variableincome securities – 29 60 89 Other assets – 7 – 7 Off-balance sheet liabilities 1,113 18 238 1,369 Loan commitments 1,108 18 238 1,364 Sundry obligations 5 – – 5 Size of structured entities 23,074 147,693 91,501 262,268 The asset management entities predominantly relate to the investment assets managed by Helaba Invest Kapitalanlage­ gesellschaft mbH, the breakdown of which was as follows: in € m 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Retail funds 33 (31.12.2017: 76) 4,337 8,805 Institutional funds 295 (31.12.2017: 247) 101,658 101,256 Total 105,995 110,061 Some of the securitisation entities business comprises service ber 2017: € 1,467 m). The liquidity provision commitments relate functions for securitisation entities in the OPUSALPHA Group. to the maximum planned purchase commitments; Helaba is The lines of liquidity provided for the entities in the OPUSALPHA exposed to subordinated liabilities should the discounts on purGroup, including flat-rate premiums of 2 %, amounted to chases and risks borne by third parties be insufficient. The table € 2,115 m (31 December 2017: € 2,109 m), of which € 1,594 m above shows the Group’s default risk from asset exposures plus had been drawn down as at 31 December 2018 (31 Decemany current interest and fees due to the Group as at 31 Decem267 ber 2018 after taking into account issues of € 742 m (31 Decem(81) S  ignificant Restrictions on Assets ber 2017: € 765 m). From the current perspective, there are no plans to provide support for the structured entities beyond the or on the Transfer of Funds normal banking financing functions and corresponding services. As at 31 December 2018, there were undrawn liquidity lines for In addition to the information in the disclosures on legal restricthird-party securitisation platforms amounting to € 55 m (31 Detions affecting control over financial instruments (see Notes [60] cember 2017: € 65 m). and [61]), there were restrictions for the following entities as at the reporting date on current dividend distributions because of There were also irrevocable loan commitments for customer contractual arrangements or rules in the articles of association: factoring entities (operating mainly in the area of aircraft financing) amounting to € 226 m (31 December 2017: € 236 m). ■■ Bürgschaftsbank Thüringen GmbH, Erfurt ■■ Bürgschaftsbank Hessen GmbH, Wiesbaden The recognised loans and advances to other structured enti■■ Hessische Landgesellschaft mbH Staatliche Treuhandstelle ties related to a number of financing transactions for property für ländliche Bodenordnung, Kassel and special purpose entities. These structured entities pre■■ Hessenkapital I GmbH, Frankfurt am Main dominantly act as property entities for leasing or real estate ■■ Hessenkapital II GmbH, Frankfurt am Main ­transactions. ■■ MBG H Mittelständische Beteiligungsgesellschaft Hessen mbH, Frankfurt am Main Disclosures on consolidated structured entities ■■ Mittelhessenfonds GmbH, Frankfurt am Main If a structured entity is included in the basis of consolidation in ■■ Mittelständische Beteiligungsgesellschaft Thüringen mbH, accordance with IFRS 10 , the business relationships with other Erfurt consolidated entities are subject to the normal consolidation requirements. The structured entities consolidated as at 31 DeAt Frankfurter Sparkasse, a statutory requirement in the German cember 2018 included investment funds in which Helaba or a Act Establishing Frankfurter Sparkasse as a Public-Law Institusubsidiary held a majority or all of the shares/units. Other entition (Gesetz zur Errichtung der Frankfurter Sparkasse als Anstalt ties consolidated in accordance with IFRS 10 were a property des öffentlichen Rechts, Fraspa-Gesetz) specifies an obligation entity related to real estate partly used by Helaba itself (Helicon to appropriate 33 % of the net income reported in the annual Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Immobilien KG ) and a fundfinancial statements of Frankfurter Sparkasse to reserves. ing entity for purchasing entities in the OPUSALPHA securitisation structure (OPUSALPHA Funding LTD). The consolidation in In the case of nine consolidated subsidiaries, there is a block on accordance with IFRS 10 additionally required the inclusion of dividends amounting to a total of € 32 m (31 December 2017: four entities (HANNOVER LEASING Life Invest Deutschland I € 27 m) based on the stipulations in Section 253 (6) sentence 2 GmbH & Co. KG , HANNOVER LEASING Life Invest Deutschland II HGB . This results from the measurement of provisions for penGmbH & Co. KG , EGERIA Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH and CORsion obligations in the separate financial statements, which DELIA Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH) that formed part of the have had to be discounted since 2016 with average discount structures of closed-end funds with investments in acquired rates for the last ten years. rights under life insurance policies. The consolidation of special purpose entities in accordance with IFRS 10 is frequently not based on holding the majority of voting rights. Accordingly, in the case of these consolidated special purpose entities, there is no basis in law requiring unconditional, immediate appropriation of profits or transfer of assets for the benefit of Helaba. The total volume of assets in consolidated special purpose entities in accordance with IFRS prior to consolidation amounted to € 1,727 m (31 December 2017: € 1,682 m). This total figure included an amount of € 1,370 m (31 December 2017: € 1,299 m) related to the consolidated funding entity in the OPUSALPHA securitisation structure. 268 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The business activities of Landesbausparkasse Hessen-Thüringen (82) Related Party Disclosures and WIBank, and the activities in the Pfandbrief business operated by the Bank, are subject to special legal frameworks, In the course of the ordinary activities of Helaba, transactions namely the German Building and Loan Associations Act (Bau­ with parties deemed to be related in accordance with IAS 24 are sparkassengesetz, BS pKG ), the Act Governing WIBank (Gesetz conducted on an arm’s-length basis. The following disclosures über die Wirtschaftsund Infrastrukturbank Hessen) and the relate to transactions with unconsolidated affiliated companies, German Pfandbrief Act (Pfandbriefgesetz, PfandBG). Most of the with associates and with joint ventures of the Helaba Group as assets and liabilities in these business operations are therefore well as their subordinated subsidiaries. subject to restrictions because the operations are focused on the object of the entity in each case and the appropriation of With regard to the Sparkassenund Giroverband Hessen-­ funds is tied to statutory requirements. In some cases, the way Thüringen, the Federal State of Hesse and the Free State of funding is used is also restricted. For example, in the case of Thuringia in their capacity as shareholders and owners, the cricertain development programmes, such as those related to the teria for exemption from reporting on related parties that are construction of social housing or the development of infrastrucpublic-sector entities are satisfied; this option is always utilised ture, the provider of the development funding (such as national if the business volumes involved are insignificant. The business or international development banks, federal or state governrelations with our shareholders and their subordinated subsidments) limits the purpose for which the funds may be used to iaries in accordance with IAS 24 comprise normal banking serensure that the funding is properly targeted to achieve the devices. The extent of business relations with the shareholders and sired development impact. In the case of the “Wohnungswesen main subordinated companies in the period under review is und Zukunftsinvestition” and “Hessischer Investitionsfonds” detailed in the balances at the end of the year shown in the special funds, two funds focusing on housing/investing for the following table. The disclosures relating to persons in key posifuture and capital investment in the State of Hesse respectively, tions of the Helaba Group as defined in IAS 24 , including their there are also restrictions on the use of the return inflows declose family relations and companies controlled by those perrived from the application of the funding. In their respective fisons, are also included in the following table. nancial statements as at 31 December 2018, WIBank reported total assets of € 24,105 m (31 December 2017: € 17,627 m) and In the reporting period, Helaba entered into the “Hessenkasse” LBS total assets of € 6,027 m (31 December 2017: € 5,683 m). deal with the State of Hesse. As at 31 December 2018, this contributed to a rise in loans and advances to shareholders of Regulatory requirements relating to the recognition of own € 3,305 m and a rise in loan commitments to shareholders of funds specified certain contractual details for issues of subordi€ 2,080 m. nated liabilities and silent participations. Under these requirements, the Helaba Group’s right of termination is limited if certain conditions are met and the consent of the regulator must be obtained. The contractual rules for some issues require a replenishment following any loss before any actual repayment is made. Currently, there are no such replenishment obligations. 269 The following receivables due from related parties were in existence as at 31 December 2018: in € m Investments Unin joint Helaba Other consolidated ventures and sharerelated subsidiaries associates holders parties Total Financial assets measured at amortised cost 4 240 8,204 1 8,449 Loans and receivables 4 240 8,204 1 8,449 Trading assets – – 855 – 855 Positive fair values of trading derivatives – – 702 – 702 Bonds and other fixed-income securities – – 153 – 153 Other financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 18 9 1 – 28 Shareholdings 18 9 1 – 28 Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value – – 29 – 29 Loans and receivables – – 29 – 29 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 5 – 385 – 390 Bonds and other fixed-income securities – – 355 – 355 Loans and receivables – – 30 – 30 Shareholdings 5 – – – 5 Shares in equity-accounted entities – 7 – – 7 Other assets – – 115 – 115 Total assets 27 256 9,589 1 9,873 270 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Investments Unin joint Helaba Other consolidated ventures and sharerelated subsidiaries1) associates holders parties Total Financial assets measured at amortised cost 4 319 1,629 – 1,952 Loans and receivables 4 319 1,629 – 1,952 Trading assets – – 695 – 695 Positive fair values of trading derivatives – – 667 – 667 Bonds and other fixed-income securities – – 4 – 4 Loans and receivables – – 24 – 24 Financial assets designated voluntarily at fair value – – 29 – 29 Loans and receivables – – 29 – 29 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 24 9 393 – 426 Bonds and other fixed-income securities – – 393 – 393 Shareholdings 24 9 – – 33 Other assets – 3 116 – 119 Total assets 28 331 2,862 – 3,221 1) Prior-year figures restated: Loans and advances to unconsolidated affiliates were overstated by € 31 m. 271 The following liabilities due to related parties were in existence as at 31 December 2018: in € m Investments Unin joint Helaba Other consolidated ventures and sharerelated subsidiaries associates holders parties Total Financial assets measured at amortised cost 68 54 2,253 12 2,387 Deposits and loans 68 54 2,253 12 2,387 Trading liabilities – – 55 – 55 Negative fair values of trading derivatives – – 55 – 55 Financial liabilities designated voluntarily at fair value – – 18 – 18 Deposits and loans – – 18 – 18 Provisions – 2 14 22 38 Total liabilities 68 56 2,340 34 2,498 The following table shows the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Investments Unin joint Helaba Other consolidated ventures and sharerelated subsidiaries associates holders parties Total Financial assets measured at amortised cost 62 68 1,876 43 2,049 Deposits and loans 62 68 1,876 43 2,049 Trading liabilities – – 58 – 58 Negative fair values of trading derivatives – – 58 – 58 Provisions – – – 23 23 Other liabilities – 1 9 – 10 Total equity and liabilities 62 69 1,943 66 2,140 272 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following off-balance sheet commitments to related parties were in existence as at 31 December 2018: in € m Investments Unin joint Helaba Other consolidated ventures and sharerelated subsidiaries associates holders parties Total Loan commitments 3 115 2,260 – 2,378 Financial guarantees – 2 14 – 16 Total off-balance sheet commitments 3 117 2,274 – 2,394 The following table shows the amounts as at 31 December 2017: in € m Investments Unin joint Helaba Other consolidated ventures and sharerelated subsidiaries associates holders parties Total Loan commitments 12 118 34 – 164 Financial guarantees – – 5 – 5 Sundry obligations – 3 10 – 13 Total off-balance sheet commitments 12 121 49 – 182 273 The following contributions to income and expense from related party transactions were recognised in the income statement in the reporting period: in € m Investments Unin joint Helaba consolidated ventures and shareOther subsidiaries associates holders related parties Total Net interest income – 4 73 – 77 Interest income – 4 84 – 88 Interest expenses – – – 11 – – 11 Loss allowances – – – – – Net interest income after loss allowances – 4 73 – 77 Dividend income – 1 – – 1 Net fee and commission income – – 42 – 42 Fee and commission income – – 42 – 42 Net trading income – – 65 – 65 Gains or losses on other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 2 – – – 2 Gains or losses on financial instruments designated voluntarily at fair value – – 1 – 1 Net income from hedge accounting – – 56 – 56 Share of profit or loss of equityaccounted entities – 12 – – 12 General and administrative expenses – –5 –9 –7 – 21 Profit before taxes 2 12 228 –7 235 274 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following table shows the corresponding amounts for the prior-year period: in € m Investments Unin joint Helaba Other consolidated ventures and sharerelated subsidiaries associates1) holders parties Total Net interest income –1 4 6 – 9 Interest income – 4 24 – 28 Interest expenses –1 – – 18 – – 19 Loss allowances – – – – – Net interest income after loss allowances –1 4 6 – 9 Dividend income 1 1 4 – 6 Net fee and commission income – – 42 – 42 Fee and commission income – – 42 – 42 Net trading income – –1 – 163 – – 164 Net income from hedge accounting – – 1 – 1 Gains or losses on derecognition of financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss 1 –1 – – – Share of profit or loss of equityaccounted entities – 2 – – 2 Other net operating income – 1 – – 1 General and administrative expenses – –5 – 10 –7 – 22 Profit before taxes 1 1 – 120 –7 – 125 1) Prior-year figures restated: The share of profit or loss of equity-accounted entities and gains or losses from the reclassification of financial assets, in both cases in respect of unconsolidated affiliates, were overstated by € 22 m. The income and expenses from transactions with related parties arise predominantly from standard banking activities in the lending, investment and derivatives businesses. Exposures resulting from market risk assumed by the Bank, for example in connection with interest rate derivatives, are matched by corresponding countervailing transactions with other customers as part of overall bank management. An analysis in isolation, for example of the net trading income from transactions with related parties, does not therefore present the actual net income achieved by the Bank from such transactions. 275 The remuneration paid to the Board of Managing Directors of Helaba was broken down as follows: in € m 2018 2017 Benefits due in short term 4.5 4.8 Post-employment benefits (defined contribution plans) – – Other benefits due in the long term 1.9 1.8 Benefits payable on termination of employment – – Total 6.4 6.6 Additions of € 1.4 m were also made to the pension provisions in the prior year. As at 31 December 2018, provisions of € 67 m for members of the Board of Managing Directors (2017: € 1.1 m). were recognised in accordance with IAS 19 for pension obligaThis amount represented the current service cost. tions for this group of persons (31 December 2017: € 64 m). As in the previous year, a total of € 0.9 m was paid to the Supervisory Board and € 0.1 m to the members of the Advisory Board. (83) Auditors’ Fees In addition, the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board (including deputy members) received a combined amount The following fees for services rendered by Group companies of of € 2 m in salary payments as company employees. This amount Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (2017: was unchanged compared with the previous year. An amount of PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesell­ € 4 m was paid to former members of the Board of Managing schaft) were invoiced for the reporting period: Directors and their surviving dependants, the same amount as in € m 2018 2017 Audit fees 5 4 Other attestation services 1 – Other services – 1 Total 6 5 276 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The fees for financial statements auditing services include, in cations, project reviews, reviews of the service-related internal addition to the fees for audits of financial statements required control system and reviews of the custody business and securiunder EU law, the fees for the review of interim financial stateties service business. ments by an auditor and those for audits of annual financial statements not prescribed under EU law. Fees for other attestation services related to statutory, contrac(84) Employee Disclosures tually agreed or voluntary review or attestation services, particularly attestations for protection schemes and statutory notifiThe breakdown of the average number of employees in the year under review in the Helaba Group was as follows: Female Male Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Bank as a whole 1,562 1,552 1,857 1,852 3,419 3,404 Bank 1,171 1,162 1,585 1,576 2,756 2,738 WIBank 250 242 173 172 423 414 LBS 141 148 99 104 240 252 Group subsidiaries 1,364 1,365 1,344 1,354 2,708 2,719 Group 2,926 2,917 3,201 3,206 6,127 6,123 277 (85) Members of the Supervisory Board Gerhard Grandke Christian Blechschmidt Helmut Schmidt Executive President Chairman of the Board of Chairman of the Board of Sparkassenund Giroverband Managing Directors Managing Directors Hessen-Thüringen Sparkasse Unstrut-Hainich Kreissparkasse Saale-Orla Frankfurt am Main/Erfurt Mühlhausen Schleiz – Chairman – – since 28 March 2018 – Uwe Schmidt Dr. Werner Henning Stefan Hastrich Chief Administrative Officer Chief Administrative Officer Chairman of the Board of District of Kassel County District of Eichsfeld Managing Directors Kassel Heiligenstadt Kreissparkasse Weilburg – First Vice-Chairman – Weilburg Dr. Hartmut Schubert Secretary of State Dr. Thomas Schäfer Günter Högner Ministry of Finance of the Minister of State Chairman of the Board of State of Thuringia Ministry of Finance of the State of Hesse Managing Directors Erfurt Wiesbaden Nassauische Sparkasse – Second Vice-Chairman – Wiesbaden Wolfgang Schuster Chief Administrative Officer Alexander Wüerst Dr. Christoph Krämer County District of Lahn-Dill Chairman of the Board of Chairman of the Board of Wetzlar Managing Directors Managing Directors Kreissparkasse Köln Sparkasse Iserlohn Dr. Eric Tjarks Cologne Iserlohn Chairman of the Board of – Third Vice-Chairman – Managing Directors Manfred Michel Sparkasse Bensheim Dr. Karl-Peter Schackmann-Fallis Chief Administrative Officer Bensheim Executive Member of the Board Country District of Limburg-Weilburg Deutscher Sparkassenund Limburg an der Lahn Dr. Heiko Wingenfeld Giroverband e. V. – until 31 December 2018 – Mayor Berlin City of Fulda – since 5 April 2018 – Frank Nickel Fulda – Fifth Vice-Chairman since 22 June Chairman of the Board of – since 21 June 2018 – 2018 – Managing Directors Sparkasse Werra-Meissner Arnd Zinnhardt Andreas Bausewein Eschwege Member of the Group Mayor – until 10 December 2018 – Executive Board City of Erfurt Software AG Erfurt Clemens Reif Darmstadt Member of the State Parliament Dr. Annette Beller of Hesse Member of the Management Board Wiesbaden B. Braun Melsungen AG Melsungen Thorsten Schäfer-Gümbel Member of the State Parliament of Hesse Wiesbaden 278 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Employee representatives Thorsten Derlitzki Anke Glombik-Batschkus Jürgen Pilgenröther Vice President Vice President Bank employee Frankfurt am Main Erfurt Frankfurt am Main – Fourth Vice-Chairman – Thorsten Kiwitz Birgit Sahliger-Rasper Frank Beck Vice President Bank employee Vice President Frankfurt am Main Frankfurt am Main Frankfurt am Main Christiane Kutil-Bleibaum Susanne Schmiedebach Dr. Robert Becker Vice President Vice President Senior Vice President Düsseldorf Düsseldorf New York – since 1 May 2018 – Annette Langner Thomas Sittner Vice President Bank employee Gabriele Fuchs Frankfurt am Main Frankfurt am Main Bank employee Frankfurt am Main Susanne Noll – until 30 April 2018 – Bank employee Frankfurt am Main 279 (86) Members of the Board of Managing Directors Herbert Hans Grüntker Dezernent (Board member) with responsibility for Central Staff and Group Strategy, – Chairman – Internal Audit, Human Resources, Legal Services, Economics/Research, Process Management and Information Technology, WIBank Thomas Groß Dezernent (Board member) with responsibility for Risk Controlling, Credit Risk Man– Vice-Chairman – agement Corporates/Markets, Credit Risk Management Real Estate, Credit Risk Management Restructuring/Workout, Cash Management, Strategy Project Digitalisation, Frankfurter Sparkasse, Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft Dr. Detlef Hosemann Dezernent (Board member) with responsibility for Accounting and Taxes, Group Controlling, Information Technology, Compliance, Settlement/Custody Services Hans-Dieter Kemler Dezernent (Board member) with responsibility for Capital Markets, Asset/ Liability Management, Sales Public Authorities, Institutional CRM , Helaba Invest, Banks and International Business, Sparkasse Lending Business and S-Group Service, Sparkasse Support North, Sparkasse Support South, Landesbausparkasse Hessen-Thüringen (LBS) Klaus-Jörg Mulfinger Dezernent (Board member) with responsibility for Banks and International Business, – until 31 December 2018 – Sparkasse Lending Business and S-Group Service, Sparkasse Support North and South, Landesbausparkasse Hessen-Thüringen (LBS) Christian Schmid Dezernent (Board member) with responsibility for Real Estate Lending, Debt Capital – since 20 December 2018 – Markets and Sales Management RE , Real Estate Management, Administration, GWH , OFB Dr. Norbert Schraad Dezernent (Board member) with responsibility for Corporate Finance, CRM Wholesale Business, CRM Midcaps, General Manager Sales NRW /Düsseldorf Branch, CRM Public Authorities/Municipal Corporations, CRM International, Sales Service 280 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (87) P  ositions on Supervisory Boards and Other Executive Bodies Positions held by the members of the Board of Managing Directors Office holder Corporation Function Herbert Hans Grüntker GWH Immobilien Holding GmbH, Frankfurt am Main Member Helaba Invest Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH, Frankfurt am Main Vice-Chairman Thomas Groß Deutscher Sparkassen Verlag GmbH, Stuttgart Member DSGF Deutsche Servicegesellschaft für Finanzdienstleister mbH, Cologne Member Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG, Zurich, Switzerland President Frankfurter Sparkasse, Frankfurt am Main Chairman Dr. Detlef Hosemann Deutsche WertpapierService Bank AG, Frankfurt am Main Member Frankfurter Sparkasse, Frankfurt am Main Member GWH Immobilien Holding GmbH, Frankfurt am Main Vice-Chairman Hans-Dieter Kemler Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG, Zurich, Switzerland Member Frankfurter Sparkasse, Frankfurt am Main First Vice-Chairman Helaba Invest Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH, Frankfurt am Main Chairman Klaus-Jörg Mulfinger Frankfurter Sparkasse, Frankfurt am Main Member Thüringer Aufbaubank, Erfurt Member Christian Schmid GWH Immobilien Holding GmbH, Frankfurt am Main Chairman 281 Positions held by other employees Office holder Corporation Function Stephan Bruhn Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Deutschland) AG, Frankfurt am Main Member Dieter Kasten GWH Immobilien Holding GmbH, Frankfurt am Main Member Klaus Kirchberger TTL Beteiligungsund Grundbesitz-AG, Munich Vice-Chairman Holger Mai Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Deutschland) AG, Frankfurt am Main Chairman Dirk Mewesen Helaba Asset Services Unlimited Company, Dublin, Ireland Member Dr. Ulrich Pähler Helaba Asset Services Unlimited Company, Dublin, Ireland Vice-Chairman Dr. Michael Reckhard Bürgschaftsbank Hessen GmbH, Wiesbaden Member Robert Restani Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG, Zurich, Switzerland Member Klaus Georg Schmidbauer Bürgschaftsbank Thüringen GmbH, Erfurt Member Peter Marc Stober Deutscher Sparkassen Verlag GmbH, Stuttgart Member André Stolz Nassauische Sparkasse, Wiesbaden Member Erich Vettiger Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Deutschland) AG , Frankfurt am Main Vice-Chairman (88) R  eport on Events After the Reporting Date There were no significant events after 31 December 2018. 282 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes (89) L  ist of Shareholdings of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale in Accordance with Section 315a in Conjunction with Section 313 (2) HGBB Fully consolidated subsidiaries Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency 1822direkt Gesellschaft der Frankfurter 1 Sparkasse mbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 7.1 0 € 1) 2 Airport Office One GmbH & Co. KG, Schönefeld 100.00 0.0 – 481 € 2) ASTARTE Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. 3 Vermietungs KG, Pullach 100.00 100.00 – 23.0 – 1,918 € 2) BHT Baugrund Hessen-Thüringen GmbH, 4 Kassel 100.00 0.0 0 € 1), 3) BHT-Baugrund Hessen-Thüringen Gesellschaft für Baulandbeschaffung, Erschließung und Kommunalbau mbH & Co. Objekt FBM 5 Freizeitbad Mühlhausen KG, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 3.4 782 € 2) CORDELIA Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, 6 Pullach 0.00 0.0 0 € 1), 4) DKB Wohnimmobilien Beteiligungs GmbH & 7 Co. KG, Potsdam 94.89 36.7 2,395 € Dritte OFB Friedrichstraße GmbH & Co. KG, 8 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 – 0.1 – 88 € 2) 9 EGERIA Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Pullach 0.00 0.0 0 € 1), 4) Erste OFB Friedrichstraße GmbH & Co. KG, 10 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 – 40 € 2) Erste Veritas Frankfurt GmbH & Co. KG, 11 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 94.90 70.4 0 € 2) Family Office der Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft 12 AG, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 3.6 – 1,405 € Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Deutschland) AG, 13 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 11.4 1,036 € Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG, 14 Zurich, Switzerland 100.00 100.00 112.3 3,139 CHF 15 Frankfurter Sparkasse, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 864.7 45,000 € Galerie Lippe GmbH & Co. KG, 16 Frankfurt am Main 94.90 – 6.9 – 7,552 € 2) GGM Gesellschaft für Gebäude-Management 17 mbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.3 0 € 1), 3) 283 Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency GHT Gesellschaft für Projektmanagement 18 Hessen-Thüringen mbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.3 0 € 1), 3) Grundstücksgesellschaft Limes-Haus 19 Schwalbach II GbR, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.2 44 € Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft Kaiserlei 20 GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 10 € Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft Kaiserlei GmbH & Co. Projektentwicklung Epinayplatz KG, 21 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.8 – 1,553 € 2) G+S Wohnen in Frankfurt am Main GmbH, 22 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 23.4 0 € 1) GSG Siedlungsgesellschaft für Wohnungsund 23 Städtebau mbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 5.10 82.2 5,743 € 24 GWH Bauprojekte GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 13.6 0 € 1) GWH Immobilien Holding GmbH, 25 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 949.9 0 € 1) 26 GWH WertInvest GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 n.a. n.a. GWH Wohnungsgesellschaft mbH Hessen, 27 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 372.9 63,564 € 28 Hafenbogen GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 21.4 – 307 € 2) HANNOVER LEASING Life Invest Deutschland I 29 GmbH & Co. KG, Pullach 48.27 13.8 875 € 4) HANNOVER LEASING Life Invest Deutschland II 30 GmbH & Co. KG, Pullach 63.10 14.1 653 € 4) Haus am Brüsseler Platz GmbH & Co. KG, 31 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 – 100 € 2) Helaba Asset Services Unlimited Company, 32 Dublin, Ireland 100.00 100.00 53.6 – 1,243 € Helaba Digital GmbH & Co. KG, 33 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 n.a. n.a. 2) Helaba Invest Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH, 34 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 13.0 0 € 1) Helicon Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. 35 Immobilien KG, Pullach 5.92 – 128.2 5,762 € 4) Hello Darmstadt Projektentwicklung GmbH 36 & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 – 0.1 54 € 2) 37 HeWiPPP II GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 2.6 33 € 2) 38 Honua'ula Partners LLC, Wailea, USA 0.00 96.9 1 USD 4) 284 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency HTB Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, 39 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 0.1 83 € Kalypso Projekt GmbH & Co. KG, 40 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 – 0.3 – 299 € 2) 41 LHT MSIP, LLC, Wilmington, USA 100.00 6.6 0 USD 42 LHT Power Three LLC, Wilmington, USA 100.00 100.00 34.6 687 USD 43 LHT TCW, LLC, Wilmington, USA 100.00 22.9 706 USD 44 LHT TPF II, LLC, Wilmington, USA 100.00 6.2 159 USD 45 Logistica CPH K / S, Kastrup, Denmark 53.33 53.33 0.0 – 721 DKK Main Capital Funding II Limited Partnership, 46 Saint Helier, Jersey 0.00 21.7 4,616 € 4) Main Capital Funding Limited Partnership, 47 Saint Helier, Jersey 0.00 14.2 5,981 € 4) MAVEST Vertriebsgesellschaft mbH, 48 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 0 € 1) MAVEST Wohnungsbaugesellschaft mbH, 49 Frankfurt am Main 99.99 9.3 1,160 € Merian GmbH Wohnungsunternehmen, 50 Frankfurt am Main 94.90 24.3 1,198 € 51 Montindu S.A. / N.V., Brussels, Belgium 100.00 99.97 15.3 223 € Neunte P 1 Projektgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, 52 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 – 36 € 2) 53 OFB Beteiligungen GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 5.2 – 696 € OFB Projektentwicklung GmbH, 54 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 1.1 0 € 1), 3) 55 OPUSALPHA FUNDING LTD, Dublin, Ireland 0.00 0.0 0 € 4) Projekt Erfurt B38 GmbH & Co. KG, 56 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 – 0.6 – 380 € 2) Projekt Hirschgarten MK8 GmbH & Co. KG, 57 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 – 3.2 – 2,225 € 2) Projektentwicklung Königstor GmbH & Co. KG, 58 Kassel 100.00 – 0.3 1,214 € 2) Projektentwicklung Neuwerkstraße 17 GmbH 59 & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 –1 € 2) Projektgesellschaft ILP Erfurter Kreuz mbH & 60 Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 – 0.3 – 287 € 2) 61 PVG GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 0.4 5 € 1), 3) 285 Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency SQO Stadt Quartier Offenburg GmbH & Co. KG, 62 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 – 0.6 – 397 € 2) 63 Systeno GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 5.4 260 € 64 TE Kronos GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 0.6 375 € unIQus Projektentwicklung GmbH & Co. KG, 65 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 11.0 11,102 € 2) Versicherungsservice der Frankfurter Sparkasse 66 GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.3 0 € 1) Verso Grundstücksentwicklung GmbH & Co. KG, 67 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 – 0.1 47 € 2) Verso Projektentwicklung GmbH & Co. KG, 68 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 1.7 – 80 € 2) Vierte OFB Friedrichstraße GmbH & Co. KG, 69 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 – 24 € 2) Vierte OFB PE GmbH & Co. KG, 70 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 –4 € 2) Zweite OFB Friedrichstraße GmbH & Co. KG, 71 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.1 57 € 2) Zweite OFB PE GmbH & Co. KG , 72 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.3 85 € 2) Holding in % Thereof No. Name and location of the entity Total directly Fund volume in € m Original currency 73 HI-A-FSP-Fonds, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 122.3 € 4) 74 HI-C-FSP-Fonds, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 106.2 € 4) 75 HI-FBI-Fonds, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 121.8 € 4) 76 HI-FBP-Fonds, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 79.8 € 4) 77 HI-FSP-Fonds, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 156.8 € 4) 78 HI-H-FSP-Fonds, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 123.4 € 4) 79 HI-HT-KOMP.-Fonds, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 38.3 € 4), 5) 80 HI-HTNW-Fonds, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 485.8 € 4), 5) 81 HI -RentPlus-Fonds, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 467.1 € 4), 5) 286 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes The following joint ventures and associates have also been accounted for using the equity method: Joint ventures accounted for using the equity method Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency 82 CP Campus Projekte GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 50.00 1.1 – 414 € 83 Einkaufszentrum Wittenberg GmbH, Leipzig 50.00 – 0.6 78 € FHP Friedenauer Höhe Dritte GmbH & Co. KG, 84 Berlin 75.00 – 0.1 – 105 € FHP Friedenauer Höhe Erste GmbH & Co. KG, 85 Berlin 75.00 – 0.1 – 84 € FHP Friedenauer Höhe Fünfte GmbH & Co. KG, 86 Berlin 75.00 – 0.1 – 117 € 87 FHP Friedenauer Höhe Projekt GmbH, Berlin 75.00 0.0 7 € FHP Friedenauer Höhe Sechste GmbH & Co. KG, 88 Berlin 75.00 – 0.1 – 171 € FHP Friedenauer Höhe Vierte GmbH & Co. KG, 89 Berlin 75.00 – 0.1 – 126 € FHP Friedenauer Höhe Zweite GmbH & Co. KG, 90 Berlin 75.00 – 0.1 – 108 € G & O Alpha Hotelentwicklung GmbH, 91 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 0.7 – 3,206 € G & O Alpha Projektentwicklungs-GmbH & Co. 92 KG, Frankfurt am Main 50.00 0.3 433 € G & O Baufeld Alpha 2. BA GmbH & Co. KG, 93 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 0.1 –9 € G & O Gateway Gardens Dritte GmbH & Co. KG, 94 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 0.2 148 € G & O Gateway Gardens Erste GmbH & Co. KG, 95 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 1.1 723 € G & O MK 14.3 GmbH & Co. KG, 96 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 n.a. n.a. G & O MK 17.7 Nord GmbH & Co. KG, 97 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 n.a. n.a. G & O MK 17.7 Süd GmbH & Co. KG, 98 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 n.a. n.a. gatelands Projektentwicklung GmbH & Co. KG, 99 Schönefeld 75.00 – 1.0 – 75 € 287 Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency 100 GIZS GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main 33.33 33.33 14.9 – 12,039 € G & O MK 15 Bauherren GmbH & Co. KG, 101 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 – 0.1 – 75 € GOB Dritte E & A Grundbesitz GmbH, 102 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 – 3.7 – 24 € GOB Projektentwicklung Fünfte GmbH & Co. KG, 103 Frankfurt am Main 8.84 0.0 – 46 € Grundstücksgesellschaft Gateway Gardens 104 GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 33.33 6.9 2,657 € 105 Horus AWG GmbH, Pöcking 50.00 – 0.2 7 € Multi Park Mönchhof Dritte GmbH & Co. KG, 106 Langen (Hesse) 50.00 0.3 68 € Multi Park Mönchhof GmbH & Co. KG, 107 Neu-Isenburg 50.00 0.0 –5 € Multi Park Mönchhof Main GmbH & Co. KG, 108 Langen (Hesse) 50.00 0.4 1,759 € OFB & Procom Objekt Neu-Ulm GmbH & Co. KG, 109 Neu-Ulm 50.00 0.4 7 € OFB & Procom Rüdesheim GmbH & Co. KG, 110 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 – 0.1 –7 € Projekt Wilhelmstraße Wiesbaden GmbH & Co. 111 KG, Frankfurt am Main 30.00 0.8 – 353 € sono west Projektentwicklung GmbH & Co. KG, 112 Frankfurt am Main 70.00 13.4 – 98 € 113 Stresemannquartier GmbH & Co. KG, Berlin 50.00 0.2 1,162 € Westhafen Haus GmbH & Co. 114 Projektentwicklungs-KG, Frankfurt am Main 50.00 – 0.1 104 € Westhafen-Gelände Frankfurt am Main GbR, 115 Frankfurt am Main 0.00 33.33 0.1 81 € 288 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Associates accounted for using the equity method Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency HANNOVER LEASING Wachstumswerte Asien 1 116 GmbH & Co. KG, Pullach 54.51 10.6 3,237 € 117 WoWi Media GmbH & Co. KG , Hamburg 23.72 19.24 2.8 –3 € Non-consolidated subsidiaries Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency ASTARTE Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, 118 Pullach 100.00 100.00 0.0 0 € BGT-Grundstücksverwaltungsund Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Frankfurt am 119 Main 100.00 100.00 0.0 0 € 1) BHT-Baugrund Hessen-Thüringen Gesellschaft für Baulandbeschaffung, Erschließung und Kommunalbau mbH & Co. Objekt GZH Gemeindezentrum Hünstetten KG, Frankfurt 120 am Main 100.00 100.00 1.6 140 € BHT-Baugrund Hessen-Thüringen Gesellschaft für Baulandbeschaffung, Erschließung und Kommunalbau mbH & Co. Objekt Sparkassen­ filiale Seeheim-Jugenheim KG i. L., 121 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 2.3 187 € BHT-Baugrund Hessen-Thüringen Gesellschaft für Baulandbeschaffung, Erschließung und Kommunalbau mbH & Co. Objekt TFK II Tief122 garage Kassel 2. BA KG, Kassel 33.33 33.33 66.67 2.4 238 € BM H Beteiligungs-Managementgesellschaft 123 Hessen mbH, Wiesbaden 100.00 100.00 1.5 617 € BWT Beteiligungsgesellschaft für den Wirtschaftsaufbau Thüringens mbH, 124 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 5.3 0 € 289 Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency Dritte OFB PE GmbH & Co. KG, 125 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 – 43 € FAM-Grundstücksverwaltungsund Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, 126 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 0.2 1 € FMZ Fulda Verwaltung GmbH, 127 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 –2 € GIMPRO Beteiligungsund Geschäftsführungs128 gesellschaft mbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.1 4 € GLD Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH, 129 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 1 € Helaba Digital Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, 130 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 n.a. n.a. Helaba Gesellschaft für Immobilienbewertung 131 mbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 0.2 0 € Helaba Projektbeteiligungsgesellschaft für 132 Immobilien mbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 5.9 1,440 € 133 Helaba Representação Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil 100.00 99.00 0.1 –3 BRL Innovationsfonds Hessen-Verwaltungs134 gesellschaft mbH i. L., Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 0.1 0 € Komplementarselskabet Logistica CPH ApS, 135 Kastrup, Denmark 52.00 52.00 0.0 16 DKK 136 Königstor Verwaltungs-GmbH, Kassel 100.00 0.0 0 € Kornmarkt Arkaden Verwaltung GmbH, 137 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 2 € 138 Main Funding GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 0.00 0.3 5 € 4) 139 Main Funding II GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 0.00 0.1 3 € 4) 140 OFB Berlin Projekt GmbH, Berlin 100.00 0.0 –1 € OFB Projektverwaltung GmbH, 141 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 0.0 0 € 142 Office One Verwaltung GmbH, Schönefeld 100.00 0.0 2 € S-Beteiligungsgesellschaft Hessen-Thüringen 143 mbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 6.2 – 22 € Sparkassen-Immobilien-Vermittlungs-GmbH, 144 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 1.2 494 € 145 TE Beta GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 0.4 94 € 146 TE Gamma GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 0.1 8 € 290 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency TF H Technologie-Finanzierungsfonds Hessen Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung (TF H 147 GmbH) i. L., Wiesbaden 66.67 66.67 0.6 –2 € Unterstützungseinrichtung der Landesbank 148 Hessen-Thüringen GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 0.0 0 € 149 wall park GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 n.a. n.a. wall park Grundstücksgesellschaft mbH, 150 Frankfurt am Main 100.00 100.00 n.a. n.a. 291 Joint ventures not accounted for using the equity method Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency G & O Alpha Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, 151 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 0.1 6 € G & O Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, 152 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 0.0 1 € 153 gatelands Verwaltungs GmbH, Schönefeld 75.00 0.0 1 € 154 GIZS Verwaltungs-GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 33.33 33.33 0.0 7 € GOB Projektentwicklungsgesellschaft E & A 155 mbH, Frankfurt am Main 50.00 0.0 3 € Helaba-Assekuranz-Vermittlungsgesellschaft 156 mbH, Frankfurt am Main 50.00 50.00 0.7 344 € 157 Hessen Kapital I GmbH, Wiesbaden 100.00 100.00 35.2 – 1,197 € 158 Hessen Kapital II GmbH, Wiesbaden 100.00 100.00 7.0 169 € 159 Komuno GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 51.00 n.a. n.a. Marienbader Platz Projektentwicklungs160 gesellschaft mbH, Frankfurt am Main 50.00 0.1 2 € Marienbader Platz Projektentwicklungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Bad Homburg v. d. H. 161 KG, Frankfurt am Main 50.00 0.4 – 19 € 162 Mittelhessenfonds GmbH, Wiesbaden 100.00 100.00 – 3.5 – 946 € 163 Multi Park Verwaltungs GmbH, Langen (Hesse) 50.00 0.0 0 € Procom & OFB Projektentwicklung GmbH, 164 Hamburg 50.00 0.0 –1 € Projekt Feuerbachstraße Verwaltung GmbH, 165 Frankfurt am Main 70.00 0.0 1 € Projekt Wilhelmstraße Wiesbaden Verwaltung 166 GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 30.00 0.0 0. Rotunde – Besitzund Betriebsgesellschaft der 167 S-Finanzgruppe mbH & Co. KG, Erfurt 60.00 60.00 33.33 4.1 37 € 168 Rotunde Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH, Erfurt 60.00 60.00 33.33 0.0 –1 SKYGARDEN Arnulfpark Verwaltungs GmbH, 169 Grünwald 50.00 0.0 0 € 292 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Associates not accounted for using the equity method Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency 170 Bürgschaftsbank Hessen GmbH, Wiesbaden 21.03 21.03 20.0 827 € 171 Bürgschaftsbank Thüringen GmbH, Erfurt 31.50 31.50 25.9 642 € FinTech Community Frankfurt GmbH, 172 Frankfurt am Main 25.00 25.00 0.0 – 110 € 173 GbR VÖB-ImmobilienAnalyse, Bonn 0.00 20.00 n.a. n.a. Hessische Landgesellschaft mbH Staatliche Treuhandstelle für ländliche Bodenordnung, 174 Kassel 37.11 37.11 77.1 6,991 € MBG H Mittelständische Beteiligungs175 gesellschaft Hessen mbH, Wiesbaden 32.52 32.52 10.9 444 € Mittelständische Beteiligungsgesellschaft 176 Thüringen mbH, Erfurt 38.56 38.56 24.9 1,214 € Sparkassen-Marktservice Beteiligungs 177 GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main 50.00 40.00 8.0 1,714 € Sparkassen-Marktservice Verwaltungs GmbH, 178 Frankfurt am Main 50.00 40.00 0.0 0 € TF H III Technologiefonds Hessen Gesellschaft 179 mit beschränkter Haftung, Wiesbaden 25.00 25.00 5.6 – 87 € 293 List of Other Shareholdings Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency 180 “Dia” Productions GmbH & Co. KG, Pullach 0.27 n.a. n.a. ABE CLEARING S.A.S à capital variable, Paris, 181 France 1.85 1.85 24.7 4,321 € Advent International GPE V-B Limited 182 Partnership, George Town, Cayman Islands 1.99 1.99 24.9 8,224 € Advent International GPE VI Limited 183 Partnership, George Town, Cayman Islands 0.24 0.24 1,851.4 – 104,944 € AKA Ausfuhrkredit-Gesellschaft mbH, 184 Frankfurt am Main 1.14 1.14 238.7 11,080 € Almack Mezzanine I LP, London, United 185 Kingdom 3.93 3.93 0.2 8,025 € Almack Mezzanine II Unleveraged LP, London, 186 United Kingdom 5.83 5.83 18.0 8,971 € 187 AlphaHaus GmbH & Co. KG i. L., Erzhausen 5.50 1.1 9 € 188 Antenne Thüringen GmbH & Co. KG, Weimar 3.50 3.50 2.0 1,265 € AVW Assekuranzvermittlung der 189 Wohnungswirtschaft GmbH & Co. KG, Bosau 11.76 11.76 0.2 17,408 € Bauverein für Höchst a. M. und Umgebung eG, 190 Frankfurt am Main 0.03 28.6 762 € BC European Capital VIII–8, Saint Peter Port, 191 Guernsey 1.83 1.83 0.17 390.8 44,228 € BCEC X Luxembourg 1 SCSp, Luxembourg, 192 Luxembourg 7.37 7.37 n.a. n.a. BIL Leasing GmbH & Co. Objekt 193 Verwaltungsgebäude Halle KG i. L., Munich 100.00 0.21 0.0 – 26 € 194 BOF III CV Investors LP, Wilmington, USA 4.16 4.16 22.0 3,860 € 195 Campus Kronberg GmbH & Co. KG, Hamburg 6.00 63.6 5,293 € Capnamic Ventures Fund II GmbH & Co. KG, 196 Cologne 4.27 4.27 4.35 11.3 – 204 € CapVest Equity Partners II, L.P., Hamilton, 197 Bermuda 3.48 3.48 160.5 49,652 € CapVest Equity Partners IV (Feeder) SCSp, 198 Findel, Luxembourg 2.66 2.66 n.a. n.a. Castra Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft 199 mbH & Co. Vermietungs KG, Mainz 2.85 – 20.3 – 786 € 294 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency Clareant Mezzanine Fund II (No.1) Limited 200 Partnership, Saint Helier, Jersey 4.07 4.07 17.4 14,072 € Clareant Mezzanine No. 1 Fund Limited 201 Partnership, Saint Helier, Jersey 3.40 3.40 19.4 758 € DBAG Fund IV GmbH & Co. KG i. L., 202 Frankfurt am Main 6.13 6.13 3.2 – 329 € DBAG Fund V GmbH & Co. KG, 203 Frankfurt am Main 7.59 7.59 15.11 14.6 125,121 € Deutsche Sparkassen Leasing AG & Co. KG, 204 Bad Homburg v. d. Höhe 1.71 637.0 45,286 € Deutsche WertpapierService Bank AG, 205 Frankfurt am Main 3.74 3.74 193.7 22,115 € Deutscher Sparkassen Verlag Gesellschaft mit 206 beschränkter Haftung, Stuttgart 5.41 5.41 174.5 17,791 € 6) DIV Grundbesitzanlage Nr. 30 FrankfurtDeutschherrnufer GmbH & Co. KG i. L., 207 Frankfurt am Main 0.06 0.06 13.8 42,812 € Doughty Hanson & Co. V LP No. 1, London, 208 United Kingdom 1.60 1.60 311.1 8,219 € Dritte Projektentwicklungs-GmbH & Co. 209 Schulen Landkreis Kassel KG, Kassel 6.00 12.6 1,945 € EQT Expansion Capital II (No. 1) Limited 210 Partnership, Saint Peter Port, Guernsey 4.57 128.8 – 49,103 € EQT V (No. 1) Limited Partnership, 211 Saint Peter Port, Guernsey 0.28 0.28 695.2 180,568 € Erste Schulen Landkreis Kassel Verwaltungs212 GmbH, Kassel 6.00 0.1 5 € 213 Erste ST Berlin Projekt GmbH & Co KG, Berlin 0.50 2.5 – 413 € Erwerbsgesellschaft der S-Finanzgruppe 214 mbH & Co. KG, Neuhardenberg 1.76 0.00 3,380.4 211,872 € 215 EUFISERV Payments s.c.r.l., Brussels, Belgium 11.37 11.37 0.3 24 € Fachmarktzentrum Fulda GmbH & Co. KG, 216 Munich 5.10 43.5 1,584 € 217 Fiducia & GAD IT AG, Karlsruhe 0.02 447.2 20,644 € 218 FIDUCIA Mailing Services eG, Karlsruhe 0.13 0.06 0.1 0 € Fourth Cinven Fund (No. 1) Limited Partnership, 219 Saint Peter Port, Guernsey 1.42 1.42 69.7 1,145.743 € 220 GbR Datenkonsortium OpRisk, Bonn 0.00 10.00 n.a. n.a. 295 Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency 221 GbR Legicheck, Bonn 0.00 11.11 n.a. n.a. 222 GeckoGroup AG (insolvent), Wetzlar 5.02 n.a. n.a. GELIMER Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. 223 Vermietungs KG, Pullach 8.93 8.93 – 1.9 167 € 224 GLB GmbH & Co. OHG, Frankfurt am Main 11.20 11.20 5.7 453 € 225 GLB-Verwaltungs-GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 11.20 11.20 0.1 2 € 226 Gründerfonds Ruhr GmbH & Co. KG, Essen 8.70 8.70 8.96 – 0.2 – 540 € 227 HaemoSys GmbH, Jena 38.33 – 4.8 – 524 € 7) 228 HANNOVER LEASING GmbH & Co. KG, Pullach 5.10 5.10 – 4.1 – 11,636 € Herkules Grundbesitz GmbH & Co. 229 Frankfurt KG, Berlin 5.10 5.10 0.2 –6 € Hessisch-Thüringische SparkassenBeteiligungs-gesellschaft mbH, 230 Frankfurt am Main 15.49 1.8 549 € Hutton Collins Capital Partners III L.P., London, 231 United Kingdom 1.45 1.45 139.0 – 37,930 € ICG Europe Fund VII Feeder SCSp, Luxembourg, 232 Luxembourg 0.64 0.64 n.a. n.a. 233 Icon Brickell LLC, Miami, USA 14.94 14.94 0.0 – 135 USD Interessengemeinschaft Frankfurter 234 Kreditinstitute GmbH, Frankfurt am Main 16.90 4.21 24.6 8,937 € Investcorp Private Equity 2007 Fund, L.P., 235 George Town, Cayman Islands 2.01 2.01 90.7 26,980 USD 236 Kornmarkt Arkaden Dritte GmbH & Co. KG 5.1 5.1 – 0.2 – 71 € 237 Kornmarkt Arkaden Erste GmbH & Co. KG 5.1 5.1 – 3.5 – 701 € 238 Kornmarkt Arkaden Vierte GmbH & Co. KG 5.1 5.1 – 0.2 – 61 € 239 Kornmarkt Arkaden Zweite GmbH & Co. KG 5.1 5.1 – 1.1 – 286 € LBS IT Informations-Technologie GmbH & Co 240 KG, Berlin 7.30 7.30 0.0 39 € 241 Magical Produktions GmbH & Co. KG, Pullach 2.05 – 6.4 8,809 € 242 Magnolia GmbH & Co. KG, Nonnweiler 6.00 – 0.1 20 € MESTO Grundstücksgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, 243 Grünwald 1.00 1.00 0.78 – 3.5 346 € Mezzanine Management Fund IV ‘A’ L.P., 244 Hamilton, Bermuda 7.46 7.46 3.5 9,463 € 245 MezzVest II, L.P., Saint Helier, Jersey 3.50 3.50 0.2 55 € 296 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency 246 NAsP III / V GmbH, Marburg 14.92 2.3 – 463 € Nassauische Heimstätte Wohnungsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH, Frankfurt am 247 Main 0.89 635.0 43,510 € 248 neue leben Pensionsverwaltung AG, Hamburg 3.20 2.2 – 126 € 249 Objekt Limes Haus GmbH & Co. KG, Hamburg 5.10 14.2 – 8,938 € PALMYRA Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Vermietungs KG S.e.n.c., Luxembourg, 250 Luxembourg 5.20 32.4 – 1,315 € Pan-European Infrastructure Fund LP, Saint 251 Helier, Jersey 0.73 0.73 2,767.6 69,212 € PATRIZIA Hessen Zehn GmbH & Co. KG, 252 Hamburg 5.20 17.2 – 870 € PineBridge PEP IV Co-Investment L.P., 253 Wilmington, USA 9.51 10.5 339 USD PineBridge PEP IV Non-U.S. L.P., Wilmington, 254 USA 17.00 7.8 1,517 USD PineBridge PEP IV Secondary L.P., Wilmington, 255 USA 16.10 8.8 50 USD PineBridge PEP IV U.S. Buyout L.P., Wilmington, 256 USA 17.21 16.0 1,813 USD PineBridge PEP IV U.S. Venture L.P., 257 Wilmington, USA 17.51 14.7 – 894 USD Private Equity Thüringen GmbH & Co. KG i. L., 258 Erfurt 14.11 14.11 2.0 9,200 € Projektentwicklungs-GmbH & Co. Landratsamt 259 KG, Wolfhagen 6.00 4.1 564 € Projektentwicklungs-GmbH & Co. Schule an der 260 Wascherde KG, Lauterbach 6.00 0.2 – 39 € 261 Rebstöcker Straße GmbH & Co. KG, Hamburg 5.10 – 18.7 – 405 € RSU Rating Service Unit GmbH & Co. KG, 262 Munich 9.60 9.60 14.0 909 € 263 S CountryDesk GmbH, Cologne 5.13 5.13 0.4 44 € S.W.I.F.T. Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication SCRL, La Hulpe, 264 Belgium 0.00 0.20 325.2 20,722 € 265 SCHUFA Holding AG, Wiesbaden 0.28 88.6 29,348 € 266 SIX Group AG, Zurich, Switzerland 0.00 2,675.9 207,200 € 297 Holding in % as per Section 16 (4) AktG Voting rights Net if different profit in Thereof from holding Equity € thousOriginal No. Name and location of the entity Total directly total in % in € m ands currency 267 SIZ GmbH, Bonn 5.32 5.32 5.4 356 € TCW / Crescent Mezzanine Partners IVB, L.P., 268 Los Angeles, USA 2.08 2.08 7.4 397 USD TdW südwest Treuhandgesellschaft für die Südwestdeutsche Wohnungswirtschaft mbH, 269 Frankfurt am Main 3.25 1.9 37 € THE TRITON FUND II L.P. i. L., Saint Helier, 240 Jersey 0.77 166.6 22,987 € 271 Triton Fund III L.P., Saint Helier, Jersey 0.71 0.71 1,827.1 646,799 € 272 Triton Fund V SCSp, Luxembourg, Luxembourg 0.41 0.41 n.a. k.A. True Sale International GmbH, 273 Frankfurt am Main 8.33 8.33 4.9 119 € VCM Golding Mezzanine GmbH & Co. KG, 274 Munich 6.48 6.48 5.0 936 € VCM Golding Mezzanine SICAV II, 275 Luxembourg, Luxembourg 4.20 4.20 43.9 – 1,100 € VolksBauund Sparverein 276 Frankfurt am Main eG, Frankfurt am Main 0.01 10.6 3,557 € Zweite Schulen Landkreis Kassel Verwaltungs277 GmbH, Kassel 6.00 0.1 3 € 278 Zweite ST Berlin Projekt GmbH & Co. KG , Berlin 0.50 7.0 – 88 € 1) A profit and loss transfer agreement has been signed with the entity. 2) Section 264b HGB has been applied with regard to the entity‘s annual financial statements. 3) Section 264 (3) HGB has been applied with regard to the entity‘s annual financial statements. 4) The entity is classified as a subsidiary, but not based on the majority of voting rights held. 5) Financial year end: 31 January. 6) Holding larger than 5 % in a large corporation 7) The entity has been liquidated following the initiation of insolvency proceedings. n.a. There are no adopted financial statements. 298 Consolidated Financial Statements Responsibility Statement Country by Country Reporting Pursuant to Section 26a KWG Responsibility Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of operations of the Helaba Group, and the Group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Helaba Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Helaba Group. Frankfurt am Main/Erfurt, 25 February 2019 Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale The Board of Managing Directors Grüntker Groß Dr. Hosemann Kemler Schmid Dr. Schraad 299 Country by Country Reporting Pursuant to Section 26a KWG “Country by country reporting” has to be performed in accorbefore allowances for losses on loans and advances and general dance with the requirements stipulated in EU Directive and administrative expenses, as included in the consolidated 2013 / 36 / EU (“Capital Requirements Directive”, CRD IV ) and accounts under IFRS . The figures disclosed as consolidated net transposed into German law by Section 26a of the German Bankprofit before taxes and taxes on income refer to the balance of ing Act (Kreditwesengesetz, KWG ). contributions to these two items on the consolidated income statement in accordance with IFRS . Income tax expenses refers The report sets out the sales revenues generated and number to the corporation taxes for the reporting unit in question. of employees in 2018 for each EU member state and third country in which, as at 31 December 2018, the entities included in The average figures disclosed under number of employees are the consolidated financial statements via full consolidation have based on full-time equivalent (FTE ) employees. a branch or their head office. Within the meaning of an EU subsidy program, the consolidated The figures disclosed as sales revenue, consolidated net profit entities did not receive any subsidies during 2018. and income tax expenses are before consolidation effects. The figures disclosed as sales revenue are each office’s net profit, Consolidated net profit before taxes Taxes on Number of Sales revenue on income income1) employees in € m in € m in € m European Union 1,736 371 – 140 5,471 Belgium 1 1 – – Denmark 7 7 –1 – Germany 1,661 323 – 132 5,377 France – 1 – 18 Ireland –1 –5 1 3 Sweden – – – 6 United Kingdom 68 44 –8 67 Switzerland 48 18 1 102 USA 129 81 – 24 84 Other 1 1 – – Total 1,914 471 – 163 5,657 1) The amount of tax reported for a country can be affected by the following factors, for example: effects on personal taxation, which is not borne by consolidated entities, are not included. The measurement basis for tax purposes can differ from the measurement basis shown according to commercial law; for example, entities reporting a loss can reduce the net income without being able to report corresponding tax income for the same period. 300 Consolidated Financial Statements Country by Country Reporting Pursuant to Section 26a KWG The entities included in country by country reporting are ­assigned to the regions below: Head office / Entity Nature of activity location Country 1822direkt Gesellschaft der Frankfurter Sparkasse mbH Provider of ancillary services Frankfurt am Main Germany Airport Office One GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Schönefeld Germany BHT Baugrund Hessen-Thüringen GmbH Other undertaking Kassel Germany BHT-Baugrund Hessen-Thüringen Gesellschaft für BaulandOther undertaking Frankfurt am Main beschaffung, Erschließung und Kommunalbau mbH & Co. Objekt FBM Freizeitbad Mühlhausen KG Germany CORDELIA Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Financial institution Pullach Germany DKB Wohnimmobilien Beteiligungs GmbH & Co. KG Financial institution Potsdam Germany Dritte OFB Friedrichstraße GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany EGERIA Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Financial institution Pullach Germany Erste OFB Friedrichstraße GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Erste Veritas Frankfurt GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Kriftel Germany Family Office der Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft AG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Deutschland) AG Bank Frankfurt am Main Germany Frankfurter Sparkasse Bank Frankfurt am Main Germany G+S Wohnen in Frankfurt am Main GmbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Galerie Lippe GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany GGM Gesellschaft für Gebäude-Management mbH Provider of ancillary services Erfurt Germany GHT Gesellschaft für Projektmanagement Hessen-Thüringen mbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Grundstücksgesellschaft Limes-Haus Schwalbach II GbR Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft Kaiserlei GmbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft Kaiserlei GmbH & Co. Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Projektentwicklung Epinayplatz KG Germany GSG Siedlungsgesellschaft für Wohnungsund Städtebau mbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany GWH Bauprojekte GmbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany GWH Immobilien Holding GmbH Financial institution Frankfurt am Main Germany GWH WertInvest GmbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany GWH Wohnungsgesellschaft mbH Hessen Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Hafenbogen GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany HANNOVER LEASING Life Invest Deutschland I GmbH & Co. KG Financial institution Pullach Germany HANNOVER LEASING Life Invest Deutschland II GmbH & Co. KG Financial institution Pullach Germany Haus am Brüsseler Platz GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Helaba Invest Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH Investment trust company Frankfurt am Main Germany Helicon Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Immobilien KG Financial institution Pullach Germany Hello Darmstadt Projektentwicklung GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany 301 Head office / Entity Nature of activity location Country HeWiPPP II GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany HI A-FSP FONDS Securities investment fund Frankfurt am Main Germany HI C-FSP FONDS Securities investment fund Frankfurt am Main Germany HI FBI FONDS Securities investment fund Frankfurt am Main Germany HI FBP FONDS Securities investment fund Frankfurt am Main Germany HI FSP FONDS Securities investment fund Frankfurt am Main Germany HI H-FSP FONDS Securities investment fund Frankfurt am Main Germany HI-HT-KOMP-FONDS Securities investment fund Frankfurt am Main Germany HI-HTNW-FONDS Securities investment fund Frankfurt am Main Germany HI-RENTPLUS-FONDS Securities investment fund Frankfurt am Main Germany HTB Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale Düsseldorf Bank Düsseldorf Germany Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale Bank Frankfurt am Main / Erfurt Germany Landesbausparkasse Hessen-Thüringen – legally dependent Bank Offenbach division of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale Germany Landeskreditkasse zu Kassel – branch of Landesbank Bank Kassel Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale Germany MAVEST Vertriebsgesellschaft mbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany MAVEST Wohnungsbaugesellschaft mbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Merian GmbH Wohnungsunternehmen Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Neunte P 1 Projektgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany OFB Beteiligungen GmbH Financial institution Frankfurt am Main Germany OFB Projektentwicklung GmbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Projekt Erfurt B38 GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Projekt Hirschgarten MK8 GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Projektentwicklung Königstor GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Kassel Germany Projektentwicklung Lutherplatz GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Projektentwicklung Neuwerkstraße 17 GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Projektgesellschaft ILP Erfurter Kreuz mbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany PVG GmbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany SQO Stadt Quartier Offenburg GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Systeno GmbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany TE Kronos GmbH Financial institution Frankfurt am Main Germany unIQus Projektentwicklung GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Versicherungsservice der Frankfurter Sparkasse GmbH Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Verso Grundstücksentwicklung GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Verso Projektentwicklung GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany 302 Consolidated Financial Statements Country by Country Reporting Pursuant to Section 26a KWG Independent Auditor’s Report Head office / Entity Nature of activity location Country Vierte OFB Friedrichstraße GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Vierte OFB PE GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Wirtschaftsund Infrastrukturbank Hessen – legally dependent Bank Frankfurt am Main entity within Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale Germany Zweite OFB Friedrichstraße GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Zweite OFB PE GmbH & Co. KG Other undertaking Frankfurt am Main Germany Montindu S.A. / N.V. Other undertaking Brussels Belgium Logistica CPH K / S Other undertaking Copenhagen Denmark Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale – Paris branch Bank Paris France Helaba Asset Services Financial institution Dublin Ireland OPUSALPHA FUNDING LTD Financial institution Dublin Ireland Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale – Stockholm branch Bank Stockholm Sweden Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale – London branch Bank London United Kingdom Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale – Bank George Town Cayman Islands Grand Cayman branch Main Capital Funding II Limited Partnership Financial institution Saint Helier Jersey Main Capital Funding Limited Partnership Financial institution Saint Helier Jersey Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG Bank Zurich Switzerland Honua’ula Partners LLC Other undertaking Wailea USA Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale – New York branch Bank New York USA LHT MSIP LLC Financial institution Wilmington USA LHT Power Three LLC Financial institution Wilmington USA LHT TCW LLC Financial institution Wilmington USA LHT TPF II LLC Financial institution Wilmington USA 303 Independent Auditor’s Report To Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale, Frankfurt am Main/Erfurt Report on the audit of the opportunities and risks of future development. Our opinion on the group management report does not cover the content consolidated financial of the group non-financial statement referred to above. statements and of the group Pursuant to Sec. 322 (3) Sentence 1 HGB , we declare that our management report audit has not led to any reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. Opinions Basis for the opinions We have audited the consolidated financial statements of We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale Frankfurt am Main/ and of the group management report in accordance with Sec. Erfurt, and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the con317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation (No 537/2014, referred solidated statement of financial position as at 31 December to subsequently as “EU Audit Regulation”) and in compliance 2018, and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Stateconsolidated statement of changes in equity and the consoliment Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer dated cash flow statement for the financial year from 1 January [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW ). Our responsibil2018 to 31 December 2018, and notes to the financial stateities under those requirements and principles are further dements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. scribed in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the In addition, we have audited the group management report of consolidated financial statements and of the group manageLandesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale, Frankfurt am Main/ ment report” section of our auditor’s report. We are independent Erfurt, for the financial year from 1 January 2018 to 31 December of the group entities in accordance with the requirements of 2018. In accordance with the German legal requirements, we European law and German commercial and professional law, and have not audited the content of the non-financial statement inwe have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities cluded in the “non-financial statement” section of the group in accordance with these requirements. In addition, in accormanagement report. dance with Art. 10 (2) f) of the EU Audit Regulation, we declare that we have not provided non-audit services prohibited under In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the Art. 5 (1) of the EU Audit Regulation. We believe that the audit audit, evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions on the consolidated financial state■■ the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, ments and on the group management report. in all material respects, with the IFRS s as adopted by the EU , and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315e (1) HGB [“Handelsgesetzbuch”: GerKey audit matters in the audit of the man Commercial Code] and, in compliance with these reconsolidated financial statements quirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2018 and of its financial performance for the financial year from 1 Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional January 2018 to 31 December 2018, and judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consoli■■ the accompanying group management report as a whole prodated financial statements for the financial year from 1 January vides an appropriate view of the Group’s position. In all ma2018 to 31 December 2018. These matters were addressed in the terial respects, this group management report is consistent context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a with the consolidated financial statements, complies with whole, and in forming our opinion thereon; we do not provide a German legal requirements and appropriately presents the separate opinion on these matters. 304 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Below, we describe what we consider to be the key audit instruments. In this context, the original credit risk was assessed matters: in terms of significant anomalies. We also obtained an understanding of stage 2 allocation based on quantitative and qualitative criteria (for example, changes in the rating, consideration 1. C  alculation of the loss provisions for of the loan management class). For risk-based samples we asfinancial instruments not in default sessed the significant anomalies, in particular in view of the stage allocation. (stage allocation) Our procedures did not lead to any reservations relating to the Reasons why the matter was determined to be a key calculation of the loss provisions for non-defaulted financial inaudit matter struments (stage allocation). Financial instruments not in default have been measured in accordance with IFRS 9 for the first time since 1 January 2018. This Reference to related disclosures involves replacing the incurred loss model under IAS 39 with an Information on the calculation of the loss provisions for financial expected loss model. instruments in stages 1 and 2 is contained in note nos. (9), (23) and (72) of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Impairments of non-defaulted financial instruments for which a loss provision is to be recognized in accordance with IFRS 9 are now accounted for either at an amount equal to the 12-month 2. Calculation of the loss provisions for expected credit loss (stage 1) or, if there has been a significant commercial real estate financing in increase in credit risk since initial recognition, at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit loss (stage 2). the event of objective evidence of impairment (stage 3) In this context, in particular the specification of the criteria set by the executive directors for determining a significant increase Reasons why the matter was determined to be a key in credit risk (“stage transfer criteria”) is subject to judgment. audit matter Given that the stage transfer criteria were set for the first time The valuation of the commercial real estate financing portfolios by the executive directors and given the related scope for judgin the event of objective evidence of impairment (stage 3) and ment and the volume of financial instruments not in default for the assessment of the amount of any necessary loss provisions which risk provisions are to be recognized under IFRS 9, we confor the loans is a key area in which the executive directors use sider the calculation of the risk provisions for financial instrujudgment. The identification of impaired loans and determinaments not in default (stage allocation) to be a key audit matter. tion of an appropriate impairment loss entail uncertainties and involve various assumptions and factors, in particular the finanAuditor’s response cial situation of the counterparty, expectations of future cash We assessed the stage transfer criteria set by the executive diflows, observable market prices and expectations of net sales rectors, the devised stage allocation and the significant assumpprices from the realization of collateral. Minimal changes in the tions for evaluating the significance of the increase in credit risk assumptions can lead to significantly differing valuations and for financial instruments not in default for their conformity with thus to higher impairment losses. IFRS 9. As part of the audit, the measurement of the commercial real We assessed the design and operating effectiveness of the inestate financing was a key important audit matter as this portternal control system as it relates to stage allocation. In doing folio comprises a considerable portion of the entire customer so, we focused particularly on the procedures and controls in loan volume in the face of concurrent uncertainty concerning place for loan origination (determination of the original credit future market developments given the long loan terms. In light risk) and for loan monitoring (determination of the current credit of these uncertainties, the use of judgment in estimating cash risk). flows in various scenarios and probabilities of occurrence pertaining to the valuation of portfolios can significantly affect the We performed substantive analytical procedures based on a amount of the provisions for loan losses. data export from significant sub-portfolios, selected on a risk basis, covered by the loss provisions for non-defaulted financial 305 Auditor’s response 3. Valuation of investment property As part of our audit, we evaluated the design of the processes aimed at monitoring the default risk and the impairment calcuReasons why the matter was determined to be a key lation and used samples to test the effectiveness of the controls audit matter implemented in the processes. Investment property is recognized at amortized cost and is held to generate rental income in the long term and to achieve value We also performed substantive procedures on a sample basis, appreciation, and relates nearly exclusively to leased residential assessing specific loan loss provisions in terms of necessity and property. adequacy in a test of details. We selected the sample with a view to risk, applying in particular criteria such as inclusion in watchThe buildings are depreciated over their estimated useful lives lists for elevated risks of default, rating categories or specific according to the straight-line method. An impairment test must loan loss allowances already in place. be conducted in accordance with IAS 36 if there are indications of impairment, comparing the carrying amount with the recovWe obtained an understanding of the significant assumption erable amount. The recoverable amount is determined using used in provisioning on the basis of risk-based samples. This numerous valuation-relevant parameters requiring considerincluded reviewing the estimates of the expected future cash able judgments and assumptions by the executive directors. flows from borrowers, including the potential cash flows from These are in particular assumptions about the future developthe realization of collateral, and estimates of the recoverability ment of realizable rents, the future development of the vacancy of payments in the event of default. We obtained an understandrate, the discount and capitalization rates and future repairs and ing of the methods used in terms of methodology and arithmeinvestments. These parameters entail significant uncertainty. A tic. Since the Institution’s stage 3 commercial real estate financminimal change in these parameters can have a significant efing relates almost exclusively to asset finance, we paid fect on the valuation of the investment property. particular attention to the impairment of collateral. For our evaluation of the collateral, we relied in particular on external apDue to the use of judgment in assessing indications of potential praisals and used these in our audit. This also included assessimpairment as well as the assumptions made by the executive ing the independence and the methodology of the external directors in connection with the valuation procedures, the valexperts used by the executive directors to value the collateral or uation of the investment property was a key audit matter. to estimate future cash flows. Auditor’s response We consulted real estate valuation specialists during our audit. As part of our audit, we analyzed the process implemented by the executive directors and the recognition and measurement Our procedures did not lead to any reservations relating to the policies applied to calculate the recoverable amounts and obcalculation of the loss provisions for commercial real estate tained an understanding of the process steps. In this context, financing in the event of objective evidence of impairment we also assessed whether the process is suited to providing (stage 3). objective evidence of impairment. Reference to related disclosures In risk-based samples, we satisfied ourselves of the appropriInformation on the valuation of the commercial real estate fiateness of the methods applied in the calculations and of the nancing is provided in note nos. (9), (23), (39) and (72) of the valuation parameters, in particular realizable rents, vacancy asnotes to the consolidated financial statements and in the Desumptions, necessary repairs and investments as well as disfault risk in the risk report section of the group management count and capitalization rates. In doing so, we relied on the report. corresponding property accounting records as well as the underlying rental agreements and compared these with our knowledge of valuation parameters customary in the market. This also included assessing the independence and the methodology of the external experts used by the executive directors to value the real estate or estimate future cash flows. 306 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report We consulted real estate valuation specialists during our audit. Responsibilities of the executive direcOur procedures did not lead to any reservations relating to the tors and the Supervisory Board for the valuation of investment property. consolidated financial statements and the group management report Reference to related disclosures Information on the recognition and measurement of investment The executive directors are responsible for the preparation of property are provided in the balance sheet item Investment the consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material property and in note nos. (14) and (46) of the notes to the conrespects, with IFRS s as adopted by the EU and the additional solidated financial statements. requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315e (1) HGB , and that the consolidated financial statements, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the Other information assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of the Group. In addition, the executive directors are responsible The Supervisory Board is responsible for the “Report of the Sufor such internal control as they have determined necessary to pervisory Board,” while the Board of Public Owners is responsienable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that ble for the “Report of the Board of Public Owners.” In all other are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or respects, the executive directors are responsible for the other error. information. The other information comprises the group statement on corporate governance included in the “Non-financial In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the execustatement” section of the group management report in accortive directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability dance with Sec. 315b HGB . to continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going conIn addition, the other information comprises the other sections cern. In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting of the annual report that we expect to be provided to us after we based on the going concern basis of accounting unless there is have issued our auditor’s report: an intention to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. Our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report do not cover the other informaFurthermore, the executive directors are responsible for the tion, and consequently we do not express an opinion or any preparation of the group management report that, as a whole, other form of assurance conclusion thereon. provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidated financial In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the statements, complies with German legal requirements, and apother information and, in so doing, to consider whether the propriately presents the opportunities and risks of future develother information opment. In addition, the executive directors are responsible for such arrangements and measures (systems) as they have con■■ is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial sidered necessary to enable the preparation of a group managestatements, with the group management report or our knowlment report that is in accordance with the applicable German edge obtained in the audit, or legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appro■■ otherwise appears to be materially misstated. priate evidence for the assertions in the group management report. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. 307 Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit ■■ Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of arrangeof the ­consolidated financial statements ments and measures (systems) relevant to the audit of the and of the group management report group management report in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are these systems. free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, ■■ Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by and whether the group management report as a whole provides the executive directors and the reasonableness of estimates an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all material made by the executive directors and related disclosures. respects, is consistent with the consolidated financial state■■ Conclude on the appropriateness of the executive directors’ ments and the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies with use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the German legal requirements and appropriately presents the the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions on the condoubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. solidated financial statements and on the group management If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are rereport. quired to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and in Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a the group management report or, if such disclosures are inguarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Sec. 317 adequate, to modify our respective opinions. Our conclusions HGB and the EU Audit Regulation and in compliance with Gerare based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of man Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Auour auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions dits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW ) will may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements can arise going concern. from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually ■■ Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influthe consolidated financial statements, including the discloence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these sures, and whether the consolidated financial statements consolidated financial statements and this group management present the underlying transactions and events in a manner report. that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial We exercise professional judgment and maintain professional performance of the Group in compliance with IFRS s as adskepticism throughout the audit. We also: opted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315e (1) HGB . ■■ Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the ■■ Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the consolidated financial statements and of the group managefinancial information of the entities or business activities ment report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perwithin the Group to express opinions on the consolidated form audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain financial statements and on the group management report. audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a We are responsible for the direction, supervision and perforbasis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material mance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one reour audit opinions. sulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, ■■ Evaluate the consistency of the group management report intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of with the consolidated financial statements, its conformity internal control. with [German] law, and the view of the Group’s position it provides. 308 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report ■■ Perform audit procedures on the prospective information Other legal and regulatory presented by the executive directors in the group management report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evrequirements idence we evaluate, in particular, the significant assumptions used by the executive directors as a basis for the prospective Further information pursuant to Art. 10 of the EU information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the pro­Audit Regulation spective information from these assumptions. We do not We were elected as group auditor by the Board of Public Owners express a separate opinion on the prospective information on 1 December 2017. We were engaged by the Board of Managand on the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substaning Directors on 23 January 2018. We have been the group autial unavoidable risk that future events will differ materially ditor of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale Frankfurt from the prospective information. am Main/Erfurt since financial year 2018. We communicate with those charged with governance regardWe declare that the opinions expressed in this auditor’s report ing, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the are consistent with the additional report to the audit committee audit and significant audit findings, including any significant pursuant to Art. 11 of the EU Audit Regulation (long-form audit deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. report). We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with the relevant independence German Public Auditor responsible for requirements, and communicate with them all relationships and the engagement other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence and where applicable, the related safeguards. The German Public Auditor responsible for the engagement is From the matters communicated with those charged with govMr. Christoph Hultsch. ernance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of Eschborn/Frankfurt am Main, 26 February 2019 the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regErnst & Young GmbH ulation precludes public disclosure about the matter. Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Müller-Tronnier Hultsch Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] 309 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report To Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale, Frankfurt am Main/Erfurt We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the C. Auditor’s responsibility Non-financial Group Statement of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion Girozentrale according to §§ 340i in conjunction with 315b HGB on the non-financial group statement based on the assurance (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) as well as the engagement we have performed. section “Basic Information About the Group” in the Group Management Report being incorporated by reference for the reportWe conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with ing period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 (hereafter the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE ) non-financial group statement). Our engagement did not in3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or clude any disclosures for prior years Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). This A. Management’s responsibility Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance enThe legal representatives of the Company are responsible for gagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the non-­ the preparation of the non-financial group statement in accorfinancial group statement of the Company has been prepared, dance with §§ 340i in conjunction with 315c HGB . in all material respects, in accordance with §§ 340i in conjunction with 315c HGB . In a limited assurance engagement the assurThis responsibility includes the selection and application of apance procedures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurpropriate methods to prepare the non-financial group stateance engagement and therefore a substantially lower level of ment as well as making assumptions and estimates related to assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selected deindividual disclosures, which are reasonable in the circumpend on the auditor’s professional judgment. stances. Furthermore, the legal representatives are responsible for such internal controls that they have considered necessary Within the scope of our assurance engagement, which has been to enable the preparation of a non-financial group statement conducted between December 2018 and February 2019, we perthat is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or formed amongst others the following assurance and other proerror. cedures: B. Auditor’s declaration relating to independence and ■■ Inquiries of employees regarding the selection of topics for quality control the non-financial group statement, the risk assessment and We are independent from the Company in accordance with the the concepts of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale provisions under German commercial law and professional refor the topics that have been identified as material, quirements, and we have fulfilled our other professional respon■■ Inquiries of employees responsible for data capture and consibilities in accordance with these requirements. solidation as well as the preparation of the non-financial group statement, to evaluate the reporting processes, the Our audit firm applies the national statutory regulations and data capture and compilation methods as well as internal professional pronouncements for quality control, in particular controls to the extent relevant for the assurance of the non-­ the by-laws regulating the rights and duties of Wirtschaftsprüfer financial group statement, and vereidigte Buchprüfer in the exercise of their profession [Be■■ Identification of likely risks of material misstatement in the rufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer] as non-financial group statement well as the IDW Standard on Quality Control 1: Requirements for ■■ Inspection of relevant documentation of the systems and Quality Control in audit firms [IDW Qualitätssicherungsstanprocesses for compiling, analyzing and aggregating data in dard 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der the relevant areas e.g. compliance and employees in the reWirtschaftsprüferpraxis (IDW QS 1)]. porting period and testing such documentation on a sample basis, 310 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report Corporate Bodies ■■ Analytical evaluation of disclosures in the non-financial We make express reference to the fact that we do not update the group statement, assurance report to reflect events or circumstances arising after ■■ Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis it was issued unless required to do so by law. It is the sole re­relating to the collection and reporting of selected data, sponsibility of anyone taking note of the result of our assurance ■■ Evaluation of the presentation of disclosures in the non-­ engagement summarized in this assurance report to decide financial group statement. whether and in what way this result is useful or suitable for their purposes and to supplement, verify or update it by means of D. Assurance conclusion their own review procedures. Based on our assurance procedures performed and assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that Munich, 26 February 2019 causes us to believe that the non-financial group statement of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale for the period from Ernst & Young GmbH 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 has not been prepared, in Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft all material respects, in accordance with §§ 340i in conjunction with 315c HGB . Nicole Richter ppa. Dr. Patrick Albrecht Wirtschaftsprüferin E. Intended use of the assurance report (German Public Auditor) We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale. The assurance engagement has been performed for the purposes of the Company and the report is solely intended to inform the Company as to the results of the assurance engagement and must not be used for purposes other than those intended. The report is not intended to provide third parties with support in making (financial) decisions. F. Engagement terms and liability The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften [German Public Auditors and Public Audit Firms]” dated 1 January 2017 are applicable to this engagement and also govern our relations with third parties in the context of this engagement (www.de.ey.com/generalengagement-terms). In addition, please refer to the liability provisions contained there in no. 9 and to the exclusion of liability towards third parties. We assume no responsibility, liability or other obligations towards third parties unless we have concluded a written agreement to the contrary with the respective third party or liability cannot effectively be precluded. Corporate Bodies 312 Supervisory Board 318 Board of Public Owners 319 Advisory Board on Public Companies/Institutions, Municipalities and Sparkassen 321 Report of the Supervisory Board 325 Report of the Board of Public Owners 312 Corporate Bodies Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Appointed by the Sparkassenund Giroverband Hessen-Thüringen Members Deputy Members Gerhard Grandke TBA Executive President Sparkassenund Giroverband Hessen-Thüringen Frankfurt am Main/Erfurt – Chairman – Dr. Werner Henning TBA Chief Administrative Officer County District of Eichsfeld Heiligenstadt – First Vice Chairman – Andreas Bausewein Jochen Partsch Mayor Mayor City of Erfurt City of Darmstadt Erfurt Darmstadt Dr. Annette Beller Dr. Ingo Wiedemeier Member of the Management Board Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors B. Braun Melsungen AG Sparkasse Hanau Melsungen Hanau Christian Blechschmidt Hans-Georg Dorst Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Vice-Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Sparkasse Unstrut-Hainich Sparkasse Mittelthüringen Mühlhausen Erfurt – since 28 March 2018 – – since 21 June 2018 – Christian Blechschmidt Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Sparkasse Unstrut-Hainich Mühlhausen – until 27 March 2018 – TBA Wilhelm Bechtel Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Stadtsparkasse Schwalmstadt Schwalmstadt Stefan Hastrich Norbert Spory Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Kreissparkasse Weilburg Sparkasse Wetzlar Weilburg Wetzlar Günter Högner Oliver Klink Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Nassauische Sparkasse Taunussparkasse Wiesbaden Bad Homburg v. d. Höhe 313 Members Deputy Members TBA Ulrich Krebs Chief Administrative Officer County District of Hochtaunus Bad Homburg v. d. Höhe Manfred Michel Chief Administrative Officer Country District of Limburg-Weilburg Limburg an der Lahn – until 31 December 2018 – TBA Reinhard Faulstich Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Sparkasse Bad Hersfeld-Rotenburg Bad Hersfeld Frank Nickel Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Sparkasse Werra-Meissner Eschwege – until 10 December 2018 – Thorsten Schäfer-Gümbel TBA Member of the State Parliament of Hesse Wiesbaden Peter Feldmann Mayor City of Frankfurt am Main Frankfurt am Main – until 12 October 2018 – TBA Marina Heller Chairwoman of the Board of Managing Directors Sparkasse Rhön-Rennsteig Meiningen Helmut Schmidt Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Kreissparkasse Saale-Orla Schleiz – until 18 January 2019 – Uwe Schmidt Anita Schneider Chief Administrative Officer Chief Administrative Officer District of Kassel County District of Giessen Kassel Giessen Wolfgang Schuster Thomas Will Chief Administrative Officer Chief Administrative Officer County District of Lahn-Dill County District of Groß-Gerau Wetzlar Groß-Gerau 314 Corporate Bodies Supervisory Board Members Deputy Members Dr. Eric Tjarks Jürgen Schüdde Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Sparkasse Bensheim Sparkasse Starkenburg Bensheim Heppenheim Dr. Heiko Wingenfeld Alexander Hetjes Mayor Mayor City of Fulda Stadt Bad Homburg v. d. Höhe Fulda Bad Homburg v. d. Höhe – since 21 June 2018 – – since 21 June 2018 – Dr. Heiko Wingenfeld Mayor City of Fulda Fulda – until 20 June 2018 – TBA Uwe Becker Mayor City of Frankfurt am Main Frankfurt am Main – since 21 June 2018 – Appointed by the State of Hesse Members Deputy Members Dr. Thomas Schäfer Tarek Al-Wazir Minister of State Minister of State Ministry of Finance of the State of Hesse Ministry of Economics, Energy, Transport, Urban and Wiesbaden Regional Development of the State of Hesse – Second Vice Chairman – Wiesbaden Clemens Reif Frank Lortz Member of the State Parliament of Hesse Member of the State Parliament of Hesse Wiesbaden Wiesbaden Appointed by the State of Thuringia Members Deputy Members Dr. Hartmut Schubert Dr. Werner Pidde Secretary of State Member of the State Parliament of Thuringia Ministry of Finance of the State of Thuringia Erfurt Erfurt 315 Appointed by the Rheinischer Sparkassenund Giroverband Members Deputy Members Alexander Wüerst Dr. Birgit Roos Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Chairwoman of the Board of Managing Directors Kreissparkasse Köln Sparkasse Krefeld Cologne Krefeld – Third Vice Chairman – Appointed by the Sparkassenverband Westfalen-Lippe Members Deputy Members Dr. Christoph Krämer Dr. h.c. Sven-Georg Adenauer Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Chief Administrative Officer Sparkasse Iserlohn County District of Gütersloh Iserlohn Gütersloh Appointed by Fides Beta GmbH Members Deputy Members Dr. Karl-Peter Schackmann-Fallis TBA Executive Member of the Board Deutscher Sparkassenund Giroverband e.V. Berlin – since 5 April 2018 – – Fifth Vice-Chairman since 22 June 2018 – Dr. Karl-Peter Schackmann-Fallis Executive Member of the Board Deutscher Sparkassenund Giroverband e.V. Berlin – until 4 April 2018 – Appointed by Fides Alpha GmbH Members Deputy Members Arnd Zinnhardt Michael Bräuer Member of the Group Executive Board Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Software AG Sparkasse Oberlausitz-Niederschlesien Darmstadt Zittau – since 1 July 2018 – Siegmar Müller Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Sparkasse Germersheim-Kandel Kandel – until 6 June 2018 – 316 Corporate Bodies Supervisory Board Employee representatives Members Deputy Members* Thorsten Derlitzki Dr. Robert Becker Vice President Senior Vice President Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Frankfurt am Main New York – Fourth Vice Chairman – until 30 April 2018 – Frank Beck Sven Ansorg Vice President Bank employee Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Frankfurt am Main Erfurt Dr. Robert Becker Jens Druyen Senior Vice President Bank employee Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen New York Düsseldorf – since 1 May 2018 – Gabriele Fuchs Ursula Schmitt Bank employee Bank employee Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Frankfurt am Main Wirtschaftsund Infrastrukturbank Hessen – until 30 April 2018 – Offenbach Anke Glombik-Batschkus Rainer Baur Vice President Vice President Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Erfurt Düsseldorf Thorsten Kiwitz Thomas Buchmayer Vice President Bank employee Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Frankfurt am Main Offenbach Christiane Kutil-Bleibaum Petra Barz Vice President Bank employee Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Düsseldorf Frankfurt am Main Annette Langner Ute Opfer Vice President Bank employee Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Frankfurt am Main Kassel Susanne Noll Astrid Mitteldorf Bank employee Bank employee Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Frankfurt am Main Wirtschaftsund Infrastrukturbank Hessen Offenbach Jürgen Pilgenröther Angelika Schröder Bank employee Bank employee Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Frankfurt am Main Kassel 317 Employee representatives Members Deputy Members* Birgit Sahliger-Rasper TBA Bank employee Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Frankfurt am Main Susanne Schmiedebach TBA Vice President Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Düsseldorf Thomas Sittner TBA Bank employee Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Frankfurt am Main * The order in which deputy employee representatives are listed is based on the outcome of the Supervisory Board election. 318 Corporate Bodies Board of Public Owners Advisory Board on Public Companies/Institutions, Municipalities and Sparkassen Board of Public Owners Stefan Reuß Heike Taubert Gerhard Grandke Chief Administrative Officer Minister of State Executive President County District of Werra-Meissner Ministry of Finance of the State of Thuringia Sparkassenund Giroverband Eschwege Erfurt Hessen-Thüringen – Chairman – – Vice-Chairwoman – Frankfurt am Main/Erfurt Prof. Dr. Liane Buchholz Dieter Bauhaus Claus Kaminsky President Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Mayor Sparkassenverband Westfalen-Lippe Sparkasse Mittelthüringen City of Hanau Münster Erfurt Hanau – Vice-Chairwoman – Volker Bouffier Siegmar Müller Ingo Buchholz Minister-President of the State of Hesse Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors State Chancellery of Hesse Sparkasse Germersheim-Kandel Kasseler Sparkasse Wiesbaden Kandel Kassel – since 6 June 2018 – – Vice-Chairman – Michael Breuer President Thomas Müller Helmut Schleweis Rheinischer Sparkassenund Giroverband Chief Administrative Officer President Düsseldorf County District of Hildburghausen Deutscher Sparkassenund Hildburghausen Giroverband e.V. Sigrid Erfurth Berlin Member of the State Parliament of Hesse Günter Sedlak – Member since 25 January 2018 – Wiesbaden Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors – Vice-Chairman since 1 April 2018 – Sparkasse Oberhessen Alois Früchtl Friedberg Helmut Schleweis Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Sparkasse Fulda TBA Sparkasse Heidelberg Fulda Heidelberg – Vice-Chairman – – until 24 January 2018 – 319 Advisory Board on Public Companies/ Institutions, Municipalities and Sparkassen Gerhard Grandke Thomas Fügmann Matthias Löb Executive President Chief Administrative Officer Director Sparkassenund Giroverband County District of Saale-Orla Landschaftsverband Westfalen-Lippe Hessen-Thüringen Schleiz Münster Frankfurt am Main/Erfurt – since 1 December 2018 – – Chairman – Dr. Henning Müller-Tengelmann Dr. Thomas Hain Commercial Director Herbert Hans Grüntker Managing Director Stadtwerke Münster GmbH Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Nassauische Heimstätte GmbH Münster Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale Frankfurt am Main – until 20 September 2018 – Frankfurt am Main – Vice-Chairman – Dieter Hassel Guntram Pehlke Chief Commercial Officer Chairman of the Management Board Burkhard Albers Rheinenergie AG DSW21 Dortmunder Stadtwerke AG Managing Director Cologne Dortmund Kommunaler Arbeitgeberverband Hessen e.V. Frankfurt am Main Andreas Heller Stefan G. Reindl Chief Administrative Officer Spokesman for the Management Board Dr. Constantin H. Alsheimer County District of Saale-Holzland TEAG – Thüringer Energie AG Chairman of the Management Board Eisenberg Erfurt Mainova AG Frankfurt am Main Renate Hötte Prof. Knut Ringat LVR Board Member Managing Director and spokesman for Uwe Becker Landschaftsverband Rheinland the Management Board Mayor and City Treasurer Cologne Rhein-Main-Verkehrsverbund GmbH City of Frankfurt am Main Hofheim am Taunus Frankfurt am Main Dr. Andreas Jahn – until 29 June 2018 – Member of the Management Board Klaus Peter Schellhaas SV SparkassenVersicherung Holding AG Chief Administrative Officer Guido Braun Stuttgart County District of Darmstadt-Dieburg Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors – since 1 June 2018 – Darmstadt Städtische Sparkasse Offenbach a. M. Offenbach am Main Frank Junker Michael Schmitz Member of the Management Board Member of the Executive Management Uwe Brückmann FAAG Frankfurter Aufbau AG Berufsgenossenschaft Holz und Metall State Welfare Organisation of Hesse Frankfurt am Main Mainz Kassel – until 30 April 2018 – Jürgen Kuhn Ralf Schodlok Vice-Chairman of the Board of Chairman of the Executive Board Andreas Feicht Managing Directors ESWE Versorgungs AG Chairman of the Management Board Sparkasse Langen-Seligenstadt Wiesbaden WSW Energie und Wasser AG Seligenstadt Berlin – until 31 January 2019 – Brigitte Lindscheid Darmstadt Regional Council Darmstadt 320 Corporate Bodies Advisory Board on Public Companies/Institutions, Municipalities and Sparkassen Report of the Supervisory Board Dr. Albrecht Schröter Axel ter Glane Bernd Woide Mayor Head of Department Chief Administration Officer City of Jena Ministry of Finance of the State of County District of Fulda Jena Thuringia Fulda – until 30 June 2018 – Erfurt Stefan Wolf Martina Schweinsburg Dr. Peter Traut Mayor Chief Administrative Officer President City of Weimar County District of Greiz IHK Südthüringen Weimar Greiz Suhl – until 30 June 2018 – – until 30 November 2018 – Berthold Tritschler Ulrich-Bernd Wolff von der Sahl Susanne Selbert Chief Operating Officer Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors State Welfare Organisation of Hesse Hessischer Rundfunk SV SparkassenVersicherung Holding AG Kassel Frankfurt am Main Stuttgart – since 1 May 2018 – – until 31 May 2018 – Georg von Meibom Volker Sparmann Managing Director Peter Zaiß Mobility Officer EAM Verwaltungs GmbH Managing Director of Ministry of Economics, Energy, Kassel SWE Stadtwerke Erfurt GmbH Transport, Urban and Regional Development Erfurt of the State of Hesse Marcus Wittig House of Logistics & Mobility (HOLM) GmbH Chairman of the Board Frankfurt am Main Duisburger Versorgungsund Verkehrsgesellschaft mbH Heinz Thomas Striegler Duisburg Head of the church administrative board of the Protestant church in Hesse and Nassau Darmstadt 321 Report of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board and its committees supervised the conduct of business by the Board of Managing Directors in accordance with the statutory regulations and Helaba’s Charter and were notified of and involved in matters relating to equity holdings, major events and important business transactions of material significance for the Bank. Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board was notified regularly of developments in the business, earnings and risk situation of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale and the Landesbank Group in the six meetings held during the year under review. It obtained reports on current developments in the international financial markets and the banking markets, on the implications of these developments for the Bank’s earnings, liquidity and risk situation and on the management measures taken by the Board of Managing Directors. The Board of Managing Directors discussed the business and risk strategy for 2019, operational planning and rolling medium-term planning, including equity planning, in detail with the Supervisory Board, which also received prompt notification of the content of the Risk Report, prepared in accordance with the German Minimum Requirements for Risk Management (M aRisk), that was presented to the Supervisory Board Risk and Credit Committee every quarter. The Supervisory Board also noted and discussed the 2019 IT strategy, the 2019 outsourcing strategy and the 2019 tax strategy. Internal Audit reported to the Supervisory Board meetings regularly on audit findings of particular significance and the checks performed on actions taken to resolve previously identified concerns. The Supervisory Board took note of the reports prepared by the Capital Market Compliance Office and the M aRisk Compliance function, the activity report prepared by the Money Laundering Officers and the risk analysis for capturing and assessing the risks arising from money laundering, the funding of terrorism and other punishable acts. The meetings of the Supervisory Board also received reports from the Board of Managing Directors on the following key topics: ■■ The programme to address previously identified concerns and improve the IT organisation ■■ The ECB ’s SREP decision ■■ Regulatory audits and resulting action plans ■■ The current situation report regarding the 2007 trading transactions ■■ Reporting in relation to the Risk Appetite Statement ■■ The updating of Helaba’s recovery plan ■■ The situation report concerning the resolution planning project ■■ Helaba’s new advertising concept. The Supervisory Board also adopted resolutions on the following key topics: ■■ The extension of HSH Nordbank’s membership of the Landesbanken Reserve Fund and participation of the Sparkassen-Finanzgruppe’s protection scheme in the reserve fund for HSH and in the provision of funds for HSH ■■ The acquisition of Dexia Kommunalbank Deutschland GmbH (DKD) ■■ The amendment of the Charter ■■ The amendment of the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board and its committees ■■ The amendment of the Rules of Procedure for the Board of Managing Directors and the granting of exemptions for strategic equity investments 322 Corporate Bodies Report of the Supervisory Board ■■ The principles and procedures for the handling of conflicts of interest affecting Helaba’s Supervisory Board ■■ The updating of the job description and candidate profile for members of the Supervisory Board ■■ The requirements concerning the time for which members of the Supervisory Board and its committees need to be available ■■ The inclusion of allowable AT 1 capital instruments as part of an exchange of silent partner contributions of the Sparkassen in Hesse-Thuringia ■■ Matters relating to the real estate at Neue Mainzer Straße 57/59 ■■ The sale of equity investment LB (Swiss) Investment AG ■■ The revision of the remuneration principles for employees of Helaba Helaba organised three information events for all members of the corporate bodies during the year under review. External speakers were brought in for elements of these events, which also serve as continuing professional development as required in connection with the expertise requirements for the exercise of a mandate in management and supervisory entities pursuant to Section 25d (4) of the German Banking Act (Kreditwesengesetz – KWG ). The events presented information on topics including Helaba’s IT strategy and digital agenda, its real estate lending and Sparkasse business, compliance and money laundering, the three lines of defence model and current developments in the field of supervisory law. The principal activities of Helaba Invest and LBS were also addressed in detail and individual training was provided for new and existing members of the Supervisory Board. Committees of the Supervisory Board The committees of the Supervisory Board (Risk and Credit Committee, Audit Committee, Personnel and ­Remuneration Oversight Committee, Nomination Committee, Investment Committee, Building Committee and WIBank Committee) assisted the Supervisory Board in its work and drew up proposals for decisions. The duties of the committees follow from Section 25d (7) et seq. KWG and from the rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board and its committees. The chairpersons and vice-chairpersons of the committees reported to the Supervisory Board on the outcomes of deliberations in the relevant committee. The Risk and Credit Committee held 13 meetings in the year under review, one of which was a two-day closed meeting to discuss matters relating to banking regulation, banking strategy and lending strategy. The committee’s duties, in line with the responsibilities assigned to it, include approving the granting of loans, the implementation of requirements set out in Section 25d (8) KWG , in particular advising the Supervisory Board on the Bank’s current and future overall risk acceptance and strategy and assisting with the monitoring of the implementation of this strategy by the Board of Managing Directors. The committee also monitors the terms applied in customer business to ensure that they remain in harmony with the Bank’s business model and risk structure. In the year under review, the Supervisory Board Risk and Credit Committee devoted attention to Helaba’s overall risk reporting on a quarterly basis and discussed in advance the risk strategy for 2019. The Risk and Credit Committee also gave regular intensive consideration to the programme to address previously identified concerns and improve the IT organisation, in which work it was at times joined by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee convened for four meetings, considering in detail, in accordance with the requirements of Section 25d (9) KWG , the audit of the annual accounts of the Bank, the Group and Landes­ bausparkasse Hessen-Thüringen and the audit of securities trading business as specified in Section 36 (1) of the German Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – W pHG ). In addition, the Audit Committee was notified of audit planning for the separate and consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2018, received updates on the status of the resolution of observations made in the course of regulatory 323 audits and took note of the Audit unit’s annual report. The Audit Committee was also notified of external audits conducted in the financial year under review and of the latest status of the Alpha programme. The Nomination Committee met three times in the year under review. In accordance with the requirements of Section 25 d (11) KWG , it devoted attention to assessing the questionnaire to evaluate the activities of the Supervisory Board. This questionnaire reflects the stipulations of Section 25d (11) KWG , which requires a regular assessment of the structure, size, composition and performance of the supervisory entity and the knowledge, skills and experience of the members of the supervisory entity. The matters involved were subsequently addressed by the Supervisory Board. The Nomination Committee selected an external party to evaluate the activities of the Supervisory Board in the 2018/2019 evaluation and recommended to the Supervisory Board that the external party be engaged to perform the evaluation. The Nomination Committee also considered the content and implementation of EBA guidelines nos. 11/2017 and 12/2017 in ­relation to the Nomination Committee, the requirements concerning the time for which members of the Supervisory Board and its committees need to be available, the principles and procedures for the handling of conflicts of interest affecting Helaba’s Supervisory Board, the principles concerning appointments to the level below the Board of Managing Directors and the training concept for members of the Supervisory Board and its committees, discussed proposals on the appointment of ordinary and deputy members of the Supervisory Board and submitted recommended resolutions to the Supervisory Board. The two meetings of the Personnel and Remuneration Oversight Committee held in the year under review examined the implementation of the German Regulation on the Supervisory Requirements for Institutions’ Remuneration Systems (Instituts-Vergütungsverordnung – IV V ) to ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements concerning employee remuneration systems pursuant to Section 25d (12) KWG . The Personnel and Remuneration Oversight Committee also took note of the results of the risk analysis to identify risk-bearing entities for financial year 2019 and of the report of the Remuneration Officers and recommended to the Supervisory Board that the revised remuneration principles for employees of Helaba be adopted. In addition, the committee dealt in detail with ■■ the evaluation of the effects of the remuneration systems on risk, capital and liquidity management, ■■ the proper involvement of the internal units exercising control in monitoring the design of the remuneration systems, within the scope of their responsibility, ■■ Helaba’s remuneration report and ■■ the status of implementation of IV V 3.0. The WIBank Committee, which is responsible for monitoring WIBank’s development activities in accordance with Article 26 of Helaba’s Charter, met six times in the year under review. At its meetings, it ­addressed the annual accounts, the course of business and the business and risk strategy of WIBank. The Investment Committee was informed at one meeting about the Bank’s strategic equity investments and submitted proposals for decisions in relation to equity investment matters to the Supervisory Board within the scope of its responsibility. 324 Corporate Bodies Report of the Supervisory Board Report of the Board of Public Owners The Building Committee held one meeting in the year under review, at which it was informed about developments in the real estate market and about the Bank’s real estate portfolio. It also considered the current status of the development of the MainPark complex at Offenbach-Kaiserlei. Audit and Adoption of the Annual Accounts for 2018 Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft audited the annual accounts for 2018 together with the accompanying management report. The annual accounts received an unqualified certificate of audit. The Supervisory Board meeting of 25 March 2019 adopted the annual accounts of the Bank, approved the management report and applied to the Board of Public Owners for the Board of Managing Directors and the Supervisory Board to be discharged from responsibility in respect of financial year 2018. Changes to the Board of Managing Directors Following approval by the Supervisory Board on 6 December 2018, and subject to approval by the ­European Central Bank (ECB), the meeting of the Board of Public Owners of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale on 10 December 2018 appointed Mr. Frank Nickel as a member of the Board of Managing ­Directors. Following approval by the Supervisory Board, the Board of Public Owners resolved at its meeting on 23 March 2018 to approve the reappointment of Dr. Detlef Hosemann as a Member of the Board of M ­ anaging Directors with effect from 1 December 2018. Member of the Board of Managing Directors Mr. Klaus-Jörg Mulfinger retired on 31 December 2018. The Supervisory Board wishes to thank Helaba’s Board of Managing Directors and employees for their efforts in the year under review. Frankfurt am Main, 25 March 2019 The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale Gerhard Grandke Executive President of the Sparkassenund Giroverband Hessen-Thüringen 325 Report of the Board of Public Owners The Board of Public Owners discharged the duties incumbent upon it under the law and the Helaba Charter in a total of five meetings in the year under review. It was notified accordingly of major events, operational planning for the year and rolling medium-term planning, including equity planning, and it discussed the business and risk strategy and the tax, outsourcing and IT strategies for 2019. It also regularly considered Helaba’s business, income and risk reports. The Board of Managing Directors reported on the following key topics at the meetings of the Board of ­Public Owners: ■■ The programme to address previously identified concerns and improve the IT organisation ■■ The ECB ’s SREP decision ■■ Regulatory audits and resulting action plans ■■ The current situation report regarding the 2007 trading transactions ■■ Reporting in relation to the Risk Appetite Statement ■■ The updating of Helaba’s recovery plan ■■ The situation report concerning the resolution planning project ■■ The principles and procedures for the handling of conflicts of interest affecting Helaba’s Board of Public Owners The Board of Public Owners also adopted resolutions on the following key topics: ■■ The extension of HSH Nordbank’s membership of the Landesbanken Reserve Fund ■■ The acquisition of Dexia Kommunalbank Deutschland GmbH (DKD) ■■ The inclusion of allowable AT 1 capital instruments as part of an exchange of silent partner contributions of the Sparkassen in Hesse-Thuringia ■■ Matters relating to the real estate at Neue Mainzer Straße 57/59 ■■ The sale of equity investment LB (Swiss) Investment AG ■■ The amendment of the Charter ■■ The amendment of the Rules of Procedure for the Board of Public Owners ■■ The amendment of the Rules of Procedure for the Board of Managing Directors and the granting of exemptions for strategic equity investments The Committee of the Board of Public Owners convened for three meetings, at which it considered matters including the following: ■■ The assessment of the questionnaire to evaluate the activities of the Board of Managing Directors in ­accordance with Section 25d of the German Banking Act (Kreditwesengesetz – KWG ) ■■ The implementation of the German Regulation on the Supervisory Requirements for Institutions’ ­Remuneration Systems (Instituts-Vergütungsverordnung – IV V ) to ensure compliance with the ­regulatory requirements in relation to the remuneration system of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen ■■ The review of the principles of the remuneration structure for the Board of Managing Directors of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen to establish whether they are still appropriate (IV V ) ■■ The consistency of the remuneration strategy of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen ■■ The principles for selecting members of the Board of Managing Directors of Landesbank HessenThüringen and assessing their suitability for the role 326 Corporate Bodies Report of the Board of Public Owners Helaba Addresses ■■ The job description and candidate profile for members of the Board of Managing Directors of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen ■■ The preparatory process to ensure that suitable successors are ready to take on roles in the Board of Managing Directors as they fall vacant The matters involved in each case were subsequently addressed by the Board of Public Owners. The Board of Public Owners additionally handled personnel matters involving the Board of Managing ­ irectors. Following approval by the Supervisory Board on 6 December 2018, and subject to approval by D the European Central Bank (ECB), it appointed Mr. Frank Nickel as a member of the Board of Managing ­Directors. Following approval by the Supervisory Board, the Board of Public Owners resolved at its meeting on 23 March 2018 to approve the reappointment of Dr. Detlef Hosemann as a Member of the Board of M­ anaging Directors with effect from 1 December 2018. Member of the Board of Managing Directors Mr. Klaus-Jörg Mulfinger retired on 31 December 2018. The Board of Public Owners in its decision of 29 March 2019 approved the Bank’s annual accounts and management report and discharged the Board of Managing Directors and the Supervisory Board from ­responsibility in respect of financial year 2018. It resolved, moreover, to use the reported distributable profit of € 90,000,000 as follows: € 61,588,440 will be paid as a dividend on the Bank’s share capital and € 28,411,560 as remuneration for the capital contribution from the State of Hesse. The Board of Public Owners wishes to thank Helaba’s Board of Managing Directors and employees for their efforts in the year under review. Frankfurt am Main, 29 March 2019 The Chairman of the Board of Public Owners of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale Stefan Reuß Chief Administrative Officer President of the Sparkassenund Giroverband Hessen-Thüringen Helaba Addresses 328 Helaba Addresses Helaba Addresses Head Offices Branch Offices Representative Offices Frankfurt am Main Düsseldorf Madrid MAIN TOWER Uerdinger Strasse 88 (for Spain and Portugal) Neue Mainzer Strasse 52 – 58 40474 Düsseldorf General Castaños, 4 60311 Frankfurt am Main Germany Bajo Dcha. Germany T + 49 2 11 / 3 01 74 0 28004 Madrid T + 49 69 / 91 32 01 Spain Kassel T + 34 91 / 39 11 0 04 Erfurt Ständeplatz 17 Bonifaciusstrasse 16 34117 Kassel Moscow 99084 Erfurt Germany Novinsky Boulevard 8 Germany T + 49 5 61 / 7 06 60 Business Centre Lotte, T + 49 3 61 / 2 17 71 00 20th Floor London 121099 Moscow 3rd Floor Russia Bausparkasse 95 Queen Victoria Street T + 7 4 95 / 2 87 03 17 London EC4V 4HN Landesbausparkasse UK São Paulo Hessen-Thüringen T + 44 20 / 73 34 45 00 Av. das Nações Unidas, 12399 Cjs. 105/106 B Offenbach New York Brooklin Novo São Paulo – SP Strahlenbergerstrasse 13 420, Fifth Avenue CEP: 04578 000 63067 Offenbach New York, N. Y. 10018 T + 55 11 / 2924 9756 Germany USA T + 49 69 / 91 32 02 T + 1 2 12 / 7 03 52 00 Shanghai Unit 012, 18th Floor Erfurt Paris Hang Seng Bank Tower Bonifaciusstrasse 19 4 – 8 rue Daru 1000 Lujiazui Ring Road 99084 Erfurt 75008 Paris Shanghai, 200120 Germany France China T + 49 3 61 / 2 17 70 07 T + 33 1 / 40 67 77 22 T + 86 21 / 68 77 77 08 Stockholm Singapore Kungsgatan 3, 2nd Floor One Temasek Avenue Development Bank 111 43 Stockholm #05 – 04 Millenia Tower Sweden Singapore 039192 Wirtschaftsund I­ nfrastrukturbank T + 46 / 86 11 01 16 T + 65 / 62 38 04 00 ­Hessen Strahlenbergerstrasse 11 63067 Offenbach Germany T + 49 69 / 91 32 03 329 Sales Offices Selected Subsidiaries Berlin Frankfurter Sparkasse Helaba Invest Joachimsthaler Strasse 12 Neue Mainzer Strasse 47 – 53 Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH 10719 Berlin 60311 Frankfurt am Main JUNGHOF Germany Germany Junghofstrasse 24 T + 49 30 / 2 06 18 79 13 52 T + 49 69 / 26 41 0 60311 Frankfurt am Main Germany Munich 1822direkt Gesellschaft der T + 49 69 / 2 99 70 0 Lenbachplatz 2a Frankfurter Sparkasse mbH 80333 Munich Borsigallee 19 GWH Germany 60388 Frankfurt am Main Wohnungsgesellschaft mbH T + 49 89 / 5 99 88 49 10 16 Germany Hessen info@1822direkt.com Westerbachstrasse 33 Münster T + 49 69 / 9 41 70 0 60489 Frankfurt am Main Regina-Protmann-Strasse 16 Germany 48159 Münster Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft T + 49 69 / 9 75 51 0 Germany (Deutschland) AG T + 49 2 51 / 92 77 63 01 JUNGHOF OFB Junghofstrasse 26 Projektentwicklung GmbH Stuttgart 60311 Frankfurt am Main Speicherstrasse 55 Kronprinzstrasse 11 Germany 60327 Frankfurt am Main 70173 Stuttgart T + 49 69 / 1 56 86 0 Germany Germany T + 49 69 / 9 17 32 01 T + 49 7 11 / 28 04 04 0 Frankfurter Bankgesellschaft (Schweiz) AG GGM Börsenstrasse 16 Gesellschaft für GebäudeReal Estate Offices 8001 Zurich Management mbH Switzerland Speicherstrasse 55 Berlin T + 41 44 / 2 65 44 44 60327 Frankfurt am Main Joachimsthaler Strasse 12 Germany 10719 Berlin T + 49 69 / 9 17 32 9 00 Germany T + 49 30 / 2 06 18 79 13 14 Munich Lenbachplatz 2a 80333 Munich Germany T + 49 89 / 5 99 88 49 0 Imprint Published by Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale Neue Mainzer Strasse 52 – 58 Bonifaciusstrasse 16 60311 Frankfurt am Main 99084 Erfurt Germany Germany T +49 69/91 32-01 T +49 3 61/2 17-71 00 www.helaba.com Concept and design 3st kommunikation, Mainz Printed by carbon neutral natureOffice.com | DE-653-726757 print production Druckerei Braun & Sohn, Maintal Copyright © Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale, 2019 All rights reserved including, in particular, the right to copy this document (in whole or in part). The Annual Report 2018 may not be reproduced by any means or duplicated using electronic systems without the written consent of Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen Girozentrale. This English translation is provided solely for convenience. The translation is not binding. The original German text is the sole authoritative version and shall prevail in case of any conflict.
