Annual Report 2018/19 We are Precision. Radiation. Medicine. CONTENTS COMPANY PRESENTATION ELEKTA IN BRIEF Who we are, what we 2 Elekta in brief do and why it matters. It provides you 6 CEO statement with a snapshot of Elekta and our performance for 2018/19. This section also includes CEO Richard Hausmann’s statement. STRATEGY From global developments 8 Strategy affecting customer behavior, to how we address the most pressing issues in radiation therapy. In the strategic report you get the full story of how we deliver value to our stakeholders. OFFERING Elekta’s comprehensive 12 Offering offering in precision radiation medi14 Oncology informatics cine includes oncology informatics and a leading portfolio of treatment solu16 Treatment solutions tions. It also describes our world-class 21 Service and support service and support. Find out more in this section. MARKETS Elekta’s installed base 22 Macro environment amounts to more than 4,300 systems, 23 Geographic regions with sales in over 120 countries. Read about our global and regional performance for 2018/19, including comments on market developments and outlook. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 29 Corporate responsibility As one of the leading medical technol33 Fight cancer ogy companies globally, we recognize our impact on stakeholders through35 Business ethics out the value chain. Find out more about 39 Sustainable sourcing our sustainability agenda and long-term 42 People in focus commitment here. This section, covering pages 29-46, constitutes the statutory sustainability report. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chair48 Corporate governance report man of the board, Laurent Leksell, introduces the corporate government report, which includes Elekta’s governance structure, risk 62 The share management, executive management team 64 Five year review and key figures and the board of directors. FINANCIAL INFORMATION This section 66 Content financial information includes the Board of Directors’ Report and Elekta’s accounts for 2018/19. For its full contents, please see page 66. 119 Glossary 121 Definitions 122 Alternative performance measures Regulatory status of products This document presents Elekta’s product portfolio. Certain products or functionality described may be works in progress and/ or pending regulatory approval for certain markets. Forward looking statements This report includes forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, statements relating to operational and financial performance, market conditions, and other similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations about future events. Although the expectations described in these statements are assumed to be reasonable, there is no guarantee that such forward-­looking statements will materialize or are accurate. Because these statements involve assumptions and estimates that are subject to risks and uncertainties, results could differ materially from those set out in the statement. Certain of these risks and uncertainties are described further in the section Risks on pages 70–71. Elekta undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or stock exchange regulation. ELEKTA 2018/19: GOOD GROWTH AND STRONG ORDER PIPELINE 2018/19 was a successful year for Elekta. Previous year’s sales growth was outperformed with contributions from all business lines and regions. The revised EBITA margin target was reached and is expected to improve further. Elekta Unity’s excellence was underlined order intake increased by 8 percent from our pioneering customers. In addifor the fiscal year. tion to Elekta Unity, our newest software Moving forward we continue to solution, MOSAIQ® Plaza and our have a positive view of the market in upgraded treatment planning system all regions. Monaco® HD, received a lot of attention. In the fiscal year 17 Elekta Unity All business lines contributed to the orders were booked and 45 systems are sales growth, both in solutions and sernow booked in total globally. Further vices. The software business developed regulatory approvals and clinical studwell, especially in North America. ies will facilitate the ramp-up of Elekta Leksell Gamma Knife® also had a Unity’s commercialization. strong development, coming close to Note that growth numbers until page 13 is generally the strongest year of its history. Gross based on constant exchange rates. +8% +10% growth in gross order intake growth in net sales 18.3% +6%EBITA margin growth in installed base CASH FLOW NET SALES EBITA from operating activities rolling 12 months rolling 12 months rolling 12 months SEK M SEK M SEK M 16,000 16000 3,200 3200 2,400 2400 14000 14,000 2400 2,400 1800 1,800 12000 12,000 1600 1,600 1200 1,200 10000 10,000 800 800 600 600 8000 8,000 0 00 16/17 1 17/18 1 18/19 16/17 1, 2 17/18 1 18/19 16/17 17/18 18/19 1) Calculations 16/17 and 17/18 1) Calculations 16/17 and 17/18 are based on IAS18. are based on IAS18. 2) I ncluding items affecting comparability 1 Global leaders in precision radiation medicine Elekta has a global team of experts devoted to driving change and delivering state-of-the-art treatment solutions to fight cancer and 120 countries with sales neurological disease. Who we are To us, this means working as one and following through on what we say. We also keep thinking forward, challenging current conventions through our leadership precision radiation 4,300 installed base of treatment systems medicine. Customer centricity our core To fulfill our commitment to both patients and customers, we prioritize local presence around the globe. With around 3,800 3,800 employees globally employees and an installed base in more than 120 countries, 10% close proximity to our customers is key. At Elekta we strive to develop strong local partnerships whilst ensuring we harness our global strength and capabilities. This is how we generate value for our customers, ultimately helping clinics and hospitals to improve and save the lives of more patients. share of net sales invested in R&D Elekta team at our office in Crawley, United Kingdom. Linac portfolio Neuro solution portfolio Software solutions Brachytherapy portfolio MR radiation therapy Service and support State-of-the-art treatment solutions Elekta’s understanding of how radiation treatment is practiced in the clinical environment is fundamental to how we develop and deploy our treatment solutions. Our innovations, developed in close collaboraWhat we do tion with leading researchers and clinics, have resulted in precision-driven solutions for various forms of radiation therapy of cancer and treatment of neurological conditions, as well as information systems that augments and personalizes cancer care. Production precision instrumental to our offering Delivering precise and durable treatment solutions that can be adapted to our customers’ clinical environments requires intelligent and efficient production and assembly processes. Through Elekta’s development and assembly sites in the US, China and Europe, each component of our treatment solutions is produced to order. Strong strategic partnerships, streamlined logistics and decades of experience in conducting global operations with customers across the globe also provides Elekta with a competitive advantage in the market. Read more on pages 12–21. High-precision installation at customer site of one of Elekta Unity systems. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 3 Cancer remains a global concern Elekta’s strategy combines the perspectives of creating conditions for profitable and sustainable growth with fighting the global burden of cancer. The cancer burden is rising globally, exerting significant strain on populations and health systems at all income levels. In late 2017, world governments made a commitWhy it matters ment to further invest in cancer control as a public health priority, passing the World Health Assembly Resolution. In principle, this strategic framework shall work towards universal health coverage, ensuring access to optimal cancer care for all people because health is a basic human right. At Elekta, we are using our knowledge and experience from developing precision radiation medicine to drive access to radiation therapy. It is our firm belief that every person and community should get the best possible care. This is why we work together with healthcare providers to develop market leading treatment solutions that meet our customers’ specific requirements. Devoted to fighting cancer Elekta is a company comprised of a global team of experts devoted to driving change and delivering state-of-the-art treatment solutions to fight cancer and neuro­logical disease. To us, this means working as one and following through on what we say. We also keep thinking forward, challenging current conventions through leadership precision radiation medicine. To realize our ambitions, we carefully select collaborations with people and organizations who not only complement us strategically, but who share our commitment to the bigger picture. NUMBER OF NEW CANCER CASES Millions 30 30 20 20 10 10 In 2018 more than 18 million new cancer cases were diagnosed, a figure that is expected to grow 0 0 by 63 percent until 2040. 2018 2020E 2025E 2030E 2035E 2040E Total Men Women Source: Globocan 2018 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 Our promise: Truly patient-centric care Driving access of radiation therapy globally With the increased global cancer Elekta’s mission to Fight Cancer burden, radiation therapy is prioritized in our corporate remains an underutilized treatresponsibility ment method in both mature and developing markets. Elekta Our commitment to fight is working relentlessly to share cancer is of vital importance Fight our knowledge about the benefits of precision radiation to Elekta, as it is the core of Cancer medicine, as research confirms radiation therapy would our business and thereby also benefit patient outcomes in well over 50 percent of cancer one of our sustainability focus cases globally. areas. It represents one of our In addition to anchoring the advantages of radiotherapy most pivotal material corpoin relation to other modalities, Elekta prioritizes making rate responsibility risks and treatment solutions available in more parts of the world. opportunities that Elekta is facing throughout our Customized offerings, including a more cost-efficient linear value chain. Driving global access to cancer treatment accelerator tailored to infrastructure in developing markets, remains our top priority, whilst making treatments is one of several concepts that will benefit patients. Accordsimpler, automated and affordable. ing to Lancet Oncology, the leading global forum for developments in oncology, increased access to radiation therapy Read more on pages 33–34. would save millions of lives at the same time as the global cost for cancer would be substantially reduced. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 5 ’’ After nine months of clinical experience and over 200 patients treated, I’m certain that Elekta Unity will fundamentally revolutionize radiation therapy.” Leading the next paradigm shift in precision radiation medicine With solid financials, a strong order pipeline and a portfolio of state-of-the-art treatment and software solutions, Elekta is better positioned than ever. We are now focusing on growth and continuing to pioneer the development of our industry. When I started as CEO at Elekta I looked forward to contributMedicine: A future where our software alone can help to ing to Elekta’s remarkable track record as the leading innovaimprove survival rates in cancer by being smart and suptor in the industry. However, there were clearly areas in need of portive to help clinicians all around the world to provide attention. With a significantly strengthened leadership team, the highest standard of care. new optimized processes and refocused efforts to bring our innovative MR-linac to the market, we have now successfully Truly customer and patient-centric executed our turnaround. I am convinced that the launch of One of the main reasons Elekta has been the innovation front­ our Precision Radiation Medicine strategy was another runner for almost five decades is our strategic collaboration important step on our journey. Anchored in Elekta’s history, with clinical partners and our focus on patients. Based on this, Precision Radiation Medicine defines the future of our we as a company dare to bet on our innovation capabilities industry: and develop true firsts in the market. Elekta Unity is a great Precision: A future where our solutions hit the target preexample of this. It’s a masterpiece of precision radiation medicisely, sparing healthy tissue and reducing side effects for cine, and the first system in the world that combines a statebetter patient outcomes. of-the-art 1.5 Tesla MRI scanner, providing real-time imaging, Radiation: A future where our core competence in radiaand a best-in-class linear accelerator to deliver radiation thertion can help even more patients in need, wherever they are, apy. Strategic collaboration with the Elekta MR-linac Consorwith optimized and tailored solutions. tium, comprising experts from leading cancer centers around the world, was integral to this groundbreaking device. 6 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CEO STATEMENT Elekta Unity is now commercially available in over 30 marSecuring sustainable value kets and awaiting regulatory clearance in China and many In a stakeholder dialogue performed during the year, access to others. After nine months of clinical experience and over healthcare was ranked the highest among Elekta’s prioritized 200 patients treated, I’m certain that Elekta Unity will sustainability areas, which is not surprising as fighting cancer is fundamentally revolutionize radiation therapy. With the our core business. Imbedding a sustainability perspective in all MOMENTUM program, we are building a robust body of realaspects of our operations is crucial for long-term profitability, world clinical evidence, together with key consortium memcreating value and being attractive not only to investors, but bers. Strong clinical outcomes from a patient perspective also for customers and society at large. It is therefore fundaand an efficiency perspective for clinics and healthcare sysmental that we continue to support the principles of the UN tems will support reimbursement discussions going forward. Global Compact and, as a leading player, make responsible By the end of April, 45 Elekta Unity systems had been ordered choices and maintain the highest ethical standards. The corpoglobally and with our strong pipeline, I am convinced that we rate responsibility section in this report constitutes our annual will both reach our mid 2020 target of 75 systems ordered, and Communication on Progress. During the year, we strengthened see a growing demand going forward supported by strong our corporate responsibility governance by establishing a highclinical data. level steering committee, comprised of the Chairman of the Board, five members of our Executive Management team and Software that improves workflow and outcomes myself. Ensuring commitment from the top will help us grow Elekta Unity isn’t our only focus area, however. Our digital and continue to lead the industry. +10% solutions are also changing how cancer is treated. Big data and artificial intelligence are Solid foundation for further growth at the center of healthcare digitization and Our leading position is dependent on delivering can help cure patients through better and solid financials in order to continue investing in more individualized treatments. Elekta is drivinnovative solutions for our customers. The radiaing this change with software solutions that net sales growth tion therapy market is currently estimated to grow automate processes, increase productivity, by six to eight percent annually. We closed this reduce costs and facilitate treatments. This is key in a world year with good growth, both in net sales and orders. I’m espewhere radiation therapy is becoming more sophisticated, cially s­ atisfied that we could report this growth at the same often part of increasingly complex treatment modalities, time as we changed our revenue recognition policy and optidemanding a growing need for standardization. Our solu­ mized our supply chain, avoiding unnecessary warehousing. It’s tions such as MOSAIQ® Plaza and Smart Clinic, both satisfying that all business lines and regions contributed to the launched during the year, are designed to meet this need growth. Consequently, we outperformed our net sales growth and have already generated positive customer feedback. target while delivering on the revised profitability guidance by reporting an EBITA margin of more than 18 percent. Together Making quality treatment accessible for all with a strong balance sheet with negative working capital and Although these and similar advanced treatment technoloa low net debt, we have a very good basis for further growth. gies are available, access is unequally distributed. Emerging The future of our industry lies in precision radiation medimarkets in particular are significantly underserved today. We cine and we have a clear strategy to continue as the inno­ strive to enable the potential to quickly implement advanced vation leader in our field. Employee engagement, customer treatment techniques and adopt the highest standards of focus and strategic collaborations will ensure we continue to care to both mature markets and emerging markets, with develop and refine our offering so that more people have their need for trained oncologists. I am excited about a new access to the treatment solutions they need. I’m grateful for cost-efficient and workflow-optimized solution that we plan the high level of dedication and all the work our Elekta team to release in the short term that we expect will address many shows every day. As I like to say: We are here until cancer isn’t. of the needs we see in developing countries today. Elekta has a history of supporting global access to care and a strong position in emerging markets. I’m convinced that our innovations, combined with determined efforts to enable access to training and education, will help more people around the Richard Hausmann, world to receive high quality cancer treatment. President and CEO Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 7 STR ATEGY Global developments driving the shift towards Precision Radiation Medicine New paradigm in radiation therapy treatment The introduction of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology to radiation therapy challenged convention and has provided new opportunities in cancer treatment. Following Elekta Unity’s development, launch and commercial deployment, its capabilities have been acknowledged by the oncology community. While the integration of new technology creates new treatment possibilities, current treatment solutions, including stereotactic radiosurgery and brachytherapy systems, are continuously becoming more precise. Radiation therapy is driven by the new standard set by integrating MR technology, and thereby the entire therapy sphere is entering a new paradigm. In practice, this means clinicians can now treat more types of metastatic tumors with precision radiation. In addition to addressing new forms of tumors, the higher level of precision in radiation therapy also means safer and more efficient treatment of patients. With less harm to surrounding healthy tissue, radiation oncologists can re-treat patients with better effect. In entering the era of precision radiation, a further hypofractionation of treatment can be achieved, where precision radiation is given as a single or a few high ablative doses. As the oncology informatics systems are continuously improving, so does the ability to augment the actual treatment. Several global developments are therefore converging, driving the shift towards precision-driven radiation oncology. 8 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 STR ATEGY Immensely accurate AI-supported treatment enhances precision Further sophistication of both hardware and software technology contribute to the continued digitalization in healthcare. As the industry is able to harness ultrafast computing and apply it to realtime treatment plans and dosimetry, it has significant consequences for how radiation treatment can be delivered and augmented. In practice, this means e.g. algorithms are developed to utilize AI-based automated contouring to enhance precision and efficiency in radiation delivery even further. The enhanced capabilities in automating both treatment planning and delivery contributes to simpler, faster and more standardized yet personalized treatment of ment is conducted, being able to predict maintenance patients. We are moving towards individualized radiation requirements. This means treatment systems are proactreatment based on insights from a global, and partly tively calibrated correctly, increasing uptime, which means self-learning ecosystem. clinicians are able to help save even more patients’ lives. Sensor modules based on artificial intelligence are also In the not so distant future, enhanced genetic profiling enhancing the precision of the treatment systems’ performeans we will already know how to treat the patient, even mance, understanding and learning from how clinical treatbefore they are diagnosed. Affordable and accessible precision radiation medicine Recent years’ continued development of radiation treatThe industry’s advancement means it is now possible to drive ment solutions, with increased reliability, standardization of the buildout of precision radiation treatment capacity in marsystems in combination with improved methods for educakets where infrastructure is still scarce. Today’s turnkey solution and training of radiation clinicians, lowers the threshold tions, ease of installation, intelligent automation based on for investments in growth markets. As the global population local requirements and affordability is now being achieved at and average life expectancy increases, so does the demand a larger scale. Supported by efficient education and training for new capacity, both in terms of advanced systems and methods, we are experiencing a shift towards precision radiastandardized solutions. tion medicine being adopted in new markets across the globe. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 9 STR ATEGY Delivering the experience of tomorrow, today Precision-driven treatment solutions lie at the core of what we do at Elekta. To further our competitive edge, we focus on the full treatment spectrum, addressing the challenges critical to saving more lives. Elekta’s strategy provides the framework for our pursuit of profitable and sustainable growth. Guidance and financial targets for the coming fiscal years include net sales development and EBITA margin expansion. Scenario Scenario FY 19/20 FY 20/21, 21/22, 22/23 Net sales 8–10% 8–10% EBITA margin ~19% >20% with expansion of up to 200 basis points in the end of the period 10 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 STR ATEGY Strategic priorities Growth lead by Elekta Unity, the continued drive of Elekta Digital across our portfolio and the advancement of our services – whilst making quality treatment accessible for all. These four strategic priorities dictate how we strive to generate value and help clinicians save more lives. Grow with Elekta Unity Drive Elekta Digital Make quality treatment Advance and in the lead across our portfolio accessible for all grow Elekta services At Elekta, we deliver on our promises by focusing efforts where it matters. Driven by true commitment to our customers and patients, we address issues in care critical to realize our strategic priorities. Involving and partnering with the patient Automate for enhanced treatment efficiency As the patient becomes increasingly involved in decisions National healthcare authorities and its clinics need to ensure regarding their treatment, Elekta continues its focus on efficient and qualitative cancer care at a reasonable cost. patient engagement. In addition to enhancing the radiation The automation of more links in the clinical workflow is treatment experience, Elekta’s engagement tools enhances therefore an issue which can help clinicians save more the flow of communication between patients and care patients’ lives. Our current focus is on enhancing digital teams, extending our customers’ practice beyond the clinic ­systems to automate image guidance processes. Elekta is walls. We are working to provide new ways to document and providing digital solutions that improve clinical workflows, share information, keeping patients involved in their own are fully connected to underlying systems, and provide care and capturing progress reports essential to clinical secure and available data in real time. decision making. Making advanced treatment agile and simple Ensuring system uptime through proactive support Elekta’s vision of future cancer care, based on data-driven In addition to providing state-of-the-art precision in our patient treatment, forms the basis for our focus on innovatreatment solutions, we must ensure maximum system tive and advanced software. We are developing with useravailability and ease of use. Elekta’s efforts in delivering proand patient-centricity in focus, prioritizing smart interface active support throughout the entire lifecycle is therefore a design while relying on advanced back-end algorithms and strategic priority. With our customers and patients in mind, functionality. Our software solutions are not only specifically we continue to invest in our service and support capabilities. designed to support clinicians through the entire patient Using continuous performance analysis, remote monitoring journey, but also tailored to today’s digital environment. and updating, and capabilities to fine-tune and optimize the Through our understanding of the clinical workflows, our functionality of the treatment systems, we are working to systems are robust and mobile, with secure access from create conditions for the best possible patient care. portable devices for efficient patient treatment. Helping clinics provide personalized treatment Quality treatment for all Every patient’s medical condition is unique and in constant Industry advancement and Elekta’s presence in developing change during treatment process. Advancements in the regions means it is now possible to drive the buildout of ability to act on genetic, diagnostic and patient reported ­precision radiation treatment capacity in markets where information means care can become more personalized. infrastructure is still scare. Through precise yet standardized This requires treatment solutions and systems that are systems supported by efficient education and training, ­better and more precise. In the field of information systems, Elekta strives to deliver quality treatment for everyone. Elekta integrates data-driven recommendations, in which details about a patient’s health and disease are combined with information used to optimize the treatment sessions. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 11 OFFERING Leveraging innovation to create stakeholder value Elekta’s market leading expertise means we are able to create an offering of precision radiation medicine-based treatment solutions and deploy them in the marketplace. Through our core business we are also able to generate significant customer and patient value, whilst contributing to positive societal impact across the globe. Decades of experience in challenging convention within the Our efforts to continuously become even better in the exefield of radiation therapy, whilst continuing our high pace of cution of our strategy means we can also aid sustainable innovation, research and development, means Elekta is development, continue to create employment in new maruniquely positioned in the market. We have reached several kets and drive further technological breakthroughs. important milestones, exemplified by the recently deployed Based on our continuous and thorough analysis and and revolutionary MR-linac system Elekta Unity, which will adaption to Elekta’s external environment, we strive to gencontinue to contribute to Elekta’s long-term growth and erate multidimensional value through sound business stratprofitability. At the same time, our offering is continuously egy. In addition to our shareholders, customers, patients and expanded and enhanced to not only drive revenue, but to employees, it is of vital importance for us to deliver value to deliver the most efficient treatment solutions in the market. suppliers, regulators, NGOs and society as a whole. Oncology informatics Innovative software solutions for the entire care and treatment spectrum MOSAIQ® Plaza The suite of software combines the features clinics need to ensure • Speech-enabled dictation and automation Voice Automation the best experience for their patients. MOSAIQ Plaza includes e.g.: • Oncology business intelligence MOSAIQ® Oncology Analytics • Mobile oncology workflow management Elekta SmartClinic • Virtual patient support Patient Portal • Multi-disciplinary team messaging Care Collaboration • Comprehensive treatment planning Monaco HD Treatment solutions Advanced treatment system with high-precision radiation therapy MR radiation therapy Linac portfolio Neuro portfolio Brachytherapy portfolio Elekta’s recently launched Our established and high-­ Elekta’s radiosurgery system, Elekta’s system for internal innovation Elekta Unity, with performing portfolio of linear Leksell Gamma Knife®, radiation therapy applied the aim to enable significantly accelerators provide the most enables non-invasive treatadjacent to the tumors, parimproved treatment of the common form of radiation ment of tumors and other seriticularly effective in treating, most common types of therapy. ous neurological conditions. for example, prostate cancer cancer. and cervical cancer. 12 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 OFFERING 1,386 R&D expenditure, SEK M INVESTMENTS IN RESEARCH Innovation-driven quest to save more lives AND DEVELOPMENT Elekta represents a longstanding and strong tradition of innovation – and will % of net sales continue to do so in the future. Our innovation efforts are essential for us to both 12 help clinics improve the lives of patients, attract the right capabilities and so we 9 can be more commercially successful. We are working with several parallel initiatives, with Elekta Unity as the latest 6 proof of our capacity in innovation. For 2018/19 as a whole, Elekta’s R&D expenditure 3 totals approximately 1,400 million SEK, equal to ten percent of net sales. It is through innovation that we can drive cancer care forward, create value for our customers, 0 16/17 17/18 18/19 strengthen our market positions and generate value for our shareholders. Service and support Extended product life cycle with proactive service and support Oncology informatics Service Elekta provides various types of life • Predictive support with Elekta and support cycle support and life cycle service that IntelliMax® provides integrated and offer our customers enhanced perforconnected sensors that proactively Treatment solutions mance through better long-term planidentify servicing needs in the treatning of maintenance and modernment system ization, greater product safety and • Training services and guidance supreduced costs for the clinic as a whole. ports oncology nurses and the clinic’s Guidance and navigation Our offering in service and support is other key roles in system functionality In the following section of Elekta’s built on proactivity, both in terms of and practical operation of the treatannual report you can read more about the services we provide and how we ment system our comprehensive offering of oncology organize our support activities. informatics, treatment solutions, and • Logistics services and spare-part With Elekta Care™ as the support hub, service and support. management for quick and flexible we provide local contact persons and As guidance and a navigational aid, handling of any adjustments to the specialist clinical expertise that is availplease follow the simplified schematic treatment system’s components able 24 hours a day to support Elekta’s of our offering, found in the top right customers throughout the treatment • Field service with Elekta’s certicorner of each section. system’s entire life cycle. Together with fied technicians on site at the cusFor more information about our Elekta Care, we offer a broader ecosystomer’s facility and in the clinical products and services, visit elekta.com. tem of service and support services: environment Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 13 OFFERING Oncology informatics Oncology informatics Innovative software for the entire treatment spectrum At Elekta, we develop intelligent oncology informatics systems with a two-pronged purpose; helping clinicians improve patient outcomes while driving healthcare productivity. Seamless online treatment adaptation, tion therapy even more precise. conditions to adopt a more tailored imaging and guidance while the patient Oncology informatics continues to approach to each treatment. is undergoing treatment and real-time play an important role in how we treat As one of the market’s leading innoanalysis of relevant decision-making cancer and neurological conditions. vators, Elekta designs and develops data is possible due to the increased Software enables, augments and maxioncology informatics systems increassophistication of oncology informatics. mizes the potential of the treatment ing precision at two levels; further Today, interaction and closer integrasolution. It also helps to address the enhanced beam precision in treatment, tion between intelligent software and growing need to personalize cancer care, as well as more precise personalized treatment hardware is making radiaunderstanding the patient’s specific treatment by removing uncertainties. Real-time data on the go Competitive radiation oncology clinics are conducting more complex treatments per unit of time than ever before. In order to enhance workflow orientation, Elekta is combining key features of oncology informatics. The recently launched Elekta SmartClinic is an intuitive game-changer, enabling process visualization and automated streamlined care coordination with fewer clicks and mobility, designed with clinical partners and made for MOSAIQ. 14 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 Oncology informatics SmartClinic HIS IBM Integration Watson Patient Introducing Voice MOSAIQ Portal ® Automation Plaza Care Medical Collaboration Oncology Addressing workflow efficiency SmartClinic The challenge for national healthcare – mobile oncology Oncology Monaco HD workflow management authorities is to ensure efficient and Analytics high-quality cancer care at a reasonThe game-changing new feature of MOSAIQ Plaza, able cost. Additionally, as the number enabling: of treatable types of cancer continues Enhanced visibility: see to increase, the clinical complexity MOSAIQ® Plaza1 patient details and end-to-end grows as well. Elekta therefore works in Combines the features clinics need to ensure the best care needs at a glance close collaboration with customers to experience for their patients. Includes: Intuitive design: navigate develop oncology informatics solutions • Multi-disciplinary team messaging through Care through the system quickly and collaboration efficiently with fewer clicks that help clinics streamline their workflows. Acknowledging the significant • Speech-enabled dictation and automation through Increased mobility: access Voice automation the information you need whergains in treatment efficiency that can • Oncology business intelligence enabled by MOSAIQ® ever you are be achieved through intelligent inforoncology analytics Fully configurable: customize matics systems, Elekta develops soft• Virtual patient support with Patient portal views and workflows to meet ware solutions designed to function in your specific needs • Comprehensive treatment planning via Monaco HD all types of clinical environments. Our customer-centric approach to radia1) MOSAIQ Plaza and its associated elements are not available in all markets. tion treatment means we can help clinics automate repetitive tasks in the workflow, enabling clinicians to help which means the correct protocol can The recently launched MOSAIQ Plaza save more patients’ lives and reduce be applied, thus reducing variation in will form the foundation for how clinitheir burnout. clinical oncology care by reducing subcians see the full scope of a patient’s jectivity in the decision-making. In our treatment, in detail. It will promote and Standardization through smart efforts to help clinicians save more ensure faster solutions to market and, personalized protocols patients’ lives, Elekta is working to increase significantly value proposition Today’s sophisticated informatics facilitate further evidence-based for our informationsystem via interopersystems, capable of analyzing vast protocolization. ability and dataflow. As the industry is amounts of data at speed, means we continuing to shift towards value-based are able to protocolize more radiation Towards a single workspace healthcare, Elekta’s informatics plattreatment. Essentially, protocolization Elekta’s strategy of precision radiation form can help clinics improve the whole is a form of standardization, a precurmedicine means that we work towards spectrum of radiotherapy. sor to personalization where a patient’s a future where everyone can benefit precise condition determines the from precise and individually tailored scope, scale and procedure for treatradiation therapy treatment. Our newIn 2019, Elekta SmartClinic was ment. Many protocols are derived from est software solution offering, MOSAIQ launched, an intuitive game-changer, large studies with specific patient popenabling process visualization and Plaza, is developed for delivery of comautomated streamlined care coordiulations, where clinical judgement plex treatment regimens while ensuring nation with fewer clicks and portafunctions as a confirmation in deterseamless workflow and automation bility, designed by Elekta with clinical mining if a patient is appropriate for including mobility. MOSAIQ Plaza is a partners and made for MOSAIQ. Read a suggested treatment protocol. Now, patient-centric, integrative solution more about how our customers are utialgorithms are facilitating self-learning lizing the full experience of MOSAIQ on that functions as a hub for patient page 28. identification of specific indicators treatment. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 15 OFFERING Treatment solutions MR radiation therapy New standard for personalized radiotherapy After 10 months of clinical practice, feedback from our Elekta Unity pioneer customers is very promising. By facilitating smooth first-time installations and increasing the base of clinical evidence, the paradigm shift in radiotherapy continues. Elekta Unity is the only system available separate anatomical groups. Excellent followed by a 510(k) premarket notificathat delivers high-dose radiation beams technical performance with almost no tion from the FDA in December, clearand simul­taneously provides real-time, down-time, symmetry in dose delivery ing the technology for commercial sales high-resolution anatomical and biologiand good, real-time imaging quality and clinical use in the United States. cal MRI. The real-time visualization are some of the remarks received so far During 2019 to date, Elekta Unity also during treatment provides the ability to from our pioneer customers. Our conreceived clearance from Canada and reshape the radiation dose based on the tinued focus on facilitating smooth Japan. Hence, regulatory is to date shape, size and position of the tumor, installations and providing proper educleared in more than 35 countries. thereby minimizing the impact on surcation and training to our pioneering rounding healthy tissue. Elekta Unity customer needs is vital for continued Designed for comfort precision may also expand opportunities success. In October 2018, Elekta won the prestito treat tumors that were previously gious Human Factors and Ergonomics hard to irradiate due to motion or posiOur market is growing Society Stanley H. Caplan User-Centered tion close to radiation-sensitive organs As Elekta Unity is the only high-field Product Design Award 2018 for Elekta such as the kidney, heart or stomach. system on the market that enables cliUnity. The reward is a recognition of Elekta Unity is important for Elekta nicians to see what they treat while the our efforts spent to consider the needs and we expect the technology to eventreatment is taking place, interest has of the patients and healthcare profestually become the standard of care been substantial. To date orders for 45 sionals. Already at start we had a clear within precision radiation medicine, Elekta Unity systems have been placed. vision, which guided our design of the with an addressable market of 3,000 Our target is to have 75 orders placed Elekta Unity to make the treatment – to 4,000 systems. before the end of the first half of calenfor patients of all shapes and sizes – as dar year 2020. Getting the technology comfortable as possible. This vision was Promising feedback cleared for commercial sales and clinibased on a global research exercise from pioneer customers cal use in more countries is at top of our that involved observing 360 clinical In 10 months of clinical practice, more agenda, as we strive to make Elekta treatment sessions, along with more than 2,500 fractions have been delivUnity available to as many patients as than 50 in-depth interviews. ered to treat more than 230 patients possible. In June 2018, Elekta Unity was This is just one of the many prizes across 10 clinical sites, with a total of 13 CE-marked for clinical use in Europe, that Elekta Unity has been awarded. How it works Key features: The MR-linac system is installed in a radiation-proof bunker environment and is carefully 1.5T high-field MR imaging calibrated by radiation physicists from Elekta and the clinic. High-resolution MR images are generated before, during and after and are Slip ring technology used as decision-making data to optimize the therapy. A precise and exact treatment combination with radiotherapy and MR offers Intelligent software the potential to deliver a high dose of radiation to the tumor while sparing, to a very large Short, wide bore magnet degree, the surrounding healthy tissue due to visualization of the tissue being treated. Read more at unity.elekta.com 16 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 MR radiation therapy Elekta Unity In January 2019, radiation oncologists at the Froedtert & the Medical College “The prospect of more accurately deliverof Wisconsin, treated their first patient, ing radiation therapy with fewer side effects a 47-year old woman from Fond du Lac, with Elekta Unity. The patient’s cancerous gives Elekta Unity the potential to fundaliver tumor, which could not be seen with standard CT-guided treatment, was clearly mentally change cancer radiation therapy.” visible on Elekta Unity MRI images, which allowed the position and shape of the Christopher Schultz, MD, FACR, FASTRO, Professor and tumor to be verified as treatment was Chairman at the Froedtert & MCW Clinical Cancer Center. precisely delivered. Clinical evidence founding members of the Elekta MR-linac TUM study, designed to generate data to improve patient outcomes Consortium presented 50 abstracts and that enable safe, fast and, above all, Elekta Unity has the potential to transnew collaborators from an ever-growing ‘evidence-based’ introduction of magform how clinicians treat cancer. Hownumber of world-class cancer centers netic resonance radiation therapy (MR/ ever, as a transformative approach, clinipresented 10 abstracts. The abstracts is a RT) into clinical practice. The study is cal implementation also needs clinical clear indication of our customers’ intense focusing on building a robust body of evidence in addition to novel hardware work, which will enable us to continue real-world clinical evidence and and software systems. By increasing the transforming patient care in more insights made possible by the technolbase of clinical evidence, treatments are markets. ogy, with the aim to convert the data enabled to be optimized for specific into guidance on how to improve outtumor types and to address the unique Study to learn comes for cancer patients. To date, anatomy and tumor biology of each from every patient treated approximately 100 patient treatments patient. At the ESTRO Annual Conference In the beginning of 2019, the internahave been enlisted in the MOMENTUM in April 2019, Elekta Unity was featured in tional MR-linac Consortium also clinical trial. record-breaking 60 abstracts, whereof announced the launch of the MOMENElekta Annual Report 2018/19 17 OFFERING Treatment solutions Linac portfolio Linac portfolio Versatile, all-in-one radiation therapy Elekta’s portfolio of linear accelerators is continuously developed to further enhance treatment precision and efficiency. The versatility and accuracy of the system means shorter treatment times and the potential to treat a broad spectrum of tumor types. Through our leading position in precipatient at the point of treatment, Helping clinics be more efficient sion radiation treatment, Elekta has which is an important facilitator in Elekta focuses on delivering customer contributed to anchor the benefits of treatment planning. It helps our cusvalue through both high-precision linear accelerator technology. With tomers deliver more precise patient treatment systems and intelligent soluan installed base, amounting to more treatment, through the utilization of tions to make clinical workflows more than 4,300 systems globally, linear our linac’s online adaptive treatment efficient. Our continuous developments accelerators are utilized in both estabsolutions. of our linac portfolio includes software lished and developing markets. Elekta’s The continuously improved precision updates to leverage the radiation versatile linac system can treat a wide of our most advanced linac systems are treatment capabilities. We are also range of tumor types, including brain also driving a demand for hypofractionworking together with customers to and spine, head and neck, breast, ation capabilities. Elekta’s Versa HD™ improve the treatment experience lungs and prostate cancers. combined with the Monaco treatment from a clinical perspective, making planning solution is one of the strongest complex treatment simple by autoQuality in high demand systems available. By leveraging up to mating steps in the clinical workflow. Customer demand continues to six times more modulation capability, To further improve the efficiency for develop and evolve, with qualitative dose resolution is further optimized to our customers, Elekta offers a market-­ image-guided radiation treatment in allow safe escalation of doses and comleading oncology informatics system that high demand in all markets. As the plex stereotactic treatment to be delivseamlessly integrates with the various capabilities of the linac systems are ered in standard treatment slots of 15 units and treatment systems used continuing to improve, customers are minutes or less. As patients are living in clinics. The comprehensive solutions realizing the potential of modern treatlonger and the number of patients also include Elekta Care with Elekta Intelli­ ment systems working together with being re-treated are increasing, hypofMax®, which is used to remotely analyze advanced software. Enhanced diagractionation helps clinicians deliver high the system’s status and ensure maximum nostics are also contributing to a better quality treatment at pace, with miniclinical availability through proactive serunderstanding of the state of the mal side effects to the patient. vice and predictive maintenance. How it works The linear accelerator produces a beam of radiation that is actively shaped and aimed at the patient’s tumor with high precision and in accordance with a calculated, individually adapted treatment plan. Using alternating current voltage, the electrons accelerate to high speeds and are aimed at the target to deliver a significant dose of radiation to the tumor, with minimal impact to the surrounding healthy tissue. The linear accelerator also includes an integrated imaging system for visualization and positioning of the tumor target. 18 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 OFFERING Treatment solutions Neuro portfolio Neuro portfolio Personalized micro precision As the undisputed pioneer in the field of stereotactic radiosurgery, Elekta has a unique position to manage. By focusing on integrated immobilization, workflow and imaging, we continue to facilitate flexible and personalized treatment plans. How it works Stereotactic radiosurgery is specifically developed to inhibit neurological conditions. Elekta’s Leksell Gamma Knife® Icon™ directs and focuses 192 precise beams into a single iso-center toward an area of the brain. Advanced imaging and a system for motion control enables realtime adaptive treatment. The accuracy Elekta’s stereotactic radiosurgery suitable for neurological conditions, where offered by frame-based or frameless systems offer safe, efficient and costsurgery and chemotherapy are more diffiimmobilization ensures that the correct effective treatment of serious neurocult to perform. Technology features such dose of radiation hits the right target logical conditions. This advanced form as integrated imaging, automatic dose volume to be treated each time again. of treatment is minimally invasive, thus evaluation and a frameless alternative, typically requires no convalescence or enables more personalized treatment rehab for the patient, who can usually plans. Icon also gives clinicians the option based imaging without artifacts or disbe treated and go home the same day. of delivering fractionated radiosurgery, tortion as well as stereotactic coordiToday, 100,000 patients receives treatallowing tailored treatments for each nate referencing at decimal digits. ment with one of Elekta’s systems patient with less side effects, often on an Increased clinical flexibility and perevery year. outpatient basis. sonalized delivery to each patient – without sacrificing precision and accuPrecision radiation Uncompromised precision in racy, are at top of our agenda when we medicine by definition neuroimaging and treatment continue our innovation journey. We are The Leksell Gamma Knife® system has Elekta’s next-generation system for dedicated to develop the best tools for been constantly refined during the last target localization and coordinate reftreating serious neurological conditions, 50 years and the sixth generation, the erencing for precision neurosurgery, and by expanding clinical capabilities IconTM, is the most precise stereotactic Leksell® Vantage™, is in clinical use in and operational efficiency – always with system for brain available. The excepseveral key markets. The system’s innothe patient in mind – we allow more clintional precision, targeting radiation vative metal-free head frame and ics to build and offer an intracranical within 0.15 mm, makes it particularly MR/CT accessories enables frameradiosurgery program. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 19 OFFERING Treatment solutions Brachytherapy portfolio Brachytherapy portfolio Precision radiation inside the tumor With 60 per cent of the global market for high-dose brachytherapy, Elekta continues to develop cutting edge solutions within the field of internal radiation, as an indispensable part of radiation therapy. the initiator of the world’s largest brachytherapy educational resource platform, Brachy Academy, with the aim to advance successful use. World-leading innovator Today two out of three patients receiving brachy are treated with Elekta brachy­ therapy solutions. Altogether, Elekta’s brachytherapy system represents the market’s most comprehensive offering in the field. The product portfolio includes Esteya® for skin cancer, Flexitron® treatment system, Oncentra® treatment planning software, and the broadest range of applicators for precise and simple treatment in the industry. Brachytherapy is a highly targeted Education advance successful use How it works form of radiotherapy where a small Brachytherapy is suited as a single A radioactive isotope, in the form of a radiation source is temporarily placed modality or in combination with other very small seed (usually iridium-192), is at different positions for different treatments such as external beam carefully and temporarily placed inside times, inside or adjacent to the area radiation therapy or surgery. Due to or directly adjacent to the cancer tumor that requires treatment. It is commonly high level of precision and short treatusing the treatment system’s afterused to treat cancers of the cervix, ment times, the side effects for the loader. The radiation dose is high close to the source, but this rapidly decreases, prostate, breast and skin but can be patients and risk of damage to surand with its short range the radiated used to treat tumors in several other rounding, healthy tissue are minimized. area can be precisely limited. This makes areas of the body as well. Due to the In addition to developing technology it possible to deliver an effective dose of small size and versatility of the system, and software so that the procedure radiation that destroys cancer cells in high-dose brachytherapy provides a continuously gets faster, simpler and just a few treatments. Specifically developed software is used to plan the treatcost efficient and accessible treatment safer, proper education and training is ment and the radiation of the tumor. for oncology clinics around the world. crucial to empower clinicians. Elekta is 20 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 OFFERING Service and support Elekta services Service and support Digitalization transforming customer care By providing high quality service and support solutions, we enable our customers to maximize the value of their radiotherapy system investments and create conditions for them to give patients the best possible care. As a leading provider of advanced medical equipment, we know that delivering high quality aftermarket services is essential, especially in times of increased 100 100 100 100 100 100 50 100 65 efficiency requirements and capacity increases. Elekta’s service and support division is core to our business as it folMore than 650 field service engineers lows our customer throughout the lifecycle and currently comprises about 38 (39) percent of total revenue. Strengthand 165 support specialists based in ening our service and support throughout the entire lifecycle of products is a regional Elekta Care™ Support Centers providing prerequisite for increased customer satremote assistance = 100 people isfaction, loyalty and trust. Additionally, by providing innovative learning programs and customized consulting services, we also give our customers the prehensive program — including proactages include maximized clinical availskills and knowledge they need to protive service and support, education and ability, minimized costs, and – most vide the best possible patient care. training and consultative services. One importantly – reduced risk of disruption example during the year, was the launch for the patient. During the fall 2018, Comparable metrics of a new and improved customer portal, Elekta IntelliMax was also extended to improve our quality Elekta Care Community™, an online our MOSAIQ® oncology information sysCustomers all around the world should gateway to personalized content. The tem, enabling support and problem resget the same service, regardless of marrationale behind the transformation was olution to be done on a proactive rather ket. During the year we have coordicustomer feedback obtained from, than reactive basis, often before the nated and aligned Elekta’s main service among other things, customer focus customer even knows the issue exists. processes globally. We have also estabgroups. A major improvement with the lished standardized and comparable new portal is the ability for users to eduPersonalized learning journeys metrics in order to streamline our own cate themselves, by sharing knowledge Recognizing that learning needs are service quality evaluations. By measuramong their peers and gaining access to unique for every clinic, our Elekta Care ing for example Mean-Time to Resoluthe global network of Elekta experts. Learning programs are designed for tion we can find best practices and personalized flexibility. We offer training share knowledge and expertise across Digitalization as a transformer webinars, professional networks as well our organization, for example within the Big data, AI and digital tools offer new as learning centers, enabling customers spare-part management field. service models and solutions that can to craft a blended learning, based on improve service and support. Over 80 their specific needs. During 2018, we Committed to providing percent of our global-installed base of launched “learning journeys”, roleand the best customer care linear accelerators is for example consolution oriented rather than product Elekta Care™ is our services program nected to Elekta IntelliMax® – our oriented programs. The learning jourdesigned to support customers throughremote system support. IntelliMax proneys are built in certifiable blocks with a out the entire lifecycle. Backed by a vides securely controlled remote confocus on both devices and software, global support network, with unique nection that monitors our customers giving personnel in the clinical environexpertise and vast experience, we consystems and predicts, detects, and corment a more relevant and targeted tinuously develop and improve our comrects issues before they arise. Advanknowledge. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 21 MARKETS Macro environment Opportunities in a steadily growing market Lack of radiation treatment capacity continues to drive demand for efficient treatment solutions. Underlying economic fundamentals and an increasing average life expectancy also contribute to long-term market growth. However, significant regional differences and scarcity of infrastructure in developing market means the market is fragmented. With sales in more than 120 markets across the globe, Elekta therapy can treat more than 50 percent of cancer cases. strives to develop treatment solutions for customers in all Issues of reimbursement structures, with healthcare markets. Our three main regions are different in character authorities dictating how radiation treatment shall be and conditions vary significantly in their underlying markets. financed, still affects investment sentiment. Even though Large parts of the world still lack infrastructure and total health expenditure per person and national gross access to treatment. In low-income countries, it is not income continues to rise over time, regulation and the furunusual for less than 10 percent of the population to have ther adoption of radiation treatment for more types of canaccess to radiation therapy, while research confirms radiocer remain important in expanding the global market. 470 USD NGI +2.0% 4,714 USD 9,870 USD NGI +2.0% NGI +2.8% 4,233 USD 398 USD NGI +1.2% NGI +6.2% Health expenditure per person and National 63 USD Gross Income growth NGI +5.2% 18 340 USD or more 7 400–18 340 USD 21 USD NGI +2.5% 3 900–7 400 USD 1,016 USD NGI +0.9% less than 3 900 USD Current health expenditure 5,002 USD per capita (current USD), 2016 428 USD NGI +4.5% NGI +2.4% Adjusted net national income (annual % growth), 2017 955 USD Source: The World Bank NGI +3.3% Average life expectancy continues to increase global installed base of treatment systems steadily increases, most As a majority of the world’s population today live in countries where are found in high-income countries. There is thus a significant need income levels are below average, rapidly increasing life expectancy to increase the installed base, particularly in developing regions of in these regions affect access to radiation therapy. Even though the the world. AGE 60+, EXPECTED NUMBER, 100 MILLIONS ESTIMATED NUMBER OF MEGAVOLTAGE MACHINES NEEDED +150% 801 Total cancer patients worldwide, millions Compared to 2015 692 +190% 24 Total cancer patients Compared needing radiotherapy, to 2015 21.6 544 millions 17.1 483 15.2 Estimated number of mega409 394 voltage machines needed 12 23,980 310 320 worldwide 10.8 21,645 8.5 17,113 7.6 15,206 237 54 M  egavoltmachines available worldwide 33 115 (dirac) as of May 2017: 13,653 SOURCE: UN,ST/ ESA/SER.A/390 2015 2030 2050 2015 2020 2030 2035 SOURCE: IAEA, RADIOTHERAPY IN CANCER CARE, FACING THE GLOBAL CHALLENGE, 2017. IAEAL 17-01089 22 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 MARKETS Geographic regions NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA Continued expansion in the world’s largest market The finalization of organizational changes and im­­proved process management has continued to improve performance in the region. Now, Elekta is further expanding its addressable market, tailoring our offer to new customers across North and South America. Market As the world’s single largest market for radiation therapy, the North American CHAR ACTERISTICS market is of strategic importance to Elekta. It is characterized by a high penetraNORTH AMERICA tion of treatment solutions, services and after-market business. Opportunities • The US is the world’s largest market for radiare still prevalent, and the market is expected to continue to grow due to increasation therapy and it has the largest installed ing patient volumes. base of linear accelerators Ongoing consolidation of private healthcare providers and hospitals means the competitive landscape continues to be tough, with certain customers adopt• Predominately private healthcare providers ing longer buying cycles for new treatment solutions. Regulatory reimbursement • The market is driven by replacement investstructures are still under review, albeit with limited effect on customer behavior. ments: renewing installed systems with new The South American market still lacks significant radiation therapy capacity, machines and enhanced functionality contributing to a positive long-term market outlook. Increased activity amongst • Around 60 percent of cancer patients are private sector customers in key markets continue to drive demand in the region. treated with radiation therapy • The world’s highest healthcare costs per ELEKTA´S MARKET POSITION NET SALES person 24% • Increasing efficiency requirements create Solutions, 49% a demand for more integrated and Service, 51% comprehensive solutions Region’s contribution to total net sales, 33% • Ongoing consolidation in the hospital marmarket share of linear ket leads to independent clinics merging accelerator orders with hospitals and healthcare networks Performance and activities SOUTH AMERICA Elekta’s North and South American division continued to deliver a strong per• Growing need for efficient and high-quality formance for the year as a whole, particularly in North America. In December of cancer care 2018, we received 510(k) clearance for the Elekta Unity treatment system in the • Rapidly aging population US. Since then, the system has been approved for commercial sale in Canada. During the fiscal year of 2018/19, Elekta is expanding its addressable market, • A combination of private and public care securing accounts in both the urological and veterinarian fields. In addition to providers maintaining a majority of our installed base, strategically important wins include Cooper, Providence, US Oncology, University of Texas South West (UTSW), Allegany Hospital Group, Memorial Sloan Kettering, American British Cowdray Hospital (ABC), Mexico City and Alberta Cancer Center in Canada. Order intake in the region increased by 7 percent for the year, corresponding to –1 percent based on constant exchange rates. North America had good growth, especially in the second half of the year, whereas the market conditions in South America were challenging. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 23 MARKETS Geographic regions EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA Confirming our leading position With the MR-linac system Elekta Unity approved for commercial sale in Europe, our position of strength improves further. During 2018/19, Elekta secured several deals of strategic importance. Market In developing countries, access to radiation therapy and other forms of advanced CHAR ACTERISTICS cancer treatment is fragmented and scarce. The Western European market is WESTERN EUROPE experiencing growth, both due to an aging installed base in need of replace• Interest and demand for new technology, ment, and investment in new capacity. Here, demand is driven by the increasparticularly in improving clinical efficiency ing number of cancer cases in combination with earlier diagnosis capabilities. For Europe, the central region and its underlying markets the Czech Republic, Croa• Predominately public markets, with tia, Poland and Hungary, is growing rapidly through both public and private seca steadily growing private sector tor investments. • Need for replacement investments The Eastern European markets are smaller yet showing positive signs of activity. and modernization of installed base The resources for cancer treatment are less advanced and many countries rely on • Increasing demand for service and support national programs to expand and modernize care. This means demand can fluctuate over time. In Africa, only a small percentage of the population have access EASTERN EUROPE to radiation therapy, implying significant long-term opportunities for growth. • Less developed resources for cancer care, even if many countries have national proELEKTA´S MARKET POSITION NET SALES grams for expansion and modernization of 44% radiation therapy Solutions, 65% Service, 35% • Russia: Widespread need for increased Region’s contribution to capacity, dependent on domestic economic total net sales, 37% conditions and political priorities market share of linear accelerator orders MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA • Turkey: Growing emerging market, mainly Performance and activities driven by private investments in capacity Our performance for 2018/19 was strong, both in terms of new orders and reveand capability nue growth. Driven by the need to replace and aging installed base, we secured • Middle East: Need for increased capacity. double-digit order growth in several mature European markets, including GerBoth private and state financed hospitals many, France, Netherlands, Spain and Italy. drive demand The recently CE-market MR-linac system, Elekta Unity, has created a lot of interest from potential customers. During the year, Elekta received the 6th Elekta Unity • Africa: Small proportion of the populaorder in the Netherlands. We are now planning installation to our first private custion have access to radiation therapy and tomer in the market. advanced cancer care. Substantial longElekta’s software solutions continue to perform well, both in Europe and in the term potential Middle East and Africa. For the region as a whole, oncology informatics growth and revenue increased by more than 100 percent compared to the previous year. Focused efforts from the region’s service and support division also contributed to our strong result, delivering double-digit order growth and significantly improved revenue from after-market sales. Consolidating 2018/19 results for EMEA as a whole, order intake increased by 25 percent, corresponding to 18 percent based on constant exchange rates. Carrying the sales momentum forward, we have created a solid funnel for new business opportunities going into 2019/20. 24 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 MARKETS Geographic regions ASIA PACIFIC Strong presence in an fast growing region Significant opportunities still exists in the fast-growing Asia Pacific region. Through strong local presence and a continued focus on comprehensive treatment solutions, Elekta is leveraging our strong market position. Market The Chinese market continues to be characterized by growth and strong under­ CHAR ACTERISTICS lying economic fundamentals. Accounting for 45 percent of the region’s total ASIA PACIFIC market, China determines the pace of development for the region as a whole. • Includes 60 percent of the global populaWith recently revised targets set by the government for radiation treatment tion, but less than 30 percent of the world’s capacity, incentives for increased investments are expected to stimulate the linear accelerators. Rapidly increasing life market further. expectancy, improving economic prosperity The long-term need for bolstered cancer care will remain high in the region due and more effective diagnostics are driving to increasing average life expectancy and greater economic prosperity. For Asia long term development of demand for spePacific markets outside China, capacity for new radiation treatment is steadily cialized healthcare expanded. For mature markets in the region, an increasing percentage of older installed systems are reaching the end of the lifecycles, driving demand for ser• China: Elekta’s second largest market after vice and support as well as future replacement investments. the US. Elekta is the clear market leader. For 2018/19, high-growth markets include China, India, South Korea and VietGrowth in both public and private sectors. nam. The Japanese market, which has developed sluggishly in recent years, is Focus is primarily on expansion of capacstarting to become more active. ity. However, replacement investments are becoming more prevalent • Japan: Mature and developed market, ELEKTA´S MARKET POSITION NET SALES in areas oversaturated and focused on 42% Solutions,73% replacement investments. Slow market Service, 27% development during a number of years, but Region’s contribution to good long-term potential for increased use total net sales, 30% of radiation therapy as only 25–30 percent market share of linear of cancer patients receive radiation therapy accelerator orders • Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan: well established healthPerformance and activities care systems with high capacity for cancer We are continuing to be active in the Chinese market, which is one of Elekta’s care. Quick to adopt new technology most important markets globally. During the fiscal year of 2018/19, order intake in • India: Radiation therapy and other types of China increased by 17 percent, corresponding to an increase of 8 percent based specialized healthcare mainly offered in the on constant exchange rates. Our performance in other markets in the region varprivate sector. Growing market still lackied, with strong results in Thailand, Indonesia and Australia, while the investment ing significant capacity. Public sector investactivity in the Japanese market only increased some. ments expected to increase in the long term In the Asia Pacific region, our employees are continuing to develop strategic relationships in important markets. The relationship-driven nature of business in the region means we are working to accommodate the continued demand for comprehensive solutions, whilst catering to specific requirements for individual markets and customers. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 25 Story 1 University Hospital Tübingen’s Elekta Unity is a fully integrated part of the radiotherapy program G “We’re now taking advantage of the exceptional ermany’s University Hospital Tübingen began treating patients with the Elekta Unity image quality of Elekta Unity to enhance and magnetic resonance radiation therapy (MR/RT) system in September 2018, expand online adaptive protocols.”  Professor Dr Daniel Zips at the University Hospital Tübingen. and, since January 2019, has employed the system to treat eight to 10 patients Tübingen-Stuttgart. University Hospinent), in addition to prostate, rectal, per day. Elekta Unity, the world’s first tal Tübingen is the first center in Gerpartial breast and head-and-neck high field MR-linac, enables physicians many to install Elekta Unity. cancers. More than 40 patients have to deliver radiation to a tumor while “Our grant application proposal been treated. simultaneously visualizing the lesion was to investigate the integration of “For these cases, Elekta Unity has with high quality MR images. This functional MR in adaptive, individualprovided better visibility of the target combination permits clinicians to see ized radiotherapy,” he says. “Elekta and clinical structures in situations both tumors and surrounding healthy Unity is the technology that will allow where high soft tissue contrast is tissue at any time during radiation us to further our research in this area, needed,” Professor Zips observes. delivery and adapt the treatment because it is the only system capable “Equally important is that the system accordingly. of providing online, real-time, diagnosprovides a real-time, integrated imagThe impetus to acquire Elekta Unity tic quality MR imaging within the ing workflow for adapting radiotherwas based initially on the Department treatment workflow to allow daily bioapy. Before installing Elekta Unity, we of Radiation Oncology’s research logical response-based radiotherapy.” already had adaptive protocols in goals, which focus on biological By early May 2019, the medical cenplace for certain anatomies, such as response-based individualization of ter had used Elekta Unity for a diverse prostate and head-and-neck, using treatments using imaging biomarkers, array of clinical indications, including offline MRI. We’re now taking advanaccording to Professor Dr. Daniel Zips, oligometastatic tumors below the diatage of the exceptional image quality Medical Director at the hospital’s phragm (e.g., liver, pancreas, lymph of Elekta Unity to enhance and expand Comprehensive Cancer Center (CCC) nodes, bone with soft tissue compoonline adaptive protocols.” 26 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 Story 2 Elekta – leading the market in China C hina has always been very market and to sign letters of intent and Indonesia in region APAC, as well important to Elekta ever since with approximately 60 hospitals and as to hospitals in Germany, France, we first entered the market 37 organizations from all over China. Spain, Italy and Slovakia. years ago. The past year has seen us Elekta Unity continues to generate Another milestone this year was the secure our market leadership while great interest in China. Shandong inauguration of the Elekta Radiation strengthening partnerships within the Cancer Hospital in Jinan City is one of Therapy Academy. This coincided with country. This is particularly significant the sites that has come furthest in the the 2019 Elekta User Meeting and Sumgiven that the Chinese government required clinical trials. Earlier this year, mit on Precision Radiation Medicine for indicated it will finance what some as it used Elekta Unity to treat its first Chinese customers, with over a thouanalysts consider its largest radiation patient, a woman with metastatic sand users and hospital representatherapy investment in history: over breast cancer. These clinical trials are tives in attendance. The RT Academy 1,000 new radiotherapy systems. one of several steps in the process that will support China’s comprehensive Elekta’s leading position was conElekta follows to gain China Food and development of the country’s radiofirmed by being the only radiation Drug Administration (CFDA) approval therapy industry and its need to train therapy company to present at the and enable healthcare providers in the more radiotherapy personnel. first China International Import Expo country to offer Elekta Unity to their In a country where over 10 thousand (CIIE) 2018, in November. Anming patients. people a day are diagnosed with canGong, Executive Vice President Region Meanwhile, Elekta Beijing Medical cer1, radiation therapy has an undeniChina, said that Elekta’s ambition at Systems (EBMS) Co. Ltd., our largest able role. Elekta will continue to meet the event was to generate greater production, research and developthis need and remain a vital part in awareness of radiation therapy from ment, and distribution center outside improving access to quality treatment the government, experts and hospitals of Europe, has produced and shipped throughout China. in cancer treatment and support the advanced linear accelerators such as industry grow. Elekta used the event to Elekta Synergy® to centers in 11 counlaunch Elekta Unity and Leksell tries around the world, including 1) According to statistics from the China National Cancer Gamma Knife Icon to the Chinese Japan, Australia, New Zealand, China Center in 2015. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 27 Story 3 Innovative provider GenesisCare relies on MOSAIQ to keep the radiotherapy workflow flowing A s the largest provider of cancer Since 2017, GenesisCare centers in the focus areas , including delivering high services in Australia, the UK and Australian state of Queensland have quality care for people with non-melaSpain, quality, access and effibeen evolving and implementing care noma skin cancer, will benefit from the ciency are top priorities for GenesisCare. pathways for radiotherapy patients, automated MOSAIQ workflow. With locations in 31 centers across five enabling the healthcare system to pro“We’re partnering with dermatolostates in Australia, and another 30 in vide evidence-based care guidelines gists to deliver modern radiotherapy Europe, GenesisCare treats more than through automation. A care pathway for skin cancer,” she says. “The whole 2,500 radiotherapy patients each day. A is the end-to-end process starting with workflow is automated in MOSAIQ and seamless treatment journey demands a the patient’s referral to GenesisCare, standardized across all the Genesiscomprehensive patient management right through to follow-up after Care centers in Australia. It also information system that centralizes treatment. enables us to better track clinical outpatient data in radiation oncology, “The care pathway includes all comcomes for patients participating in a medical oncology and – a new field of ponents in between, not just the treatskin cancer registry, so we can continmedicine at GenesisCare – theranostics, ment protocol,” Hunt explains. “The IQ ually improve the care we provide.”” into a single user interface, accessible by Scripts functionality in MOSAIQ gives Ultimately, MOSAIQ automation multi-disciplinary teams across multiple us the ability to automate all the tasks has condensed GenesisCare’s “see, locations. and activities associated with a care plan, treat” workflow to deliver more To satisfy these oncology informapathway. Today, we are using a single, rapid access to treatment for patients, tion system (OIS) requirements, Genegeneric care pathway for the common according to Hunt. sisCare has been using Elekta’s MOSAIQ tasks and activities associated with “We’re always trying to reduce the since 2007. “The system has been speradiotherapy patients, and we are also time between different stages of the cifically designed for radiation and designing tumor-specific care pathpatient’s treatment journey and automedical oncology, so it allows doctors ways and will implement those in the mating the workflow with MOSAIQ has to log in to a single system and can see next six to 12 months.” been critical in making that happen,” everything they need to see,” says According to Maria Marney, Geneshe says. Denise Hunt, GenesisCare’s Head of IT sisCare Clinical Applications Specialist, for Oncology in Australia. the organization’s new treatment 28 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT What we do matters How we do it matters more than ever Elekta’s business model is to develop, manufacture and market innovative solutions for precision radiation medicine as well as to provide services for the installed base. While pursuing our business we must be mindful of how our operations affect various stakeholders and the environment. It is our responsibility to continuously aim at minimize negative impact and maximize value creation throughout our value chain. FY 18/19 – a year of reflection and looking ahead To “Focus where it matters” applies to our strategy for Contributing to the ­Corporate Responsibility as much as to our broader comSustainable Development Goals pany strategy. Our operations touch upon a range of sustainability topics, but if we want our sustainability efforts to have real impact we must understand and identify the issues most material to our operations. This year we have strengthened our materiality assessment, by engaging a broader group of key stakeholders and by deepening the dialogue with them. We also raised employee awareness and engagement by communicating a movie we made, together with a survey, about our Corporate Responsibility Program and the challenges and opportunities we meet with regard to sustainability. Furthermore, we decided on a clear pathway for our susElekta has great potential to contribute in particular to eight tainability reporting and aim to report in accordance with of the Sustainable Development Goals. Strengthening Good GRI Standards on core level in two years’ time. Health and Wellbeing (Goal 3) is where we have the most notable impact to contribute. Our fundamental business Elekta as global corporate citizen model is to improve, prolong and save the lives of people with cancer and brain disorders. Our commitment to sustainability and corporate responsiThe targets of specific relevance under each goal are: bility is guided by the leading global standards: 3.4, 4.4, 5.1, 5.5, 8.5, 8.7, 9A, 9B, 12.4, 12.5, 12.6, 12.7, 16.5, 17.6, 17.9, 17.16, 17.17 • We have been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2017 Setting priorities – stakeholder • We adhere to the United Nations Guiding Principles on engagement and materiality assessment Business and Human Rights This year we invigorated our assessment of the most import• We make sure to follow the OECD Guidelines for Multinaant sustainability issues for our industry and our specific busitional Enterprises (as well as its associated due diligence ness, by engaging a broader group of key stakeholders. We guidance for responsible business conduct) surveyed a larger group of investors with a 100 percent • We aim to contribute to Agenda 2030 and the United response rate. The survey was also sent to our 3,800 employNations’ Sustainable Development Goals. We have develees as well as our Executive Management and their direct oped our Corporate Responsibility Program around 8 of reports. We asked our stakeholders to rank various sustainabilthese goals ity issues and individual topics based on how material they are in relation to our business and their impact on sustainable Another way we make sure we contribute to, and are up to development. Each issue were to be assigned a score 1–3 in the date with, a global sustainability agenda is by being active ranking. We included input from relevant networks/NGOs as members in networks and industry associations working on well as general external stakeholder priorities of the medical sustainability, such as the UN Global Compact (Sweden), supplies sector, e.g. the SASB materiality map. Finally, we anaSwedish Leadership for Sustainable Development (headed by lyzed the results and discussed in the Corporate Responsibility SIDA) and Swedish Medtech’s forum for sustainability affairs. Steering Committee how the raised issues align with our Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 29 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Materiality assessment Fight Cancer High 1 Innovation and R&D 4 2 Quality and product recalls 3 Access to healthcare and philantrophy IMPORTANCE TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Business Ethics 4 Competition and bid-rigging 17 5 6 5 Anti-corruption compliance 19 1 6 Privacy and data security 10 11 2 Effective corporate governance 7  8 7 and board oversight 18 8 Export control and safe trading 9 12 Medium 9 Tax Management 14 16 Sustainable Sourcing 10 Supply chain and labor rights 13 11 Hazardous waste in own operations 12 Traceability and conflict minerals 13 Waste and water in own operations 14 CO2 emissions and energy use 15 Environmental impact in supply chain 16 Life cycle and reuse of materials 15 3 People in Focus 17 Health and safety Low 18 Employee satisfaction 19 Diversity and inclusion IMPACT TO ELEKTA’S BUSINESS Low Medium High All the topics shown in this diagram are important in our responsibility work. Those in the top right corner of the diagram are most important to our business and sustainable development. priorities and opportunity to contribute to a sustainable develstakeholders. Corporate governance and board oversight opment. The outcome of this year’s mapping exercise is shown were on the other hand typically rated higher among external in the graph above. Matters pertinent to access to healthcare/ stakeholders. The results essentially confirmed the priorities quality and safety, came out high in both external and interidentified earlier, but the assessment enabled us to identify nal stakeholder groups. Business ethics and integrity, e.g. with more certainty the issue clusters having the most anti-corruption, privacy protection etc., also ranked high. impact. Going forward, we will expand even further the group The employee survey showed that topics pertinent to quality, of stakeholders and continuously work to ensure we focus innovation and R&D as well as employee satisfaction were where it matters. ranked somewhat higher than they were among external 30 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our four focus areas: the Elekta Corporate Responsibility Program On the basis of our assessment of the sustainability issues that are most material to Elekta’s business, we have divided Responsibility across the entire value chain our Corporate Responsibility Program into four different focus areas: Product development Safety aspects, from installation to handling and use, comprise an integral part of the Fight Business development process. Focus moving forward Cancer Ethics is continued development of innovative and energy­efficient products, which help clinics reduce energy consumption. Suppliers Elekta currently procures direct materials Sustainable People in from about 600 suppliers. Most salient risks are labor related and sourcing of conflict Sourcing Focus minerals. Manufacturing Elekta has three production units of our own: one in China, one in the Netherlands and one in Fight Cancer is the essence of our business. In the framework the UK. All facilities are certified in accordance of our corporate responsibility strategy this means that we with the ISO 14001 environmental management system. partner up with leading organizations around the world to strengthen the quality of patient care and to improve the access to healthcare in underserved parts of the world. Read more on pages 33–34. Transportation Transport and travel account for a significant portion of Elekta’s environmental impact. Business Ethics is not just about compliance with national A Group-wide logistics platform is used to and international law and regulatory frameworks. It is about reduce the volume of transportation and building a culture supporting everyone at, or working for packaging and to streamline the delivery Elekta, in taking the right decisions in the daily work. of spare parts. Read more on pages 35–38. Sustainable Sourcing is about utilizing the potential of Sales having a global supply chain and ensuring that the suppliers Working with external distributors and agents we work with also keep with the highest ethical business means strict demands on internal strategies standards, respect the rights of the workers and minimize and processes to counter the risk of corruption. negative impact on environment. Increased need for robust procedures when dealing with healthcare professionals and Read more on pages 39–41. public authorities. People in Focus is where it all begins. Our employees are our most important assets. As an employer, we strive to build a Usage sustainable workplace that supports professional and perOur core business directly contributes to the sonal growth and wellbeing. Our global People Agenda aims Sustainable Development Goals by providing to leverage the full potential of our employees. better access to cancer treatments. It is crucial Read more on pages 42–46. that the products provide a high level of safety during use. Elekta offers in-depth training on how the products work and should be used. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 31 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Corporate responsibility governance: How does it work? Successful integration and effective management of our Corporate Responsibility Program requires having committed leadership, clear direction and a robust governance structure. At Elekta we maintain the following principles for corporate responsibility governance. 1. Commitment begins at the top. 2. Strong coordination and consistent follow up. Acting responsibly is key for long-term success and continued The Compliance and Integrity function at Elekta is responsiprofitability. Therefore, corporate responsibility needs to be high ble for developing the company’s Corporate Responsibility on our agenda. In order to fully integrate and implement our Program. The program is managed by the Senior Vice Presiprogram to corporate responsibility, we have a cross-functional dent Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer (since 2018 and high-level steering committee for Corporate Responsibility member of the Executive Management team) together convening at least three times a year. It is comprised of the with the Corporate Responsibility Manager. CEO, the Chairman of the Board as well as five members of the Executive Management (including 1. Commitment 2. Strong functions such as Compliance and begins at coordination Integrity, Procurement, HR, Comthe top and consistent munications, Finance). The work of follow up this group streamlines the process of implementing relevant actions and targets throughout the differCorporate ent functions, business units and responsibility business lines in our organization, governance as well as measuring results. This in turn enables us to better commu3. Integration and 4. Bottom up 4. Bottom up ownership nicate our efforts and increase alignment with ownership and engagement. engagement among our importcore business and In order for a corporate responsiant stakeholders including strategy engagement bility governance structure to be employees, customers and successful it must be flexible investors. enough to allow for idea’s and inspiration that can come from 3. Integration and alignment with core business strategy. all parts of the organization. By allowing employees to be Corporate responsibility must be part of the processes and part of the corporate responsibility thinking we stimulate operations of the entire business and directly linked to the bottom up ownership and engagement. primary business goals. Corporate responsibility governance The ethical principles in our Elekta Code of Conduct are structures that align with and complement the existing all cornerstones in building a sustainable company for the business model and organizational structures are more sucfuture. The Code applies to everyone working for and on cessful and prevent creating redundant or competing behalf of Elekta; employees, consultants, controlled compastructures. nies, distributors and agents. For more information on our policies and Code of Conduct, see page 36. 32 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Fight cancer Fight Cancer 1.5 million patients treated every year with an Elekta solution ~1,000 training sessions of medical professionals at Elekta Care Learning Centers. Global access to cancer treatments We are committed to ensuring everyone with cancer in the world has access to, and benefits, from efficient radiotherapy treatments. Making treatments simpler, automated and more affordable, is one step along the way. Why is this important? There is also a shortage of trained and qualified personnel For us, Precision Radiation Medicine means delivering globin many parts of the world, which hinders expansion, since ally accessible, precise and personalized radiation therapy radiotherapy must be planned and performed by specialthat targets the tumor and protects the patient. We work ists. Generally speaking, one important aspect of increasing systematically to engage clinics and researchers and collabglobal access is to create awareness of clinical advantages orate through consortiums and partnerships to make this a of radiotherapy, in order to encourage acceptance and reality all over the world. Elekta Unity is one example, where adoption of radiotherapy treatments in more countries. we through an industrial-academic partnership managed For any supplier it is a fundamental prerequisite to be to develop a cutting-edge radiotherapy system that enables able to ensure the quality and safety of the products and clinicians to see what they treat while the treatment is takservices offered. This is particularly important for a provider ing place. Our strategic approach to involve users at an of advanced medical equipment, such as Elekta. Radiation early stage for new innovations like this, has proved to be therapy solutions involve the delivery of high doses of radiavery successful. tion, which could cause serious harm if not performed Even though high-quality cancer treatments are availcorrectly. able, access is unequally distributed and lack of proper cancer care is still a major problem in several regions. 95 percent How are we contributing? of all radiotherapy equipment is available to only 20 percent Access for all of the world’s population. There is an estimated deficiency of We want to play a key role to better serve all markets: around 5,000 radiotherapy machines in lowand middle-in• Adapting products and offerings to the demands and come countries and more than 30 countries are currently opportunities of different markets is in constant focus at without even one single radiotherapy service. More than 50 Elekta. Operating our high-technology equipment percent of all cancer patients will require radiotherapy, but in requires qualified and experienced clinicians (radiation lowand middle-income countries only 30 percent of cancer oncologist, radiation therapists, medical physicists etc.) patients receives the care they urgently need. To accommodate the needs of our customers in emerging Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 33 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Fight cancer and growth markets, our focus over the last year has been to develop solutions that are smarter and more userCorporate giving friendly, and that requires less experience of the clinicians Each year, Elekta makes significant contributions to support that operate them, without it imperiling the clinical or training & education, public awareness, patient support, operational excellence of the cancer care. In the final research and scientific advancement. The Corporate Giving stages of developing an advanced and innovative system Committee decides on corporate giving activities, followthat guides the clinicians, we hope to be able to offer such ing our policy on sponsorships and reflecting the company’s a solution during the year to come. commitment to doing business with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with all applicable laws. • Enabling access to education and training is essential Our approach to corporate giving is to engage in initiatives since trained personnel is a prerequisite for effective prethat involves local stakeholders, put the patient in focus and vention, early detection and adequate treatment of caninvolve our employees. We also add particular emphasis on cer. Our Elekta Care Learning Centers in Cape Town, Beidisadvantaged and underserved patient populations. A few jing, and Atlanta, offer training to professionals and examples of our initiatives during the year: • We are a proud sponsor of Union for Cancer Control (UICC), enable easier access to training in the regions. Here, cliniwho strives to unite and support the cancer community to cians can learn more about the use of linear accelerators, reduce the global cancer burden, promote greater equaloncology information systems and treatment planning ity, and to ensure cancer control continues to be a priority systems. During the year, close to a thousand training sesin the world health and development agenda sions of customer’s medical professionals were performed • We regularly donate to and partner with organizations at Elekta Care Learning Centers. such as the Swedish Cancer Society, Radiating Hope and • Collaborating through global partnerships is crucial if the Radiation Oncology Institute with the aim of advancing global cancer research and awareness we are to develop the best solutions together with our stakeholders. Our strategic collaboration in the research • During 2019 we will also complete the installation of our project that resulted in Elekta Unity is one example. linac donation via IAEA to Jordan’s Al Bashir Hospital, reinforcing Jordan’s ability to treat the influx of Syrian refugees • Offering financing solutions is one enabling factor in and of course its own citizens with advanced precision radiemerging markets, where the financing of our products is ation medicine often a limiting factor. During the year we have increased our cooperation with the Swedish Export Credit Corporation (SEK), the Swedish Export Credit Agency (EKN) and various leasing companies, in order to develop and offer As a medical device manufacturer, Elekta must comply with financing solutions for customers in need. strict and comprehensive international legal requirements and product-safety standards. Naturally, Elekta is certified Quality and safety is fundamental with ISO 9001 (quality management systems) and ISO 13485 Quality and safety in all our products and offerings as well (design and manufacture of medical devices). Quality manas in our business operations is a prerequisite in order to sucagement systems are reviewed by both internal and thirdceed in our mission to fight cancer. Product safety is a top party auditors and certified by external regulatory bodies priority and permeates our entire operations. The goal is to and authorities that conduct regular inspections. meet the highest possible safety standards for all products, Elekta contributes to gentler and more effective treatfor customers and patients, as well as for the company’s ment options for patients, which may also reduce the need own installation and service employees. Elekta’s products for hospitalization and thereby lower costs for healthcare. are developed, manufactured, marketed, sold and serviced in accordance with quality-controlled processes. 34 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Business ethics Business Ethics 2,150 employees trained in Ethical Blindness workshops Celebrating being one of the 2019 world’s most ethical companies Business ethics and preventing corruption Corruption is a considerable obstacle to sustainable development. Elekta makes it a top priority to combat corruption and bribery and other unethical business practices. We implement effective best-practice guidance and anti-bribery programs with an emphasis on values and behavior. Why is this important? How are we working with this? Unethical business such as corrupt or anti-competitive We have a robust compliance program to detect, prevent behavior is detrimental to a sustainable economic and and mitigate unethical behavior in all our business activities. social development. Such practices can also have a subThis includes: stantial negative impact on innovation, customers and ultimately the well-being of patients. 1 Top level commitment As we strive for our equipment to be available to as many The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the patients as possible worldwide, we may be operating in implementation of an effective anti-bribery and corruption countries with higher exposure for corruption and unethical compliance program. SVP Chief Compliance & Integrity Offibehavior. The healthcare sector is particularly vulnerable to cer reports to the board at least four times a year on risks, corruption due to the close interaction with those in charge programs and ongoing issues and investigations. For more of government funds. A high level of interaction with information on the Compliance function and its interaction healthcare professionals calls for detailed guidelines on with the Board of Directors, see the Corporate Governance business practices that need to be free from even the sugReport on page 54. gestion of improper influence. We cooperate with a variety Our CEO demonstrates commitment through genuine of business partners selling our solutions to customers in engagement and regular communication to employees on more than 120 countries, many of which are considered to expected behavior. be at high risk of corruption by e.g. Transparency International. Working with distributors and agents places a large 2 Risk assessments responsibility on us to select partners that uphold a high We identify our biggest risks through systematic risk assessstandard of ethical conduct and to develop and maintain ments where high-risk geographies with strategic imporefficient compliance programs. tance to Elekta are prioritized. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 35 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Business ethics Compliance program: preventing corruption whilst strengthening business ethics MITIGATION RISK AUDIT Monitoring and continuous Risk improvements assessment Detect and respond appropriately 9 2 to allegations and discipline misconduct 8 1 3 Organization Top-level commitment Interaction with health7 4 Practical and accessible care professionals policies and procedures 6 5 Third party risk Communication management and training Step 1: Identification Our compliance program consisting of Step 2: Commercial evaluation Step 3: Compliance Due diligence Step 4: Notification Step 5: Contracting Step 6: Monitoring nine main activities designed to strengthen business ethics and prevent corruption. • Anti-Corruption Policy 3 Compliance organization The Board of Directors has assigned the SVP Chief Compli• Conflicts of Interest ance & Integrity Officer autonomy and resources for the • Fair Competition day-to-day management of the program, with functional reporting to the President and CEO. • Privacy • Confidential Information 4 Practical and accessible policies and procedures • Insider trading Our Code of Conduct and Group-wide Anti-Corruption Policy are cornerstones in building and maintaining personal • Export Control integrity across the company and protecting our reputation. • People Policy The updated Code of Conduct was launched in 2015 and has since been revised to include a new CEO statement tying the 5 Communication and training letter and spirit of the Code to our corporate values. We strive to make Code of Conduct training as relevant and The Anti-Corruption Policy provides guidance to employees engaging as possible for employees and business partners. and business partners, primarily in various interactions with Our Code of Conduct training focusing on psychology of healthcare providers and professionals. Local Anti-Corruption decision and includes ethical dilemmas and real-life case Supplements have been developed for certain countries where scenarios. we have identified a need for more detailed and stricter guideTo provide hands-on and easily available guidance on the lines than the general standards set forth in the global main corporate policies, monthly training videos dedicated Anti-Corruption Policy. to a specific topic are published internally. To ensure a wide The Code is available in 11 languages and is further elabodistribution and that the policies are understood and pracrated by a number of corporate policies emanating from the ticed by all employees, this material is embedded in a manBoard of Directors, the President and CEO, which are contindatory Code of Conduct e-training course. uously kept updated. These include the following: The Code of Conduct training is supplemented with cus36 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Business ethics Compliance specific audits are supplemented with audits Why do good people make bad decisions? performed by the Internal Audit function. Our foundational Code of Conduct training draws from a Findings from audits are used in improving both, concept developed by Professor Guido Palazzo and weaves local and global programs. together the theory of Ethical Blindness, which is thought to be a result of a complex interplay between decisions by individuals and various contextual factors, with ethical dilemKey developments during the past year mas and real-life cases and scenarios. Our compliance program has reached a level of maturity whereby we are now in position to measure its effectiveness through thorough risk assessments. The aim of the risk assesstomized anti-corruption training to both Elekta employees ments is to identify any gaps our compliance program might and business partners. We also provide customized have in a specific region and to implement actions to mitigate anti-bribery and corruption training in-person, focusing on such deficiencies. Such risk assessment are conducted as the risk employees are facing in their day to day job. workshops together with the relevant regional management and external support. These risk assessments are supported 6 Third party risk management with specific compliance audits we have included in the scope To manage third party representative risk, we have strict of audits performed by the internal audit function. requirements on completion of an automated risk-based due In the beginning of last year, the Code of Conduct traindiligence on all third-party intermediaries and the inclusion of ing had reached all Elekta employees allowing us to focus on compliance with laws language in all representative agreeproviding more customized trainings based on employees’ ments. The compliance-with-laws-clause sets forth clear role and risk profile whilst maintaining Code of Conduct expectations on business conduct and provides audit rights. training as a part of employee orientation programs and continuing the development of engaging e-learnings. The 7 Interactions with healthcare professionals launch of Elekta Leadership Programs has also given us an Representing one of our biggest risk, we have clear guideopportunity to include compliance as an integrated compolines in our anti-corruption policies on interactions with nent of training to Elekta managers and future leaders. healthcare professionals. These guidelines are aligned with We were also able to provide face to face training to our discodes that have been developed together with peers in tributors in some of the higher risk regions. With the implemenleading industry associations. Such cooperation and aligntation of Elekta Third Party Risk Management program we are ment is key for the creation of a binding framework for ethisending a clear message to our representatives of Elekta’s cal business conduct between the medical device industry expectations on business conduct. Phase 1 of the Third Party and healthcare professionals. Risk Management Program involves compliance due diligence on all commercial intermediaries using automated Compli8 Detect and respond ance Desktop software. Phase 2 expands the scope of the ProTo facilitate employee reporting of any violations of the gram to include any companies interacting with government Code of Conduct, Elekta has established a global whistle­ officials on Elekta’s behalf. Such companies can include regisblower tool that can be used to anonymously report any tration agents and customs brokers to name a few. suspected violations. All cases reported are followed up An ethics survey was sent out to all Elekta employees to internally by the SVP Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer gauge the organization’s perception on whether we truly live and reported to the board at regular intervals. our values. A majority of the respondents felt that Elekta Employees are encouraged to report misconduct openly senior management genuinely promote a culture of complior by using our interactive Integrity Line run by an indepenance and integrity and that actions would be taken should dent third party for purposes of anonymous reporting. In they report a violation of Elekta Code of Conduct. 2018/19, five cases of alleged violations of law or our Code of Conduct were reported through the Elekta Integrity Line, directly to Compliance or our specific compliance e-mail One of the world’s most ethical companies address or through other channels. A majority of the cases reported were related to conflicts of interest. All relevant Elekta was identified as one of the world’s most ethical companies in 2019, according to the Ethisphere Institute. Ethicases are being reviewed and followed up with appropriate sphere awarded 128 international companies, judged on rigremediation measures. orous criteria across five categories covering the quality of their ethics and compliance programs, organizational cul9 Monitoring and continuous improvement ture, corporate citizenship and responsibility, governance, To ensure the effectiveness of a compliance program, audits and leadership and reputation. The honorees are recognized for their critical role in influencing and driving positive need to be performed to uncover any possible gaps in the change in the business community. Elekta is one of only two program, its implementation and the local requirements. medical device companies to receive the award. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 37 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Business ethics Performance and outlook Goals communicated 2017/18 Achievements 2018/19 Status New goals 2019/20 Risk assessments Anti-Bribery and Corruption Focus on further enhancing the risk Finalize Anti-Bribery and Corruption risk Risk Assessment workshops to assessment for North America with exterassessment for Regions Middle East, Africa be conducted in Regions Middle nal expertise. The scope for in-depth risk (now also including India) and China. East, Africa and China. assessments in Middle East, Africa and China has been set and the project has been resourced. Competition law risk assessment High-risk areas have been selected folDevelop and implement enhanced compe(during 2019). lowing an initial risk assessment. The tition law compliance program based on scope for in-depth risk assessment of result of in-depth risk assessment. selected areas has been set. Third-Party Risk Management Identified the (types of) intermediaries Audit adherence to Third-Party Risk ManCompliance Desktop Due diliincluded in the scope of Phase 2. agement Program. gence for Phase 2 intermediarBenchmark Third-Party Risk Management ies (governmental officials and Program. other non-sales intermediaries). Complete Phase 2 deployment and initiate Phase 3 (high-risk third party product suppliers). Communication and training 90% of all employees to receive Development of the concept for Evaluate “Leading with Integrity” training Code of Conduct and Ethical next-generation training “Leading with and set plan with targets for completion. Blindness Training. Integrity”. Develop “Compliance Ambassador Program” and “Compliance Day Initiative”. 90% of employees to complete Goal revised: Instead of launch part 2, 90% of employees to complete refreshed Part 2 Code of Conduct Training. refresh a new Code of Conduct e-learning new Code of Conduct Training. in conjunction with new organization. E-learning for distributors rolled Goal postponed due to opportunity to Roll-out E-learning for distributors with out. train distributors face to face during the targets for completion. year. Detect and respond Re-launch all-employee EthLaunched all-employee first-generation New Ethics Survey to be launched subseics Survey to measure employee ethics survey to get a baseline for develquent to launch of new organization. perception of tone at the top opment of key integrity questions. and culture of compliance and integrity. Embed Compliance and Integrity Achieved. Continue including Compliance compoaudits into internal audits (where nents in feasible internal audits. feasible). Assess effectiveness of Elekta’s Ethics survey addressed employee percepRe-launch a transparency & openness Reporting Violations Policy (incl. tion of speak-up culture. campaign and improve the response rate Elekta Integrity Line). for this question. Ongoing on track Ongoing not on track Achieved Not achieved 38 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sustainable sourcing Sustainable Sourcing 100% completed training in sustainable sourcing for procurement staff globally Circular economy projects successfully launched Building sustainable supply chains While Elekta’s products contribute to relieve the suffering of patients, we must ensure we do no harm to any lives or to the environment during the process of manufacturing them. The decisions we make on who we source from and how we work with them can have pro­found implications. Our suppliers are thus crucial partners for our success as a company. To follow internationally proclaimed human rights and enviEnvironmental protection ronmental rules and regulations, to maintain the highest On the environmental side our most prominent risks are ethical business standards, to respect the rights of the worksuppliers who specialize in heavy manufacturing processes, ers and minimizing negative impact on environment, are all coating systems, chemical deposition and metallurgical preconditions for doing business with Elekta. casting resulting in potential waste and hazardous chemical disposal. Why is this important? Human and labor rights How are we working with this? Our most salient human rights risk relates to labor rights in Human and labor rights the manufacturing and sourcing of conflict minerals. There Our commitment to human rights and labor rights is set out is a risk that workers in our supply chain work excessive overin the Elekta Code of Conduct, which is applicable to everytime, lacks freedom of association, experience forced labor one working for and on behalf of Elekta, including suppliers or have low wages. Some of our products contain, to a and business partners. The Code of Conduct prohibits any smaller extent, minerals such as cobalt and tungsten. These form of forced, compulsory or child labor and proclaims the minerals are often mined in high-risk or conflict-affected right to fair wages including time to rest, overtime compenareas and there might be modern slavery-like working consation and holidays. In 2017, we developed a new Supplier ditions connected to their extraction. Code of Conduct, see elekta.com, which presents more speAs the majority of our suppliers of direct materials do not cific requirements on Elekta suppliers, in all markets and operate in countries with known high exposure for adverse jurisdictions. The Supplier Code of Conduct includes more human rights impact, our biggest risks in this regard are detailed requirements on human rights and labor rights, but located further upstream in our supply chain. Elekta therealso regarding sourcing of conflict minerals, business ethics, fore places a strong emphasis on suppliers to ensure their and environmental protection. Under the Supplier Code of sub-suppliers comply with the requirements of the Supplier Conduct, all Elekta suppliers are required to set the same Code of Conduct. requirements for their suppliers. We work to ensure that Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 39 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sustainable sourcing Sustainable Sourcing Program Phase 1-suppliers (direct material, HIGH RISK 1 90 % spend) and Phase 2 -suppliers 1 (the remaining 10 % direct material) 2 On-site audit (Elekta or third-party auditor) Supplier questionnaire in 2 Compliance Desktop together with Elekta assessment Yearly risk Preferred or Active: Risk grading and dialogue with assessment No follow up audit 3 procurement of all suppliers 3 Identified non-conformities Corrective MEDIUM RISK action plan Conditional or Disqualified: Possible Follow up within six months in dialogue desk-top audit, seeking LOW RISK clarifications No audit warranted or additional information 5 Follow up audit 4 messaging of these policies is consistently distributed ble laws, regulations and standards regarding the environthroughout our business and our supply chains. ment. To accomplish this, all our sites have local environLast year we launched a Sustainable Sourcing Program mental management systems that are certified with ISO (see figure above). Suppliers are required to answer a Sup14001. The task to improve our environmental performance, plier Assessment Questionnaire (consisting of 90 questions) is further facilitated by having a groupwide Environmental to show how well they understand and comply with the Policy and a groupwide, cross-functional coordination team. Elekta Supplier Code of Conduct. The answers to the quesThrough our Supplier Code of Conduct, we ask the same of tionnaire indicate the risk category of each supplier. Our our suppliers as we do of ourselves. approach is always cooperation and continuous improveElekta strives to continuously reduce carbon related ment, regardless of risk scoring. We will engage with suppligreenhouse gas emissions and publishes detailed informaers and provide guidance when necessary to close non-contion about the Company’s climate impact and carbon emisformities and improve results. Ending a business relationship sions within the framework of the Carbon Disclosure Project is a last resort and only an option if the supplier is not willing (CDP). The absolute majority of our emissions are Scope 3, to improve. mainly indirect upstream emissions caused by purchasing The Sustainable Sourcing Program also functions as our components used in our products, transportation of such due diligence procedure to identify and mitigate risks goods and business travel. For more detailed information related to modern slavery and human trafficking in our on our emissions, visit cdp.net. ­supply chain (see the Elekta Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, see elekta.com). Elekta’s procureKey developments during the past year ment function is responsible for implementing the Supplier There are many initiatives for the environment, and for makCode of Conduct and the Sustainable Sourcing Program, ing Elekta a more environmentally sustainable company, with support from the Corporate Responsibility Manager. around our organization. For example, during the past year, we moved the die casting of heavy iron parts in our Leksell Environmental protection Gamma Knife (LGK) to Sweden from China, which resulted in At Elekta, we are committed to continuously reduce the significant decrease in CO2 emissions. Furthermore, two projenvironmental impact of all operations and of our products ects to refurbish and re-use materials for the LGK was sucand solutions and, naturally, to be compliant with applicacessfully implemented during the year. One project regards 40 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sustainable sourcing to the supplier for verification and reused for collimators in Circular economy of the linacs new LGKs. In this context, we will during the coming year In January 2019 two mechanical engineers working in Crawexpand to assess if there are other main components in the ley, England, initiated a large-scale, recycle-project for our radiation unit we can circulate into new LGKs. We will in this linear accelerators (linacs). The idea is to take back linacs aspect not limit ourselves to only the actual components, but which have reached end-of-life, and refurbish high environmental impact assemblies so that they can be reused and include also the packaging of them. We are running a study reassembled into new linacs. The project is still in its early for reuse of packaging material for the main Gamma Knife phases, but with strong support from the top (CEO and Execcomponents. The intention is to improve box quality, enabling utive Management), and the establishment of a cross-funccirculation of packaging back to suppliers for reuse many tional working group, the project has great potential. We aim times. There are several other projects with a circular econfor it to be implemented as soon as possible. omy mindset taking form within the Elekta, not least the project for linacs (see text box). We believe that forming close relationships with relevant the computer from which the LGK is controlled (a Machine third-party vendors is a crucial step to accelerate and support Control Unit, MCU). Instead of just being decommissioned at the implementation of the Sustainable Sourcing Program. the end of its life-cycle, the MCU is now returned to the supSince 2019 we are members of the Responsible Minerals Initiaplier, which refurbish it, and can then be reused by other custive and are working with them to trace the source of all mintomers needing this computer. The other project regards the erals in our products. We are also collaborating with the Red reuse of the tungsten collimator (the device that narrows the Flag Group (providing the web-based Compliance Desktop® beams) for the LGKs. The body of tungsten may be returned application) and Intertek (acting as third-party auditor). Performance and outlook Goals communicated 2017/18 Achievements 2018/19 Status New goals 2019/20 and beyond Supplier Code of Conduct trainSustainable Sourcing training provided to all On-going. Training will be provided coning to procurement staff. procurement staff globally. tinuously as relevant (e.g. new recruits or updates of the Code). Due diligence and risk-grading Over 70% of all Phase 1 suppliers completed On-going. Phase 2-suppliers (remainof Phase 1 suppliers. questionnaire and risk assessed. ing number of direct material suppliers) to complete Compliance Desktop questionnaire in FY 2019/20. Expand Sustainable Sourcing Program to include all relevant indirect material suppliers. Conduct on-site audits of idenAudits with the few identified high-risk suppliers On-going. Conduct desk-top audits of tified high-risk suppliers. not performed per end of FY, but planned for Q1 medium risk suppliers by FY 19/20. FY 19/20. Member of Responsible MinerSince 2019 we are members of the ResponsiContinue to determine source countries als Initiative (RMI) and focus on ble Minerals Initiative and with their help set out of minerals used in Elekta products. determining source countries of to trace the source countries of minerals in our minerals used in our products. products. Assess feasibility of introducing Two circular economy projects have been sucSet a coordinated global strategy for a take-back program (circular cessfully implemented for the Leksell Gamma circular economy initiatives, including economy). Knife. A project for refurbishing linacs has also recycling and packaging, and continue initiated. to drive forward the projects already initiated, during FY 19/20. Aim at reducing our environIn scope 3, we have reduced somewhat our relaContinue to reduce our environmenmental impact (emissions to tive emission figures for FY 18/19 compared to FY tal impacts, such as emissions to air but air and water and avoidance 17/18. In scope 2, our figures have been halved, also hazardous material and waste. of environmentally hazardous mainly due to a switch to a market-based calcumaterial where possible). lation method. For more detailed information, visit cdp.net. Ongoing on track Ongoing not on track Achieved Not achieved Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 41 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT People in focus People in Focus 120 new managers trained in the Model Manager Program Substantial improvement in employer brand Sustainable workplace driving innovation Our 3,800 employees are our most valuable resource. Without their engagement, ideas and competencies, we wouldn’t be able to innovate new, state-of-the-art cancer treatment solutions. Why is this important? cause serious damage if not carried out correctly. Hence, Elekta’s long-term success as a company depends on many the health, wellbeing and safety of employees, as well as parameters, but one of which the most important is our other stakeholders, are important aspects of our corporate ability as an employer. responsibility and a prerequisite for our continued success. Attracting and retaining qualified employees, are indisDiscrimination, harassment or bullying at the workplace pensable for us to keep our successful position as innovator jeopardize the health and wellbeing of our employees, conof cancer treatments. If we do not have competent persontravenes the success in a company and are obviously not nel, our long-term success as provider of high-technology tolerated in any form. medical equipment would be jeopardized. There is an ever-increasing competition for the most qualified employHow are we working with this? ees, which requires more of the employer. Having a robust Our aim is to create a culture and workplace where employtalent management and competence development, comees can grow professionally as well as personally. petitive remuneration packages and wellbeing opportuniDuring the past year, our Human Resources function, ties are crucial for any employer today. In addition, the headed by the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, employees of today and of tomorrow, also look for employplaced focus on initiatives supporting strategy implementaers that proactively takes a corporate responsibility and tion as well as the overall employee experience. In addition, contributes to a sustainable development. targeted leadership programs were rolled-out and activities We believe that a diverse workforce and an inclusive and strengthening gender diversity were implemented. respectful work environment are essential components of a thriving innovative and sustainable business. As a global Building a responsible workplace company we want, and need, to attract employees from Our approach is embedded in policies as well as core proa wide range of backgrounds and cultures to better undercesses, guiding managers and employees in our daily busistand and match our customer’s needs in different countries. ness operations. Some of our production sites involve operating heavy Our Group-wide People Policy summarizes our approach machinery and handling radioactive materials, which could as employer and is based on internationally proclaimed 42 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT People in focus human rights and labor rights standards: the Universal ensuring that the policy is implemented in their line organiDeclaration of Human Rights, the International Labour zations and that employees and contract workers in releOrganization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and vant areas of responsibility are familiar with and follow the Rights at Work, and the principles of the United Nations standards set forth. Global Compact. The Human Resources function is responNaturally, Elekta complies with national labor legislation sible for the maintenance, training and monitoring of the in all markets. All employees have the right to join a trade policy as well as for investigating reports of potential violaunion and to bargain collectively in accordance with local tions. Managers in relevant functions are responsible for laws and applicable conventions. We recognize the challenges this approach poses in countries where collective bargaining is not applied. People Agenda supporting strategy implementation Elekta’s global People Agenda was launched in 2017 and aims Nurturing competence and talent development at leveraging the full potential of our employees in executing In today’s rapidly changing world, continuous competence our overall company strategy. The agenda is based on four development is crucial. Elekta employees are provided with cornerstones: a personal development plan. This year we are focusing on Leadership – our leaders’ capability of driving the developupgrading the process for personal performance and talent ment of a sustainable corporate culture where all units cooperate to create the best solutions for the company. development. Sustainable people pipeline – actively developing and Our leaders play an essential role in driving our continued growing our people to evolve the business, and a talent pipetransformation. During the past year, leadership programs on line to secure future growth of the organization. different levels gathered around 200 leaders from different Reward – implementing reward systems that support functions. In selecting participants, a balanced gender and achievement of our corporate goals and the desired leadergeographical representation is one of the key components. ship behavior. One of the programs, the Elekta Model Entrepreneur Organizational capability – identify required capabilities Program, is a customized one-year program aiming to supto realize our corporate strategy. port managers in developing their capabilities to drive change and encourage commitment among employees. This proThe People Agenda applies to all business operations. Local gram also supports the company’s international outlook by Human Resources functions are responsible for implementing the agenda, as well as addressing local Human Resources strengthening cross-functional cooperation and supporting issues based on national regulations and laws or specific managers in developing their intercultural skills and sensitivineeds. ties. In 2018/19, 20 leaders participated in this program. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 43 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT People in focus To secure the pipeline of future leaders, we have a Model all candidates (internal or external) applying for a posted Leader Program. Altogether, 30 future leaders took part in this vacancy are to be evaluated and considered fairly. This program during 2018/19. Further, we have a Model Manager procedure is applicable to all HR and hiring managers of all program tailored for new managers to learn how to become a Elekta entities. more effective manager. Participants on the Model Manager Gender pay gap reviews of comparable roles within the Program will learn and practice with tools and approaches company are conducted locally based on local regulations that should, when successfully applied, increase team comand legal requirements. In March 2019, Elekta UK conducted munication, productivity and engagement. 120 newly become a pay review of all employees. The results concluded that our managers participated in this program during 2018/19. mean gender pay gap was 6.35 percent. This represents an improvement from 2017, whereby the gap was recorded as 9.84 percent. In addition, this outcome is encouraging in comDuring the past year, leadership parison to the official figure published by the UK Government in 2018, stating a national 17.9 percent gap. To reach our longprograms on different levels term target of equal pay for equal work in Elekta as a whole, gathered around 200 leaders we are planning to develop a global definition and method for assessing gender pay gaps from a diversity perspective during from different functions. 2019/20. Health, wellbeing and safety of employees Diversity and inclusion for future growth We are committed to ensuring a safe work environment Our Diversity and Inclusion Policy clarifies our commitment throughout our operations, preventing workplace accidents, to creating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive workinjuries and illnesses. As stipulated in the Code of Conduct, place. In supporting our approach, we focus on gender, age, and in our People policy, everyone with a job that requires sexual orientation, disability, and nationality, ethnicity and specific safety instructions and protection will receive all culture. Progress is evaluated against clear targets and necessary training prior to starting the work and the workreported annually. place must be equipped with adequate protection materials At the end of the year, 29 percent (30) of all employees and tools. Local working environment committees, consistwere women. In business-critical positions the number of ing of local environmental, health & safety specialists, are women accounted for 19 percent (22). Our long-term goal is responsible for continuous monitoring and mitigation of to increase the underrepresented gender (today female) in health and safety risks at our manufacturing sites. Workthese positions to 30 percent by 2021/22. This goal is also place accidents are followed up by collecting data from supported by our Recruitment procedure, which states that ­production sites involving manual manufacturing work. 44 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT People in focus In 2018/2019, the total number of reported accidents from year, much attention was focused to improve the overall local sites decreased to in total 11 (23 if you include the nonElekta experience. For example, we held local workshops in all work-related accidents). These accidents occurred at our teams which outlined specific actions plan that have been production sites in Crawley and were all of minor gravity, implemented. A Value Proposition project was launched to none of which resulted in a lost working day. Regardless, thoroughly analyze how Elekta’s unique resources can match Elekta’s goal is to reduce the number of work-related acciwith current/future employee expectation and based on this, dents to zero by 2022. To support this zero-vision, we are how a clear and strategic value proposition for employees planning to develop a Group-wide work environment policy, can be implemented. Together with other activities this has including processes for implementation, as a first step. resulted in a significantly increased Net Promoter Score (NPS) in the 2018 Employee Engagement Survey compared Measuring employee experience to the survey in 2017, and even more in the Pulse 2019 survey. To better understand our impact as a company and According to the employee engagement survey, the overemployer, we are conducting a Group-wide employee all Engagement Index was also strengthened compared to engagement survey on a regular basis. This survey includes a the previous year, now exceeding benchmark. Furthermore, range of indices, including measuring the Elekta’s employer the Leadership Index saw positive development from an brand and employees’ loyalty. already strong position. The latest comprehensive survey was conducted in OctoOur long-term goal is to reach an NPS of 20 by 2021/22 – ber 2018 and a “pulse” survey followed in April 2019. More an ambitious target, well beyond benchmark at 9. At Elekta than 80 percent of employees we have a relatively low overparticipated in the 2018 surWORKPLACE ACCIDENTS EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT all attrition rate of 8 percent vey, mirroring the engageNumber Index but we can see rather large ment in our future develop20 100 regional differences. Our ment. Compared to the ambition going forward is to 15 75 previous survey, Elekta’s maintain this low level and employer brand has strength10 50 lower it even more down to ened as a result of targeted 7 percent for FY 22/23 and 5 25 measures, aiming to develop also put effort in to even out the brand to a level on or 0 2016 2017 2018 0 2014 2017 2018 regional differences. above benchmark. During the Health and safety at Elekta’s Crawley manufacturing site We employ around 100 people at the manufacturing site in ­Crawley, England, where our linacs are assembled, tested and quality assured. The main health and safety (H&S) risks at this site are radiation/magnetic hazards when testing accelerators, as well as general safety risks in a factory environment when dealing with heavy machinery. These risks are managed daily through the implementation of Safe Systems of Work, Risk Assessments, and continuous training of employees for all activities undertaken, in line with H&S best practice and full UK legislation. In July 2018, a Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) manager, was appointed and supports Manufacturing leadership with Risk Assessments and Safe Systems of Work, to ensure all employees and visitors are not exposed to potential risks. The HSE manager chairs the UK H&S committee made up of both employees and leadership, to review and drive H&S excellence across the training was also rolled out to all staff, via Elekta’s online staff organization. Learning Management System. The training modules include; Fire During the year, amongst other things, the UK health and Safety, Office Safety, Display Screen Equipment, Slips/Trips/Falls, safety policy has been reviewed, updated and signed by the UK Manual Handling, and Environmental Awareness. 100percent tarManaging Director/Chief Operating Officer. get will be achieved by the end of Q1 2019/20. An updated accident, incident and near miss procedure was Over the last three years, there have been no incidents which also implemented. has resulted in a lost working day or a reportable incident to the During the year, Health, Safety & Environmental awareness local Health & Safety Executive. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 45 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT People in focus Performance and outlook Goals communicated 2017/18 Achievements 2018/19 Status New goals 2019/20 and beyond Health and safety Minimize work place accidents. No work-related accidents reported from Beijing Zero vision of workplace accidents by Veneendal or Stockholm. 2018 number of acci2022. dents in Crawley significantly lower than 2017. Strive for healthy work environment globally, incl work-life balance, by e.g. developing a global work environment policy with processes for its implementation, and managing long term sickleave numbers. Diversity and inclusion Increased focus on improving Yearly Succession Planning. Increase female/underrepresented genthe gender balance in manageDiversity is in focus when selected leadership der representation at critical business ment positions. program participants. positions/manager level from today’s 19% to 30% by 2021/22. Narrowing the Gender Pay Gap 2019 mean pay gap reduced to 6,35% Continue to narrow the gender pay gap (UK). (from 9,84 % the previous year). globally and by FY 19/20 have developed a definition and method for assessing gender pay gaps from a diversity perspective, within Elekta globally, with the long term aim to have equal pay for equal work. Promote a geographically and We have implemented measures to identify gaps. On-going target. culturally diverse workforce. Employee experience and talent development Improve overall employee expeActivities to improve the overall Elekta experiIncrease the NPS to 15 by 2019/20 and rience based on results from ence, such as the Value Proposition project, has to 20 by 2021/22. employee engagement survey resulted in a significantly increased NPS score Reduce personal turnover rate to 7% (e.g. employer brand, employee in the 2018 Employee Engagement Survey comby 2022/23 globally. engagement, strengthened pared to 2017. communication throughout the organization). Ongoing on track Ongoing not on track Achieved Not achieved 46 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Elekta AB (publ), corporate identity number 556170-4015 Engagement and responsibility Opinion It is the board of directors who is responsible for the A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. statutory sustainability report for the financial year 1 May 2018– 30 April 2019 on pages 29–46 and that it has been Stockholm, July 8, 2019 prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB The scope of the audit Signature on original auditors’ report in Swedish1 Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means Johan Engstam that our examination of the statutory sustainability report Authorised Public Accountant is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on 1) This is a translation of the original auditors’ report in Swedish. In the event of any difAuditing and generally accepted auditing standards in ferences between the translation and the original statement in Swedish, the Swedish Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided version shall prevail us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 47 Corporate governance report 2018/19 Elekta AB (publ) is a Swedish public limited liability company listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Elekta considers good corporate governance, including risk management and internal control, to be an important element of a successful business operation since it provides opportunities for maintaining confidence among customers, patients, shareholders, authorities and other stakeholders. Elekta’s corporate governance report 2018/19 was prepared by the Company’s board of directors, in accordance with the annual accounts act and the Swedish corporate governance code, as a separate report from the board of directors’ report, and it has been reviewed by the Company’s external auditor. Elekta AB (publ) is referred to as “Elekta AB”, “the Company” or “the Parent of the nomination committee. This was motivated by the fact that Laurent Company” and the Elekta Group, which includes Elekta AB and its subsidiarLeksell, in his capacity as the major shareholder, is well suited to effectively ies, is referred to as “Elekta” or “the Group”. lead the work of the nomination committee in order to achieve the best Elekta has implemented and complied with the Swedish corporate govresult for the Company’s shareholders. According to point 2.4 of the Corpoernance code (the corporate governance code) with one exception during rate Governance Code, the chairman of the board of directors is not to be the fiscal year of 2018/19. Elekta’s nomination committee resolved to the chairman of the nomination committee. appoint the chairman of the board of directors, Laurent Leksell, as chairman Chairman’s comments Elekta continues to support development of our strategy. It has been a very prothe development of global ductive year for the board. cancer care, focusing on A board, of course, always has to handle and conthe needs of health care sider risks and control issues, and we will continue to providers and patients. strengthen our risk control systems going forward. Our success is a result of Elekta is uniquely positioned to contribute to the our closeness to customers UN’s sustainable development goals. We are now and a deep understanding accelerating our work to strengthen our global susof the different technical, economic and social containability footprint. ditions for cancer care throughout the world. Elekta Elekta’s Board is well connected within our industranslates this understanding into research and try, markets and customers. We support our mandevelopment, resulting in value-driven products and agement and drive good leadership governance, innovations. Today, with improved visualization and adding value to the organization. Most of all, I greater precision, more types of cancer can now be appreciate the strategic views, the open atmosphere treated by radiation therapy. This puts radiation and the engagement that we have in our Board distherapy in the center of all forms of cancer care. cussions. This enables all of us to contribute the best Our development of Elekta Unity is a major clinical to Elekta, our shareholders and other stakeholders as breakthrough in radiation therapy. We are convinced well as to the further development of global cancer that clinicians will experience significant reductions care. in complications using MR-guided radiation therapy. We have a fantastic team at Elekta, from all over This is of critical importance in cancer care and for the world, doing their utmost to help clinicians fight patient safety. cancer every day. The board is very proud of Elekta’s During this year, the board has focused on our achievements. Together, we will ensure that Elekta is strategy, product development and future product here until cancer is not. For this we thank you all! strategies, in particular our software strategy. We have devoted more time to developing our growth and strategic agenda and have continued to enhance our corporate governance. We also visited Laurent Leksell China to review this important market and the Chairman of the board 48 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ­Elekta’s governance structure As per April 30, 2019 2 1 3 Nomination External Shareholders Committee Auditor 9 4 Board of Directors Internal Audit 4.1 Executive 4.2 Compensation Audit and Capability Committee Committee 5 President and CEO 7 6 Compliance Executive Management QA and RA 8 Risk Management Operations Internal Control Elects/Appoints Informs/Reports direct Other; Controlling, HR Informs (e.g. directions, objectives, steering documents)/ Informs/Reports indirect Legal and Security/IT Reports (e.g. results, compliance, deviations) 1 Shareholders general meeting of shareholders), extraordinary general meetings of Ownership structure shareholders may be held at the discretion of the board of directors or, if At the end of the fiscal year, Elekta AB had 24,809 shareholders, of whom requested by the external auditor or by shareholders holding at least 10 per92 percent were domiciled in Sweden. 51 percent of the total number of regcent of the shares. Decisions are normally made by a simple majority, and istered shares in Elekta AB were at the same date owned by Swedish sharein elections, the person receiving the most votes is deemed elected. The holders. On April 30, 2019, the largest shareholder was Laurent Leksell with Swedish companies act requires certain decisions, such as amendments of companies, with 30.5 percent of the votes. Read more about the share and the articles of association and the transfer of shares to employees particshareholders on pages 62–63. ipating in equity-based, long-term, incentive programs, to be made by a qualified majority. Disclosures on direct or indirect shareholdings in Elekta Shares and votes AB representing at least one-tenth of the voting rights, and information Elekta AB’s B share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. On April 30, 2019, the total about authorizations by the general meeting of shareholders for the board number of registered shares in Elekta AB was 383,568,409 divided between of directors to decide upon acquisition of own shares, are set out on page 62. 14,980,769 Series A shares and 368,587,640 Series B shares. At the general meetings of shareholders, which are the forum in which shareholders may Annual general meeting of shareholders exercise influence, Series A shares entitle the holder to 10 votes, while Series The annual general meeting of shareholders is held in Stockholm, Sweden. B shares carry one vote each. Read more about the share and shareholders The date and venue for the meeting will be announced on Elekta’s website on pages 62–63. www.elekta.com not later than in connection with the third interim report May–January. Notification of the annual general meeting is published, Dividend policy according to the rules of the Swedish companies act, not earlier than six Elekta’s goal is to provide shareholders with a favorable return and value weeks and not later than four weeks in advance of the meeting. growth. The policy is to distribute at least 30 percent of profit for the year in Shareholders who cannot attend in person may be represented by an the form of dividends, repurchase of shares or comparable measures. A divauthorized proxy. Only shareholders included in the shareholder register are idend decision is based on Elekta’s financial position, earnings trend, growth entitled to vote. Shareholders with trustee-registered shares who wish to potential and investment requirements. vote must request that they are entered in the shareholder register by the record date for the annual general meeting. The annual general meeting is General meeting of shareholders held in Swedish, but all relevant documentation is also available in English. The general meeting of shareholders is Elekta AB’s highest decision-­making At the annual general meeting, shareholders have the opportunity to ask body. In addition to the annual general meeting of shareholders (ordinary questions. Elekta always strives to ensure that the members of the board of Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 49 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT directors, the executive management and the external auditor are present •• Adoption of the share-based long-term incentive program, Performance at the annual general meeting. Share Plan 2018, to be offered to about 180 key employees of the Group •• Authority for the board of directors for acquisition and transfer of own 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders shares (the board’s proposal for transfer of own shares due to PerforThe 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders was held in Stockholm on mance Share Plan 2018 was rejected) August 30, 2018. The meeting was attended by 429 shareholders, either perFurther information regarding the annual general meeting 2018, including sonally or by proxy, corresponding to approximately 67 percent of the votes the minutes, is available at www.elekta.com. No other general meetings of in the Company. All members of the board of directors were present at the shareholders were held during the 2018/19 fiscal year. meeting. The following was resolved at the 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders: 2019 annual general meeting of shareholders •• A dividend payment of SEK 1.40 per share to shareholders to be divided The 2019 annual general meeting of shareholders will be held in Stockholm, into two separate payments of SEK 0.70 each Sweden, at Moderna Museet on August 22, 2019 at 2:00 pm. More informa•• Discharge from liability of the members of the board of directors as well tion regarding the 2019 annual general meeting of shareholders is available as the President and CEO Richard Hausmann for management of the at www.elekta.com. company in the 2017/18 fiscal year 2 Nomination committee •• Adoption of fees to the board of directors totaling SEK 5,165,000 (5,010,000), of which SEK 1,165,00 (1,130,000) to the chairman of the Procedure for appointment of nomination committee board of directors and SEK 500,000 (485,000) to each of the other exterThe 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders resolved that the nominanal members of the board of directors, as well as remuneration for board tion committee for the 2019 annual general meeting of shareholders would committee work of a total SEK 965,000 (755,000), of which SEK 110,000 be appointed through a procedure whereby the chairman of the board of (110,000) to the chairman of the executive compensation and capabildirectors, before the end of the second quarter of the fiscal year, would conity committee and SEK 75,000 (75,000) to each of the other members of tact the four largest shareholders in terms of voting rights, besides the sharethe committee, and SEK 225,000 (225,000) to the chairman of the audit holder or shareholders the chairman of the board of directors may represent. committee and SEK 135,000 (135,000) to each of the other members of The assessment of which shareholders that are the largest shall be based on the committee Euroclear Sweden’s shareholder statistics as of the last banking day in Sep•• Re-election of members of the board of directors. Annika Espander Janstember. These shareholders would be given the opportunity to appoint one son, Laurent Leksell, Caroline Leksell Cooke, Johan Malmquist, Tomas person each who, together with the chairman of the board of directors, Puusepp, Wolfgang Reim, Jan Secher and Birgitta Stymne Göransson. would constitute the nomination committee. The chairman of the nomiCecilia Wikström was elected as a new member of the board of directors. nation committee would, unless the nomination committee unanimously Laurent Leksell was re-elected chairman of the board of directors decides otherwise, be the member of the nomination committee appointed •• Re-election of PwC as external auditor, with authorized public accountant by the largest shareholder in terms of voting rights. No remuneration would Johan Engstam as the auditor in charge be paid to the members of the nomination committee. •• Adoption of guidelines for remuneration of senior executives The work of the board of directors including some important agenda items in 2018/19 Two board meetings Board meeting • Interim report Q1 Board meeting • Adoption of annual report (includ• AGM • Year-end report ing all reports included therein) • Inaugural board meeting Board meeting • Meeting with auditors and review of • Adoption of notice and final • Adoption of working instructions for board, • Review of strategy external audit report for the full year proposals to the AGM committees and the President and CEO plan • Report from the audit committee • Approval of the board’s reasoned • Report from the audit committee • Update and discussion statement regarding share repuron the business opera• Review and approval of budget fiscal chase and statement with respect • Report from the executive compensation and tions in China, Japan year 2018/19 incl. financial targets to dividend capability committee and India 2018 MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER EXAMPLE OF THE BOARD’S FOCUS AREAS FOCUS AREA NO. 1 FOCUS AREA NO. 2 Elekta’s software offering Mergers & acquisitions During the year the board has discussed the strategic plan of the softTo gain complementary technology Elekta can acquire or close partware offering to provide the best and most ease of use systems. Eleknership within strategic areas. During this year Elekta made three ta’s treatment planning system is increasingly integrated in the hardacquisitions, all linked to software and quality assurance. In addition to ware solution and the oncology informatic system includes a number these acquisitions the board has reviewed the procedures for an acquiof features, either based on own developments, partnership or acquisition and the follow up program to secure a successful integration. sitions to support the efficiency of treating cancer. 50 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Composition of the nomination committee for the 2019 annual bers, three are women and five men, meaning that the percentage of women general meeting of shareholders is 38 (44) percent. The composition of the nomination committee for the 2019 annual general An evaluation of the board of directors’ work, expertise, composition meeting of shareholders was announced in a press release on November 15, and independence of its members is performed annually and initiated by 2018. The nomination committee for the 2019 annual general meeting of the chairman of the board of directors, partly to assess the preceding year, shareholders comprises: partly to identify areas for development for the board of directors. During the 2018/19 fiscal year the evaluation was performed with support from an •• Laurent Leksell, chairman of the board of directors and representing external company. The conclusion is presented to the nomination commithis own and related parties’ holdings tee by the chairman of the board. The nomination committee has, through •• Per Colleen – appointed by the Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund the audit committee’s chairman, obtained the audit committee’s recom•• Tomas Flodén – appointed by AMF and AMF Funds mendation as regards election of auditor. •• Filippa Gerstädt (replacing Pontus Dackmo as per February 18, 2019) – The nomination committee’s complete proposals for the 2019 annual appointed by Nordea Funds general meeting of shareholders are presented in the notice convening the •• Caroline Sjösten – appointed by Swedbank Robur Funds 2019 annual general meeting of shareholders and a reasoned statement explaining the nomination committee’s proposal for the board of director’s The nomination committee has appointed Laurent Leksell as chairman of composition is posted on Elekta’s website in connection with the issuance of the nomination committee. The assignment for the nomination committee the notice of the 2019 annual general meeting. is valid until the end of the next annual general meeting of shareholders, or, where applicable, until a new nomination committee has been appointed. 3 External auditor Preparation for the 2019 annual general meeting of Appointment of the external auditor The external auditor of Elekta AB is appointed by the annual general meetshareholders ing of shareholders for a period lasting until the end of the next annual genThe nomination committee is tasked with making proposals to the annual eral meeting of shareholders. general meeting of shareholders including proposals for a chairman of the annual general meeting of shareholders, number of directors, fees to the directors including fees for committee work, chairman of the board of direcExternal auditor and auditor in charge The 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders re-elected PwC as external tors, members of the board of directors, appointment of external auditor auditor with Johan Engstam as auditor in charge. PwC has been the external and remuneration to the external auditor and a procedure for appointing auditor of Elekta AB since the 2012 annual general meeting of shareholders. the nomination committee. Johan Engstam was born in 1966 and is an authorized public accounThe nomination committee held four meetings prior to the 2019 annual tant. During the year, he was also the elected auditor in charge of MedCap general meeting of shareholders. The nomination committee has applied the AB, Tobii, Astra Zeneca AB, Oasmia Pharmaceuticals AB, Ericsson AB, NCAB corporate governance code, section 4.1, as diversity policy when preparing Group AB and NextCell Pharma. He has no assignments in any other comits proposal for board composition. Out of the eight proposed board mempany that affect his independence as the auditor in charge of Elekta AB. Board meeting • Interim report Q3 • Report from the executive compensation and capability committee Board meeting • Report from the audit committee • Interim report Q2 • Report from HR • Report from the audit committee • Report from Regulatory NOVEMBER DECEMBER 2019 JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL FOCUS AREA NO. 3 FOCUS AREA NO. 4 The Chinese market The revitalization of Elekta’s leadership development Elekta has a strong footprint in the strategically important and growThe board acknowledges that Elekta’s leadership strength is importing Chinese market. One of the board’s meeting was held in China to ant for the company’s success. During the year, there has been a focus carefully review the structure of the operations in the country as well on leadership development, on strengthening the people pipeline by as analyze and plan the strategic actions. launching a company-wide talent identification review and conducting a succession planning for all business critical positions, including a high focus on the diversity aspect. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 51 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Responsibility •• Establishing overall goals and strategy The audit engagement includes the audit of the annual report and consol•• Defining guidelines to govern ethical conduct with the purpose of ensuridated accounts of Elekta AB, the proposed appropriations of the Compaing the long-term ability to create value ny’s profit or loss and the administration of the board of directors and the •• Ensuring an effective system for follow-up and control of the company’s President and CEO of Elekta AB. The audit engagement also includes reviewoperations and risks that the company and its operations are exposed to ing whether the guidelines for remuneration of senior executives adopted by •• Ensuring a satisfactory process for monitoring compliance with laws and the annual general meeting of shareholders have been complied with. The regulations and other regulatory compliance requirements applicable for audit engagement also includes a review of the interim report for the second the company as well as compliance with internal company regulations quarter as well as a statutory examination of the corporate governance and the Corporate Responsibility Report. •• Ensuring that external information and communications are characterized by openness, and that they are accurate, reliable and relevant Work during the year PwC has performed the audit of Elekta for the 2018/19 fiscal year, based on The working instructions for the board of directors establish that a risk-based external audit plan, resulting in the unqualified auditor’s report the board is to: and statement, which are available on pages 116–118 and at www.elekta.com. •• Hold at least seven ordinary meetings per year According to the audit committee’s guidelines, services in addition to •• Adopt finance and foreign exchange policies audit services, known as permissible non-audit services, that Elekta may •• Adopt a code of conduct procure from the external auditor in order to assure that the impartiality and independence of the external auditor is not put at risk, may not •• Approve a long-term plan and budget, including an investment budget exceed 70 percent of the cost for audit services measured over a three-year •• Approve investments and similar decisions where the amount of the period. The audit committee may decide to make exceptions under certain transaction exceeds SEK 5 M if such a transaction falls outside the circumstances. approved investment budget Non-audit services procured from the external auditor during the 2018/19 •• Decide on acquisition or sale of real property or shares, or acquisition or fiscal year adhered to the guidelines established and comprised tax consulsale of the assets of, or a major part of the assets of, another company tancy and other services, such as consultancy work related to internal con•• Decide on the establishment and liquidation of subsidiaries trol and accounting principles. •• Adopt guidelines for remuneration of senior executives to be approved by The fees to the external auditor for the 2018/19 fiscal year are reported in the annual general meeting of shareholders Note 10. •• Decide on terms of employment for the President and CEO according to 4 Board of directors guidelines for remuneration of senior executives approved by the annual general meeting of shareholders Appointment of the board of directors •• Adopt the annual report, year-end report and interim reports The board of directors of Elekta AB (“the board”) is appointed by the annual general meeting of shareholders for a period lasting until the end of the next Within the board, there is no special distribution of responsibilities among annual general meeting of shareholders. According to the articles of assothe members of the board in addition to the duties that the board has deleciation of Elekta AB, the board is to have between three and ten members gated to the executive compensation and capability committee and to the with no more than five deputy members. There are no other rules in the artiaudit committee respectively. cles of association concerning the appointment or removal of members of the board. Risk management Risk management, internal governance and internal control are key comComposition and independence of the board of directors ponents of Elekta’s strategy and management processes. Elekta’s board The board of directors comprises nine members. The members of the board of directors assumes the overall responsibility for establishing an efficient are Laurent Leksell, who is also the chairman of the board, Annika Espander risk management, internal governance and internal control system. The Jansson, Caroline Leksell Cooke, Johan Malmquist, Tomas Puusepp, Wolfresponsibility for maintaining the system is delegated to the President and gang Reim, Jan Secher, Birgitta Stymne Göransson and Cecilia Wikström. CEO, who is assisted by the executive management and specifically estabThere are neither deputy board members nor employee representatives lished committees, functions and employees. Functions that are responsion the board. ble for risk management, internal governance and internal control continuThe general counsel serves as secretary for the board. ously report on the status directly to the board of directors and/or the audit The composition of the board meets applicable independence requirecommittee. ments as six of the nine members of the board have been deemed indepenElekta’s risk work focuses on assessing and managing strategic risks, dent in relation to the Company, the executive management and major operating risks, legal and regulatory risks, market and external risks and shareholders. These six members are: Annika Espander Jansson, Johan financial risks. A risk assessment is performed continuously in order to idenMalmquist, Wolfgang Reim, Jan Secher, Birgitta Stymne Göransson and tify the risks related to the achievement of established objectives, compliCecilia Wikström. ance with laws and regulations, and financial reporting. The board of direcAttendance at board meetings is shown on pages 58–59. tors also manages subjects for decision that include risk management in, for example, Elekta’s strategy and management processes and business deciResponsibility sions. Find out more about risk management in the board’s report on risk The board’s work is regulated by the Swedish Companies Act, the articles of management and internal control over financial reporting on pages 56–57. association, the corporate governance code and the working instructions for the board of directors. Work during the year The board is responsible for the organization of Elekta AB and the manDuring the 2018/19 fiscal year, the board held seven minuted meetings. agement of the Company’s operations in the interest of the Company Attendance at board meetings is shown on pages 58–59. These meetings are and all shareholders. This includes appointing a President and CEO who is normally held at Elekta’s head office in Stockholm, but are at times held at responsible for managing the day-to-day operations in accordance with other locations where Elekta has offices or facilities. Representatives from instructions from the board. The responsibilities for the board also include: the executive management and other senior managers regularly attend 52 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT board meetings to report on matters within their respective area of respon•• Monitoring and reviewing launched leadership programs and employee sibility. For ordinary board meetings, an agenda with decision supporting surveys material is available ahead of the meetings. The work of the board, including •• Preparation of the board’s recommendations regarding guidelines for important agenda items in 2018/19, is described on page 50–51. remuneration of senior executives for the next annual general meeting of shareholders 4.1 Executive compensation and capability committee Appointment of the executive compensation and capability committee 4.2 Audit committee The board shall appoint an executive compensation and capability committee Appointment of the audit committee (“the executive compensation and capability committee” or “ECCC”), which The board shall appoint an audit committee, which shall consist of at least shall consist of at least two members of the board. The chairman of the board two members of the board with at least one having accounting or audit of directors may be chairman of the committee. Other members appointed by competency. The majority of the committee members are to be indepenthe general meeting of shareholders shall be independent of the Company and dent of the Company and its executive management. The committee’s its executive management. members cannot be employed by the Company. At least one member of the committee, who is independent of the Company and its executive manageComposition ment, shall also be independent of the Company’s major shareholders. The executive compensation and capability committee consists of four members appointed by the board at the first board meeting following the Composition election of the board by the annual general meeting of shareholders for a The audit committee consists of four members appointed by the board at term of one year. The members of the committee are Laurent Leksell, who the first board meeting following the election of the board by the annual is also the chairman of the committee, Annika Espander Jansson, Wolfgang general meeting of shareholders for a term of one year. The members of the Reim and Cecilia Wikström. Attendance at committee meetings and indecommittee are Birgitta Stymne Göransson, who is also the chairman of the pendence are shown on pages 58–59. The President and CEO and the Execcommittee, Caroline Leksell Cooke, Johan Malmquist and Jan Secher. Parutive Vice President Human Resources also attend the committee’s meetticipation at committee meetings as well as independence of the members ings. The Vice President of Compensation & Benefits serves as secretary for are shown on pages 58–59. the committee. The President and CEO, the CFO and the Chief Audit Executive also attend the committee’s meetings as well as the external auditor as applicaResponsibility ble. The associate general counsel serves as secretary for the committee. The objective of the executive compensation and capability committee is to ensure a fair and equitable remuneration scope and structure for managResponsibility ers at Elekta. Such remuneration should be designed to contribute to genThe objective of the audit committee is to monitor the Group’s financial erating maximum value for shareholders and customers, while maintaining reporting and the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control, internal audit the Group’s market competitiveness. It should further be designed to ensure and risk management. The objective is also to keep itself informed about the Group’s ability to attract, motivate and retain managers who are key to the external audit of the annual report and consolidated report of Elekta AB achieving the business objectives of the Group. This applies to remuneration as well as to review and monitor the impartiality and independence of the structures for the executive management and for other remuneration strucexternal auditor, and pay particular attention if the external auditor protures targeting all Elekta managers. The objective of the committee is also vides the Group with services other than audit services. Furthermore, the to ensure succession planning and reviews of management succession plans objective is to assist the nomination committee in preparing the proposal to for senior management levels and other Group-critical positions, and to the annual general meeting of shareholders regarding election of external ensure gender and diversity analysis and actions. Furthermore, the objective auditor. The committee works in accordance with working instructions for of the committee is to ensure senior management competencies and capathe audit committee adopted by the board. The committee keeps the board bilities including organization development programs. The committee works regularly informed and prepares matters to the board for decision. in accordance with directives for the ECCC adopted by the board. The committee keeps the board regularly informed and refers matters to the board Work during the year for decision as necessary. During the fiscal year 2018/19, the audit committee held six minuted meetings where the two extraordinary meetings were held in relation to the proWork during the year posal process for the provision of external audit services. Attendance at During the 2018/19 fiscal year, the executive compensation and capability committee meetings is shown on pages 58–59. The most important agenda committee held four minuted meetings. Attendance at committee meetitems at the meetings were: ings is shown on pages 58–59. The most important agenda items at the •• Review of year-end report and annual report for 2018/19 as well as interim meetings were: reports for 2018/19 •• Remuneration review, including variable remuneration of the executive •• Review of accounting principles management •• Monitoring of the performance of the global internal control framework •• Review and decisions regarding Short Term Incentive target outcome for 2017/18 •• Review of charter for the internal audit function •• Preparation and decision on short-term incentive targets for 2018/19 •• Approval of internal audit plan •• Preparation and proposal for a new long-term incentive program for •• Review and follow-up of internal audit reports 2019/20 for Executive Management and key individuals not included in •• Selected business performance reviews the executive management •• Review of external audit plan •• Follow-up of compliance with the guidelines for remuneration of senior •• Review of external audit reports executives approved by the annual general meeting of shareholders •• Evaluation of the external audit •• Succession planning and reviews of management succession plans for •• Proposal process for the provision of external audit services senior management levels and other Group-critical positions •• Evaluation and approval of permissible non-audit services Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 53 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 5 President and CEO Responsibility The compliance function’s responsibilities are to review and evaluate comAppointment of the President and CEO pliance issues within the organization and ensure that management and The board appoints Elekta AB’s President and CEO. employees of the Group are in compliance with the rules and ethical reguRichard Hausmann is President and CEO of Elekta AB. More informalations in the most significant risk areas such as anti-corruption and intertion about Richard Hausmann is provided in the presentation of the execactions with healthcare professionals, export control and competition law. utive management on page 60. Remuneration of the President and CEO is The compliance function also monitors the implementation of a program described in Note 7. to ensure compliant personal data processing within the Group. In addition, Compliance is responsible for the overall strategy and coordination of the areas of sustainability which are material for Elekta. Elekta’s Chief CompliResponsibility ance and Integrity Officer reports functionally to the CEO but functions as The President and CEO is responsible for the day-to-day management of an independent and objective body ensuring compliance concerns are being the Company in accordance with applicable laws and regulations as well as appropriately resolved and reported to the board of directors. internal steering documents. These include the working instructions for the Chief Executive Officer adopted by the board and other instructions from the board. The President and CEO also represents the Group in various conWork during the year texts, leads the work of the executive management and makes decisions in Focus areas during the year included the following: consultation with the members of the executive management. •• Risk assessments to further strengthening the compliance program to prevent corruption and clarifying regulations for Elekta’s interaction with 6 Executive management healthcare professionals. This year, an in-depth risk assessment by outside counsel was carried out in North America Appointment of the executive management •• Identifying risks and proposing action plans for the processing of perThe President and CEO appoints the members of the executive managesonal data ment following approval by the board of directors. •• Training employees in Elekta’s code of conduct and steering documents according to the long-term plan and the goals established by the board Composition As of April 30, 2019, Elekta’s executive management comprised the President •• Ensuring that program efficiency and risk-based due diligence of parand CEO, the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), the Chief Operating Officer ties, including business partners and distributors and agents, are imple(“COO”), Chief Marketing and Sales Officer (“CMSO”), Chief Strategy Officer mented within the Group in accordance with the goals established by (“CSO”), Chief Technology Officer (“CTO”), the Execute Vice President Global the board Services, the Executive Vice President Region North and Central America, the •• Advising on matters that fall within the scope of responsibility of the Executive Vice President Region China, the Executive Vice President Region Compliance and Integrity function Europe East and West, the General Counsel and Executive Vice President, •• An initial risk assessment of competition law risks pertaining to Elekta’s the Executive Vice President Human Resources, the Executive Vice President business with the aim to further strengthen the competition law compliCorporate Communications and Public Affairs, and the Senior Vice President ance program Chief Compliance & Integrity Officer. During the 2018/19 fiscal year, the roles •• Internal investigations including the preparation of proposed measures Executive Vice President Region Europe East and West and Senior Vice President in consultation with management and the board of directors Chief Compliance & Integrity Officer have been appointed as members of •• Continuing Elekta’s sustainability work with four distinct focus areas, as the executive management. A presentation of the executive management well as in close cooperation with the responsible directors to identify risks as per July 8, 2019 is provided on page 60. As of June 3, 2019, the executive and set targets management has been extended to represent the full business matrix consisting of business lines, regions and support functions. Remuneration of the executive management is described in Note 7. Reporting to the board It is necessary to have regular information about how the Company manages and prevents compliance risks. It is important that the board is well Responsibility informed of both the preventive measures and any weaknesses in order to The President and CEO is responsible for and leads the work and meetings of ask the right questions and remain a critical auditor of the operations. the executive management. The executive management makes joint deciElekta’s Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer presents the progress sions following consultation with various parts of the Group. of the risk-based compliance program at each quarterly meeting of the board of directors and reports on any incidents and the status of ongoing Work during the year investigations. A written compliance report is submitted at every informaThe executive management meetings are normally held each week by teletion meeting. The audit committee constantly monitors, on behalf of the phone and with regular intervals in conjunction with visits to the Group’s board, any matters that may require greater focus. Elekta’s Chief Complivarious offices and facilities. ance and Integrity Officer is present at each ordinary meeting with the audit The most important agenda items at the meetings were strategic and committee. operational issues such as product development, acquisitions/divestments, investments, market development, organization, long-term plans and bud8 Quality assurance and regulatory affairs get, and monthly and quarterly business and financial reviews. Appointment 7 Compliance The quality assurance (QA) and regulatory affairs (RA) functions are headed by Vice President Quality Assurance and Vice President Regulatory Affairs, Appointment respectively. The Compliance and Integrity function is headed by the Elekta Group’s Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer. 54 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Responsibility Risk management and internal control The functions’ responsibilities include supporting management in its efforts to comply with regulatory requirements for products, quality systems and market entry. The functions provide transparency and interact with management and external regulatory bodies. The functions are responsible for the quality system infrastructure and compliance, product clearances and Internal governance approvals and post market vigilance and recall reporting. The functions are and control environment also responsible for, and conduct internal audits of, the quality system and regulatory compliance. Vice President Quality Assurance and Vice President Regulatory Affairs both report to the Executive Vice President and General OBJECTIVES MONITORING Counsel. Work during the year •• Ensuring product approval for regulatory market entry Information and •• Implementation of internal audits communication RISK •• Managing inspections from different authorities and organizations, resulting in continued certification •• Interacting with authorities in different regulatory forums and representation in different industry associations in discussions with authorities worldwide CONTROL •• Managing implementation of the new Medical Devices Regulation in Europe (MDR) •• Participation in the single audit program MDSAP •• Re-certification to ISO 13485:2016 9 Internal audit Elekta´s process for risk management and internal control Appointment The board and its committees assume the overall responsibility for estabThe internal audit function is appointed by, and reports to, the audit comlishing effective governance of Elekta including risk management and intermittee and the board of directors. nal control. The responsibility for designing, implementing and conducting effective governance, including risk management and internal control, is Responsibility delegated to the President and CEO, who is assisted by the executive manThe internal audit function is under the supervision of the Chief Audit Execagement, other operational managers and personnel, the so-called “first utive. The internal audit function is an independent and objective assurance line of defense”. and consulting activity. Elekta’s Chief Audit Executive reports functionally In addition, specifically established functions such as compliance, qualto the audit committee, and administratively to the Chief Financial Officer ity assurance, regulatory affairs, etc. provide guidance and assessments on (CFO). The scope of the internal audit function encompasses the examinagovernance, risk management and internal control related to their areas of tion and evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of Elekta’s goverexpertise, the so-called “second line of defense,”. The internal audit funcnance, risk management and internal control processes, as well as the qualtion, the so-called “third line of defense”, provides independent and objecity of performance in carrying out assigned responsibilities to achieve the tive assurance and advisory support to management on Group’s objectives as part of the assurance activity. It also encompasses governance, risk management and internal control. consulting activities and advisory support in relation to Elekta’s governance, Elekta has defined risk management and internal control as a process, risk management, and internal control processes. affected by the board and its committees, the President and CEO, the execThe internal audit function works in accordance with the guidelines for utive management and other managers and personnel, and designed to the internal audit function adopted by the board. provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives relating to: Work during the year •• Preparation and review of risk map as a basis for the internal audit plan Operations •• Establishment of an internal audit plan •• Effectiveness and efficiency of operations •• Internal audit of risk and control matrices for processes encompassed •• Safeguarding of assets against loss by the global internal control project •• Internal audit of the Group’s and subsidiaries’ various processes Reporting based on a risk-based internal audit plan •• Reliability, timeliness and transparency of internal and external financial •• Special investigations and non-financial reporting •• Member of program management office for the global internal control project Compliance •• External audit coordination •• Adherence to applicable laws and regulations, and internal steering •• Audit committee meeting planning and administration documents •• Internal audit reports to the executive management, the audit Risk management and internal control over financial reporting is a subset committee and the board of directors of the risk management and internal control process. The risk management and internal control process is applicable to all Elekta operations, includElekta Annual Report 2018/19 55 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ing business areas, regions, functions, management, people, processes and mental principles linked to five components: control environment, risk assesstechnology. ment, control activities, monitoring, and information and communication. All business activities involve risks from external and internal sources. Risk is defined as the possibility that an event will occur and adversely affect Objective the achievement of objectives. Risks that are effectively managed may lead The Elekta Group is governed and controlled based on the distribution of to opportunities and value creation, while risks that are not could result in rights and responsibilities, including decision-making, among different cordamage and losses. porate bodies according to laws and regulations as well as internal steering documents. A structure is provided through which Elekta’s objectives and the Internal governance and control environment means of attaining these objectives and monitoring performance are set. The Elekta’s internal governance and control environment comprise its values, objectives reflect choices made on how the Group seeks to create, preserve code of conduct, risk strategy, organization, roles and responsibilities, deland realize value for its stakeholders. Governance is twofold; it concerns both egation of authority, and policies and procedures. Policies and procedures effectiveness and accountability. Effectiveness is measured by performance, clarify certain important aspects of the control environment such as board and accountability includes all issues surrounding disclosure and transparency. independence from management, a commitment to attract, develop and Objective setting is a prerequisite necessary to internal control and a key retain competent individuals as well as performance measures, incentives part of the Elekta strategy and management processes. Therefore, Elekta’s and rewards to drive accountability for performance. corporate governance encompasses both the strategy and management Elekta has adopted a number of steering documents at a group-wide processes, outlining the establishment of both long-term objectives and level: strategies with at least a three-year perspective and short-term objectives •• Working instructions for the board of directors, working instructions and plans with a one-year perspective, and the risk management and interfor the Chief Executive Officer, instructions regarding financial reporting nal control process. for the board of directors, working instructions for the audit committee, a directive for the executive compensation and capability committee and Control environment a charter for the internal audit function Important elements of the control environment applicable for Elekta’s financial reporting are the financial guide, including the accounting policy, •• Values reporting instructions, authorization policy and finance policy. In addition, •• Code of conduct, anti-corruption policy, whistle-blowing procedure and there are other important elements of the control environment for financompetition policy cial reporting such as the communication policy and processes and work •• Elekta financial guide instructions to be found in group-wide steering documents and in the Elekta business management system. To govern the operations, Elekta has established a business management Risk assessment is carried out continuously throughout the year in order system with internal steering documents. The most important elements of to identify risks that can affect the possibility to reach targets set in relation this system are: to the strategy, the business, reporting and compliance. •• The organizational structure with defined roles and responsibilities and delegation of authority Risk assessment •• Other policies and procedures such as the communication policy, quality Risk assessment includes identifying any risk that the qualitative characterpolicy, environmental policy, IT policies and HR policies istics of useful financial information, according to IFRS, may not be fulfilled or the financial reporting assertions may not be supported. Risk assessment •• Processes and work instructions, for example, the strategy and management criteria include occurrence, completeness, accuracy, cut-off, classification, processes, the main business processes (product lifecycle management, existence, rights and obligations, and valuation for profit and loss and balcustomer relationship management and supply chain management), ance sheet items in the financial reporting as applicable, but also informaas well as supporting processes tion processing relating to input, processing and recording of data. A risk assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting is performed In addition to group-wide steering documents and the business manonce a year and covers profit and loss and balance sheet items in the finanagement system, operations are also governed by external laws, regulacial reporting and related areas and processes. The work is documented in tions, rules and guidelines, such as the Swedish companies act, NASDAQ a risk map and included in risk and control matrices (RACMs) per area and Stockholm Rule Book for Issuers, Swedish corporate governance code, and process. requirements and standards from supervisory authorities in the field of medical technology. Control activities Control activities mitigate the risks identified to achieve set objectives The board of directors’ report on risk management through adherence to risk tolerance levels in terms of globally defined minand internal control over financial reporting imum internal control requirements over financial reporting. The control The board of directors’ report on risk management and internal control activities are documented in risk and control matrices (RACMs) per area, over financial reporting has been prepared in accordance with the annual process and risk. accounts act and the Swedish corporate governance code, and constitutes Control activities are aimed at preventing errors and irregularities from an integral part of the corporate governance report. The external financial occurring and/or detecting errors and irregularities that may have occurred. reporting has been prepared in accordance with laws and regulations and Control activities can be manual or automated, such as authorizations and applicable accounting standards, namely the International Financial Reportapprovals, verifications, reconciliations, and business performance reviews, ing Standards (IFRS), and other requirements on listed companies, such as or a combination of the two. the NASDAQ Stockholm Rule Book for Issuers. Elekta’s work on risk manControl activities comprise the following areas and processes: agement and internal control over financial reporting is based on the 2013 •• Entity-level controls – over the control environment updated internal control – integrated framework (the “framework”), and the •• General IT controls – over IT system components, processes and data enterprise risk management integrated framework (the “ERM framework”), for a given IT environment including logical access, program change both established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the management, back-up and recovery Treadway Commission (COSO). The COSO framework is based on 17 funda56 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT •• Process controls – over processes such as order recognition, order to cash, Information and communication revenue recognition, purchase to pay, inventory, payroll and financial Information and communication regarding risk management and internal statement close. control over financial reporting relates to both internal and external information and communication. The globally defined minimum internal control requirements over financial Internal information about important internal steering documents for reporting comprise entity level controls that are regulated through Elekta’s risk management and internal control over financial reporting, including steering documents at Group-wide level, the business management system RACMs, as well as the communication policy and processes, work instrucand internal control frameworks of standard controls that include general tions and other relevant information in the Elekta business management IT controls and uniform process controls for all Elekta companies and locally system, are channeled down the organization and communicated to reledefined controls where necessary. The controls included in the internal control vant personnel on the Group’s intranet. Internal information regarding the framework are documented in RACMs as standard models for all entities and status of the effective design and operating effectiveness of risk managethen specifically for each individual entity. All controls in the internal control ment and internal control over financial reporting are channeled up the framework are based on risk assessments of financial flows that impact the organization, based on the result of the monitoring, in order for managefinancial reporting in general and more specifically for the individual entities. ment at different levels to be able to take corrective actions as necessary. The President and CEO and the Chief Audit Executive in turn inform the audit Monitoring committee and the board, respectively, of the results of the monitoring in Monitoring of internal control over financial reporting is carried out through order for them to be able to fulfill their oversight responsibility. This commuongoing evaluations, separate evaluations, or some combination of the two, nication normally takes place at the ordinary audit committee meetings to ascertain whether the five components of risk management and internal and board meetings, respectively. control are present and functioning; control environment, risk assessment, Elekta provides the financial markets and other stakeholders with concontrol activities, monitoring as well as information and communication. tinuous external information and communication regarding the Group’s and Ongoing evaluations are routine operations, built into processes. Monithe Company’s financial performance and position in accordance with the toring takes place on a real-time basis by operational managers and personcommunication policy. External information and communication regarding nel and periodically by management at different levels of the Group, and the financial reporting is provided in the form of: audit committee and the board, and includes for example monitoring of the •• Interim reports, year-end reports and annual reports following: •• Press releases on news and events that may significantly affect the •• Business and financial performance Group’s valuation and future prospects •• Order bookings and revenue recognition •• Presentations and telephone conferences for financial analysts, investors •• Compliance reports from the compliance function and media representatives on the day of publication of interim reports •• Internal audit reports from the QA and RA functions related to, and year-end reports and in conjunction with the release of important for example, the quality system and regulatory compliance news and events •• Internal audit planning •• Capital market days arranged by the Group at one of its major entities or in conjunction with major scientific conferences •• Internal audit reports from the internal audit function •• Information on the Elekta website: www.elekta.com, including reports, •• External audit reports from the external auditor press releases and presentations Special evaluations may be performed through: Elekta observes a silent period prior to each interim and year-end report. •• Periodic reviews of whether risk management and internal control are operating as intended by financial managers and general management Activities in the fiscal year 2018/19 at local, regional, business area and Group level as applicable During the fiscal year 2018/19, the performed activities have primarily •• Control self-assessment (CSA), a tool for local management to report on focused on review of timeliness and quality of internal control performance, the status of effective design and operating effectiveness of the globally improvement of management reporting regarding adherence to the interdefined minimum internal control requirements over financial reporting nal control framework as well as ongoing internal control improvements. documented in RACMs In addition, the implementation of the internal control framework in some •• Internal audit according to the internal audit plan small sized group companies has been completed and the implementation in the few remaining companies that have been included in the group has Instructions and budget approvals of internal control for financial reporting been initiated and is currently being implemented. Annual update of the are conducted by the audit committee on behalf of the board of directors and internal control framework has been performed according to plan as well as require supporting documentation in the form of presentation of status, progannual sign-off by management. Information relating to the results of the ress and solutions, as well as supporting appendices such as internal audit independent reviews were addressed at the meetings of the audit commitreports and internal control reports. Status, progress and solutions for internal tee and subsequently followed up by the board. Work on risk management control over financial reporting are discussed at the audit committee meeting framework has continued as planned. and instructions are documented and, where approvals are required, approvals are performed and documented accordingly. The audit committee subseActivities in the fiscal year 2019/20 quently briefs the board of directors at the next board meeting and provides During the 2019/20 fiscal year, focus will continue to be on reviews of supporting documentation for discussion and approval. timeliness and quality of internal control performance and also increase efficiency and centralization of control performance. Furthermore, implementation of internal control framework in remaining entities will be completed and any new entities included continuously. Work on risk management framework will continue according to plan. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 57 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of directors Laurent Leksell Annika Espander Caroline Leksell Cooke Johan Malmquist Jansson First elected: 1972 2015 2017 2015 Board chairman Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Chairman of the Member of the executive Member of the audit Member of the audit executive compensation compensation ­and committee committee and capability c­ ommittee capability committee Attendance: 7/7 4/4 7/7 4/4 6/7 3/4 7/7 4/4 Total fees: 1,165,000 110,000 500,000 75,000 500,000 135,000 500,000 135,000 Year of birth: 1952 1964 1981 1961 Education: MBA and PhD from StockBachelor of Science in BSc Degree Stockholm BSc Degree Stockholm holm School of Economics, Chemistry from Uppsala University, studied marketSchool of Economics, Sweden University/University of ing at Wharton School at Sweden Michigan, and MBA in Interthe University of Pennsyl­ national Business Managevania and at Columbia ment from Uppsala UniverBusiness School sity, Sweden Independence: Independent of the Company Independent of the ComIndependent of the Independent of the and the executive managepany and the executive Company and the executive Company and the executive ment, not independent of management and indepenmanagement, not management and indepenmajor share­holders dent of major ­shareholders independent of major dent of major ­shareholders shareholders Other board assignments: Board chairman: Leksell Board member: Lifco AB, Board chairman: Bonit Board chairman: Getinge AB Social V­ entures and StockEsperio AB and Asperia AB Invest S.A./N.V Tingstad AB, Arjo AB holm School of Economics Board member: Leksell Board member: Mölnlycke Board member: InternaSocial Ventures’ investment Health Care AB, Dunker­ tional Chamber of Comcommittee stiftelserna, Chalmers merce (ICC) University of ­Technology Foundation, Trelleborg AB and Stena Adactum AB Holdings in Elekta AB: 14,980,769 A-shares 8,000 B-shares 182,308 B-shares 20,000 B-shares (own and closely related 8,056,624 B-shares parties as per April 30, 2019) Principal work experience Founder of Elekta and Exec25 years’ experience as an Extensive experience in Extensive experience from and other ­information: utive Director from 2005 advisor and investor, as well the areas of digital stratthe medical technology to 2013. Former President as from executive positions egy, communication and industry, among others and CEO of Elekta during within the financial markets, technology and is currently as president and CEO for the years from 1972 to among others from Handelsresponsible for major interGetinge AB between 1997 2005. Among others, Assisbanken, Enskilda Securities, national business in the and 2015. Before that, varitant Professor and Facand Catella. Operational role as industry manager at ous positions within the ulty m­ ember of Stockholm experience from the pharGoogle Getinge group and School of ­Economics, IFL and maceutical industry (PharElectrolux group Insead Fontainebleau, and macia). CEO and Founder of Visiting Scholar at Harvard Asperia AB Business School 58 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of directors Tomas Puusepp Wolfgang Reim Jan Secher Birgitta Stymne Cecilia Wikström Göransson 2013 2011 2010 2005 2018 Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Member of the executive Member of the audit Chairman of the audit Member of the executive compensation ­and committee committee compensation ­and capability committee capability committee 7/7 7/7 4/4 7/7 4/4 7/7 4/4 7/7 4/4 500,000 500,000 75,000 500,000 135,000 500,000 225,000 500,000 75,000 1955 1956 1957 1957 1965 Electrical Engineer, studies Master of Sciences and DocMaster of Science in MBA from Harvard B ­ usiness Master of theology from in Physics at the Royal Institor of Physics from the FedIndustrial Engineering School and Master of Uppsala University tute of Technology in Stockeral Institute of Technology and ­Management from ­Science in Chemical Engiholm and at the University ETH in Zurich Linköping ­University, neering and Biotechnology of Stockholm and Man­Sweden from the Royal Institute of agement (IEP) at IMD in Technology in Stockholm, Lausanne Sweden Not independent of the Independent of the ComIndependent of the Independent of the Independent of the Company and the executive pany and the executive manCompany and the execuCompany and the execuCompany and the executive management, independent agement and independent of tive management and indetive management and indemanagement and indeof major ­shareholders the major s­ hareholders pendent of the major pendent of the major pendent of the major ­shareholders ­shareholders ­shareholders Board chairman: Global Board chairman: Ondal MedBoard chairman: Peak Board chairman: MAG Board member: Beijer Medical Investments GMI AB ical Systems GmbH, DORC Management AG Interactive AB and BCB Alma AB (publ) and Örebro Board member: The Swedish B.V. and Amann Girrbach AG Board Member: IKEM (InnoMedical Oy University ­American Chamber of Board member: GN Store vation and Chemical IndusBoard member: Pandora AS, Commerce in New York and Nord A/S. tries in Sweden) from May Rhenman & Partners Asset Permobil AB 2016 and The European Management AB, Midsona Chemical Industry Council AB and Fryshuset Foundation from October 2014 600,000 B-shares 17,500 B-shares 28,800 B-shares 6,100 B-shares – Various positions at the Independent consultant President and CEO of Perstorp President and CEO of Member of the European Research Institute for focusing on the medical Holding AB from September Memira Group 2010 to 2013. Parliament for the Liberal Nuclear Physics, Scanditrotechnology industry. From 2013. Previously President and CEO of Semantix Group 2005 Party; M.P. in the Swednix and Ericsson before being 1986 to 2006 CEO of Dräger CEO of Ferrostaal AG from to 2009, and COO/CFO of ish Parliament for the Libemployed by Elekta in 1988. Medical AG. At Siemens 2010 to 2012, operating partTelefos 2001 to 2005. Before eral Party; Priest within the Since then, he has held varifrom 1986 until 2000, as CEO ner of the US private equity that, various management Swedish Church during the ous management positions of the Ultrasound Division fund Apollo in London from positions, including last 25 years, among others within the Company, includ(1998–2000) and President of 2009 to 2010, CEO of Clariant McKinsey, Gambro and as Cathedral Chaplain and ing head of Elekta’s neurothe Special Products Division AG in Basel from 2006 to 2008 Åhléns Perpetual Curate; Senior surgery operations, President (1995–1998) and CEO of SICPA in Lausanne Consultant at Michael Berof Elekta’s subsidiary in North from 2003 to 2005. Before he glund Chefsrekrytering; America, global head of held various leading ­positions Author of leadership books, Elekta’s sales, marketing in the ABB Group during the of which one became the and service operations, and years from 1982 to 2002 Best Leadership Book of President and CEO of Elekta 2004. during fiscal years 2005/06 to 2013/14, and during 2015/16 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 59 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Executive management (as per July 8, 2019) Richard Hausmann Gustaf Salford Year of birth: 1960 Year of birth: 1977 Role: President and CEO Role: Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Employed since: 2016 Employed since: 2009 Holdings1): 37,500 B-shares Holdings1): 2,100 B-shares Education: Doctorate in Physics­from Education: MSc in Business Regensburg University, G ­ ermany Administration, Stockholm School of Economics EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BUSINESS LINES EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT REGIONS John Lapré Sukhveer Singh2) Maurits Wolleswinkel Peter Gaccione Anming Gong Year of birth: 1964 Year of birth: 1974 Year of birth: 1971 Year of birth: 1959 Year of birth: 1964 Role: President Brachy soluRole: President Oncology Role: President Linac Role: EVP North Role: EVP China tions and Interim President Informatics solutions solutions and Central America Employed since: 2009 Neuro solutions Employed since: 2019 Employed since: 2011 Employed since: 1997 Holdings1): – Employed since: 2011 Holdings1): – Holdings1): 5,000 B-shares Holdings1): – Education: MSc Biomedical (Nucletron 2009) Education: MBA in Strategy, Education: MSc in MechanEducation: BS Electronic Engineering, Huazhong UniHoldings1): 5,250 B-shares Marketing & Health Policy ical Engineering from Delft Engineering versity of Science and TechEducation: MSc in Human from Kellogg School of ManUniversity of Technology, and nology, Wuhan, China Nutrition and Physiology, and agement and MSc Computer MSc in General M­ anagement PhD in T­ oxicology from Science from IIlinois Institute from Nyenrode U ­ niversity Wageningen ­University of Technology EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT SUPPORT FUNCTIONS Renato Leite Habib Nehme3) Paul Bergström Jonas Bolander Oskar Bosson Year of birth: 1972 Year of birth: 1964 Year of birth: 1974 Year of birth: 1966 Year of birth: 1976 Role: EVP Europe East and Role: EVP India, Middle East Role: EVP Global Services Role: General Counsel and Role: EVP Corporate West and Africa Employed since: 2017 EVP Communications and Employed since: 2018 Employed since: March 2018 Holdings1): – Employed since: 2001 Public Affairs Holdings1): – Holdings1): – Education: MSc Electrical Holdings1): 200 B-shares Employed since: 2018 Education: MSc Biomedical Education: Master in BiomedEngineering, Royal Institute Education: Master of Laws Holdings1): 1,425 B-shares Engineering, COPPE/UFRJ, Rio ical Engineering, University of of Technology, Stockholm from Stockholm University Education: MSc Molecular­ de Janeiro; BSc Mechanical Technology of Compiègne, Biotechnology Engineering Engineering, Federal University France, Electrical Engineering and Bachelor Business and of Rio de Janeiro; Advanced degree, Jesuits Saint Joseph Economics, Uppsala Business Management, BabUniversity of Beirut and a MarUniversity son College, Massachusetts keting degree, business school of HEC–Paris. Caroline Mofors Ioannis Panagiotelis Karin Svenske Nyberg Steve Wort Year of birth: 1972 Year of birth: 1972 Year of birth: 1966 Year of birth: 1963 Role: SVP Chief Compliance Role: Chief Marketing and Sales Role: EVP Human Resources Role: Chief Operating and Integrity Officer Officer (CMSO) and Interim Employed since: 2017 Officer (COO) Employed since: 2014 President MR-linac solutions Holdings1): – Employed since: 1991 Holdings1): – Employed since: 2017 Education: MSc Chemical Holdings1): – Education: Master of Laws Holdings1): – Engineering, Royal Institute Education: Senior Executive and Master Degree in Education: MSc in Mediof Technology, Stockholm, Programme, London BusiLitigation, Arbitration and cal Physics and a PhD in Bioand Behavioural Science, ness School; Post Graduate Alternative Dispute Resolumedical Physics and BioengiStockholm University Diploma in Management, tion from University of Paris II, neering from the University of Southbank University, London 1) Own and closely related parties Panthéon-Assas, France Aberdeen, and MBA from IESE 2) Started at Elekta in June 2019 Business School in Barcelona 3) Member as of June 2019 60 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Auditor’s report on the corporate governance statement To the general meeting of the shareholders in Elekta AB (publ) corporate identity number 556170-4015. Engagement and responsibility Opinions It is the board of directors who is responsible for the corporate governance A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accorstatement for the financial year May 1, 2018 – April 30, 2019 on pages 48–60 dance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 the Annual and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts and The scope of the audit are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance Stockholm, July 8, 2019 statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conPricewaterhouseCoopers AB ducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generSignature on original auditors’ report in Swedish1) ally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Johan Engstam Authorized Public Accountant 1) This is a translation of the original auditors’ report in Swedish. In the event of any differences between the translation and the original statement in Swedish, the Swedish version shall prevail Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 61 THE SHARE Strong share price performance Elekta B-shares have been listed on the NASDAQ Stockholm since 1994. Total OUTCOME OF SHARE PROGRAM 2016/19 number of registered shares on April 30, 2019 was 383,568,409, whereof treaAllocation of sury shares amounted to 1,541,368 series B-shares. Total trading in Elekta shaperformance res on NASDAQ Stockholm during the period May 1, 2018 – April 30, 2019 amoun2018/19 shares ted to 347.6 million shares (374.1), corresponding to 91 percent (98) of the total Mini­­­Maxinumber of shares. Market capitalization on April 30, 2019 amounted to SEK Financial target mum,% mum,% Actual, % Outcome, % 41,466 M (36,660), an increase by 13 percent. Average annual percentage growth in earnings per DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES APRIL 30, 2019 share 103 132 106 32 Percentage of Total allocation of 49,846 Class of share No. of shares No. of votes capital votes performance shares A-shares 14,980,769 149,807,690 3.9% 28.9% B-shares 368,587,640 368,587,640 96.1% 71.1% OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE APRIL 30, 2019 Total 383,568,409 518,395,330 100.0% 100.0% PercentPercentAverage See Note 26 for more information on Elekta’s share capital. No. of age of age of No. per Shareholding, shareshare­ No. of share shareDividend and proposal to repurchase shares No. of shares holders holders shares ­capital holder Elekta’s goal is to provide shareholders with a favorable return and value 1–500 16,471 65.6% 2,472,933 0.6% 150 growth. The policy is to distribute at least 30 percent of profit for the year in 501–1,000 3,321 13.2% 2,720,706 0.7% 819 the form of dividend, repurchase of shares or comparable measures. A divi1,001–10,000 4,584 18.3% 13,439,592 3.5% 2,932 dend decision is based on Elekta’s financial position, earnings trend, growth 10,001–100,000 540 2.1% 15,077,936 3.9% 27,922 potential and investment needs. For 2018/19, the board proposes, in accor100,001– 194 0.8% 349,857,242 91.3% 1,803,388 dance with the Company’s dividend policy, a total dividend of SEK 1.80 (1.40) Total 25,110 100.0% 383,568,409 100.0% 15,276 per share. Total dividend amounts to approximately SEK 688 M (535) and 57 Source: Euroclear Sweden (49) percent of net profit for the year. The board also proposes the dividend to be divided into two payments. See page 72 for more information on dividend. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS APRIL 30, 2019 The board intends to propose to 2019 Annual General Meeting a renewal Percentage of of the board´s authorization to repurchase shares in Elekta AB. The proposal limits the number of shares to be repurchased to a maximum of 10 percent Owner No. of shares capital votes of the number of shares outstanding in Elekta AB. Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund 25,395,693 6.6% 4.9% AMF Insurance & Funds 25,045,458 6.5% 4.8% Share program Laurent Leksell and companies 23,037,393 6.0% 30.5% The annual general meetings in 2009–2018 have resolved to adopt share programs, called performance share plans. Performance share plan 2015/18, T. Rowe Price 17,575,877 4.6% 3.4% resolved by the annual general meeting in 2015, was concluded during the year. Swedbank Robur Funds 16,332,292 4.3% 3.2% Outstanding programs as per April 30, 2019 were performance share plan Nordea Funds 12,532,402 3.3% 2.4% 2016/19, 2017/20 and 2018/21 respectively. The resolutions entailed that the conAlecta Pension Insurance 10,940,000 2.9% 2.1% ditions and the guidelines stated in the respective plans shall form the basis for Vanguard 9,687,255 2.5% 1.9% the receipt of shares by key employees of Elekta upon fulfillment of certain perBaillie Gifford & Co 9,459,320 2.5% 1.8% formance requirements during the periods 2016/17–2018/19, 2017/18–2019/20 and Second Swedish National 2018/19–2020/21 respectively. The scope of performance share plans 2016/19, Pension Fund 8,977,046 2.3% 1.7% 2017/20 and 2018/21 are summarized in the tables below. See Note 7 for more Other 224,585,673 58.5% 43.3% information on the plans. Total 383,568,409 100.0% 100.0% Source: Modular Finance SHARE PROGRAM 2016/19 2017/20 2018/21 The table above lists the 10 largest known shareholders in Elekta AB as of Originally designated number of shares 280,386 272,379 530,799 April 30, 2019. Foreign ownership was approximately 46 (50) percent. Share price used for calculation of theoretical value, SEK 77 84 100 Allotment of share 2019-09-14 2020-09-14 2021-09-14 Number of shares as of April 30, 2019 155,770 272,379 528,925 Under the performance share plan 2016/19, the performance targets are measured and earned by one-third each financial year from 2016/17 until 2018/19. The results for the 2016/19 financial year are shown in the following table. 62 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 THE SHARE CHANGE IN SHARE CAPITAL UNTIL APRIL 30, 2018 THE ELEKTA SHARE Total number Total share SEK Thousands, shares Year Transaction of shares capital 180 60,000 1994 New issue 7,397,180 36,985,900 1994 Exercise of warrants 7,897,180 39,485,900 150 50,000 1997 New issue 10,497,451 52,487,255 120 40,000 2000 New issue 27,853,617 139,268,085 2001 Conversion of debentures 31,661,867 158,309,335 90 30,000 2001 Exercise of warrants 31,678,867 158,394,335 2002 Exercise of warrants 32,181,742 160,908,710 60 20,000 2003 Exercise of warrants 32,647,067 163,235,335 30 10,000 2003 Conversion of debentures 32,781,267 163,906,335 2003 Exercise of warrants 32,953,967 164,769,835 0 0 2003 Redemption of shares 31,066,254 155,331,270 2016 2017 2018 2019 2004 Exercise of warrants 31,567,454 157,837,270 Elekta B OMX Stockholm PI OMX Stockholm Health Care Number of traded shares  Source: Modular Finance 2005 Exercise of warrants 31,596,236 157,981,180 2005 Bonus issue 31,596,236 189,577,416 DATA PER SHARE 2005 Split 3:1 94,788,708 189,577,416 2005 Cancellation of repurchased shares 94,114,008 188,228,016 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2005 Exercise of warrants 94,194,372 188,388,744 Earnings per share 2006 Exercise of warrants 94,451,456 189,902,912 before dilution, SEK 1.45 0.36 0.33 3.53 3.14 2006 Redemption of shares 93,649,756 187,299,512 after dilution, SEK 1.45 0.36 0.33 3.53 3.14 2006 Exercise of warrants 93,741,598 187,483,196 Cash flow per share 2007 Exercise of warrants 93,880,090 187,760,180 before dilution, SEK 1.78 1.00 2.69 3.79 2.48 2007 Conversion of debentures 93,900,016 187,800,032 after dilution, SEK 1.78 1.00 2.69 3.79 2.48 2007 Exercise of warrants 92,272,445 187,806,632 Shareholders’ equity per share 2007 Cancellation of repurchased shares 93,903,316 184,544,890 before dilution, SEK 17.41 16.79 17.73 18.29 20.36 2008 Exercise of warrants 93,075,863 186,151,726 after dilution, SEK 17.41 16.79 17.73 18.29 20.36 2008 Cancellation of repurchased shares 92,124,563 184,249,126 Dividend, SEK 0.50 0.50 1.00 1.40 1.801) 2009 Exercise of warrants 92,237,944 184,475,888 Share price, Elekta series B, 2010 Exercise of warrants 94,188,044 188,376,088 April 30, SEK 78.00 58.70 92.45 99.46 112.50 2011 Exercise of warrants 94,769,763 189,539,526 Market capitalization, April 30, SEK M 29,740 22,382 34,076 36,660 41,466 2012 Exercise of warrants 95,701,670 191,403,340 Lowest share price, SEK 66.10 51.60 57.50 66.12 91.85 2012 Split 4:1 382,806,680 191,403,340 Highest share price, SEK 95.05 78.70 93.15 99.74 131.35 2012 Conversion of convertible loan 382,807,329 191,403,665 Average number of shares 2013 Conversion of convertible loan 382,828,114 191,414,057 before dilution, 000’s 381,287 381,288 381,306 382,027 382,027 2014 Conversion of convertible loan 382,828,765 191,414,383 after dilution2), 000’s 381,287 381,288 381,306 382,027 382,027 2015 Conversion of convertible loan 382,829,045 191,414,523 Number of shares, April 303) 2016 Conversion of convertible loan 382,829,047 191,414,524 before dilution, 000’s 381,287 381,288 382,027 382,027 382,027 2017 Conversion of convertible loan 383,568,409 191,784,205 after dilution, 000’s 381,287 381,288 382,027 382,027 382,027 1) Proposed dividend 2) N  umber of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share in accordance with IAS 33 3) N  umber of registered shares at closing excluding treasury shares (1,541,368 per April 30, 2019) Financial calendar Interim report, Q1 May–July 2019/20 August 22, 2019 Annual General Meeting August 22, 2019 Interim report, Q2 May–October 2019/20 November 28, 2019 Interim report, Q3 May–January 2019/20 February 20, 2020 Year–end report 2019/20 May 29, 2020 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 63 FIVE YEAR REVIEW AND KEY FIGURES Five year review and key figures INCOME STATEMENT SEK M 2014/151) 2015/161) 2016/171) 2017/18 2018/19 Net sales 10,839 11,221 10,704 11,573 13,555 Operating expenses excl. amortization and depreciation –9,390 –10,1642) –9,4513) –9,053 –10,916 Depreciation –146 –165 –156 –151 –162 EBITA 1,303 892 1,097 2,369 2,477 Amortization –366 –469 –499 –524 –781 EBIT / Operating result 937 423 598 1,845 1,696 Financial net –221 –234 –258 –164 –116 Profit before tax 716 189 340 1,681 1,580 Taxes –158 –44 –214 –333 –382 Profit for the year 558 145 126 1,348 1,198 Attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 552 137 125 1,348 1,198 Non-controlling interests 6 8 1 0 0 1) Calculation based on IAS18 2) Including items affecting comparability amounting to SEK –598 M 3) Including items affecting comparability amounting to SEK –518 M CASH FLOW SEK M 2014/151) 2015/161) 2016/171) 2017/18 2018/19 Operating flow 1,299 709 767 2,357 2,256 Changes in working capital 524 461 1,051 47 –636 Cash flow from operating activities 1,823 1,170 1,819 2,404 1,621 Continuous investments –956 –774 –774 –816 –658 Cash flow after continuous investments 867 396 1,045 1,589 962 Short-term investments – – – –83 38 Acquisition of operations –188 –12 –18 –58 –54 Cash flow from investing activities –1,144 –786 –792 –957 –674 Cash flow after investments 679 384 1,027 1,447 946 Cash flow from financing activities 186 –1,303 –55 –367 –1,473 Cash flow for the year 865 –920 972 1,080 –527 1) Calculation based on IAS18 BALANCE SHEET SEK M 2015-04-301) 2016-04-301) 2017-04-301) 2018-04-30 2019-04-30 Intangible assets 8,174 8,210 8,704 9,175 9,301 Tangible fixed assets 881 803 795 895 957 Financial assets 371 364 308 261 508 Deferred tax assets 224 281 375 350 402 Inventories 1,297 1,135 936 2,560 2,634 Receivables 6,972 6,375 6,450 5,978 6,144 Short-term investments – – – 83 45 Cash and cash equivalents 3,265 2,273 3,383 4,458 4,073 Total assets 21,184 19,441 20,950 23,760 24,064 Shareholders’ equity 6,646 6,412 6,774 6,987 7,779 Interest-bearing liabilities 6,033 4,950 5,272 5,344 4,558 Interest-free liabilities 8,505 8,079 8,905 11,429 11,727 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 21,184 19,441 20,950 23,760 24,064 1) Calculation based on IAS18 64 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 FIVE YEAR REVIEW AND KEY FIGURES KEY FIGURES 2014/151) 2015/161) 2016/171) 2017/18 2018/19 Gross order intake, SEK M 12,825 13,821 14,064 14,493 16,796 Net order intake, SEK M 11,907 12,880 n/a n/a n/a Order backlog, SEK M 17,087 18,239 22,459 27,974 32,003 Operating margin, % 9 4 6 16 13 Profit margin, % 7 2 3 15 12 Shareholders' equity, SEK M 6,646 6,412 6,774 6,987 7,779 Capital employed, SEK M 12,678 11,360 12,046 12,331 12,337 Net debt, SEK M 2,768 2,677 1,889 803 439 Equity/Assets ratio, % 31 33 32 29 32 Net debt/EBITDA ratio, multiple 1.91 2.53 1.51 0.32 0.17 Interest cover ratio, multiple 6.7 4.4 6.0 15.5 16.9 Return on shareholders' equity, % 9 2 2 22 17 Return on capital employed, % 9 4 5 17 15 Investments in tangible and intangible assets, SEK M 982 874 681 861 660 Depreciation and amortization, SEK M –512 –634 –655 –675 -943 Operational cash conversion, % 126 111 145 95 61 Average number of employees 3,679 3,677 3,581 3,702 3,798 1) Calculation based on IAS18 EQUITY AND CASH FLOW AFTER ­ NET SALES AND EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO CONTINUOUS INVESTMENTS EBITA PROFIT BEFORE TAX SEK M % SEK M SEK M SEK M 8,000 8 000 80 4,500 4 500 3,000 3 000 16,000 16 000 6,000 6 000 60 3,000 3 000 2,250 2 250 12,000 12 000 4,000 4 000 40 1,500 1 500 1,500 1 500 8,000 8 000 2 000 2,000 20 00 750 750 4 000 4,000 00 0 -1 500 -1,500 00 00 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 Equity Operating flow Profit before tax Equity/Assets ratio Change in working capital Net sales Continuous investments Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 65 Content financial information Board of Directors’ Report 67 Note 19 Shares in subsidiaries 103 Consolidated income statement 74 Note 20 Shares in associates 104 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 74 Note 21 Other financial assets 104 Consolidated balance sheet 76 Note 22 Inventories 104 Changes in consolidated equity 78 Note 23 Accounts receivable and contract assets 105 Consolidated cash flow statement 80 Note 24 Other current receivables 105 Financial statements – Parent Company 82 Note 25 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments 105 Note 26 Equity 106 Notes 84 Note 27 Interest-bearing liabilities 106 Note 1 Essential accounting principles 84 Note 28 Provisions 107 Note 2 Financial risk management 86 Note 29 Customer contract related balances and order backlog 109 Note 3 Financial instrument 88 Note 30 Accrued expenses 109 Note 4 Estimates and assessments 93 Note 31 Other current liabilities 109 Note 5 Segment reporting 93 Note 32 Assets pledged 109 Note 6 Net sales 94 Note 33 Contingent liabilities 109 Note 7 Salaries, other remuneration and social security costs 95 Note 34 Cash flow statement 110 Note 8 Depreciation/amortization 97 Note 35 Related party transactions 110 Note 9 Operating leases 97 Note 36 Business combinations 110 Note 10 Remunerations to auditors 98 Note 37 Average number of employees 111 Note 11 Expenses by nature 98 Note 38 Events after the reporting period 111 Note 12 Income from participations in Group companies 98 Note 39 Effects from changed accounting standards 112 Note 13 Net financial items 98 Note 14 Interest income, interest expense and similar items 98 Board of Director´s signature 115 Note 15 Appropriations and untaxed reserves 98 Auditor’s report 116 Note 16 Taxes 99 Glossary 119 Note 17 Intangible assets 100 Definitions 121 Note 18 Tangible fixed assets 102 Alternative performance measures 122 66 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Board of Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and the CEO of Elekta AB (publ.), corporate idenFrom a competitive perspective there are also various companies addresstity number 556170-4015 and registered office in Stockholm, hereby submit ing specific segments within radiation therapy. Companies, such as Accuray the consolidated financial statements and annual report for the fiscal year with its radiosurgery solutions, Bebig with its brachytherapy products, 2018/19, covering the period May 1, 2018 – April 30, 2019. Amounts in parentheViewray with its MR linac products and Philips and Raysearch with its treatses indicate values for the previous fiscal year. Elekta AB (publ.) is referred to ment planning solutions, are part of our competitive landscape. Hospital as “Elekta AB” or “the Parent Company” and the Elekta Group, which includes Information System (HIS) companies are addressing the HIS market with Elekta AB and its subsidiaries, is referred to as “Elekta” or “the Group”. hospital wide solutions where cancer care is one of many different specialties. In addition, there are a number of companies with products and appliElekta’s operations cations supporting different aspects of cancer care processes. Elekta is a medical technology company which aims to improve, prolong Financial targets and guidance and save lives through clinical solutions for treating cancer and brain disorders. The Group develops clinical treatment solutions for radiation therapy Elekta’s aim is to achieve sustainable profitable growth. Elekta conducts its and radiosurgery, as well as workflow-enhancing software systems, across operations based on a long-term plan which is regularly reviewed and evaluthe spectrum of cancer care. Elekta is a leader in clinical solutions for image ated by the Board of Directors. For the fiscal year 2019/20 Elekta expects the guided radiation therapy and stereotactic radiosurgery, giving oncologists following outlook: and neurosurgeons an unmatched capability to treat tumors and func•• Net sales growth of 8–10 percent, based on constant exchange rates tional targets with ultra-high precision while sparing healthy tissue. •• EBITA margin of around 19 percent Elekta’s treatment solutions and oncology informatics portfolios are designed to enhance the delivery of radiation therapy, radiosurgery and On a mid-term basis, for the fiscal years 2020/21 to 2022/23, Elekta expects brachytherapy, and to drive cost efficiency in clinical workflows. Elekta’s the following scenario: operations are divided into three geographical regions: •• Net sales growth of 8–10 percent, based on constant exchange rates •• North and South America •• EBITA margin of >20 percent with expansion of up to 200 basispoints in •• Europe, Middle East and Africa the end of the period •• Asia Pacific The financial year 2018/19 Market •• Gross order intake amounted to SEK 16,796 M (14,493), an increase of The global market development for Elekta’s solutions is driven by the need 16 percent in SEK and 8 percent based on constant exchange rates for qualitative cancer care at an affordable cost. •• Net sales increased 17 percent to SEK 13,555 M (11,573), or 10 percent Cancer incidence and prevalence are increasing. More patients are surbased on constant exchange rates viving their cancer, which increasingly makes cancer a chronic disease with •• EBITA increased by 5 percent to SEK 2,477 (2,369), including a positive growing number of patients all over the world in need of long-term care. effect of SEK 70 M related to a divestment during the fiscal year The cost of cancer care is increasing and the demands for cost efficiency in health systems and among care providers is an important part of the mar•• The EBITA margin was 18.3 percent (20,5) ket dynamics. This benefits solutions within radiation therapy which is one •• Operating result was SEK 1,696 M (1,845) of the most cost-effective treatment solutions. •• Profit for the year amounted to SEK 1,198 M (1,348) A complete radiation therapy program includes various technologies in •• Earnings per share amounted to SEK 3.14 (3.53) before/after dilution Elekta’s product portfolio. New advancements in precision, accuracy and •• Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 1,621 M (2,404), effectiveness will increase the need for radiation therapy. Information man­representing an operational cash conversion of 61 percent (95) agement solutions constitute an important element in care delivery where hospital information systems and cancer informatics are other important •• Cash flow after continuous investments amounted to SEK 962 M (1,589) elements of Elekta’s solutions. There is a ­significant shortage of radiation •• The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 1.80 (1.40) per share for therapy capacity, which is an important fact in understanding the potential 2018/19 to be divided into two payments and market in many developing e ­ conomies. Order intake and order backlog Competition Gross order intake increased by 16 percent and 8 percent based on constant exchange rates. The order backlog was SEK 32,003 M on April 30, 2019, comThe main competitor in the global market, with a comprehensive product pared with SEK 27,974 M on April 30, 2018. Orders that are cancelled or not range and overlap with Elekta, is Varian Medical Systems. Elekta is overall expected to materialize as planned are removed from the order backlog. one of the largest suppliers of radiation therapy solutions. For the emerging The order backlog was affected by adjustments of SEK –945 M (–1,444) and markets, Elekta is the largest supplier. translation differences of SEK 1,763 M (493) relating to the revaluation of the order backlog at closing rates. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 67 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT GROSS ORDER INTAKE coming year. The South East Asia markets had good growth, while the Japanese market was picking up and showed some low-digit growth. SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Change, % In the region there is a long-term need for expanding cancer care North and South America 5,049 4,720 7 and the markets are generally underserved in terms of radiation therapy Europe, Middle East and Africa 6,739 5,389 25 capacity. Asia Pacific 5,008 4,384 14 See page 25 for more information on region Asia Pacific. Group 16,796 14,493 16 Net sales Market comments Net sales increased by 17 percent to SEK 13,555 M (11,573), equivalent to an North and South America increase of 10 percent based on constant exchange rates. The increase was Gross order intake in the region increased by 7 percent to SEK 5,049 M driven by good growth in all regions, except South America. (4,720), corresponding to a 1 percent decrease based on constant exchange rates. North America had good growth in the US. During the year Elekta NET SALES Unity received commercial approval both in the US and in Canada, and order intake included three orders of Elekta Unity from the region. South SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Change, % America had challenging market conditions with decreasing demand in North and South America 4,501 3,888 16 most markets. Net sales increased by 16 percent to SEK 4,501 M (3,888), Europe, Middle East and Africa 4,956 4,345 14 corresponding to an increase of 8 percent based on constant exchange Asia Pacific 4,098 3,340 23 rates. Both North and South America showed good net sales growth. The Group 13,555 11,573 17 contribution margin in the region amounted to 38 percent (39). The US market growth is primarily driven by service and software and Earnings replacement investments of currently installed linear accelerators. HospiGross margin was 41,9 percent (43,7). Operating expenses increased by 20,8 tal consolidation continues and is driving the market towards more comprepercent, mainly related to investments in the commercialization of Elekta hensive solutions and larger projects, as well as longer lead times for purUnity, Elekta Digital and the sales organization. Selling and administrative chasing decisions. South America has a significant need for high-quality, expenses amounted to SEK 2,335 M (2,156), corresponding to 17 percent (19) cost-effective cancer care. At the same time, economic development conof net sales. tinues to be volatile, resulting in low investments in new equipment. EBITA amounted to SEK 2,477 M (2,369) representing a margin of 18,3 See page 23 for more information on region North and South A ­ merica. percent (20,5). The effect from changes in exchange rates was approximately SEK 85 M Europe, Middle East and Africa (160), including hedges. Operating result was SEK 1,696 M (1,845), correGross order intake in the region increased by 25 percent to SEK 6,739 M sponding to an operating margin of 13 percent (16). The operating result (5,389) and increased by 18 percent based on constant exchange rates. included a positive effect of SEK 70 M related to a divestment in the first Order intake was good in the whole region. The strongest performers were quarter, reported as part of other operating income and expenses. Southern Europe and the Netherlands as well as Africa. The CE-clearance for Net financial items amounted to SEK –116 M (–164). The improvement Elekta Unity in Europe supported an order intake of ­10 Elekta Unity during the was mainly related to lower interest expenses as result of the decrease of year. Net sales increased by 14 percent to SEK 4,956 M (4,345), corre­sponding interest-bearing liabilities and lower costs of non-reocurring items. Profit to an increase of 9 percent based on constant exchange rates. Deliveries before tax amounted to SEK 1,580 M (1,681) and tax amounted to SEK –382 M increased to e.g. Algeria, Romania, Italy and Sweden. The contribution mar(–333), representing a tax rate of 24 percent (20). The higher tax rate was gin in the region amounted to 35 percent (36). a consequence of a one-off effect, mainly due to new accounting princiThe growth in established markets is mainly driven by upgrading the ple in combination with the product mix. Profit for the year amounted to installed base to new systems and aftermarket service, but also invest1,198 M (1,348). ments to expand radiation therapy capacity. The emerging markets have Earnings per share amounted to SEK 3.14 (3.53) before/after dilution. a need to increase the capacity. Return on shareholders’ equity amounted to 17 percent (22) and return on See page 24 for more information on region Europe, Middle East and capital employed amounted to 15 percent (17). Africa. Investments and depreciation Asia Pacific Continuous investments were SEK 658 M (816). Investments in intangible Gross order intake in the region increased by 14 percent to SEK 5,008 M assets amounted to SEK 458 M (642) and were mainly related to ongoing R&D (4,384), corresponding to a 6 percent increase based on constant exchange programs. The decrease was related to a lower level of capitalized developrates with strong growth in China, Thailand, Indonesia and Australia. During ment costs due to a higher proportion of R&D projects in an early phase. the year 4 Elekta Unity was ordered from the region. Net sales increased by Investments in tangible assets amounted to SEK 202 M (219). Amortization 23 percent to SEK 4,098 M (3,340), corresponding to an increase of 16 perof intangible assets and depreciation of tangible fixed assets amounted to cent based on constant exchange rates. The increase was mainly related to a total of SEK 943 M (675). strong revenue growth in China, South Korea and Australia. The contribution margin in the region amounted to 32 percent (31). Research and development Elekta continue to leverage the market leading position in China and see Elekta conducts research and development (R&D) aimed at strengthening high activity levels linked to the linac procurement plan to be realized in the and enhancing its position as technology leader. R&D expenditure, before cap68 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT italization of development costs, increased by 3 percent (13) and amounted MOMENTUM program launched to SEK 1,386 M (1,348), equal to 10 percent (12) of net sales. Costs related to In February, 2019, the MOMENTUM program was launched, a program the R&D function amounted to SEK 1,592 M (1,095). Capitalization and amorfocusing on building a robust body of real-world clinical experience and tization of development costs in the R&D function decreased to a net of insights made possible by this technology. Information gained through the SEK –206 M (252). Capitalization amounted to SEK 453 M (637) and amortiMOMENTUM program will guide the use of MR/RT to improve outcomes of zation to SEK 660 M (385). The increase in amortization is related to the CE cancer patients. marking of Elekta Unity. Acquisition of quality assurance expert Acumyn Cash flow Elekta announced in July, 2018, that it has acquired the Canadian qualCash flow from operating activities decreased by SEK 783 M to SEK 1,621 M ity assurance expert Acumyn, a stand-alone spin-off of University Health (2,404). Cash flow after continuous investments decreased to SEK 962 M Network, Toronto. This follows an exclusive agreement between Elekta and (1,589). Operational cash conversion was 61 percent (95). The decline in cash Acumyn, signed in 2014, to commercialize its integrated Quality Manageflow was due to increased levels of net working capital. ment System, AQUA. See pages 80–81 for more information on the consolidated cash flow. Investment in iRT Systems to offer improved quality assurance Financial position In April, 2019, Elekta announced the acquisition of a minority stake in the Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments amounted to German company, iRT Systems GmbH, in order to improve its quality assurSEK 4,119 M (4,541) and interest-­bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 4,558 M ance (QA) offering to clinics and hospitals around the world. (5,344). Thus, net debt amounted to SEK 439 M (803). Net debt in relation to EBITDA was 0.17 (0.32). Elekta Partnership agreement with RTsafe for delivery of safe and A USD 50 M loan was repaid from the USPP loan according to the matuefficient stereotactic cancer treatments rity plan on May 6, 2019. The EUR 50 M loan with Swedish Export Credit CorIn March, 2019, Elekta and RTsafe announced that they have entered into poration matured on November 12, 2019, and simultaneously a new two an agreement under which Elekta will be the distributor of innovative 3D year loan was agreed with them in the amount of SEK 500 M. In addition, printed PseudoPatient™ phantoms and remote dosimetry services, simplion January 11, 2019, Elekta AB made an early repayment of USD 50 M of the fying the implementation of complex therapeutic treatment techniques. USPP loan with maturity 2021. The balance sheet has been affected by changes in exchange rates. Divestment of MEG business to York Instruments The exchange rate effect of the translation of cash and cash equivalents In July, 2018, Elekta announced that it has sold its MEG business to York amounted to SEK 142 M (– 4). The translation difference in interest-bearing Instruments, a subsidiary of Croton Healthcare, LLC. This divestment folliabilities amounted to SEK 129 M (54). Shareholder’s equity was affected by lows Elekta’s strategic decision to prioritize its treatment solutions and exchange rate differences amounting to SEK 243 M (475). oncology informatics portfolio. See pages 76–77 for more information on the consolidated balance sheet. ZAP lawsuit filed by Elekta In April, 2019, Elekta filed a patent infringement lawsuit against ZAP SurgiEmployees cal Systems Inc. Elekta claims the company is violating a patent on Elekta’s The average number of employees during the year was 3,798 (3,702). The design for a rotatable treatment system. number of employees on April 30, 2019 totaled 3,897 (3,716). Value added per average employee amounted to SEK 1,429 T (1,448). humediQ arbitration humediQ GmbH has initiated a new arbitration against Elekta group comSignificant events during the year panies. The hearing in the arbitration is tentatively scheduled to October Elekta Unity receives CE mark 2019. Elekta is of the opinion that the claims overall lack merit and will In June, 2018, Elekta Unity received CE mark, clearing the technology for defend itself. commercial sales and clinical use in Europe. Best Medical lawsuit Received U.S. FDA 510(k) clearance for Elekta Unity Best Medical International Inc. filed a patent lawsuit against Elekta group In December, 2018, Elekta announced that it received a 510(k) premarcompanies. After a first assessment Elekta believes that the claims overall ket notification from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, clearing the lack merit and will defend itself. It is expected that it will take years before technology for commercial sales and clinical use in the United States. any final ruling is made in the case. Elekta Unity received Medical Device License from Health Canada Significant events after year-end In March, 2019, Elekta announced that its Elekta Unity received a Medical Device License from Health Canada, clearing the technology for commerElekta Unity approved in Japan cial sales in Canada. In May, 2019, Elekta announced that its Elekta Unity has been approved for clinical use in Japan. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 69 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Sustainability strained finances may mean less availability of financing for private customers and reduced future healthcare spending by governments. Elekta AB has prepared a Corporate Responsibility Report in accordance Elekta operates in a competitive landscape. The medical equipment with Chapter 6 Section 11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The Corindustry is characterized by relatively swift technological alterations with porate Responsibility Report is attached to this Annual Report and is preadvances in industrial knowhow. Elekta’s products are developed in close sented on pages 29–46. ­collaboration with research institutes. For Elekta it is of great significance that these prospective and intimate relationships are maintained, in order Quality to understand customer needs. New products and improved methods for treatment are continuously Elekta continue to focus on improving processes as one of their key stratereleased and future developments on the medical equipment market might gic priorities. Elekta conducts regular audits to ensure compliance to estabhave an impact on Elekta’s ability to compete. Thus, it is crucial that new lished requirements from medical regulatory authorities. Where approproducts and technical solutions developed by Elekta are protected from priate Elekta’s development, production or sales units are certified in the risk of improper use by competitors. When possible and deemed approaccordance with relevant ISO 9001 and ISO 13485 standards. priate, Elekta protects its intellectual property rights by way of patents, copyrights and trademark registrations. IT Elekta sells its products through its direct sales force and through an external network of agents and distributors. The Group’s continued success Through a long-term commitment to progressive cloud technologies, Elekta is dependent on its ability to establish and maintain successful relationships IT has been able to deliver a full suite of global business solutions that meet with customers and collaborations with external sales channels. our current and future business requirements. Regular dialogue with our Corruption is a risk and an obstacle for development and growth in customers and business process leaders has led to an advanced roadmap some countries of which Elekta has operations. Elekta has implemented that has resulted in a second-generation Customer Relationship Managean anti-corruption policy to discourage corruption as well as third party ment (CRM) solution to support the further digitalization of the Elekta busirisk management processes. ness. The fact that this new system will use strong AI capabilities and can be Elekta’s operations comprise several geographical markets. This does accessed anywhere in the world and with fully mobile functionality, means expose the Group to a vast number of laws, regulations, policies and guidethat we can rapidly respond to the needs of our customers’ and provide lines regarding topics such as health, security, environment, trade restricthem with the support that they need for their existing solutions and new tions, competition, exchange control and delivery of products. As a manu­ requirements. This journey of digital transformation has enabled Elekta to facturer of medical equipment, Elekta’s operation is guided by demands develop new insights into the operational performance of our clinical soluand standards set by regulatory authorities. Rule changes might bring tions. By connecting our IntelliMax remote management system directly about increased costs or hinder sales of Elekta’s products. Regulatory prointo the CRM system, this provides our regional organizations real-time cesses may interfere with the possibility to introduce products. information about the installed solutions in each of our markets. Much like other companies within the same field of business, Elekta With the increased digitalization of our ecosystem, comes the responsiis dependent on assessments and decisions made by authorities such as bility for Elekta to protect not only our business, but to work closely with our Läkemedels­verket in Sweden or the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) customers, suppliers and partners to ensure that cyber security is front of in the US. Assessments of that sort are inclusive of product safety as well mind for all of us. Elekta IT has invested in a new digital surveillance solution as permission to market and sell medical equipment. Applications to these to monitor all key components of the IT environment to provide a 24/7 operauthorities demand comprehensive documentation, and unforeseen ciration center with the reporting and alerting needed to rapidly assess any cumstances might interfere with the ability to introduce, market, sell and incident and its associated risk. Having already established this service for deliver products, as well as hindering or limiting the commercial appeal our own business, Elekta IT is working with our customers to strengthen the and/or causing a severe financial cost. cyber security posture of our solutions as they are installed into clinical serElekta has to fulfill rigorous demands in accordance with international vice. By hosting our software on highly secure cloud infrastructure services, rules and product safety standards from the International Electrotechnical we can ensure that the most stringent security policies are available to all ­Commission (IEC) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO), of our customers using Elekta Cloud Services. This will be particularly valuRådets direktiv 93/42/EEG on medical products, FDA’s demands on quality able in some emerging markets where we can assist our customers with the systems, as well as a number of other domestic directives and rules. These burden of operational IT services within their clinics and rapidly deploy the are explained in Elekta’s quality system in accordance with ISO 9001 and most progressive cyber security solutions available under our Elekta DigiISO 13485. Quality systems are reviewed and certified by external regulatory tal roadmap. authorities and are regularly inspected by FDA. To deviate from safety regulations is an example of a circumstance which might result in delays and Risks prohibit deliveries of Elekta products. Elekta is continuously evaluating conditions to enter new markets. The Elekta’s presence in a large number of geographical markets leave it open process takes into consideration both the opportunities and risks involved. to potential exposure to political and economic risk on a global scale and There are regulatory registration requirements with each market that could in individual countries or regions. United Kingdom’s decision to leave the potentially delay product introductions and certifications. European Union, as an example, might lead to economic uncertainty that Political stability in certain countries and the security situation for may impact Elekta since an important part of the business is located in employees traveling to exposed areas are constantly evaluated. the United Kingdom. In some markets weak economic development and 70 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Elekta depends on the capability of producing advanced medical equipconcerns the risk of fluctuating rate levels affecting Elekta’s result negatively, ment, which requires highly qualified personnel. The Group’s ability to particularly rising long-term loan costs. Credit risk ascends from financial attract and retain qualified personnel and management is of great imporcredit risk related to liquid cash and cash equivalents, short-term investtance and will have a significant impact on the future success of the Group. ments, derivative financial instruments and receivables from banks and Elekta’s ability to commercialize its solutions is dependent on the reimfinancial institutes along with credit exposure towards customers and disbursement level that hospitals and clinics can obtain. Reimbursement systributors. Liquidity risk relates to the risk of being unable to fulfill payment tems vary depending on the country. Alterations in the existing reimburseobligations as a result of inadequate liquidity or difficulty taking on external ment systems related to medical products or implementation of new loans. Some of Elekta’s financing agreements are subject to financial coveregulations might have a direct impact on demand for Elekta’s products. nants, such as net debt/ebitda and interest cover. A development of finanElekta’s delivery of treatment equipment relies on customers’ capabilcial metrics impacting net debt and/or ebitda negatively, could end up in a ity to receive the delivery on site. Depending on contractual terms a delay break of covenants resulting in a need to renegotiate the agreements or to can result in postponed invoicing and also affect the timing of revenue recrepay existing financing. Note 2 provides further details and information ognition. The Group’s credit risks are normally limited, since customer operregarding financial risks and financial risk management. ations are, to a large extent, financed either directly or indirectly by public funds. See also Note 2 and Note 23 for more information on credit risk and Sensitivity analysis credit exposure. Elekta is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for delivery of critElekta’s operation is bound to projects the basis of consists of relatively ical components. There is a risk of delivery difficulties occurring due to cirbig deliveries to customers. The lead time from delivery to installation can cumstances beyond Elekta’s control. Critical suppliers are regularly followed therefore vary from period to period. Quarterly variations of delivery volup regarding delivery precision and quality of components. umes occur, which has a high impact on net sales and net income each Integrating third party components with Elekta products might bring quarter. Elekta’s gross margin can also vary from period to period dependabout product responsibility for the components. Unforeseen problems can ing on p­ roduct and geographic mix and currency movements. During the cause delays, hinder or limit the products’ commercial use and/or translate year, Elekta had a gross margin of 42 percent (44). to a cost for the Group. As a result of its international operations and structure, Elekta has a sigFrom time to time Elekta is involved in disputes associated with the businificant exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. This pertains primarily to ness operations. Situations in question might revolve around disputes over expenses in SEK and GBP against revenue in USD and EUR. Based on the product liability, contractual questions, immaterial rights and alleged flaws year’s income, expense and currency structure a general change of 1 perin the delivery of goods or services. Disputes can be costly, time consuming centage point in the SEK exchange rate against other currencies would and can hamper the process of ongoing operations. Intellectual property affect the Group’s operating profit by approximately +/– SEK 21 M (20). disputes are costly and might have a material impact on Elekta’s operations In the short term, the effect is reduced through hedging. and financial position. In addition, it can be difficult to predict the outcome Based on the balance sheet structure at year-end a general change of of intricate disputes. Disputes related to Elekta’s product l­iability might con1 percentage point in the interest on borrowings and investments would cern alleged negligence, warranty issues or mistreatment and might bring affect the Group’s profit before tax by approximately +/– SEK 5 M (14). about major costs unrelated to the final verdict. Elekta has product liability insurances. However, there is still a risk that future demands will exceed or Parent company fall outside of the insurance coverage. Elekta’s business operations involve development, manufacturing and The Parent Company of the Group, Elekta AB, conducts no operating activdelivery of products and services in a large number of jurisdictions. Operities but provides group management, joint group functions and financial ations are taxed under the laws in the jurisdictions in which they operate. management. Profit for the year amounted to SEK 624 M (598) inclusive of Changes in tax regimes could impact the Group’s cash tax liabilities and dividends from subsidiaries of SEK 783 M (725). Total assets amounted to tax charge, resulting in either an increase or a reduction in financial results SEK 11,506 M (12,044) of which shares in subsidiaries amounted to SEK 2,439 M depending on the nature of the change. (2,239) and receivables from subsidiaries amounted to SEK 5,829 M International regulations governing the global tax environment are also (5,879). Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments at yearsubject to regular changes. Due to the uncertainty related to which of the end amounted to SEK 2,986 M (3,708). Shareholders’ equity amounted to final tax regulations under consideration will be enacted Elekta cannot preSEK 2,898 M (2,823). Interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 8,487 M dict the impact, if any, that these changes could have on the business. (9,118), of which SEK 3,934 M (3,793) constituted liabilities to subsidiaries. Elekta’s operations within research and development, production, disThe average number of employees during the year was 37 (36). The number tribution, marketing and administration depend on a large number of of employees on April 30, 2019 was 38 (36). For further information refer to advanced IT systems and IT solutions. Routines and procedures are applied in the Parent Company’s financial reports and the accompanying notes. order to protect the hardware, software and information against damages, manipulations, loss or incorrect use. If these systems and solutions should be Shares affected by any interference resulting in loss of information it might have a The total number of registered shares on April 30, 2019 was 383,568,409 negative impact on Elekta’s operations, result and financial position. divided between 14,980,769 A-shares and 368,587,640 B-shares. One series In its operation, Elekta is subject to a number of financial risks such as A-share entitles the holder to 10 votes and series B-shares entitle the holder ­currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Currency risks arise to one vote for each share. All shares carry equal rights to participate in the primarily as a product of future business transactions, recognized assets and Company’s assets and profits. In accordance with Section 12 of the Articles liabilities along with net investments in foreign operations. I­nterest rate risk of Association, series A-shares are subject to right of first refusal. All Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 71 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT A-shares are owned by Laurent Leksell via companies, also the only shareArticles of association holder representing more than 10 percent of total votes. On April 30, 2019, The Articles of Association state that board members are appointed and treasury shares amounted to 1,541,368 (1,541,368) equivalent to 0.4 perdismissed by the Annual General Meeting. The Articles of Association concent (0.4) of the total number of outstanding shares as well as of share tain no specific regulations regarding changes to the Articles of Association. capital. Regarding treasury shares, par value is 0,50 SEK per share and average cost is 49,70 SEK per share. Guidelines for remuneration to executive management See pages 62–63 for more information on Elekta’s share. The Board of Directors proposes that the Annual General Meeting on Dividend and proposal to repurchase shares August 22, 2019 approve the following guidelines for remuneration and For 2018/19, the board proposes a dividend of SEK 1.80 (1.40) per share to be other terms of employment for the executive management of the Group. divided into two payments. Total proposed dividend amounts to approxiThe guidelines will be valid for employment agreements entered into after mately SEK 688 M (535) and 57 percent (49) of the group net profit for the the Annual General Meeting and for any changes made to existing employyear. The board intends to propose to the 2019 Annual General Meeting a ment agreements thereafter. It is proposed that the board be given the renewal of the board’s authorization to decide on the acquisition of a maxability to deviate from the below-stated guidelines in individual cases where imum number of own shares so that, after the acquisition, the company specific reasons or requirements exist. The guidelines in the following proholds no more than 10 percent of the total number of outstanding shares in posal are unchanged compared to the guidelines which were proposed by Elekta AB. the Board of Directors and approved by the Annual General Meeting in 2018. APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT Guidelines Amounts in SEK April 30, 2019 It is of fundamental importance to Elekta and its shareholders that the guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employment for the execDistributable shareholders’ equity of the Parent Company utives of the Group attract, motivate and retain competent employees Premium reserve 656,609,561 and managers, both in the short and long-term. To achieve this goal, it is Retained earnings 1,269,343,176 important to ensure fairness and internal equity, while maintaining market Profit for the year 624,461,564 competitiveness in terms of the structure, scope and level of executive comTotal 2,550,414,301 pensation within Elekta. Employment conditions for executive manageThe Board of Directors and the President and CEO propose: ment should comprise a balanced mix of fixed salary, a variable salary component/annual incentive, long-term incentives, pension and other benefits, to be distributed to the shareholders, a total dividend of SEK 1.80 per share1) 687,648,674 as well as notice and severance payments, where applicable. and that the remaining amount be carried forward 1,862,765,627 Total 2,550,414,301 Total target cash compensation Total target cash compensation, (fixed plus variable salary components), 1) The total amount distributed may change up until the record date depending on changes in the number of shares should be competitive in the geographic market where the executive is resident. The level of total target compensation should be reviewed annually The board’s statement on the proposed dividend to ensure that the company is competitive for similar positions in the marIn making this proposal for dividend, the board has taken into account the ket to be able to recruit and retain business critical competencies where The Parent company’s dividend policy, solidity as well as its general finanneeded. Market medians are established with the assistance of external cial position, whereby the Parent company’s ability to fulfill existing and compensation benchmarking. Since compensation should be performance­ foreseeable payment obligations in a timely manner, as well as potential driven, the target annual variable salary component should account for a acquisitions and other investments. The Parent Company’s equity includes relatively high portion of the total target compensation. SEK 47 M pertaining to assets and liabilities measured at fair value in accordance with Chapter 4 Section 14 a of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Compensation components The equity ratio and liquidity is reassuring, under the assumption that the The Group compensation system comprises various forms of compensaParent company and the Group continue to be profitable. The impact of the tion. This ensures well-balanced remuneration, thereby strengthening and proposed dividend on the Group’s reported equity/assets ratio of 32 percent underpinning short and long-term objective setting and achievement. (29), will be marginal. Concerning the Parent company’s and the Group’s result and position in general, refer to the statements of income, stateFixed salary ments of com­prehensive income, balance sheets and statements of cash Executive Management’s fixed salary shall be individual and based on the flow and notes. content and responsibility of the position, the individual’s competence and It is the assessment of the Board of Directors that the proposed diviexperience in relation to the role held, as well as the geography in which the dend n ­ either prevents the Parent company, and other companies within position is based. the Group, from fulfilling their obligations, nor from making the necessary investments. The proposed dividend can therefore be justified in respect of Chapter 17, section 3, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Swedish Companies Act (the prudence rule). 72 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Variable salary stances, which means that it is not part of any ordinary executive remunerIn addition to a fixed salary, Executive Management also has a variable ation scheme. The deferred incentive should never exceed 50 percent of the salary component, the annual Incentive/ bonus. The variable component contractual annual variable salary component and shall in other aspects is structured as a portion of the total cash remuneration package and is pricomply with the Group bonus plan. marily related to the achievement of common Group financial performance goals. The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for variable salary compoPensions nents shall primarily be related to the outcome of specific financial and When establishing new pension agreements, senior executives who are entifunctional objectives within the Group compensation and benefit system. tled to pension benefits should only be enrolled in defined-contribution The goals for the variable salary component are established annually by the schemes. The standard retirement age for Swedish citizens is 65 years while board to sustain the business strategy and objectives. Other KPIs may be other executives follow the rules of their respective countries of residence. used to drive focus on non-financial objectives of particular interest. The main guideline is that the size of pension contributions be based only on The size of the variable salary component depends on the position held the fixed salary. Certain individual adjustments may occur based on local and may amount to between 30 percent and 70 percent of the fixed salmarket practice. ary for on-target performance. Performance against fixed targets and payment for results achieved are measured quarterly or annually. Other benefits If performance related financial goals within the variable salary plan Benefits such as company cars and health, medical and sickness-related exceeding 100 percent of the target, there is the opportunity for additional insurance schemes, should be of a more limited value compared with other compensation for over performance. The annual incentive entails a potenitems of the compensation package and in line with the market practice for tial to earn a maximum of 200 percent of the target variable salary comthe respective geographic market. ponent. Accordingly, the maximum payout level for the sum of the variable salary component is capped at a 200 percent of the original target for variNotice periods and severance agreements able compensation. The plan also contains a minimum performance level Periods of notice in Elekta follow local labor legislative requirements in or threshold under which no variable salary or annual incentive will be paid the geographies in which they are based. Senior executives generally have out at all. notice periods of between 6 and 12 months and, during specific circumstances, to be entitled to severance payment equal 6–12 months employEquity-based long-term incentive programs ment. In the event of a material change of control, the President and The board also uses long-term incentives to ensure alignment between CEO shall be entitled to an extra severance payment equal to 18 months shareholder interests and executive management, senior managers and employment other key colleagues. On an annual basis, the Board of Directors evaluates Severance agreements entitling executives to lump sum payments will in whether an equity-based long-term incentive program should be proposed principle not be signed. to the Annual General Meeting. In order to strengthen long-term thinking in decision-making and ensure Preparation and decision process achievement of long-term objectives, while also covering situations where During the year, Elekta’s Executive Compensation & Capability Committee equity-based solutions may be inappropriate or precluded by law, the board (ECCC) provided the board with recommendations regarding principles for may also selectively decide on other types of non-equity-based long-term formulating the Group’s remuneration system and remuneration of senior incentive programs. Monetary long-term incentives should only be used as executives and senior managers. The recommendations covered formularemuneration in special circumstances and be in line with practice in each tion of the bonus system, distribution between fixed and variable remuneramarket. They must also require continued employment in the Group. tion and the size of any salary increases. The ECCC also proposed criteria for assessing the performance of senior executives and senior managers. Any Retention measures decisions on remuneration for the CEO is taken by the board in its entirety. In order to ensure long-term engagement and retention of key staff in conThe board has discussed the proposals from the ECCC and its motion to nection with the acquisition of new business, the divestment of operathe Annual General Meeting is based on the recommendation submitted. tions or other transitional activities, an additional annual incentive with a Elekta’s ECCC comprises the Chairman of the board and three independent deferred payment of 12–24 months may or may not be applied. This deferred Board members. The President and CEO attend the committee’s meetings. incentive requires continued employment until an agreed future date for The Group Vice President Human Resources acts as the ECCC secretary. any payment to be made and is applied only in special and rare circumElekta Annual Report 2018/19 73 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2018/19 2017/18 Net sales 6 13,555 11,573 Cost of products sold –7,875 –6,517 Gross profit 5,680 5,056 Selling expenses –1,296 –1,208 Administrative expenses –1,039 –949 R&D expenses –1,592 –1,095 Other operating income and expenses 23 0 Exchange rate differences –80 42 Operating result 5–11 1,696 1,845 Income from participations in associates 13 3 –7 Financial income 13 66 67 Financial expenses 13 –186 –225 Exchange rate differences 13 2 1 Profit before tax 1,580 1,681 Income taxes 16 –382 –333 Profit for the year 1,198 1,348 Profit attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 1,198 1,348 Non-controlling interests 0 0 Earnings per share: Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 3.14 3.53 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 3.14 3.53 Average number of shares before dilution, thousands 382,027 382,027 Average number of shares after dilution, thousands 382,027 382,027 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2018/19 2017/18 Profit for the year 1,198 1,348 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income: Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans 28 –1 –19 Tax 16 1 5 Total items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income –1 –14 Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income: Revaluation of cash flow hedges 3 –101 –5 Translation differences from foreign operations 243 475 Tax 16 19 2 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income 161 472 Other comprehensive income, net 160 458 Total comprehensive income 1,358 1,806 Comprehensive income attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 1,358 1,806 Non-controlling interests 0 0 74 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the consolidated income statement Net sales The change in unrealized exchange rate effects from effective cash flow Net sales increased 17 percent to SEK 13,555 M (11,573), corresponding to hedges amounted to SEK –101 M (–5) and is reported in other comprehensive 10 percent increase based on constant exchange rates. income. Closing balance of unrealized exchange rate effects from effective cash flow hedges in shareholders’ equity was SEK –70 M (33) exclusive of tax. Net sales, Change, Operating ­According to Elekta’s currency hedging policy, anticipated sales in f­ oreign SEK M %1) result, SEK M currency may be hedged up to 24 months. Q1 2,819 10 238 Net financial items amounted to SEK –116 M (–164). The improvement Q2 3,330 6 393 was mainly related to lower interest rates as a result of refinancing in the Q3 3,320 14 311 previous year. Q4 4,086 12 755 Income before tax amounted to SEK 1,580 M (1,681). Tax expense Full year 2018/19 13,555 10 1,696 amounted to SEK –382 M (–333) or 24 percent (20). The higher tax rate 1) Compared to last fiscal year based on constant exchange rate was a consequence of a one-off effect, mainly due to new accounting principle in combination with the product mix. Profit after tax amounted Earnings to SEK 1,198 M (1,348). Gross margin was 41.9 percent (43.7). The decline was mainly due to product mix and price pressure on existing linac platform, especially in mature RESULT OVERVIEW markets. EBITA amounted to SEK 2,477 M (2,369), representing a margin of SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 18.3 percent (20.5). The effect from changes in exchange rates was approxiOperating result/EBIT 1,696 1,845 mately SEK 85 M (160) including hedges. Operating result decreased by 8 percent and amounted to SEK 1,696 M Amortization: (1,845). This operating result included a positive effect of SEK 70 M related Capitalized development costs 664 408 to a divestment in the first quarter, reported as part of the other operating Assets relating business combinations 117 116 income and expenses. Operating margin was 13 percent (16). EBITA 2,477 2,369 Research and development expenditures before capitalization of development costs increased by 3 percent to SEK 1,386 M (1,348) equal to 10 percent (12) of net sales. Capitalization of development costs and amortization of capitalized development costs amounted to net SEK –208 M (229), of which SEK –206 M (252) relates to the R&D function. The negative outcome this year was due both to higher amortization as a consequence of the CE marking of Elekta Unity and lower capitalized R&D costs due to a higher share of R&D projects in an early phase. Capitalization within the R&D function amounted to SEK 453 M (637) and amortization to SEK 660 M (385). Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 75 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 May 1, 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 17 9,301 9,175 8,704 Tangible fixed assets 18 957 895 795 Shares in associated companies 20 57 42 22 Other financial assets 3, 21 451 219 285 Deferred tax assets 16 402 350 466 Total non-current assets 11,167 10,681 10,272 Current assets Inventories 22 2,634 2,560 2,320 Accounts receivable 23 3,455 3,402 3,726 Accrued income 1,401 1,160 851 Current tax assets 16 158 177 191 Derivative financial instruments 3 72 170 92 Other current receivables 24 1,059 1,068 936 Short-term investments 25 45 83 0 Cash and cash equivalents 25 4,073 4,458 3,383 Total current assets 12,897 13,080 11,498 Total assets 24,064 23,760 21,770 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Parent Company shareholders: Share capital 26 192 192 192 Contributed funds 812 812 812 Reserves 1,217 1,057 585 Retained earnings 5,556 4,926 3,972 Parent Company shareholders, total 7,778 6,987 5,562 Non-controlling interests 1 0 0 Total equity 7,779 6,987 5,562 Non-current liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 27 3,558 4,369 5,272 Deferred tax liabilities 16 587 511 553 Long-term provisions 28 188 158 142 Other long-term liabilities 3 55 63 33 Total long-term liabilities 4,388 5,102 5,999 Current liabilities Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 27 1,000 975 0 Accounts payable 1,427 1,132 1,000 Advances from customers 4,883 5,316 5,211 Prepaid income 29 2,170 1,990 1,875 Accrued expenses 30 1,661 1,662 1,477 Current tax liabilities 16 166 107 111 Short-term provisions 28 188 186 205 Derivative financial instruments 3 94 46 48 Other current liabilities 308 257 281 Total current liabilities 11,897 11,671 10,208 Total equity and liabilities 24,064 23,760 21,770 For information about assets pledged and contingent liabilities see Note 32 and 33 respectively. 76 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the consolidated balance sheet The Group’s consolidated balance sheet has been affected by changes in majority of the proceeds are normally due at shipment. As another examexchange rates. The balance sheets of the foreign subsidiaries are transple, the US is largely a private hospital market with replacement investlated at the closing rate as per the closing date. The exchange rates used for ments. The operating cycle in the projects are typically shorter than Elekta’s translation as per 30 April 2019 and 30 April 2018 respectively are presented average. In a typical customer relationship, Elekta receives partial payin the table on page 85. ments at order receipt, delivery, installation and acceptance. Lastly, customers in Europe are typically public hospitals and contracts are awarded Assets and capital employed through public procurement p ­ rocesses. In such cases, terms and conditions The Group’s total assets increased by SEK 304 M to SEK 24,064 M (23,760). are often pre-defined by the customer. This means that Elekta get paid late Fixed assets totaled SEK 10,258 M (10,598) of which goodwill amounted to in the operating cycle and payment times are generally longer than normal. SEK 5,914 M (5,607). There are many examples of projects where customers pay after accepCurrent assets, excluding cash and cash equivalents and short-term tance of installation. investments, increased by SEK 240 M to SEK 8,778 M (8,539). Accounts Accounts receivable amounted to SEK 3,455 M (3,402) as per 30 April, receivable, accrued income and inventories increased by 5 percent (3). showing an increase of 2 percent in SEK. The majority of non-due accounts Inventory value in ­relation to net sales was 19 percent (22). receivable are normally due within 90 days. Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments decreased by In a limited number of customer projects, Elekta is providing financing SEK 422 M to SEK 4,119 M (4,541) at year-end, totaling 17 percent (19) of total through extended payment terms. Such receivables amounted to assets. Of total bank ­balances SEK 8 M (8) were pledged primarily for comSEK 334 M (170) as per 30 April and are included in “Other financial assets” mercial guarantees. in the balance sheet and specified as “Contractual receivables” in Note 21. The Group’s capital employed increased to SEK 12,337 M (12,331). Customer advances represent projects for which invoiced amounts exceed revenue recognized. Advances from customers amounted to Liabilities and shareholders’ equity SEK 4,883 M (5,316) as per 30 April, a decrease of SEK 433 M. Interest-free liabilities and provisions increased by SEK 298 M to SEK 11,727 M (11,429). Interest-bearing liabilities totaled SEK 4,558 M (5,344). Net debt WORKING CAPITAL amounted to SEK 439 M (803). Total equity was SEK 7,779 M (6,987). SEK M April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Return on shareholders’ equity amounted to 17 percent (22) and return on Working capital assets ­capital employed amounted to 15 percent (17). Net debt/EBITDA ratio was Inventories 2,634 2,560 0.17 (0.32) and equity/assets ratio was 32 percent (29). Accounts receivable 3,455 3,402 Accrued income 1,401 1,160 Working capital Other operating receivables 1,059 1,068 Elekta’s operations is to a large extent project based. Payment flows from Sum working capital assets 8,548 8,191 projects generally occur in connection with order receipt, delivery and acceptance, which generates fluctuations in working capital. Thus, moveWorking capital liabilities ments in working capital depend on the progress of projects and the timAccounts payable 1,427 1,132 ing of certain events in relation to terms in the contract. Invoicing and Advances from customers 4,883 5,316 payments from the customer occur in accordance with the terms of the Prepaid income 2,170 1,990 contract while revenue is recognized based on accounting principles. Th­ereAccrued expenses 1,661 1,662 fore cash flow from projects does not always coincide with the recognition Short-term provisions 188 186 of revenue and may result in either an asset (accrued income) or a liability Other current liabilities 308 257 (advances from customers). Sum working capital liabilities 10,638 10,543 Elekta’s payment terms varies significantly between regions and speNet working capital –2,089 –2,352 cific customers. For example, in China, the majority of Elekta’s customers are in the public sector. Financing and payments are normally structured by Percent of net sales –15% –20% a bank through a letter of credit arrangement. When Elekta has met certain performance conditions, payments are obtained from the issuing bank. The Net working capital amounted to SEK –2,089 M (–2,352) at year-end, corresponding to –15 percent (–20) of net sales. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 77 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Changes in consolidated equity Other Elekta AB:s NonShare ­contributed Translation Hedge Retained owners, controlling Total SEK M Note capital capital reserve reserve earnings total interests equity Opening balance May 1, 2017 192 812 559 26 3,972 5,562 0 5,562 Profit for the year – – – – 1,348 1,348 0 1,348 Remeasurements of defined benefit pensions plans – – – – –19 –19 – –19 Cash flow hedges – – – –51) – –5 – –5 Translation differences from foreign operations – – 475 – – 475 – 475 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 16 – – – 2 5 7 – 7 Other comprehensive income – – 475 –3 –14 458 – 458 Total comprehensive income – – 475 –3 1,334 1,806 0 1,806 Dividend – – – – –382 –382 – –382 Incentive programs – – – – 2 2 – 2 Tax effect incentive programs – – – – 0 0 – 0 Transactions with the shareholders, total – – – – –380 –380 0 –380 Closing balance April 30, 2018 192 812 1,034 23 4,926 6,987 0 6,987 Opening balance May 1, 2018 192 812 1,034 23 4,926 6,987 0 6,987 Opening balance adjustment due to IFRS 9 – – – – –39 –39 – –39 Profit for the year – – – – 1,198 1,198 0 1,198 Remeasurements of defined benefit pensions plans – – – – –1 –1 – –1 Cash flow hedges – – – –1011) – –101 – –101 Translation differences from foreign operations – – 243 – – 243 0 243 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 16 – – – 19 0 19 – 19 Other comprehensive income – – 243 –82 –1 160 0 160 Total comprehensive income – – 243 –82 1,197 1,358 0 1,358 Acquisitions of non-controlling interest – – – – 0 0 0 0 Dividend – – – – –535 –535 0 –535 Incentive programs – – – – 6 6 – 6 Tax effect incentive programs – – – – 0 0 – 0 Transactions with the shareholders, total – – – – –529 –529 0 –529 Closing balance April 30, 2019 192 812 1,277 –59 5,556 7,778 1 7,779 1) Of which transferred to the income statement in 2018/19: SEK –58 (90) 78 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on changes in consolidated equity In 2018/19 Elekta paid a total dividend of SEK 535 M. The dividend payment ferences arising from the translation of liabilities raised as a hedging instruhas affected equity through a reduction of retained earnings. ment for a net investment in foreign operations. The translation reserve The total number of shares in Elekta as of April 30, 2019, amounted amounted to SEK 1,277 M (1,073) at year end. to 383,568,409 of which 14,980,769 A-shares and 368,587,640 B-shares. Cash flow hedges are reported in the hedge reserve via other compreSee Note 26 for more information on share capital. hensive income. Elekta hedges its currency risk in line with the policy estabTotal equity includes equity of foreign subsidiaries. Translation is perlished by the board. The scope of this hedging is determined by the Comformed at closing rate and the translation difference is reported in the pany’s c ­ urrency risk assessment. Currency hedging is defined on the basis translation reserve via other comprehensive income. The translation differof the expected sales in foreign currency over up to 24 months. Hedging is ence amounted to SEK 243 M (475) in 2018/19. Shareholders’ equity in fordone to reduce the effects of short-term fluctuations on the currency mareign currency is hedged when it is deemed appropriate in individual cases. kets. The hedge reserve includes the effective portion of the accumulated The translation reserve includes all exchange rate differences arising in con­ net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments attributjunction with the translation of foreign operations that have prepared their able to hedging transactions that have not yet occurred. During 2018/19 the financial reports in a currency other than that used in the group’s financial change in the hedge reserve was SEK –82 M (–3) after tax and the closing reports. In addition, the translation reserve consists of exchange rate difbalance of the hedge reserve was SEK –58 M (23). CHANGES IN CONSOLIDATED EQUITY CONSOLIDATED EQUITY AND RETURN SEK M SEK M % 2 000 2,000 8 000 8,000 40 40 Omvärdering av förmånsbestämda pensionsplaner Omvärdering av förmånsbestäm Omräkningsdifferenser Omräkningsdifferenser 6 000 6,000 30 30 1,000 1 000 Konvertering av konvertiblelån Konvertering av konvertiblelån 4 000 4,000 Utdelning från innehav utan bestämmande inflytande 20 20 Utdelning från innehav utan bes 00 Utdelning Utdelning 2 000 2,000 10 10 Förvärv av innehav utan bestämmande inflytande Förvärv av innehav utan bestäm Resultat Resultat -1,000 -1 000 00 00 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2015-04-30 2016-04-30 2017-04-30 2018-04-30 2019-04-30 Kassaflödessäkringar Kassaflödessäkringar Incentive programs Dividends Incitamentsprogram Incitamentsprogram Cash flow hedges Dividend from non-controlling interest Average shareholder’s equity, SEK M Profit for the year Conversion of convertibles Return on shareholder’s equity, percent Acquisitions of Translation differences non-controlling interest Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 79 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated cash flow statement SEK M Note 2018/19 2017/18 Operating activities Profit before tax 1,580 1,681 Non-cash items: Depreciation 8, 17, 18 943 675 Interest net 34 91 96 Other non-cash items etc. 34 21 254 Operating cash flow before interest and tax 2,635 2,706 Interest received 66 67 Interest paid –175 –165 Income taxes paid 16 –269 –250 Operating cash flow 2,256 2,357 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in inventories –20 –125 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating receivables –367 –21 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities –249 192 Change in working capital –636 47 Cash flow from operating activities 1,621 2,404 Investing activities Investments in intangible assets 17 –458 –642 Investments in machinery and equipment 18 –201 –212 Sale of fixed assets 0 38 Increase in long-term receivables 0 0 Decrease in long-term receivables 0 0 Continuous investments –658 –816 Cash flow after continuous investments 962 1,589 Business combinations 34, 36 –91 –45 Divestments 92 – Short-term investments 38 –83 Investments associates –58 –17 Repayments from partnerships 20 3 4 Cash flow from investing activities –674 –957 Cash flow after investments 946 1,447 Financing activities Borrowings 34 500 15 Repayment of debt 34 –1,438 – Acquisition of non-controlling interest 0 – Dividend –535 –382 Cash flow from financing activities –1,473 –367 Cash flow for the year –527 1,080 Change in cash and cash equivalents during the year Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 4,458 3,383 Cash flow for the year –527 1,080 Exchange rate differences 142 –4 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 25 4,073 4,459 80 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the consolidated cash flow statement The cash flow statement describes the ability of the operations to generate Cash flow from operating activities decreased to SEK 1,621 M (2,404). The cash and cash equivalents. Elekta’s cash flow is used primarily to finance decline in cash flow was due to increased levels of net working capital. market growth, strategic research projects and investments. Based on the Cash flow from investing activities amounted to SEK –674 M (–957) income statement and balance sheet translated at the average exchange including investments in intangible assets of SEK –458 M (–642). rate, the statement shows the Group’s net flows during the year. Cash flow after continuous investments decreased by SEK 627 M to Elekta’s project-based operations affect cash flow through movements SEK 962 M (1,589). in working capital. Payment flows from projects generally occur in connecCash flow after investments amounted to SEK 946 M (1,447), including tion with order receipt, delivery and acceptance – mostly not coinciding ­payments relating to business combinations of SEK –91 M (–45). with ­revenue recognition – thus generating fluctuations in working capital Cash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK –1,473 M (–367). levels. See also comments on working capital on page 77. The operating cash flow (cash flow from operating activities exclusive of change in working capital) amounted to SEK 2,256 M (2,357), a decrease of SEK 101 M compared with the preceding year. CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES SPECIFICATION OF CASH FLOW AFTER CONTINUOUS INVESTMENTS SEK M SEK M 3 000 3,000 2 000 2,000 2,000 2 000 1 000 1,000 1,000 1 000 00 00 -1,000 -1 000 -1 000 -1,000 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Per quarter Investments/disposals Changes in working capital Rolling 12 months Operating cash flow Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company Financial statements – Parent Company Income statement – Parent Company Balance sheet – Parent Company SEK M Note 2018/19 2017/18 SEK M Note April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Administrative expenses –145 –86 ASSETS Operating result –145 –86 Non-current assets Income from participations Intangible assets 17 60 68 in Group ­companies 12 783 725 Shares in subsidiaries 19 2,439 2,239 Income from participations in associated Shares in associated companies 20 6 – companies 13 –5 –14 Receivables from subsidiaries 2,393 2,411 Interest income and similar items 14 192 212 Other financial assets 21 81 14 Interest expenses and similar items 14 –191 –177 Deferred tax assets 16 3 0 Exchange rate differences 2 1 Total non-current assets 4,983 4,732 Appropriations –14 – Current assets Profit before tax 621 661 Receivables from subsidiaries 3,436 3,468 Income taxes 16 3 –63 Other current receivables 24 102 137 Profit for the year 624 598 Short-term investments 25 45 83 Cash and cash equivalents 25 2,941 3,625 Statement of comprehensive income – Parent Company Total current assets 6,524 7,312 SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Total assets 11,507 12,044 Profit for the year 624 598 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Other comprehensive income Equity Items that subsequently may be Share capital 26 192 192 reclassified to the statement of income: Statutory reserve 156 156 Hedge of net investment – – Restricted equity 348 348 Tax – – Premium reserve 657 657 Other comprehensive income, net – – Retained earnings 1,893 1,818 Total comprehensive income 624 598 Unrestricted equity 2,550 2,475 Total equity 2,898 2,823 Untaxed reserves 14 – Long-term provisions 28 12 9 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 27 3,553 4,366 Long-term liabilities to subsidiaries 27 – 39 Total long-term liabilities 3,579 4,414 Current liabilities Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 27 1,000 959 Short-term liabilities to subsidiaries 27 3,934 3,754 Short-term provisions 28 0 0 Other current liabilities 31 95 94 Total current liabilities 5,029 4,807 Total equity and liabilities 11,507 12,044 82 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company Cash flow statement – Parent Company SEK M Note 2018/19 2017/18 Operating activities Profit before tax 621 661 Interest net 34 –21 –48 Other non-cash items etc. 34 –51 –245 Interest received 192 211 Interest paid –190 –162 Income taxes paid 16 0 0 Operating cash flow 551 417 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating r­ eceivables 251 234 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating l­iabilities 2 –24 Change in working capital 253 188 Cash flow from operating activities 804 627 Investing activities Investments in subsidiaries 34 –44 –74 Divestments of subsidiaries 34 92 – Short-term investments 25 38 –83 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in long-term r­ eceivables –78 786 Cash flow from investing activities 8 629 Cash flow after investments 812 1,256 Financing activities Borrowings – 412 Repayment of debt –954 – Dividend –535 –382 Cash flow from financing activities –1,489 30 Cash flow for the year –677 1,286 Change in cash and cash equivalents during the year Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 3,625 2,479 Cash flow for the year –677 1,286 Exchange rate differences –8 –140 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 25 2,941 3,625 Changes in equity – Parent Company Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Statutory Premium Retained Total SEK M Share capital reserve reserve ­earnings equity Opening balance May 1, 2017 192 156 657 1,601 2,606 Profit for the year – – – 598 598 Other comprehensive income – – – – – Total comprehensive income – – – 598 598 Dividend – – – –382 –382 Incentive programs – – – 1 1 Transactions with the shareholders, total – – – –381 –381 Closing balance April 30, 2018 192 156 657 1,818 2,823 Opening balance May 1, 2018 192 156 657 1,818 2,823 Opening balance adjustment due to IFRS 9 – – – –17 –17 Profit for the year – – – 624 624 Other comprehensive income – – – – – Total comprehensive income – – – 624 624 Dividend – – – –535 –535 Incentive programs – – – 3 3 Transactions with the shareholders, total – – – –532 –532 Closing balance April 30, 2019 192 156 657 1,893 2,898 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 83 NOTES Notes Note 1 Essential accounting principles Elekta AB, with corporate registration number 556170-4015, is a Swedish leases, with the exception of short-term leases and those of minor value, public company with its registered office in Stockholm. The address to the will be recognized in the balance sheet. Depreciation of lease assets must head office is Elekta AB, Box 7593, SE-103 93 Stockholm. be separately recognized from interest on lease liabilities in the income This annual report, including the consolidated financial statements, statement. The major effect from implementing the new standard will was signed and approved for publication by the board of directors of Elekta relate to operating lease agreements for offices, factories and wareAB on July 8, 2019. The statements of income and the balance sheets, for houses. The standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning the ­Parent Company and the Group, included in the annual report and the on or after January 1, 2019 and Elekta will implement the new standard as consolidated financial statements, are subject to adoption by the annual of May 1, 2019. For more information see note 39. general meeting on August 22, 2019. The most important accounting principles applied in the preparation of Other new or revised standards and interpretations, not yet applied, are the financial reports are set out below and, where applicable, in the follownot ­considered to have a material impact on the Elekta Group’s financial ing notes. Mainly, the same principles are applied for the Parent Company ­statements. and the Group. The Parent Company’s accounting principles deviating from those applied by the Group, or con­sidered important to describe, are stated Consolidated accounts under a separate heading at the end of this note. The consolidated accounts include Elekta AB (the Parent Company) and its Basis for preparation subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are all companies in which the Group has a controlling interest. The Group has a controlling interest in a company when it Elekta’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accorhas exposure, or right, to variable returns from its holding in the company and dance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed has the ability to use its power over the company to affect the returns. A subby the European Union (EU) on April 30, 2019, the Swedish Annual Accounts sidiary is included in the con­solidated accounts from the point in time when Act and standard RFR 1 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. The Parthe controlling interest is obtained until the point in time when the controlling ent Company’s financial reports have been prepared in accordance with the interest ceases. Intra-group transactions, balance sheet items and unrealized Swedish Annual Accounts Act and standard RFR 2 of the Swedish Financial intra-group profits are eliminated in the consolidated accounts. Reporting Board. The acquisition method Measurement basis The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the acquiAssets and liabilities are recognized at historical cost apart from financial sition method, which means that the cost of shares in subsidiaries is elimassets and liabilities that are short-term investments, derivatives and inated against their equity at the time of acquisition. Acquisition related contingent considerations, which are recognized at fair value. transaction costs are not included in the cost of the shares but expensed as incurred. The equity in a subsidiary is determined on the basis of the fair value New and revised IFRS applied from May 1, 2018 of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the acquisition date. Thus, only the part of the subsidiary’s equity which has arisen after the acquisition date The following amended standards were effective January 1, 2018 and have is included in the consolidated accounts. In business combinations, where the been applied from May 1 2018. sum of (i) the cost of shares in subsidiaries, (ii) the value of non-controlling •• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments interest and (iii) the fair value of previously held equity interest, exceeds the IFRS 9 is a new standard on accounting for financial instruments and fair value of the Group’s share of acquired identifiable net assets at acquisireplaces IAS 39. The standard comprises of classification, valuation and tion, the difference is reported as goodwill. A negative difference, negative impairment of financial instruments as well as hedge accounting. IFRS 9 goodwill, is recognized immediately as an income in the income statement. is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end 2018 and Elekta has implemented the new standard as of May 1, 2018, for of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, provisional amounts more information see Note 39. are reported for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Such amounts may be adjusted during the measurement period, or new assets or •• IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers liabilities may be recognized, to reflect new information obtained about facts IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is a new revenue recogand circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and, if known, would nition standard replacing IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction conhave affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. tracts. The standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and Elekta has implemented the new standard as of May 1, 2018, for more information see Note 39. Non-controlling interests In connection with acquisitions of less than 100 percent, when a controlling influence is achieved, non-controlling interests are determined either as New and revised IFRS not yet applied a proportional share of the fair value of identifiable net assets excluding goodwill or at fair value. Non-controlling interests are recognized as a sep•• IFRS 16 Leases arate item in the Group’s equity. The Group’s profit or loss and every comIFRS 16 Leases will replace IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations ponent of other comprehensive income are attributable to the shareholders IFRIC 4, SIC15 and SIC 27. The new standard will affect the accounting for of the P ­ arent and to non-controlling interests. Losses attributable to non-­ leases in the books of a lessee, whereas the accounting will in all matecontrolling interests are recognized even if this results in a negative balrial aspects remain unchanged for lessors. With the new standard there ance. Subsequent acquisitions up to 100 percent and divestments of particwill no longer be a distinction between operating and finance lease. All 84 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES ipations in a subsidiary that do not lead to a loss of controlling influence are administrative expenses and R&D expenses. Exchange rate differences are ­recognized as equity transactions. reported on separate lines within the operating result. These have been identified as important to distinguish from operating revenue and costs directly Translation of foreign subsidiaries related to functions in order to ease comparability over time. The Group companies prepare their financial statements in their functional currency, i.e. the currency used in the primary economic environment Transactions and balances in foreign currency in which they mainly operate. These reports provide the basis for the con­ solidated accounts which are prepared in Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the respective Group functional currency of the Parent Company and the presentation currency. ­Company’s functional currency by use of the currency rate prevailing on the The income statements and balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries have transaction date. Monetary receivables and liabilities in foreign currency are been translated, from their respective functional currency, to the presensimilarly translated by use of the closing day rate. Exchange rate differences tation currency of the Group. All items in the income statements have been arising upon translation, and upon payment of the transaction, are reported translated at the average rate for the reporting period, while assets and liain the income statement with the exception of those related to qualified bilities in the balance sheets have been translated at the closing rate. Transhedge transactions, related to cash flows or net investments, which are recoglation differences are reported in other comprehensive income. nized in equity under other comprehensive income. Exchange rate gains and Certain long-term financing related to subsidiaries, where a settlement losses on operating balance sheet items are recognized in the operating result. is not considered to take place in the foreseeable future, is considered as an Exchange rate gains and losses on loans and investments are recognized as increase in the Parent Company’s net investment in the subsidiaries. Taking financial items. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at historical cost the tax effect into consideration, exchange gains and losses are reported in are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date. other comprehensive income. Cash flow statement Income statement The cash flow statement is prepared according to the indirect method. Elekta presents its income statement classified by function where the operating expenses are allocated to cost of products sold, selling expenses, EXCHANGE RATES Average rate Closing rate Country Currency 2018/19 2017/18 April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Australia AUD 6.542 6.429 6.700 6.556 Canada CAD 6.854 6.495 7.063 6.746 China CNY 1.339 1.262 1.412 1.368 Euroland EUR 10.378 9.811 10.640 10.509 United Kingdom GBP 11.778 11.103 12.306 11.942 Hong Kong HKD 1.151 1.062 1.212 1.104 Japan JPY 0.081 0.075 0.085 0.079 USA USD 9.028 8.302 9.510 8.664 The parent company Shares in subsidiaries and shares in associates Shares in subsidiaries and shares in associates are accounted for at cost less The Group’s Parent Company, Elekta AB, carries out group management any accumulated impairment losses. Acquisition-related transaction costs and provides joint group functions and financial management. The P ­ arent are included in the cost of the shares. The recoverable amount of shares in Company’s revenues consist mainly of dividends from subsidiaries. The subsidiaries or shares in associates is calculated whenever there is an indimost material balance sheet items are shares in subsidiaries, intra-group cation of a reduction in value. Impairment is performed if the recoverable ­balances and external loans. amount is lower than the carrying value. Impairment losses are recognized The Parent Company’s annual accounts have been prepared in accorin the financial net in the income statement. dance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and standard RFR 2 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. RFR 2 requires the Parent Financial instruments Company, in its annual accounts, to apply all the International Financial Derivative financial instruments and short-term investments are accounted Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the EU in so far as this is possible for at fair value. Changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and with regard to are reported in the income statement with the exception of exchange differthe relationship between accounting and taxation. RFR 2 states what ences related to a monetary item that forms part of a net investment in a exceptions from, and additions to, IFRS should be made. foreign subsidiary. Such value changes are recognized in equity under other comprehensive income. Contingent considerations are reported as proviRevenues sions in the Parent Company. The Parent Company’s revenues consist mainly of dividends from sub­ sidiaries. Dividends are recognized when the right to receive payment is Group contributions judged to be firm. Group contributions are reported in accordance with RFR 2. Group contributions received and given are recognized as income from participations in Group companies and increase of shares in subsidiaries respectively. The tax effect of group contributions is recognized in the income statement in accordance with IAS 12. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 85 NOTES Note 2 Financial risk management Accounting principles IMPACT ON OPERATING RESULT OF A 1 PERCENT WEAKENING OF SEK, SEK M See note 3 for accounting principles relating to financial instruments. Currency April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 USD 39 28 Financial risk factors EUR 5 3 JPY 5 5 As a result of its operations, the Elekta Group is exposed to a number of financial risks: market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s over­ GBP –29 –17 riding risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability of financial CNY –5 –3 markets and seeks to reduce any potentially unfavorable effects on Other currencies 6 4 the Group’s financial results. The Group’s net sales and operating expenses by currency for 2018/19 are Risk management is conducted by the Group’s finance department, shown in the following diagram. which identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks. Work is pursued in line with the policies established by the board for over­arching risk management and for specific areas such as currency risk, interest-rate risk, credit risk, NET SALES AND OPERATING EXPENSES PER CURRENCY utilization of derivative instruments and financial instruments that are not SEK M derivatives, and the investment of surplus liquidity. 8,000 8 000 Market risk Market risk encompasses currency risk, interest-rate risk and price risk. The 4,000 4 000 Group’s exposure to and management of currency risk and interest-rate risk are described below. The Group’s exposure to price risk is limited and is not 0 described in particular. Currency risk –4,000 -4 000 USD EUR JPY GBP CNY SEK Övriga USD EUR JPY GBP CNY SEK Other Because of its international operations, the Group is exposed to currency risks in the form of transaction exposure and translation exposure. Trans­action Net sales 2018/19 Net sales 2017/18 exposure arises as a result of future business transactions and translation Operating expenses 2018/19 Operating expenses 2017/18 exposure emerges as a result of recognized assets and liabilities in ­foreign currency as well as net investments in foreign operations. The Group’s currency Interest-rate risk risk mainly arises from currency exposures in US dollars (USD), Euro (EUR), Interest-rate risk refers to the risk that changes in the interest rate level British Pounds (GBP), Japanese Yen (JPY) and Chinese Yuan (CNY). ­negatively affect Elekta’s earnings. The Group’s net revenue arises primarily in USD, EUR and JPY, while the Elekta’s policy is to reduce the interest-rate risk through the use of loans, Group’s net expenses largely arise in Swedish kronor (SEK), GBP and CNY. investments and derivatives. Hedging is carried out in order to reduce Sales companies primarily have income and expenses in their functional impact on result from interest rate movements and is never to exceed the ­currency while production companies are to a greater extent exposed to amount and maturity of the underlying exposure. The Group’s finance currency risk as sales are largely in a currency other than the functional curdepartment analyzes exposure to interest-rate risk, whereby refinancing, rency. The currency risk that arises from future business transactions and turnover of existing positions, alternative financing and hedging are taken recognized assets and liabilities are managed using derivative contracts into account. Based on this, the effect on earnings that a certain change in based on forecasted net flows and recognized net balances. Elekta’s polthe interest rate would have is calculated, in which the total change in the icy is to hedge the exchange-rate risk using forwards, the extent of which interest rate is used for all currencies. is determined by the Group’s estimation of the exchange-rate risk and in Elekta usually obtains long-term loans at a variable or fixed interest rate accordance with the Group’s established policy. Highly forecasted transacbased on current market conditions. Conversion to fixed or variable interest tion exposure hedging is on the basis of expected net sales and hedging is rates is done using interest rate derivatives when this is deemed appropriconducted over a period up to 24 months. Each Group company is responsiate from a risk management and market perspective. An interest rate swap ble for quantifying its transaction exposure in particular flow forecasts that entails that the Group reaches agreement with another party with the indithen provide the basis for determination of the exposure and decisions on cated intervals (such as per quarter) to swap the difference between fixed hedging measures. Currency hedging of r­ ecognized assets and liabilities in and variable interest amount, estimated on the basis of the contracted foreign currency is hedged, in accordance with policy, from 50 percent to ­nominal amount. 100 percent. Based on the balance sheet structure at year-end and under the Hedging is carried out in order to reduce the effects of short-term flucassumption that all other variables were constant, a general change in tuations in currency markets. The Parent Company’s direct and indirect the interest rate on loans and investments by one percentage point would holdings in foreign operations entail that net assets in the foreign operations affect the Group’s net result and shareholders’ equity by +/– SEK 5 M (14), are exposed to currency risk. Such net investments in foreign currency are excluding hedging effects. The impact on the result is mainly attributable to hedged when viewed as appropriate on an individual basis, currently no outlower/higher interest expense for loans at variable interest rate. standing net investment hedges. On April 30, 2019, interest-bearing liabilities totaled SEK 4,558 M (5,344), Based on the year’s income, expense and currency structure (transaction of which SEK 6 M (3) pertained to financial leasing. The average fixed interexposure) a general change of one percentage point in the SEK exchange est term was 0.9 years (1.1) and the weighted average interest rate, taking rate against other currencies would affect Group net profit and shareholdinterest rate derivatives into account, was 2.3 percent (2.5). See Note 27 for ers’ equity by approximately +/– SEK 21 M (20), exclusive of hedging effects. more information on interest-bearing loans. The table below shows the impact on net income from a 1 percent weakening of the Swedish krona (SEK) in relation to the major currencies. 86 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES Credit risk position and other influencing factors as well as previous experience. No Credit risk arises via financial credit risk related to cash and cash equivasingle customer accounts for 10 percent or more of Elekta’s net sales. lents, short-term investments, derivative instruments and balances at banks A continuous assessment is made of the credit risk in receivables outand financial institutions as well as through credit exposure vis-à-vis customstanding and at the end of the financial year 2018/19 the provision for bad ers and distributors. Credit risk is managed primarily at Group level, but, as debts amounted to SEK 229 M. See Note 23 for an analysis of credit exposure regards credit risk in accounts receivable and accrued income, the primary in accounts receivable and provision for bad debts. responsibility lies with the individual Group companies. Maximum credit risk is deemed to correspond to the carrying values of the financial assets recogLiquidity risk nized in the balance sheet. Liquidity risk pertains to the risk of not being able to cover payment obligations due to insufficient cash and cash equivalents or difficulties in obtainFinancial credit risk ing external financing. The operating Group companies draw up cash flow Elekta’s finance policy includes special counterparty regulations in which forecasts, which are consolidated centrally. At the Group level, rolling forethe maximum credit exposure and the lowest credit rating for various councasts for the Group’s liquidity reserve are observed in order to ensure that terparties are specified. Only banks and financial institutions that have the Group has sufficient cash resources to meet the requirements of current received the credit rating from Standard & Poor’s of A (long) and A1+ (short) operations, while also retaining sufficient scope of unutilized credit facilities. or higher – are normally accepted. Elekta’s liquidity is invested in accorExcess liquidity in operating Group companies is usually transferred dance with the determined policy, with the goal of maintaining high liquidcentrally and is managed by the Group’s financial function. Investments ity combined with a low credit risk. are made primarily in interest-bearing accounts, term-limited borrowing, The majority of the subsidiary financing goes through internal loans money market instruments, money market funds and tradable securities, from the parent company, therefore there is a credit risk originating from depending on which instrument is viewed as having an appropriate term or these. The opening balance of expected credit losses in the parent company sufficient liquidity to meet the particular situation. In order to reduce the amounted to SEK 17 M and the closing balance of expected credit loss reserliquidity risk, Elekta endeavors to maintain readily available funds equal to vation FY 2018/19 was SEK 24 M, the increase was mainly due to higher loans at least 10 percent of net sales. On April 30, 2019, available cash and cash to Great Britain. equivalents and short-term investments amounted to SEK 4,111 M (4,533), or 30 percent (39) of net sales. In addition, Elekta had SEK 2,128 M (2,100) in Credit risk in accounts receivable unutilized credit facilities. Credit risk in accounts receivable, including accrued income, are managed The table below shows the Group’s liquidity risk through a maturity analprimarily by the individual group companies. The credit risk for each new cusysis regarding financial liabilities (including interest payments as applicatomer is analyzed before the conditions for payment and delivery are offered. ble) and derivatives recognized as financial liabilities. The amounts noted A continuous follow up of the credit risk in receivables outstanding and in the table are contractual, undiscounted cash flows classified on the basis agreed transactions are performed. A risk assessment is conducted continuof the term on the balance sheet date that remains to the agreed matuously of credit worthiness through the observance of the customer’s financial rity date. MATURITY ANALYSIS: FINANCIAL LIABILITIES April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 > 1 yrs > 3 yrs > 1 yrs > 3 yrs SEK M < 1 yr < 3 yrs < 5 yrs > 5 yrs Total < 1 yr < 3 yrs < 5 yrs > 5 yrs Total Loans (Note 27) 1,104 3,251 512 – 4,867 1,098 1,185 3,018 444 5,745 Finance leases (Note 27) – 5 – – 5 0 3 – – 3 Accounts payable 1,427 – – – 1,427 1,132 – – – 1,132 Derivative financial instruments – outflow, gross 4,101 356 – – 4,457 5,452 207 – – 5,659 Derivative financial instruments – inflow, gross –2,228 –352 – – –2,580 –2,057 –201 – – –2,258 Other liabilities 308 55 – – 363 257 63 – – 320 Total 4,712 3,315 512 – 8,539 5,882 1,257 3,018 444 10,601 Capital management NET DEBT/EBITDA RATIO Note April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to secure a Interest-bearing liabilities 27 4,558 5,344 going concern through maintaining a high creditworthiness and a well-­ Cash and cash equivalents and balanced capital structure with the aim of generating return to shareholders short-term investments 25 –4,119 –4,541 and benefits for other stakeholders, and to keep down the costs of capital. Net debt 439 803 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group can change the dividend paid to shareholders, repay capital to shareholders, issue new EBITDA 2,639 2,520 shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Net debt/EBITDA ratio 0.17 0.32 The net debt/EBITDA ratio was 0.17 compared to 0.32 to prior fiscal year. See Note 27 for more information on interest-bearing liabilities. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 87 NOTES Note 3 Financial instruments Accounting principles Financial assets measured at amortized cost. Assets are classified in this category when the intention is to hold the asset From May 2018 Elekta applies IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”, that replaces for collection of contractual cashflows and the cashflow represent solely IAS 39. The new standard comprises classification, measurement and payments of principal and interest. impairment of financial instruments as well as hedge accounting. The In this category assets are measured at amortized cost using the effeceffects have been limited for Elekta and relates to the introduction of tive interest method, less any provision for impairment. Interest income expected credit losses. See note 23 for further information about credit and gains and losses is recognized in the income statement. The category losses. Regarding classification and measurement Elekta identified excess includes for example accounts receivables as well as cash and bank. liquidity investment such as money market funds and tradeable securities to be hold in a portfolio managed on a fair value basis and are thereAccounts receivable fore classified as financial asset at fair value through profit and loss, and Since the anticipated life of accounts receivable is short, reporting is based trade receivables that might be sold are now, according to IFRS 9, valued at on the amounts expected to be received, without discounting in accordance fair value through other comprehensive income. The application of hedge with the method for amortized cost. Impairment loss on accounts receivaccounting according to IFRS 9 did not result in any financial effects. able is recognized in operating profit. See note 2 and 23 for further informaA financial asset or a financial liability is reported in the balance sheet tion about credit risk and impairment policies. when the Company becomes party to the contractual terms and conditions of the instrument. A financial asset is removed from the balance sheet when Cash and cash equivalent the contractual rights are realized, fall due, or if the Company transfer subCash and cash equivalent comprise cash and bank balances with finanstantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. Spot acquisitions or sales cial institutions and short-term investments with an original maturity of of financial assets are reported on the settlement date, which is the date on less than three months. Cash and bank are reported at amortized cost, which the asset is delivered. Accounts receivable are reported in the balance while the short-term investments in money market funds is measured at fair sheet when the invoice is dispatched. value through profit and loss. Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets carried at fair value through profit or Financial assets measured at fair value loss. Related transaction costs are expensed in the income statement. through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) The fair value of quoted financial assets corresponds to the asset’s listed When the intention of the financial asset is to hold the asset for collection of bid price on the closing date. In the absence of such information, a valuacontractual cashflow and for selling it, and the cashflow represent solely paytion is carried out using generally accepted methods such as the discountments of principal and interest, the asset is classified into this category. The ing of future cash flows at the quoted market interest rate for the particuassets are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in other lar maturity. comprehensive income (OCI), except for effective interest, impairment gains For short-term loans, the fair value is deemed to comply with the carryand losses and foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognized in the ing amount in view of the fact that a change in market rate of interest does income statement. When the financial asset is derecognized, the cumulative not have a material effect on the market value. gain or loss in OCI is reclassified to the financial income statement. Financial assets and liabilities are off-set and reported at a net amount In this category Elekta has classified account receivables that may be in the balance sheet when there is a legal right to net and when the intensold. For Elekta it is only in a few countries where account receivables are tion is to settle the items using a net amount or simultaneously realize the subject for factoring. assets and settle the liability. As the sold account receivables are derecognized close to them being Subsequent measurement of the financial asset, after the initial recissued, there are no material differences between fair value and amortized ognition at fair value, is based on what business model the Company have cost. for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. For debt instruments there are three measurement categories with the followFinancial assets measured at fair value ing characteristics. through profit and loss (FVPL) •• Amortized cost; assets held with the intention for collection of contracAll financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amortized cost or FVOCI tual cashflows and the cashflow represent solely payments of principal are measured as FVPL. Assets are classified to this category when the intenand interest. tion is to sell in short term. Derivatives with a positive market value are clas•• Fair value through other comprehensive income; assets held with the sified in this category unless they are used for hedge accounting. Assets in intention for collection of contractual cashflow and for selling it, and the this category are recognized at fair value and changes in value are recogcashflow represent solely payments of principal and interest. nized in the income statement. Financial derivatives and short-term invest•• Fair value through profit and loss; all financial assets that do not meet ments in tradeable securities as well as money market funds, were assigned the criteria for amortized cost or fair value through other comprehento this category during the year. sive income. Equity investments are classified as FVPL but as non-current assets. Equity instruments, instrument that evidences a residual interest in the Impairment asset of an entity after deduction of all its liabilities, are measured at fair Financial assets carried at amortized cost and FVOCI are assessed for value through profit and loss. impairment based on expected credit losses. The expected credit loss allowThe financial liabilities are classified into following measurement ance is based on historical credit loss experience, current conditions and categories: forward-looking economic conditions. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has •• fair value through profit and loss; liabilities held for trading been a significant increase in credit risk. The Company applies the simpli•• amortized costs; liabilities not held for trading fied approach to measuring expected credit losses on accounts receivables, meaning a use of a lifetime expected loss allowance. See note 23 for more information about impairment on accounts receivables. 88 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss lished by discounting future payment flows at current market interest rate This category includes derivatives with negative fair values that are not and then converting to SEK at the current exchange rate. For other financial used for hedge accounting, financial liabilities held for trading and contininstruments the fair value is estimated to agree with the carrying amount. gent considerations. Liabilities in this category are measured at fair value with changes in that value recognized in the income statement. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS PER CATEGORY April 30, 2019 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost Carrying This category includes financial liabilities that are not held for trading, for SEK M Note amount Fair value example loans and accounts payable. These are recognized initially at fair FINANCIAL ASSETS value, net after transaction costs, and subsequently at amortized cost Financial assets measured at fair value according to the effective interest method. through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments – non-hedging 70 70 Loan liabilities Short-term investments 25 45 45 Loan liabilities are initially reported at fair value, net of transaction costs, Current investments classified as cash equivaand subsequently at amortized cost according to the effective interest lents 25 1,716 1,716 method. Loan liabilities carrying a fixed rate of interest that are reported Equity instruments 21 60 60 under hedge accounting in line with the method for fair value hedging are Financial assets measured at amortized cost: valued at market in respect of the interest component. Changes in market Other financial assets 21 451 451 value are off-set with changes in value of the hedge instrument in net finanAccounts receivable 23 3,399 3,399 cial items. Other receivables 24 474 474 Cash and bank 25 2,357 2,357 Hedging of net investments Loans in foreign currency are reported at closing rate. Exchange rate difFinancial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income: ferences for loans in connection with hedging of net investments in foreign Accounts receivable hold to collect and sell 23 56 56 operations are reported in other comprehensive income, with tax effects taken into account, and are thus off-set against the translation differences Derivatives used for hedging purposes: that arise when translating the subsidiaries’ balance sheets into SEK. Derivative financial instruments – hedging 2 2 Accounts payable FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The valuation principle for accounts payable is the amortized cost principle. Financial liabilities measured at fair value The expected lifetime for accounts payable is short and thus the payables through profit or loss: are reported at nominal value without discounting. Derivative financial instruments – non-hedging 25 25 Other liabilities (contingent considerations) 2 2 Accounting for derivatives used for hedging purposes Financial liabilities measured at amortized The group applies the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9. All derivcost: atives are initially and continuously recognized at fair value in the Balance Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 27 3,558 3,573 sheet. Gains and losses on remeasurement of derivatives used for hedgShort-term interest-bearing liabilities 27 1,000 1,000 ing purposes are recognized as follows. Changes in value relating to cash Accounts payable 1,427 1,427 flow hedges are reported in other comprehensive income and are taken to Other liabilities 361 361 the income statement as the hedged cash flow affects the income stateDerivatives used for hedging purposes: ment. Any ineffective portion of the change in value is reported directly in Derivative financial instruments – hedging 72 72 the income statement. The result of a revaluation of derivatives used to hedge fair value is reported in the income statement along with changes in the fair value of Accounting principles applied until 30 April 2018 the receivable or liability exposed to the hedged risk. For derivatives designated and qualified as hedging instruments, the method of recognizing the Until 30 April 2018, IAS 39 was applied. Comparative information has not fair value gains or losses depends on the nature of the item being hedged. been restated. The Group documents, at the inception of the hedge, the relationship A financial asset or a financial liability is reported in the balance sheet between hedged item and financial derivative instrument, as well as its risk when the Company becomes party to the contractual terms and conmanagement objective and strategy. The Group also documents its assessditions of the instrument. A financial asset is removed from the balance ment, both at the hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the sheet when the contractual rights are realized, fall due, or the Company derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offloses control of them. Spot acquisitions or sales of financial assets are setting the changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items based on reported on the settle­ment date, which is the date on which the asset is the following hedging criteria’s. delivered. Accounts receivable are reported in the balance sheet when the •• There is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the invoice is dispatched. hedging instrument The fair value of quoted financial assets corresponds to the asset’s listed bid price on the closing date. In the absence of such information, a valua•• The effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result tion is carried out using generally accepted methods such as the discountfrom that economic relationship and ing of future cash flows at the quoted market interest rate for the particu•• The hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is consistent with risk manlar maturity. agement strategy. For short-term loans, the fair value is deemed to comply with the carrying amount in view of the fact that a change in market rate of interest does The table below presents the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilinot have a material effect on the market value. ties by measurement category with the carrying amount and fair value per Financial assets and liabilities are off-set and reported at a net amount item. Fair value for long-term interest-bearing liabilities has been estabin the balance sheet when there is a legal right to net and when the intenElekta Annual Report 2018/19 89 NOTES Note 3 Financial instruments, cont. tion is to settle the items using a net amount or simultaneously realize the taken into account, and are thus off-set against the translation differences assets and settle the liability. that arise when translating the subsidiaries’ balance sheets into SEK. Financial assets and liabilities are divided into the following categories in accordance with IAS 39. Accounts payable The valuation principle for accounts payable is the amortized cost principle. Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss The expected lifetime for accounts payable is short and thus the payables Assets are classified in this category when the intention is to sell in the short are reported at nominal value without discounting. term. Derivatives with a positive market value are classified in this category unless they are used for hedge accounting. Assets in this category are Accounting for derivatives used for hedging purposes ­recognized at fair value and changes in value are recognized in the income All derivatives are initially and continuously recognized at fair value in the statement. Financial derivatives and short-term investments in tradeable ­balance sheet. Gains and losses on remeasurement of derivatives used securities were assigned to this category during the year. for hedging purposes are recognized as follows. Changes in value relating to cash flow hedges are reported in other comprehensive income and are Loan receivables and accounts receivable taken to the income statement as the hedged cash flow affects the income Loan receivables and accounts receivable are financial assets, which are not statement. Any ineffective portion of the change in value is reported derivatives, with fixed or determinable payments, which are not quoted in directly in the income statement. an active market. The receivables arise when money, goods or services are The result of a revaluation of derivatives used to hedge fair value is ­provided directly to another party without any intention of trading in the reported in the income statement along with changes in the fair value of receivables. Assets in this category are measured at amortized cost less the receivable or liability exposed to the hedged risk. any provision for impairment. The category include for example accounts The table below presents the Group’s financial assets and financial liareceivable as well as cash and cash equivalents. bilities by measurement category with the carrying amount and fair value per item. Fair value for long-term interest-bearing liabilities has been estabAccounts receivable lished by discounting future payment flows at current market interest rate Since the anticipated life of accounts receivable is short, reporting is based and then converting to SEK at the current exchange rate. For other financial on the amounts expected to be received, based on individual assessment instruments the fair value is estimated to agree with the carrying amount. of any bad debts, without discounting in accordance with the method for ­amortized cost. Impairment loss on accounts receivable is recognized in FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS PER CATEGORY operating profit. April 30, 2018 Carrying Fair Cash and cash equivalents SEK M Note amount value Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances with finanFINANCIAL ASSETS cial institutions and short-term investments with an original maturity of Financial assets measured at fair value less than three months. Cash and cash equivalents are reported at nomithrough profit or loss: nal value. Derivative financial instruments – non-hedge accounting 111 111 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Short-term investments 25 83 83 This category includes derivatives with negative fair values that are not Loan receivables and accounts receivable: used for hedge accounting, financial liabilities held for trading and continOther financial assets 21 219 219 gent ­considerations. Liabilities in this category are measured at fair value Accounts receivable 23 3,402 3,402 with changes in that value recognized in the income statement. Other receivables 24 371 371 Cash and cash equivalents 25 4,458 4,458 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost This category includes financial liabilities that are not held for trading, for Derivatives used for hedging purposes: example loans and accounts payable. These are recognized initially at fair Derivative financial instruments – hedge accounting 59 59 value, net after transaction costs, and subsequently at amortized cost according to the effective interest method. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Financial liabilities measured at fair value Loan liabilities through profit or loss: Loan liabilities are initially reported at fair value, net of transaction costs, Derivative financial instruments – non-hedge and subsequently at amortized cost according to the effective interest accounting 27 27 method. Loan liabilities carrying a fixed rate of interest that are reported Other liabilities (contingent considerations) 20 20 under hedge accounting in line with the method for fair value hedging are Financial liabilities measured at amortized valued at market in respect of the interest component. Changes in market cost: value are off-set with changes in value of the hedge instrument in net financial items. Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 27 4,369 4,372 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 27 975 975 Hedging of net investments Accounts payable 1,132 1,132 Loans in foreign currency are reported at closing rate. Exchange rate difOther liabilities 300 300 ferences for loans in connection with hedging of net investments in foreign Derivatives used for hedging purposes: operations are reported in other comprehensive income, with tax effects Derivative financial instruments – hedge accounting 26 26 90 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES The table below shows how the Group’s financial assets and financial observable data than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly (that ­liabilities, which are carried at fair value, have been categorized in the fair is, price quotations) or indirectly (that is, obtained from price quotations). value hierarchy. The different levels are defined as follows. Level 1: Quoted Level 3: Data not based on observable market data. prices on an active market for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: Other DISTRIBUTION BY LEVEL WHEN MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 SEK M Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments – non-hedge accounting – 70 – 70 – 111 – 111 Short-term investments 45 – – 45 83 – – 83 Current investments classified as cash equivalents 1,716 – – 1,716 – – – – Equity instruments 58 – 2 60 – – – – Derivatives used for hedging purposes: Derivative financial instruments – hedge accounting – 2 – 2 – 59 – 59 Total financial assets 1,819 72 2 1,893 83 170 – 253 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments – non-hedge accounting – 25 – 25 – 27 – 27 Contingent considerations – – 2 2 – – 20 20 Derivatives used for hedging purposes: Derivative financial instruments – hedge accounting – 72 – 72 – 26 – 26 Total financial liabilities – 97 2 99 – 53 20 73 Financial instruments, level 1 Financial instruments, level 3 The fair value of tradeable securities are reported based on quoted prices on The change during the year for instruments at level 3 refers to continan active market. gent considerations. Contingent considerations are valued at the fair value based on data available such as conditions set forth in the purchase Financial instruments, level 2 agreement and current assessments of the estimated fulfillment of the The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded on an active conditions. market are determined by means of available valuation techniques. Market information is used when available. The use of corporate-specific inforMOVEMENTS FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS LEVEL 3 mation is avoided whenever possible. If all important in-data required for SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 a fair value valuation of an instrument is observable, the instrument is in Contingent considerations level 2. Specific valuation techniques used in the valuation of financial instruOpening balance May 1 20 77 ments include, for example, listed market prices, fair value for interest-rate Payments –16 –45 swaps, calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows based Reversals –1 –13 on observable yield, fair value of currency forward contracts determined through the use of rates for currency foreign exchange contracts on the Revaluations 0 1 balance sheet date. Translation differences 0 0 Closing balance April 30 2 20 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 91 NOTES Note 3 Financial instruments, cont. Outstanding derivative financial instruments The Group’s derivative financial instruments outstanding at April 30 are presented with nominal amounts and fair values in the table below. The total amount of fair values of assets and liabilities respectively are equivalent to the carrying values recognized in the balance sheet. DERIVATIVES OUTSTANDING April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Hedge reserve Hedge reserve SEK M Nominal Asset Liability after tax Nominal Asset Liability after tax Currency derivatives: Cash flow hedges 3,103 2 25 –62 1,899 59 26 23 Non-hedge accounting 3,255 70 72 – 4,694 111 27 – Currency derivatives, total 6,358 72 97 –62 6,593 170 53 23 The table below presents detailed information regarding the Group’s outstanding cash flow hedges. Realized results from cash flow hedges have been recognized on the line “Currency rate differences” in the operating result and amounted to SEK –58 M (90) during the year, of which SEK –3 M (1) was related to the ineffective portion. CASH FLOW HEDGES OUTSTANDING Q1 19/20 Q2 19/20 Q3 19/20 Q4 19/20 20/21 2018-04-30 Exchange Exchange Exchange Exchange Exchange Currencies Currency Amount rate Amount rate Amount rate Amount rate Amount Term rate EUR/GBP EUR – – – – – – – – – – 2M 9 mon 0.914 EUR/SEK EUR – – 3M 10.11 10 M 10.41 19 M 10.52 19 M 10.61 29 M 4–24 mon 10.113 JPY/GBP JPY – – 200 M 0.007 100 M 139.175 200 M 143.597 – – 800 M 6–18 mon 0.007 JPY/SEK JPY – – 100 M 0.078 400 M 0.080 700 M 0.084 – – 900 M 5–21 mon 0.075 USD/GBP USD 45 M 0.752 58 M 0.753 43 M 0.755 41 M 0.758 3M 0.746 132 M 2–18 mon 0.752 USD/SEK USD 7M 8.364 15 M 8.560 19 M 9.120 18 M 9.141 5M 9.147 34 M 3–14 mon 8.354 The hedged transactions in foreign currency are estimated to take place in the coming 24 months. Results from the forward exchange agreements recognized in the hedge reserve in other comprehensive income on 30 April 2019, will be accounted for in the income statement in the periods when the hedged transactions will affect the income statement. The estimated future effect from outstanding cash flow hedges are presented in the table below. OUTSTANDING CASH FLOW HEDGES’ ESTIMATED EFFECT ON THE INCOME STATEMENT 2019/20 2020/21 SEK M Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Expected result from cash flow hedges –27 –18 –13 –8 –1 –1 0 0 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities consists solely of derivative instruments that are encompassed by legally binding agreements on offsetting. OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 2018/2019 2017/2018 Amounts Net Amounts Amounts Net Amounts set off amounts ­covered by set off amounts ­covered by in the in the ­netting agreein the in the ­netting agreeGross ­balance ­balance ments but not Net Gross ­balance ­balance ments but not Net SEK M amount sheet sheet set off amount amount sheet sheet set off amount Financial assets 72 – 72 –59 13 170 – 170 –43 127 Financial liabilities 97 – 97 –84 13 53 – 53 –43 10 In the case of financial assets and liabilities that are subject to legally binding offsetting agreements, each agreement between the company and the counterparties permit net deduction of the relevant financial assets and liabilities if both parties elect to apply net deduction. If both parties are not in agreement regarding net deduction, gross deduction is applied. In the event that one party defaults, the other party is entitled to deduct on a net basis. 92 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES Note 4 Estimates and assessments The preparation of financial statements and application of accountcomplies with the anticipated result. For Elekta, estimates and assessments ing standards require that management use estimates and assessments. are particularly important in: Therefore, they make certain assumptions which are considered reason•• revenue recognition, see Note 6 able under the prevailing circumstances. Thus, estimates and assessments •• valuation of accounts receivable, see Note 23 affect the financial reports and they are frequently based on experience as well as other factors, including expectations of future events. Using other •• calculation of deferred taxes, see Note 16 assumptions than those actually applied in the preparation of the financial •• impairment testing of goodwill, see Note 17 statements, the result can be different and the actual outcome seldom •• calculation of provisions, see Note 28 Estimates and assessments are continually reassessed. Note 5 Segment reporting Accounting principles ity is conducted and managed. Evaluation of financial performance is executed for three geographic regions which are Elekta’s operating segments: Operating segments are reported in accordance with management reporting •• North and South America as reported to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-­ •• Europe, Middle East and Africa maker is the function that is responsible for allocation of resources and assessment of the operating segments’ performance. In Elekta, this function has been •• Asia Pacific identified as the President and CEO who is responsible for and deals with the continuous administration of the Group based on the board’s guidelines and instrucThe same accounting principles are applied in the segment reporting as tions. To his aid, he has the executive management. Elekta’s President and CEO for the Group. evaluates business performance from both geographic and product based perInformation on other non-current assets (intangible assets) per country spectives. The geographic follow-up is however the main perspective and the cannot be disclosed as the necessary information is not available. See Note product based perspective con­stitutes a complement to the geographic moni17 for information on goodwill per region. For information regarding tangitoring and control. It is from the geographic perspective that the business activble fixed assets per country see Note 18. SEGMENT REPORTING North and Europe, Middle East Asia Other/ Group South America and Africa Pacific Group-wide2) total SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Net sales1) 4,501 3,888 4,956 4,345 4,098 3,340 – – 13,555 11,573 Operating expenses –2,793 –2,375 –3,207 –2,783 –2,807 –2,294 – – –8,807 –7,452 Contribution margin 1,707 1,513 1,749 1,562 1,291 1,046 – – 4,748 4,121 Contribution margin, % 38% 39% 35% 36% 32% 31% Global costs –3,052 –2,276 –3,052 –2,276 Operating result 1,707 1,513 1,749 1,562 1,291 1,046 –3,052 –2,276 1,696 1,845 Income participations in associated companies 3 –7 3 –7 Financial income 66 67 66 67 Financial expenses –186 –225 –186 –225 Exchange rate differences 2 1 2 1 Income before tax 1,707 1,513 1,749 1,562 1,291 1,046 –3,167 –2,440 1,580 1,681 Income tax –382 –333 –382 –333 Profit for the year 1,707 1,513 1,749 1,562 1,291 1,046 –3,549 –2,773 1,198 1,348 Net sales per product type Solutions3) 2,192 1,877 3,224 2,831 2,977 2,346 – – 8,394 7,054 Service 2,308 2,011 1,731 1,514 1,122 994 – – 5,161 4,519 Total 4,501 3,888 4,956 4,345 4,098 3,340 – – 13,555 11,573 Depreciation/Amortization –385 –194 –527 –440 –32 –41 – – –943 –675 Investments 384 369 235 451 42 41 – – 660 861 1) Which of net sales, internal SEK 7,529 M (6,248) 2) W  ithin other/group-wide are costs that can not be allocated by segment such as global costs and items affecting comparability. Allocations by segment are not done for financial items and tax 3) The product type solutions includes hardware and software combined as it better reflects the business follow-up Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 93 NOTES Note 6 Net sales Accounting principles Service contracts For service agreements, control is considered to be transferred over time and Elekta’s revenue is primarily derived from the sales of treatment solutions and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contractual term of the oncology informatics including equipment used for radiation therapy, radioarrangement or the expected period during which the specified services will surgery and brachytherapy as well as software products and related services. be performed. Maintenance and support agreements relating to software Many of Elekta’s products and services are sold on a stand-alone basis but products are generally renewed on an annual basis. Installation services and are often included in bundled deals, which are arrangements where equiptraining with low values and which span over a limited time are considered ment, software and services may be included in the same contract. A bundled non-material and revenue is recognized when the related device reaches the deal is treated as a project which is supported by a project team that coordistage of technical acceptance. nates the production, delivery and installation, which can occur at different stages. The equipment, installation, software, and services are distinct perforEstimates and assessment mance obligations excluding the software that is integrated in the hardware. In most contracts the transaction price consists of a fixed consideration Changes to the goods and services included in an arrangement and the which is clearly stated in the contract and the products are usually sold withamounts allocated to each item could affect the timing and amount of revout a right of return. In rare cases contracts can include variable considerenue recognition. Revenue recognition also depends on the timing of shipation for which the value is estimated for revenue recognition purposes. ment, readiness of the customer’s site, availability of products and for some The allocation of the transaction price, including any discount, to the contracts, customer acceptance terms. If shipments or installations are not various goods and services (performance obligations) in a contract is permade on scheduled timelines or if the products are not accepted by the cusformed based on the relative stand-alone selling prices for the goods and tomer in a timely manner, revenues may differ from expectations. services identified as performance obligations. As many items included in Revenue recognition does often not coincide with invoicing to, and paya bundled deal are also sold on a stand-alone basis, the stand-alone selling ments from, customers. Payment terms or conditions for projects may difprices are based on observable prices in most cases. For items not sold on a fer between contracts and regions, but in a standard Elekta contract parstand-alone basis the stand-alone selling prices have been estimated using tial payments will be due upon certain events, such as order receipt, shipment the best available market and internal data relating to those items. and acceptance. In a standard project, amounts invoiced in accordance with Costs incurred to obtain a contract consist mainly of commissions, an invoicing plan are reported as accounts receivable and as a contract liabilwhich is recognized as contract asset and are amortized over the time when ity included in advances from customers if performance obligations are not yet the related revenue is recognized. satisfied and revenue cannot be recognized. Amounts that have been recogThe timing for revenue recognition often does not coincide with invoicnized as revenue, but for which Elekta has not yet the right to invoice according and payments from customers. Payment terms or conditions for projects ing to the invoicing plan agreed, are reported as contract assets and included in differ between regions. In some markets, partial payments will be due upon accrued income. For service contracts the agreed consideration is invoiced and certain events such as order receipt, delivery and acceptance. In other marpaid in advance in most markets. When there is a contract agreed and invoiced kets, the entire payment is due upon completion of implementation or accepto the customer, Elekta usually has the right to payment even if the perfortance. Amounts invoiced are reported as accounts receivable while revenue mance obligations are still to be satisfied. Therefore, a receivable is accounted recognized amounts not yet invoiced are reported as accrued income. for with a corresponding contract liability reported as deferred income. Net sales for the year amounted to SEK 13,555 M (11,573). Accrued income Treatment solutions amount to SEK 1,401 M (1,160). Accounts receivable amounted to SEK 3,455 M Elekta sells treatment solutions including hardware, software and service. Main (3,402). For more information on accounts receivable see Note 23. hardware products are Leksell Gamma Knifes, Linear accelerators, MR linacs and Net sales per country is based on sales to customers in the respective country. Afterloaders. Software licenses consist mainly of Oncology informatics systems There is no individual customers representing more than 10 percent of net sales. (OIS) and Treatment planning systems (TPS). Services include maintenance and support relating to equipment, software, training, installation services and warNET SALES BY COUNTRY ranties. Most bundled deals include at least one device, software licenses, instalSEK M 2018/19 2017/18 lation, service, training and one-year standard warranty that is included in the Sweden 200 45 price. There is a possibility for an extended warranty in some contracts that is USA 3,472 3,117 considered as a service contract. Revenue recognition for these deals is linked to China 1,605 1,272 when control for each identified performance obligation is transferred to the cusJapan 847 785 tomer, which for a standard contract happens at different stages over a longer Germany 652 564 period, usually up to six months depending on the geographical market. Italy 527 391 Hardware products United Kingdom 481 604 In a standard contract, the control is considered to be transferred when the India 405 390 device is delivered to the customer’s site and installation is started. At this Australia 352 234 time, risk and rewards are transferred, the customer has physical possession France 347 416 of the unit and Elekta has the right to payment for the equipment delivered. Canada 330 266 Spain 325 276 Software products Netherlands 269 259 For software licenses control is considered to be transferred and revenue is Republic of Korea 264 144 recognized when the licenses are made available to the customer, which is Other countries 3,479 2,810 usually at the time of acceptance of the software. Total 13,555 11,573 94 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES Note 7 Salaries, other remuneration and social security costs Accounting principles income statement over the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. This leads to an estimated cost, corresponding to the Remuneration paid to employees in the form of wages/salary, paid vacaearned portion of the estimated share value at allotment, being charged tion, etcetera is accounted for as it is earned. to profit and loss over the vesting period. At each closing in the vesting period the expected number of vested shares is revised and the impact of Share-based compensation any changes over the original estimates are recognized in the income stateOngoing share programs are reported according to IFRS 2 Share-based payment, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. ments and are mainly equity-settled. The conditions of the share programs In addition, provisions are made for estimated employer contributions state that they may be settled in other ways than through shares. This posrelated to the share programs. Calculations are based on a theoretical marsibility is only applied to a very limited extent and neither cost nor obligaket valuation where the market value is calculated using Black & Scholes tionare material amounts. based on the share price on the closing date. For allotted shares, social Accounting for equity-settled share-based compensation programs security expenses are paid on the basis of the market value on the allotentails that the instrument’s fair value at grant date is recognized in the ment date. SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS Group Parent Company SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Salaries and remunerations: Board and Managing directors 126 127 27 33 Other employees 2,973 2,808 37 26 Total salaries and other remunerations 3,099 2,935 65 59 Social security costs: Pension costs 254 231 13 12 Other social security costs 374 348 26 20 Total social security costs 627 579 38 32 Total salaries, other remuneration and social security costs 3,727 3,514 103 91 Bonuses included in the above salaries and other remunerations paid fit pension plans. Pension costs in the Parent Company amounted to to the boards and the Managing directors of subsidiaries amounted to SEK 13 M (12) of which the total amount related to defined contribution SEK 36 M (38), and SEK 4 M (4) in the Parent Company. Total pension costs pensions plans. For further information regarding defined benefit pension amounted to SEK 254 M (231) of which SEK 16 M (14) concern defined beneplans see Note 28. Remuneration to the board of directors The AGM resolved the adoption of fees to the board of directors totaling SEK 6,130,000 (5,765,000), of which 6,130,000 (5,603,000) were paid. The fees were distributed in accordance with the table below. FEES FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Remuneration Remuneration Regular ­compensation Remuneration Regular ­compensation Remuneration SEK Thousands ­remuneration ­committee audit committee ­remuneration ­committee audit committee Chairman: Laurent Leksell 1,165 110 – 1,130 110 – Members: Luciano Cattani – – – 485 75 – Tomas Puusepp 500 – – 323 – – Cecilia Wikström 500 75 – – – – Wolfgang Reim 500 75 – 485 – – Jan Secher 500 – 135 485 – 135 Birgitta Stymne Göransson 500 – 225 485 – 225 Annika Espander Jansson 500 75 – 485 – 135 Johan Malmqvist 500 – 135 485 75 – Caroline Leksell Cooke 500 – 135 485 – – Total 5,165 335 630 4,848 260 495 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 95 NOTES Note 7 Salaries, other remuneration and social security costs, cont. Remuneration to executive management The guidelines for remuneration to the executive management, which are proposed by the board of directors for the AGM on August 22, 2019 are presented on pages 72. The proposed guidelines are unchanged compared to those proposed by the board of directors and approved by the AGM on August 30, 2018. The executive management for 2018/19 was comprised of a total of 13 people, of whom six are located in Sweden and the other seven in the Netherlands, the UK, the US and China. The tables below display remunerations and other benefits to the executive management in 2018/19 and 2017/18 respectively. REMUNERATION AND OTHER BENEFITS TO EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT DURING THE YEAR 2018/19 Fixed Variable Severance Share-based Other Pension SEK Thousands ­remuneration ­remuneration pay compensation ­benefits costs Total President and CEO 7,984 4,437 – 2,346 6 1,894 16,666 Other senior executives resident in Sweden (6) 13,102 5,330 – 2,760 584 2,952 24,727 Other senior executives resident abroad (7) 24,047 10,304 – 3,525 1,481 1,044 41,215 Total senior executives 45,132 20,070 – 8,631 2,070 5,889 82,607 REMUNERATION AND OTHER BENEFITS TO EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT DURING THE YEAR 2017/18 Fixed Variable Severance Share-based Other Pension SEK Thousands ­remuneration ­remuneration pay compensation ­benefits costs Total President and CEO – Richard Hausmann 6,720 4,035 – 808 545 2,712 14,820 Other senior executives resident in Sweden (4)1) 10,940 4,046 461 382 744 2,648 19,220 Other senior executives resident abroad (7.5)1) 20,190 8,917 7,484 1,549 1,517 2,181 41,838 Total senior executives 37,850 16,998 7,945 2,739 2,806 7,541 75,879 Member of the board/Previous President and CEO – Tomas Puusepp 5,077 – – – 87 1,590 6,754 1) Average number of persons receiving renumeration during the year. More information about changes to the executive management team are presented on page 60. Variable remuneration pertains to the bonus for the 2018/19 and 2017/18 fiscal years respectively, partly paid quarterly during each fiscal year and partly paid in the year after. Share based payment •• Each performance share award shall be subject to forfeiture in the event of termination of employment due to a reason other than death, disabilAs per April 30, 2019, Elekta has three outstanding share programs. The ity or retirement or failure to attain performance targets over the applicashare program performance share plan 2015/18, which was outstanding as ble performance period per April 30, 2018, has expired during the year. •• Performance share awards shall be settled through the delivery of shares The total number of shares that may be allotted under the share programs is unless otherwise decided by the board 957,074 (738,574) B-shares. The share programs are secured by delivery of shares •• The number of shares to be allotted will depend on the degree of fulfillalready held or repurchased by Elekta and, consequently, no new shares will be ment of financial targets issued under the share programs. Share programs awarded to employees have a potential dilution effect. However, certain performance targets must be met for The financial targets for performance share plan 2016 are defined as averdilution to occur and this was not the case at the closing date. age annual percentage growth rate in earnings per share (EPS) during the The share-related incentive programs are reported in accordance with fiscal year 2016/17 until the fiscal year 2018/19, versus EPS for the fiscal years IFRS 2 Share-based payments. The recognized costs related to the share 2015/16. Under performance share plan 2016/19 the maximum number of programs amounted to SEK 6 M (2), whereof social security amounted to shares will be allotted if the annual average EPS growth is at or exceeds 132 SEK 2 M (0). See page 62 for more information. percent, no allotment of shares will occur if the annual average EPS growth is below 103 percent and allotment of shares between annual average EPS Share programs growth 103 and 132 percent is linear. The AGM has for a number of years resolved to adopt share programs called The financial targets for performance share plan 2017 are defined as performance share plans. Performance share plan 2015/18, resolved by the average annual percentage growth rate in earnings per share (EPS) during AGM in 2015, expired during the year. For information on the program see the fiscal year 2017/18 until the fiscal year 2019/20, versus EPS for the fiscal the annual report 2017/18 page 97. Outstanding programs as per April 30 years 2016/17. Under performance share plan 2017/20 the maximum number 2019 were performance share plan 2016/19, 2017/20 and 2018/21 respectively. of shares will be allotted if the annual average EPS growth is at or exceeds The performance share plans cover approximately 8 (2016/119), 11 (2017/20) 154 percent, no allotment of shares will occur if the annual average EPS and 180 (2018/21) key employees of the Group respectively. The performance growth is below 109 percent and allotment of shares between annual avershare plans entitle the participants to obtain, free of charge, B-shares in age EPS growth 109 and 154 percent is linear. Elekta upon fulfillment of certain performance requirements. The financial targets for performance share plan 2018 are defined as The main terms of the performance share programs are: average annual percentage growth rate in earnings per share (EPS) during the fiscal year 2018/19, versus EPS for the fiscal year 2017/18. Under perfor•• A performance share award shall entitle a participant to receive, subject mance share plan 2018/21 the maximum performance level requires that to the terms and conditions set forth in the performance share plans 2016, 2018/19 EPS is at least 32 per cent higher than 2017/18 EPS. If the maximum 2017 and 2018 and applicable award agreements, a number of B-shares performance level is reached or exceeded, the allocation will amount to based upon the attainment of performance targets over a three-year (and will not exceed) the maximum number of performance shares. If perperformance period formance is below the maximum level but above the minimum level, a pro96 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES portionate allocation of shares will be made. No allocation will be made if performance is below the minimum level. The allotment of shares between Note 8 Depreciation/amortization minimum and maximum level is linear. Group The terms of the performance share programs 2016, 2017 and 2018 furSEK M 2018/19 2017/18 ther state that: Cost of products sold 46 52 •• The performance targets may be adjusted should an event occur that Selling expenses 132 137 affects the operations of the Company or the number of outstandAdministrative expenses 65 62 ing Elekta shares or otherwise affecting the performance targets and R&D expenses 700 424 deemed relevant by the board Total 943 675 •• The performance targets will be finally evaluated at the end of the appliNote 9 cable performance period and each participant will receive the number of shares he/she is entitled to according to the participant’s award agreeOperating leases ment depending on the attainment of the applicable performance targets over the performance period Accounting principles •• The value that a participant can receive in settlement of the performance share award is maximized at 400 percent of the value of the The lease of tangible assets, for which the Group is essentially responsible for shares at the date of grant of the performance share award the same risks and benefits as it would be in the case of direct owner­ship, is classified as finance lease. The leased asset is reported as a fixed asset and the •• Potential allotments of shares will take place September 14, 2019, corresponding obligation to pay a lease fee is reported as an interest-bearing September 14, 2020 and September 14, 2021, respectively liability. The lease payments are distributed between amortization of the liability and financial expense, so that each reporting period is charged with an Participants shall at allotment of shares receive compensation for any cash interest amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate on the reported liabildividends paid during the respective three-year performance period. ity during each period. The leased asset is depreciated in accordance with the Before the number of shares to be allotted is finally determined, the same principles that apply to owned assets of the same type. If any uncerboard shall examine whether the allotment is reasonable, taking into containty exists about whether the asset will be taken over at the end of the lease sideration the Company’s financial results and position, conditions on the period, the asset is depreciated over the lease period, if this is shorter. stock market and other circumstances, and if not, as determined by the Lease of assets, for which the lessor, for all practical purposes, is con­ board, reduce the number of shares to be allotted to the lower number of sidered the owner, is classified as operating lease. The lease fee is expensed shares deemed appropriate by the board. Delivery of shares and dividend on a straight-line basis over the lease period. The Group has mainly operatcompensation in settlement of the performance share award shall be made ing lease. There are few finance leases. See Note 18. as soon as practicable following the lapse of the performance period. The conditions of the share programs state that the right to perforGroup mance share awards may be settled in other ways than through the delivery SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 of shares. As per April 30, 2019, there were no material obligations to settle Leasing fees paid during the year 256 229 in any other way than through shares. Nominal value of agreed future leasing fees: SHARE PROGRAM Due for payment within 1 year 229 238 2015/18 2016/19 2017/20 2018/21 Due for payment after 1 year but within 5 years 628 585 Originally designated number Due for payment after more than 5 years 602 613 of shares 289,284 280,386 272,379 530,799 Total 1,459 1,436 Share price used for calculation of theoretical value SEK1) 56 77 84 100 Leasing fees paid by the Parent Company during the year amounted to SEK Allotment of shares 2018-09-16 2019-09-14 2020-09-14 2021-09-14 308 K (585). Future leasing fees due for payment within one year amount to Number of shares as of SEK 281 K (396), after 1 year but within 5 years SEK 99 K (342). April 30, 2018 216,963 249,232 272,379 – The operating lease contracts are mainly contracts for premises where Granted during the year – – – 530,799 the business is conducted. Cancelled/Expired during the year –216,963 –93,462 – –1,874 Released during the year – – – – Number of shares as of – 155,770 272,379 528,925 April 30, 2019 1) Average closing share price of the Elekta class B share on the exchange NASDAQ Stockholm during a period of ten trading days before the day the participants are offered to participate in the program Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 97 NOTES Note 10 Remunerations to auditors Note 12 Income from participations in Group companies Group Parent Company SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Parent Company Group auditor (PwC) SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Audit engagements 12 12 5 5 Dividends from subsidiaries 605 410 Audit-related services 0 1 – 0 Group Contribution 138 315 Tax consultancy 0 1 – – Divestment of shares in subsidiaries 40 – Other services 1 0 1 0 Total 783 725 Total Group auditor 13 14 6 5 Other auditors Note 13 Net financial items Audit engagements 0 0 – – Tax consultancy 5 7 1 1 Group Other services 1 0 – – SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Total other auditors 6 7 1 1 Income from participations in associates 8 7 Write-down loan in associates –5 -14 Total 19 21 6 6 Income from participations in associates 3 –7 Audit engagements refers to remuneration to auditors for work related to Interest income, external 65 66 the statutory audit, including audit of the annual report and the accountOther financial income 1 1 ing records, the administration of the board of directors and the CEO as well as Financial income 66 67 audit consultancy work directly linked to the audit assignment. Audit-­related Interest expenses, other external loans –156 –163 services comprises quality assurance services, including consultancy work Other financial expenses –29 –62 driven by observations made in the audit engagement. Other services refers to Financial expenses –186 –225 other services/consultancy work which are not covered by any of the other catExchange rate differences on financial i­ nstruments 2 1 egories above, e g consultancy work related to internal control and acquisitions. Net financial items –116 –164 Of fees for audit engagements SEK 5 M pertains to PwC Sweden, of Note 14 Interest income, interest expense other services SEK 1 M pertains to PwC Sweden. Note 11 Expenses by nature and ­similar items Parent Company In the income statement costs are broken down by function. Operating SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 expenses amount to SEK 11,859 M (9,728). Below, operating expenses are Interest income from subsidiaries 139 159 ­broken down by nature: Interest income, external 53 53 Group Interest income and similar items 192 212 SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Interest expenses to subsidiaries –20 –10 Products, materials and consumables 5,263 4,053 Interest expenses, other external loans –153 –153 Personnel costs 3,898 3,566 Other financial expenses –18 –14 Depreciation and amortization (Notes 8, 16 and 17) 943 675 Interest expenses and similar items –191 –177 Operating lease fees (Note 9) 256 229 Note 15 Appropriations and untaxed Other expenses 1,499 1,205 Total 11,859 9,728 reserves Parent Company Appropriations Untaxed reserves SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Tax allocation reserve -14 – 14 – Total -14 – 14 – 98 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES Note 16 Taxes Accounting principles bilities are offset when there is a legal right to do so and when the deferred tax amounts concern the same tax authority. For items recognized in profit or loss, The tax expense in the income statement includes all tax that is to be paid or the related tax effects are also recognized in profit or loss. For items recogreceived for the current year, adjustments relating to previous years’ current nized in other comprehensive income, related tax effects are also recognized in tax, and changes in deferred tax. Deferred tax is calculated and reported in other comprehensive income. accordance with the balance sheet method. In accordance with this method, deferred tax is calculated on the basis of the temporary differences between Estimates and assessments the tax bases and the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets relating to loss carry-forwards and other future tax credits are recogDeferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are balance sheet items which are nized to the extent it is probable that deductions can be made against future subject to estimates and assessments. Deferred tax is calculated on t­ emporary profits. Valuation is based on nominal amounts based on the tax rules predifferences between the carrying amounts and the tax values of assets and liavailing in each country and the anticipated tax rate for the following year in bilities. Estimates and assessments affect the recognized deferred tax amounts each country. Deferred taxes relating to temporary differences attributable in the determination of the carrying amounts of the d ­ ifferent assets and liabilto investments in subsidiaries are not recognized in the consolidated financial ities, and also through forecasts regarding future taxable profits in those cases statements since Elekta AB, in all cases, can control the time of reversal of the where a future utilization of deferred tax assets depends on future taxable proftemporary differences and it is not considered probable that such a reversal its. Deferred taxes amounted to a net liability of SEK 184 M (162), whereof assets will occur in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liaSEK 402 M (350) and liabilities SEK 587 M (511). INCOME TAXES Group Parent Company SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Current taxes –331 –206 – – Current tax adjustments for prior years –22 –38 – – Deferred taxes –28 -89 3 –63 Total –382 –333 3 –63 Swedish tax 22% 22% Effect of other tax rates for foreign companies 4% 1% Change in tax legislation 0% –5% Tax, current and deferred, related to prior years 1% 2% Other –3% 0% Tax rate 24% 20% CURRENT TAX, NET (LIABILITY +/RECEIVABLE –) Group Parent Company SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Opening balance, May 1 –71 –80 –16 –21 Business combinations –1 – – – Reclassifications –11 24 – – Adjustment for prior years 23 38 – – Current tax for the year 331 206 – – Paid taxes –269 –257 –1 5 Translation differences 6 –1 – – Closing balance, April 30 8 –71 –17 –16 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets/liabilities in the balance sheet are attributable to the following: Group Assets (+) Liabilities (–) Net SEK M April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Loss carry-forwards 145 52 – – 145 52 Untaxed reserves 0 – 0 –1 0 –1 Intangible assets 1 0 –756 –749 –755 –749 Tangible fixed assets 22 20 –44 –46 -22 –26 Financial assets/liabilities 16 5 –10 –31 6 –27 Other assets 250 393 –27 –27 223 366 Other liabilities 226 238 –7 –15 219 223 Deferred tax assets/tax liabilities 660 708 –844 –869 –184 –162 Offsetting -258 –358 258 358 – – Net deferred tax assets/tax liabilities 402 350 –587 –511 –184 –162 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 99 NOTES Note 16 Taxes, cont. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (+)/LIABILITIES (–), NET SEK M Group, net Parent Company, net Opening balance May 1, 2017 -87 63 Business combinations 0 – Reclassifications 13 – Adjustment for prior years –7 – Change in tax legislations 66 – Deferred taxes for the year –154 –63 Deferred taxes charged in other comprehensive income 7 – Translation differences 0 – Closing balance April 30, 2018 –162 0 Business combinations 0 – Reclassifications 0 – Adjustment for prior years 9 – Change in tax legislations 0 – Deferred taxes for the year –37 3 Deferred taxes charged in other comprehensive income 19 – Translation differences –14 – Closing balance April 30, 2019 –184 3 The Group has tax loss carry forwards of approximately SEK 349 M (300) for which deferred tax assets have not been recognized. These tax loss carry forwards have long or indefinite periods of utilization and are subject to regular assessment of whether it is probable that deductions can be made against future profits. TAX RELATING TO COMPONENTS OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Group Parent Company SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Revaluation of defined benefit pension plans 0 5 – – Revaluation of cash-flow hedges 19 2 – – Total 19 7 – – Note 17 Intangible assets Accounting principles Customer relations and other intangible assets Intangible assets also include technology, brands, customer relations, Intangible assets contain goodwill, capitalized development costs, customer ­etcetera. In conjunction with the acquisition of such assets, the acquisition contracts, customer relationships and other intangible assets. Other intanvalues are reported as assets, which are amortized on a straight line basis gible assets mainly consist of acquired technology. Amortization of intangiover the estimated useful life. Surplus value in acquired order backlog is also ble assets is reported in the income statement and allocated to functions as reported as other intangible assets. applicable. There are no intangible assets related to manufacturing processes or the like, therefore no amortization is allocated to cost of goods sold. AMORTIZATION PERIODS: Technology 5–11 years Goodwill Brands 6–10 years Goodwill comprises the positive amount by which the sum of (i) the cost of Customer relations 10–20 years shares in subsidiaries, (ii) the value of non-controlling interest and (iii) the fair Order backlog 0.5–1 year value of previously held equity interest exceeds the fair value of the Group’s share of acquired identifiable net assets at acquisition. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is tested for impairment on Impairment an annual basis, or more frequently if indicated. See also ­section Impairment. The carrying amount of a depreciated asset is tested for impairment whenever there are indications that the carrying amount might not be recoverResearch and development able. If there are indications of impairment, the asset’s recoverable amount Research costs are expensed as they are incurred. In those instances in is calculated. The recoverable amount consists of the higher of the value in which it is difficult to distinguish between the research phase and the develuse of the asset in operations and the value that would be received if the opment phase in a project, the entire project is considered as research asset was sold to a third party, the net realizable value. Value in use consists and is expensed as incurred. Identifiable costs for the development of new of all incoming and outgoing payments attributable to the asset during the products are capitalized to the extent that these are considered to provide period it is expected to be used in operations, plus the net realizable value future economic benefits. In other instances, development expenditures at the end of the useful life. If the calculated recoverable amount is less are expensed as they are incurred. Costs for development once reported in than the carrying amount, impairment is made to the asset’s recoverable the income statement are never capitalized in future periods. Capitalized amount. An impairment loss recognized in previous periods is reversed if expenditures are amortized on a straight-line basis from the time when the the reasons for the impairment no longer exist. However, a reversal will not asset is available for use, which normally occurs when it is produced combe higher than the carrying amount would have been if an impairment loss mercially, and during the estimated useful life of the asset. The amortizahad not been recognized in previous periods. tion period is 3–5 years. 100 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES Goodwill is subject to annual impairment testing even if there are no indiwith impairment testing of goodwill the carrying amount is compared with cations of impairment. The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to cash the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is determined by the higher generating units. When testing for impairment of goodwill, the assets are of an asset’s net realizable value and its value in use. Normally, it is not possigrouped in cash-generating units and assessments are made on the basis ble to determine the net realizable value. Therefore, the value in use is normally of these units’ future cash flows. Impairment losses on goodwill are not the value being compared with the carrying amount. Thus, each cash genreversed. erating unit’s value in use is calculated in assessing any impairment of goodAll impairment losses, and any reversals of the same, are recognized in will. Calculations are performed through discounting future estimated cash the income statement. flows. In order to perform the calculations a number of assumptions concerning future circumstances and estimates of parameters are made, for example Estimates and assessment growth and discount rate. Any adjustments of the assumptions made could have an effect on the carrying amount of the goodwill. Assuming a lower For the Group, the most significant estimates and assumptions are those growth rate would lead to a lower recoverable amount. A higher discount relating to impairment testing of goodwill. This means that the effect on the rate would also lead to a lower recoverable amount. Goodwill amounted to financial reports may be considerable if the estimates and assessments made SEK 5,914 M (5,607). would prove to deviate significantly from the actual outcome. In connection INTANGIBLE ASSETS Group Parent Company Capitalized Other Other ­development Customer intangible Total intangible Total Parent SEK M Goodwill costs ­relationships assets Group assets Company Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2018 5,610 4,389 1,638 1,045 12,682 91 91 Reclassifications – 8 – – 8 – – Business combinations 82 – – – 82 – – Purchases/Capitalization – 456 – 2 458 – – Divestments/Disposals 0 –9 – –31 –40 – – Translation differences 213 258 39 47 557 – – Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2019 5,905 5,103 1,677 1,063 13,748 91 91 Accumulated amortization May 1, 2018 –3 –2,089 –623 –792 –3,507 –24 –24 Reclassifications – 0 – – 0 – – Divestments/Disposals – 0 – 31 31 – – Amortization for the year – –664 –94 –24 –781 –7 –7 Translation differences 12 –132 –24 –44 –189 – – Accumulated amortization April 30, 2019 9 –2,886 –741 –829 –4,447 –31 –31 Carrying amount April 30, 2019 5,914 2,217 936 233 9,301 60 60 Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2017 5,389 3,726 1,530 1,006 11,651 91 91 Reclassifications –13 0 13 0 – – – Purchases/Capitalization – 637 – 5 642 – – Divestments/Disposals – –47 – – –47 – – Translation differences 234 73 95 34 436 – – Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2018 5,610 4,389 1,638 1,045 12,682 91 91 Accumulated amortization May 1, 2017 –1 –1,696 –502 –748 –2,947 –16 –16 Reclassifications – 0 – 0 – – – Divestments/Disposals – 47 – – 47 – – Amortization for the year – –408 –92 –24 –524 –8 –8 Translation differences –2 –32 –29 –20 –83 – – Accumulated amortization April 30, 2018 –3 –2,089 –623 –792 –3,507 –24 –24 Carrying amount April 30, 2018 5,607 2,300 1,015 253 9,175 68 68 Other intangible assets mainly relates to technology acquired through The carrying amount equals capital employed and the recoverable amount business combinations. Capitalized development costs comprise capitalfor each cash-generating unit is determined based on a calculation of value ized expenditure for research and development as well as other capitalized in use for each unit. The allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units development costs such as software. Total capitalized development costs ­(operating segments) is shown in the following table. amounted to SEK 456 M (637) for the year whereof capitalization of development costs within R&D represented SEK 453 M (637). GOODWILL BY SEGMENT SEK M April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Impairment testing North and South America 2,083 1,918 Europe, Middle East and Africa 2,041 1,972 Goodwill is tested for impairment every year in order to assure that the Asia Pacific 1,789 1,716 ­carrying amount of each of the Group’s cash-generating units is not higher Total 5,914 5,607 than its recoverable amount. The Group’s cash-generating units equal the geographic regions, which also constitute the Group’s operating segments. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 101 NOTES Note 17 Intangible assets, cont. The value in use for each unit is derived from discounted cash flows, based on try growth. The cash flows have been discounted using a pre-tax interest rate estimated future cash flows. The estimates are based on the financial budof 8 percent (8). The interest rate corresponds to the Group’s current weighted get for the next fiscal year as determined by the executive management, and cost of capital (WACC) and is based on current market assessments. expected future development up to five years. Assumptions regarding sales Impairment testing is performed in April/May every year, after the budvolume, sales prices, operating expenses and product mix form the basis for get and business plans have been determined by the executive manageestimated future growth and margin development. Volume assumptions are ment. The 2019 (2018) test showed that there is no impairment. based on historical outcome, the executive management’s expectations on Sensitivity analyses have been carried out with regard to the discount market development, and expected global market growth. Price assumptions rate (risk) and long-term growth with a general reduction in the growth rate are based on current market trends and inflation forecasts. Margin developafter five years of 2 percentage points (2) (implying an assumption of zero ment is based on current margin levels and product mix adjusted for expected growth) and a general increase in the weighted capital cost of 2 percentage price changes and possible changes in the product mix. For periods after five points (2). The sensitivity analyses did not demonstrate any impairment. years, the extrapolation of expected cash flows has been assumed to be a pruIn addition to the annual impairment test, goodwill is tested whenever dent 2 percent (2), which is considerably lower than the anticipated industhere are indications of impairment. Note 18 Tangible fixed assets Accounting principles 3 and 5 years. Installations and improvements on third party property are depreciated over the period of the lease agreement. Tangible assets acquired by Group companies are reported at cost, less The residual value of assets and their useful economic lives are reviewed accumulated depreciation and any write-downs. Assets in acquired com­ annually and adjusted as required, see Note 17 for impairment principles. panies are reported at fair value on the acquisition date after deducSee Note 9 for operating lease. tion of subsequent accumulated depreciation. Machinery and equipment is ­depreciated on a straight-line basis during its economic life of between TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Machinery Equipment, etc for tools and Finance lease SEK M ­production ­installations equipment Buildings Total Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2018 288 1,559 10 224 2,081 Reclassifications –2 –21 0 –1 –24 Purchases 36 154 3 9 201 Divestments/Disposals –6 –73 –2 –3 –83 Translation differences 6 67 0 5 78 Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2019 323 1,687 11 233 2,254 Accumulated depreciation May 1, 2018 –195 –919 –6 –67 –1,186 Reclassifications 0 15 – – 16 Divestments/Disposals 5 71 2 3 80 Depreciation for the year –23 –125 –1 –12 –162 Translation differences –4 –40 0 –2 –46 Accumulated depreciation April 30, 2019 –216 –998 –6 –78 –1,298 Carrying amount April 30, 2019 107 689 5 156 957 Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2017 270 1,372 5 205 1,852 Reclassifications 1 –2 5 –4 0 Purchases 19 192 1 7 219 Divestments/Disposals –11 –52 –1 – –64 Translation differences 9 49 0 16 74 Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2018 288 1,559 10 224 2,081 Accumulated depreciation May 1, 2017 –174 –826 –5 –53 –1,057 Reclassifications 0 –2 –1 3 0 Divestments/Disposals 6 51 1 – 58 Depreciation for the year –21 –117 –1 –12 –151 Translation differences –6 –25 0 –5 –36 Accumulated depreciation April 30, 2018 –195 –919 –6 –67 –1,186 Carrying amount April 30, 2018 93 640 4 157 895 102 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS BY COUNTRY SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Sweden 66 62 United Kingdom 463 429 China 150 132 Netherlands 105 93 USA 99 102 Other countries 74 77 Total 957 895 Note 19 Shares in subsidiaries Parent Company SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Opening balance May 1 2,239 2,222 Adjusted purchase price – –35 Divestments –44 – Shareholder contributions 244 52 Closing balance April 30 2,439 2,239 No. of Interest, Carrying amount, Company Corp. id. no. Domicile shares % SEK M Elekta Instrument AB 556492-0949 Stockholm, Sweden 1,000,000 100.0 50 Leksell Institute AB 556942-6314 Stockholm, Sweden 50,000 100.0 0 Elekta Solutions AB 559157-5286 Stockholm, Sweden 50,000 100.0 200 Elekta KK 65 820 Tokyo, Japan 2,000 100.0 36 Elekta Holding Limited 2699176 Crawley, England 22,810,695 100.0 494 Elekta Holdings US Inc. 58-1876545 Norcross, USA 6,020 100.0 432 Elekta Ltd. R889657862 Montreal, Canada 1 100.0 229 Elekta Asia Ltd 502 493 Hong Kong, S.A.R. 81,022,160 100.0 13 Elekta Instrument (Shanghai) Ltd 310115764250077 Shanghai, China 1 100.0 49 Elekta BMEI (Beijing) Medical Equipment Co., Ltd 91110114400615135X Beijing, China 0 100.0 230 Elekta China Investment Co., Ltd 91310115MA1K47TB2R Shanghai, China 1 100.0 44 Elekta Pty Limited ACN 109 006 966 Sydney, Australia 1 100.0 1 Elekta Medical System India Private Limited U33112DL2005PTC139794 New Delhi, India 10,000 100.0 31 Elekta SA B 414 404 913 Paris, France 2,493 100.0 4 Elekta Medical SA A-818 867 31 Madrid, Spain 10,000 100.0 3 Elekta GmbH HRB 63500 Hamburg, Germany 0 100.0 0 Medical Intelligence Medizintechnik GmbH HRB 14835 Schwabmünchen, Germany 0 100.0 226 Elekta GmbH FN 166018w Innsbruck, Austria 1 100.0 3 Elekta Hellas EPE 998 569 196 Athens, Greece 0 100.0 0 Elekta S.A./N.V. HRB 613 484 Zaventem, Belgium 250 100.0 1 Elekta BV 17 097 384 Best, The Netherlands 40 100.0 0 Elekta S.p.A. 02723670960 Agrate Brianza (MI), Italy 500,000 100.0 66 Elekta Medical Systems Comercio e Servicos para Radiologia, Radiocirurgia e Radioterapia LTDA. CNPJ 09.528.196/0001-66 Sao Paolo, Brazil 0 100.0 73 Elekta (Pty) Ltd 2000/018814/07 Pretoria, South Africa 1 100.0 0 Elekta Pte Ltd 20090927AZ Singapore, Singapore 10,000 100.0 0 Elekta Limited, South Korea 1311111-0259 Seongnam-si, South Korea 473,879 100.0 15 Elekta Services S.R.O 292 80 095 Brno, Czech Republic 0 100.0 0 Elekta Medikal Sistemler Ticaret A.S. 196757 Istanbul, Turkey 87,900,000 100.0 87 Elekta Medical SA de CV EME140919G49 Mexico City, Mexico 50 100.0 25 Elekta sp.Z.O.O KRS 0000538192 Warsaw, Poland 2,000 100.0 104 Elekta Company Limited 106810452 Hanoi, Vietnam 1 100.0 2 Elekta Business Services sp.Z.O.O KRS 000567549 Warsaw, Poland 1 100.0 1 Elekta SARL Algeria 16236978051 Dely Ibrahim, Algeria 0 49.0 0 Elekta LLC 7704369566 Moscow, Russian federation 0 100.0 4 RRTS Unipessoal Lda 514185155 Lisbon, Portugal 0 100.0 13 Total 2,439 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 103 NOTES Note 20 Shares in associates Accounting principles method. Holdings in associates are initially recognized at cost in the con­ solidated balance sheet. The carrying amount is adjusted for the share of Associates are companies which are not subsidiaries but in which the Group associates’ earnings after the acquisition date. Dividends from associates has a significant, but not controlling, interest. This normally means com­ are reported as a reduction of the carrying amount. Income from partici­ panies in which the holding represents more than 20 percent but less than pations in associates is a separate line in the income statement. 50 percent of the voting rights. Associates are reported by use of the equity SHARES IN ASSOCIATES Group Parent Company SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Opening balance May 1 42 22 – – Investments 6 17 6 – Participations in income of associates (Note 13) 8 7 – – Dividends etcetera –3 –4 – – Translation differences 4 –1 – – Closing balance April 30 57 42 6 – Note 21 Other financial assets Group Parent Company SEK M April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Participations in other companies 60 3 58 – Derivative financial instruments 0 0 – – Loan receivables 14 14 – – Contractual receivables 334 170 – – Other non-current receivables 43 32 23 14 Total 451 219 81 14 Note 22 Inventories Accounting principles Inventories are valued in accordance with the ’first in, first out’ principle and at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Internal profits arising from deliveries between Group companies are eliminated upon consolidation. INVENTORIES Group SEK M April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Components 299 227 Work in progress 76 48 Finished goods 2,259 2,285 Total 2,634 2,560 Impairment of inventories during the year amounted to SEK 88 M (67). In the income statement this is reported as cost of products sold. 104 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES Note 23 Accounts receivable and contract PROVISION FOR BAD DEBT ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE assets SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Opening balance May 1 –152 –121 Adjustment due to IFRS 9 –25 – Estimates and assessment Provisions –71 –53 Accounts receivable is one of the most significant items in the balance Reversals 1 2 sheet and is carried at nominal value net after provisions for bad debts. Realized loss 35 26 Accounts receivable amounted to SEK 3,455 M (3,402) including expected Reclassification from contract assets –10 – credit losses of SEK 229 M (152). See Note 2 for further information regardTranslation differences –6 –6 ing the credit risk in accounts receivable. See Note 3 for accounting prinClosing balance April 30 –229 –152 ciples. From 1 May 2018 Elekta applies the simplified approach for measuring expected credit losses for accounts receivables and contract assets, in PROVISION FOR BAD DEBT CONTRACT ASSETS accordance to IFRS 9. For all account receivables overdue more than 90 days SEK M 2018/19 and with a value of more than SEK 1 M an individual evaluation is made and Opening balance May 1 –10 when necessary a specific provision is applied. For all non-due and overAdjustment due to IFRS 9 –24 due receivables not covered by a specific provision a general provision is calProvisions 0 culated based on region and aging. The general provision is calculated as a Reversals 14 percentage of the receivable and the percentage used is based on historical loss experience, current conditions and forward-looking economic conReclassification to accounts receivable 10 ditions for each region. As of April 30, 2019, the general provision is SEK 77 M Translation differences 0 and the specific provision amounted to SEK 152 M. Final write off of a receivClosing balance April 30 –11 able is done when no further actions are taken to collect on the receivable and probability of collection is deemed to be zero, e.g. bankruptcy. The contract asset relates to unbilled work in progress and are considNote 24 Other current receivables ered to have the same risk characteristics as non-due accounts receivables. Group An individual evaluation is made for contract assets over 180 days and with SEK M April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 a value of more than SEK 5 M. Prepayments to suppliers 100 72 Contract assets amounted to SEK 1,401 M (1,160) including expected Other receivables 473 371 credit losses of SEK 11 M (10). Prepaid expenses 485 626 Total 1,059 1,068 CREDIT RISK ANALYSIS OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Parent Company 2019-04-30 2018-04-30 SEK M April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 SEK M Gross Reserv Total Gross Reserv Total Derivative financial instruments 61 109 Not due 1,902 –2 1,900 2,281 –1 2,280 Current tax assets 17 16 Overdue 1–30 days 474 –1 473 330 0 330 Other receivables 12 1 Overdue 31–60 days 216 –1 215 185 0 185 Prepaid expenses 12 11 Overdue 61–90 days 189 –4 185 166 –1 166 Total 102 137 Overdue > 90 days 901 –221 680 592 –151 441 Total accounts receivables, net 3,684 –229 3,455 3,555 –152 3,402 Note 25 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments CREDIT RISK ANALYSIS OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE MEASURED Group Parent Company AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPRENCIVE INCOME April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, SEK M Gross Provision Total SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Not due 38 0 38 Current investments Overdue 1–30 days 18 0 18 classified as cash Overdue 31–60 days 0 0 0 equivalent 1,716 2,707 1,716 2,707 Overdue 61–90 days – – – Short-term investments 45 83 45 83 Overdue > 90 days – – – Cash and bank 2,357 1,751 1,225 918 Total accounts receivables, net 56 0 56 Total 4,119 4,541 2,986 3,708 Available cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments amounted to SEK 4,111 M (4,533) which is cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments reduced by bank balances included in assets pledged. See Note 32. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 105 NOTES Note 26 Equity Number of shares in Elekta AB (publ) A-shares B-shares Total Share capital Number of shares May 1, 2017 14,980,769 368,587,640 383,568,409 191,784,205 Conversion of convertible loan – – – – Number of shares April 30, 2018 14,980,769 368,587,640 383,568,409 191,784,205 of which treasury shares – 1,541,368 1,541,368 Number of shares May 1, 2018 14,980,769 368,587,640 383,568,409 191,784,205 Conversion of convertible loan – – – – Number of shares April 30, 2019 14,980,769 368,587,640 383,568,409 191,784,205 of which treasury shares – 1,541,368 1,541,368 APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT A-shares are currently owned by Laurent Leksell via company. The dividend Amount to be paid to the shareholders SEK 687,648,674 paid out during the financial year amounted to a total sum of SEK 535 M, corAmount to be carried forward by the Parent Company SEK 1,862,765,627 responding to SEK 1.40 per share. At the AGM on 22 August, 2019, a dividend of SEK 1.80 per share for the year 2018/19 – a total sum of approximately Total non-restricted equity of the Parent Company SEK 2,550,414,301 SEK 688 M will be proposed. The average number of shares before and after All shares have a par value of SEK 0.50 and provide the holders with equal dilution during the year, rounded to the nearest thousand, was 382,027 thourights to the Company’s assets and earnings. All shares are entitled to divisand (382,027). The number of repurchased shares on April 30, 2019, totaled dends s­ ubsequently issued. One series A-share entitles the holder to 10 votes 1,541,368 B-shares (1,541,368). The share program awarded to employees and one series B-share to one vote. In accordance with section 12 of the artihave a potential dilution effect. Certain performance targets must be met cles of a­ ssociation, series A-shares are subject to right of first refusal. All series for dilution to occur and this was not the case at the closing date. For more information on the Elekta share, see pages 62–63. Note 27 Interest-bearing liabilities Group Parent Company SPECIFICATION BY CURRENCY April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, Liability amount SEK M SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, Bond loan 1,998 1,997 1,998 1,997 Currency 2019 2018 2019 2018 Liabilities to credit Swedish kronor, SEK M 2,500 2,000 2,498 1,997 institutions 2,555 3,344 2,555 3,328 US dollar, USD M 100 202 949 1,746 Liabilities to subsidiaries – _ 3,934 3,793 Euro, EUR M 0 50 0 525 Finance lease liabilities 6 3 – – British Pound, GBP M 90 90 1,106 1,072 Total 4,558 5,344 8,487 9,118 Polish Zloty, PLN M 2 1 5 3 Maturity term Brazilian real, BRL M 0 0 0 0 structure, ­external South African rand, loans ZAR M 1 – 1 – < 1 year 1,000 975 1,000 959 Total 4,558 5,344 > 1 year < 3 years 3,084 999 3,079 1,000 > 3 year < 5 years 475 2,937 475 2,941 FIXED INTEREST TERM INCLUDING EFFECTS OF DERIVATIVES > 5 years – 433 _ 433 Total 4,558 5,344 4,553 5,333 April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 < 1 year 1,000 975 > 1 year < 3 years 3,084 999 > 3 year < 5 years 475 2,937 > 5 years – 433 Total 4,558 5,344 106 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES Note 28 Provisions Accounting principles Estimates and assessment Provisions Provisions include uncertainties and entails various judgments. Provisions Provisions are reported when the Group has, or is considered to have, an for guarantees are based on historic statistics, while others, such as provi­obligation resulting from an event that has occurred and for which paysions for legal disputes and restructuring are based on management’s best ments are likely to meet the obligation. A further condition is that it is estimate of the expected outcome. A provision is only reported when an possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount to be paid. event has occurred for which economic responsibility is probable and when it is possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount to be paid. Total Pensions provisions amounted to SEK 376 M (344). Pensions are reported either as defined contribution plans or as defined benefit plans. Most of Elekta’s pension commitments are met through PROVISIONS ongoing payments to authorities or other independent organizations that Group Parent Company administer the pension plans. For these defined contribution pension plans, April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, a pension cost is reported on a continuous basis as the benefits are earned, SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 which normally coincides with the date on which the fees are paid. Restructuring reserve 3 19 0 0 Elekta has defined benefit pension plans for certain employees in a few Warranty provisions 102 83 – – countries. Independent actuaries calculate the magnitude of the obligaOther provisions 84 84 0 0 tions in each plan and revalue the obligations of the pension plans each Short-term year. The pension costs are estimated using the so-called projected unit provisions 188 186 0 0 credit method in a way that distributes the costs over the employee’s workProvision for pensions 149 127 – – ing life. These obligations are valued at the present value of the expected Other provisions 39 31 12 9 future payments. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in other compreLong-term provisions 188 158 12 9 hensive income in the period during which they arise. Warranty reserves Pension plans Estimated costs for product guarantees are charged against operating Elekta has defined benefit pension plans for certain employees in a few costs in conjunction with the income recognition of the products. The esticountries. Most common is however defined contribution plans. Total penmated costs are established using historic statistics, with known changes sion costs for the Group amounted to SEK 254 M (231) of which SEK 16 M (14) taken into account regarding product quality, repair costs etcetera. relate to defined contribution pension plans (see Note 7). PENSION COSTS, DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS Group SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Current service cost –14 –14 Interest expense –4 –3 Interest income 2 2 Actuarial gains (+) and losses (–) –1 –19 Total pension costs defined benefit plans –17 –33 whereof reported in: t he income statement –16 –14 other comprehensive income –1 –19 DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS Group SEK M April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Defined benefit obligation, funded plans 148 122 Fair value of plan assets –125 –99 Provision for pensions, funded plans 23 23 Defined benefit obligation, unfunded plans 126 104 Provision for pensions, unfunded plans 126 104 Pension provision for defined benefit plans, net 149 127 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 107 NOTES Note 28 Provisions, cont. MOVEMENT IN PROVISION FOR PENSIONS MAIN ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS (WEIGHTED AVERAGE) Group Group SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Opening balance: Discount rate 1.3% 1.5% Defined benefit obligation 226 181 Future salary increases 1.9% 1.8% Fair value of plan assets –99 –88 Provision for pensions May 1 127 93 Pension costs 17 33 Contributions/Repayments –5 3 Benefit payments –4 –2 Change in provision plan 10 –6 Translation differences 4 6 Closing balance: Defined benefit obligation 274 226 Fair value of plan assets –125 –99 Provision for pensions April 30 149 127 MOVEMENT IN PROVISIONS Group Parent Company Restructuring Warranty Other Other SEK M reserve ­provisions provisions provisions Opening balance May 1, 2017 117 69 68 64 Provisions 46 100 89 0 Reversals –13 –48 –34 –35 Provisions utilized during the year –130 –43 –10 –22 Translation differences –1 5 2 2 Closing balance April 30, 2018 19 83 115 9 Provisions – 151 31 3 Reversals – –74 –1 0 Provisions utilized during the year –17 –61 –23 0 Translation differences 1 3 0 – Closing balance April 30, 2019 3 102 122 12 In the consolidated accounts, other provisions mainly refer to project related provisions. In the Parent company, contingent considerations are reported as provisions and amount to SEK 0 M (0). 108 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES Note 29 Customer contract related Note 31 Other current liabilities balances and order backlog Parent Company Group SEK M April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Accounts payable 17 7 Contract assets Accrued expenses (see below) 54 69 Income not invoiced 1,411 1,170 Derivative financial instruments 15 13 Doubtful INI –11 –10 Other liabilities 9 5 Total 1,401 1,160 Total 95 94 Accrued expenses Contract liabilities Accrued vacation pay liability 4 4 Advances from customer 4,883 5,316 Accrued social costs 3 2 Prepaid service income 2,096 1,539 Accrued interest expenses 28 47 Other prepaid income 74 451 Other items 20 16 Total 7,053 7,306 Total 54 69 The increase in contract assets and decrease in contract liabilities was mostly due to country mix. Note 32 Assets pledged REVENUE RECOGNIZED IN THE PERIOD Group Group SEK M April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 Bank balances 8 8 Revenue recognized in the year relating Total 8 8 to the opening balance of the contract liability balance 4,685 5 550 Collateral pledged for contingent liabilities. Order backlog was SEK 32,003 M, compared to SEK 27,974 M on April 30, 2018. Order backlog is converted at closing exchange rates which resulted in Note 33 Contingent liabilities a positive translation difference of SEK 1,763 M. According to current delivery plans, current order backlog is expected to be recognized as follows: Group Parent Company approximately 35 percent in 2019/20, 25 percent in 2020/21 and 40 percent April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, thereafter. SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Guarantees 83 34 1,320 1,305 Note 30 Accrued expenses Total 83 34 1,320 1,305 Guarantees consist of mainly advance payment guarantees and perforGroup mance guarantees. Also parental guarantees and bid bonds are common. SEK M April 30, 2019 April 30, 2018 Reserve for additional project costs 536 539 Accrued commission costs 100 85 Accrued vacation pay liability 171 155 Accrued social costs 50 57 Accrued interest expenses 28 47 Other items 777 779 Total 1,661 1,662 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 109 NOTES Note 34 Cash flow statement Group Parent Company SEK M 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Interest net Interest income –65 –66 –191 –211 Interest expenses 156 163 173 163 Total 91 96 –18 –48 Other non-cash items Participations in profit/loss of associated companies, after tax –6 7 – 14 Write-down of loan 5 14 5 – Result from divestments/disposals of fixed assets –70 6 –48 – Cost of incentive programs 6 2 – – Group contribution – – –178 –315 Unrealized exchange rate effects etc 60 187 177 55 Other items 26 38 –7 1 Total 21 254 –51 –245 Business combinations Purchase price –75 – –44 – Contingent considerations –16 –45 – –22 Divestments 92 – 92 – Shareholder contributions – – – –52 Total 1 –45 48 –74 More information on business combinations is presented in Note 36. CHANGES IN NET LIABILITIES RELATED TO FINANCING ACTIVITIES Opening balance Cash flow Non-cash changes Closing balance Foreign exchange SEK M Other movements Bond loans 1,997 – 1 – 1,998 Short-term loans 0 – – – – Financial leases liabilities 3 – 2 1 6 Liabilities to credit institutes 3,344 –938 3 17 2,555 Total 5,344 –938 6 18 4,558 Note 35 Related party transactions off of University Health Network, Toronto. This follows an exclusive agreement between Elekta and Acumyn, signed in 2014, to commercialize its inteTransactions between Elekta AB and its subsidiaries are shown in Notes 12, grated Quality Management System, AQUA. The acquisition price consisted of 14 and 27. These transactions are eliminated upon consolidation. Sales to a fixed amount of SEK 68 M. According to the purchase price allocation goodassociated companies amounted to SEK 32 M (28), receivables from associwill amounted to SEK 82 M based on the full variable amounted the acquisiated companies amounted to SEK 43 M (25) and costs related to associated tion price. Elekta will be able to enhance its Quality Assurance capabilities and companies amounted to SEK 0 M (3). offering for its oncology treatment solutions. The acquired goodwill is not tax None of the board members or any of the senior executives has, or deductible. Transaction costs amounted to approximately SEK 2 M and were has had, any direct or indirect involvement in any business transactions reported as other operating expenses in the consolidated income statement. between themselves and Elekta. In addition to this, no other transactions At the time of acquisition equity amounted to SEK –14 M. with related parties have occurred. Remunerations and benefits to key perOn July 19, 2018, Elekta announced that it has sold its MEG business to sonnel in ­management positions are presented in Note 7. York Instruments, a subsidiary of Croton Healthcare, LLC. This divestment follows Elekta’s strategic decision to prioritize its treatment solutions and Note 36 Business combinations oncology informatics portfolio. The purchase price received amounted to SEK 92 M. Transaction costs amounted to approximately SEK 4 M. 2018/19 An amount of SEK 16 M (45) of contingent considerations related to acquisitions in previous years has been paid out. On April 9, 2019, Elekta announced the acquisition of a minority stake (20%) in the German Company, iRT Systems GmbH, in order to improve its qual2017/18 ity assurance (QA) offering to clinics and hospitals around the world. The acquisition price consisted of a fixed amount of approximately SEK 6 M. No business combinations were entered into during the year. An amount of Elekta announced on July 27, 2018, that it has acquired 100 percent of the SEK 45 M (24) of contingent considerations related to acquisitions in previCanadian quality assurance expert Acumyn, a stand-alone commercial spinous years has been paid out. 110 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES Note 37 Average number of employees Men Women Total 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 Parent Company 18 18 19 18 37 36 Subsidiaries: Sweden 153 147 82 74 235 221 USA 562 582 288 284 850 866 Great Britain 493 507 159 154 652 661 China 416 319 185 251 601 570 The Netherlands 172 170 38 41 210 211 Poland 63 48 96 87 159 135 Germany 111 118 32 32 143 150 Japan 99 77 23 25 122 102 India 97 89 7 7 104 96 Canada 63 58 22 15 85 73 Italy 56 55 15 16 71 71 France 53 52 15 14 68 66 Australia 43 39 12 10 55 49 Brazil 41 35 13 14 54 49 Spain 40 39 9 9 49 48 Hong Kong 33 31 14 15 47 46 Turkey 13 29 34 11 47 40 Mexico 29 27 4 4 33 31 South Korea 19 17 4 3 23 20 Singapore 17 12 6 4 23 16 Austria 15 15 6 6 21 21 Russia 15 12 5 3 20 15 South Africa 10 8 3 2 13 10 Belgium 11 11 1 2 12 13 Greece 9 9 3 3 12 12 Czech Republic 8 10 3 3 11 13 Portugal 8 9 3 3 11 12 New Zealand (branch) 7 5 2 2 9 7 Algeria 1 3 8 1 9 4 Vietnam 7 6 1 – 8 6 Switzerland (branch) 3 3 2 1 5 4 Finland – 25 – 7 – 32 Total average number of employees 2,684 2,582 1,114 1,120 3,798 3,702 Specification men/women among board of directors and executive management During the financial year, the board of directors of Elekta AB consisted of 56 percent (67) men. The executive management consisted of 85 percent (91) men. Note 38 Events after the reporting period In May, 2019, Elekta announced that its Elekta Unity has been approved for clinical use in Japan. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 111 NOTES Note 39 Effects from changed accounting standards Effects of new accounting standards occur at the time of transfer of control to the customer, which according to Elekta’s assessment is when the treatment solution is ready for installaIFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial instrution at the customer’s site. Prior to the implementation of IFRS 15, revenue ments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after Janurecognition for treatment solutions occurred when risks and rewards were ary 1, 2018 and Elekta will apply the new standards from May 1, 2018. For IFRS transferred to the customer, which is normally at the time of shipment. 15 Elekta has decided to apply the full retrospective method with restatement The financial impact reported in equity on transition will primarily depend of the prior year comparative period. IFRS 9 will be applied retrospectively and on the number of treatment solutions that are shipped but not yet being as permitted by the standard the comparative period will not be restated. The installed at the customer’s site at this point in time. Other less significant net balance effect from the transition to IFRS 15 will be reported in equity and financial effects from the transition relate to changes in the allocation of is estimated to SEK –987 M as per May 1, 2018 and SEK –1,212 M at the beginning the transaction price to various performance obligations. The effects from of the comparative year. The transition to IFRS 9 will affect the opening balthe implementation of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 are further described below. ance of fiscal year 2018/19 and the impact on equity is estimated to SEK –39 M. The following schedule presents the estimated transition effects on The one-time effect reported in equity from the implementation of the equity and other balance sheet items from the implementation of IFRS 15 standards is mainly relating to IFRS 15 and the timing for revenue recogniand IFRS 9. tion of treatment solutions. According to IFRS 15 revenue recognition should EFFECTS FROM IFRS 15 AND IFRS 9 ON CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Opening balance 2017/18 Closing balance 2017/18 Opening balance 2018/19 Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Restated Adj. Adjusted SEK M Apr 30, 2017 IFRS 15 Apr 30, 2017 Apr 30, 2018 IFRS 15 Apr 30, 2018 Apr 30, 2018 IFRS 9 May 1, 2018 Non-current assets Deferred tax assets 375 91 466 267 83 350 350 10 360 Other financial assets 285 – 285 219 – 219 219 0 219 Current assets Inventories 936 1,384 2,320 1,121 1,455 2,560 2,560 – 2,560 Accounts receivable 3,726 – 3,726 3,402 – 3,402 3,402 –25 3,377 Accrued income 1,640 –789 851 1,601 –441 1,160 1,160 –24 1,136 Other current receivables 802 134 936 846 222 1,068 1,068 0 1,068 Total assets 20,950 820 21,770 22,457 1,319 23,760 23,760 –39 23,721 Total equity 6,774 –1,212 5,562 7,975 –987 6,987 6,987 –39 6,948 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 778 –225 553 693 –182 511 511 – 511 Current liabilities Advances from customers 2,531 2,680 5,211 2,575 2,741 5,316 5,316 – 5,316 Prepaid income 1,874 1 1,875 2,053 –46 1,990 1,990 – 1,990 Accrued expenses 1,875 –398 1,477 1,854 –192 1,662 1,662 – 1,662 Short-term provisions 231 –26 205 201 –15 186 186 – 186 Total equity and liabilities 20,950 820 21,770 22,457 1,319 23,760 23,760 –39 23,721 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Allocation of the transaction price to performance obligations IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is a new revenue recogniA significant part of Elekta’s revenue is derived from bundled deals, in which tion standard replacing IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts. devices, software and service are included in the same contract. IFRS 15 IFRS 15 introduces a new core principle which requires the expected amount gives clear guidance on how to allocate the transaction price to identified of revenue to be recognized when control over goods and services is transdeliverables (performance obligations) in a bundled contract. According to ferred to the customer, instead of when risks and rewards are transferred the standard the allocation should be based on stand-alone selling prices which is the requirement under current standards. and any discount should be proportionally distributed amongst the various The new standard introduces a five-step model that should be applied performance obligations. A stand-alone-selling price is the price an entity to all contracts with customers in order to establish how and when to recogcharges for goods or services when the entity sells it separately in similar nize revenue: circumstances to similar customers. If goods or services are not sold sepa1. Identify contracts with customers. rately the stand-alone selling price must be estimated. As part of the implementation of IFRS 15 a reassessment has been made of stand-alone sell2. Identify the separate performance obligations. ing prices and the allocation of discounts to the components included in 3. Determine the transaction price of the contract. bundled contracts. The effects vary between contracts and markets but 4.Allocate the transaction price to each of the separate performance the general impact is that under IFRS 15 more revenue will be allocated to obligations. devices and software and less revenue will be allocated to service compared 5. Recognize the revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied. with the previous allocation model. The reallocation of revenue will result in some revenue being recognized earlier as the point in time for revenue recAn important amount of judgments is required when applying these steps ognition of equipment and software occurs before recognizing revenue to a contract in order to define performance obligations, transaction price, relating to the service component. The new allocation model will only affect revenue allocation and timing of revenue recognition. revenues included in bundled deals as stand-alone sales are not affected by the revenue allocation model. 112 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 NOTES Timing for revenue recognition of treatment solutions The financial impact reported in equity on transition relates primarily to Under IFRS 15 revenue recognition should occur at the time of transfer of devices that have been shipped but are not yet ready for installation at the control to the customer. The assessment of control transfer should concustomer’s site at the transition date. sider indicators such as transfer of risk and rewards, rights to payment, cusFor software sales, control is considered to be transferred when the tomer acceptance, physical possession and transfer of legal title. For the licenses are made available to the customer which is usually at the accepsale of devices in a standard bundled deal, Elekta considers the transfer of tance of the software. For a large part of the software licenses this is in control to occur when the device is ready for installation at the customline with revenue recognition under the previous standard. However, cerer’s site. At this point in time the risk and rewards are usually transferred, tain software licenses that were considered being part of the devices under Elekta has the right to payment and the customer has gained physical posthe previous standard are considered to be separate performance obligasession of the device. Contractual terms may vary and therefore judgement tions under IFRS 15, and as a result the timing of the revenue recognition has must be applied when assessing the indicators of transfer of control. Under changed under IFRS 15 to be aligned with revenue recognition for other softthe previous standard revenue was recognized when risks and rewards were ware licenses. transferred to the customer, which is usually at the time of shipment under Based on the assessment performed, Elekta has identified the areas a standard contract. The impact of the transition to IFRS 15 is that revenue where the new standard requires changes to accounting policies, internal recognition for devices included in a standard bundled deal is postponed. processes, procedures, systems and controls. Changes have been implemented from May 1, 2018 in order to comply with the new standard. EFFECTS FROM IFRS 15 RESTATEMENT ON CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT AND STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Q1 2017/18 Q2 2017/18 Q3 2017/18 Q4 2017/18 May–Apr 2017/18 SEK M Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Net sales 2,169 335 2,504 2,802 101 2,903 2,747 9 2,756 3,614 –205 3,409 11,333 240 11,573 Cost of products sold –1,250 -92 –1,342 –1,620 –25 –1,645 -1,595 34 –1,561 -2,120 150 –1,970 –6,584 67 –6,517 Gross income 919 243 1,162 1,183 76 1,259 1,153 43 1,196 1,494 –55 1,439 4,748 307 5,055 Operating result 38 243 281 365 76 441 366 43 409 769 –55 714 1,538 307 1,845 Operating margin 2% – 11% 13% – 15% 13% – 15% 21% – 21% 14% – 16% Income taxes 0 –44 –44 –84 –18 –102 –25 –9 –34 –166 13 –153 –276 –57 –333 Net income –1 199 198 247 58 305 308 34 342 544 –42 502 1,099 249 1,348 Total comprehensive income for the period –265 199 –66 409 58 467 312 34 346 1,124 –42 1,082 1,581 249 1,830 Earnings per share before/ after dilution, SEK 0.00 0.52 0.52 0.65 0.15 0.80 0.81 0.09 0.90 1.42 –0.11 1.31 2.88 0.65 3.53 Adjusted EBITA 187 243 430 509 76 585 502 43 545 918 –55 863 2,116 307 2,423 Adjusted EBITA margin 9% – 17% 18% – 20% 18% – 20% 25% – 25% 19% – 21% EFFECTS FROM IFRS 15 RESTATEMENT ON CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Q1 2017/18 Q2 2017/18 Q3 2017/18 Q4 2017/18 SEK M Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Non-current assets Deferred tax assets 290 124 414 310 131 441 260 98 358 267 83 350 Current assets Inventories 1,076 1,164 2,240 1,102 1,253 2,355 1,243 1,265 2,508 1,121 1,439 2,560 Accounts receivable 3,032 – 3,032 3,120 – 3,120 3,505 – 3,505 3,402 – 3,402 Accrued income 1,467 –570 897 1,545 –533 1,012 1,177 –408 769 1,601 –441 1,160 Other current receivables 878 148 1,026 917 155 1,072 926 184 1,110 846 222 1,068 Total assets 19,659 866 20,525 20,152 1,006 21,158 20,617 1,139 21,756 22,457 1,303 23,760 Total equity 6,511 –956 5,555 6,734 –919 5,815 7,040 –886 6,154 7,975 –987 6,987 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 668 –134 534 669 –115 554 593 –138 455 693 –182 511 Current liabilities Advances from customers 2,537 2,324 4,861 2,440 2,280 4,720 2,643 2,382 5,025 2,575 2,741 5,316 Prepaid income 1,704 –50 1,654 1,764 10 1,774 1,830 –7 1,823 2,053 –63 1,990 Accrued expenses 1,611 –297 1,314 1,742 –232 1,510 1,688 –197 1,491 1,854 –192 1,662 Short-term provisions 196 –21 175 172 –18 154 140 –15 125 201 –15 186 Total equity and liabilities 19,659 866 20,525 20,152 1,006 21,158 20,617 1,139 21,756 22,457 1,303 23,760 IFRS 9 Financial instruments of bad debt losses as the new standard requires a provision for expected IFRS 9 is a new standard on accounting for financial instruments which losses to be made for all financial receivables, including those that are not replaces IAS 39 Financial instruments. The standard comprises classificayet due. With the new model the provision for bad debt and bad debt losses tion, measurement and impairment of financial instruments as well as will increase or decrease based on the outstanding value of financial assets hedge accounting. The financial effects from the transition to IFRS 9 for as an expected loss will be calculated for all outstanding amounts based Elekta are limited and relate to the introduction of an expected credit loss on historical experiences and expectations about the future. The financial model for impairment of financial assets to replace the previously used effect from the application of the new model for calculation of bad debt incurred loss model. The new model mainly has an effect on the calculation Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 113 NOTES Note 39 Effects from changed accounting standards, cont. losses mainly affects the value of trade receivables and accrued project •• Operating leases with a remaining lease term of less than 12 months as at income and is presented in the schedule on page 110. May 1, 2019, will be accounted for as short-term leases. Short-term leases IFRS 9 also introduces a new model for classification and related meaand operating leases of low-value will not be recognized on the balance surement of financial instruments. Elekta has reviewed all financial instrusheet at transition date. ments in order to classify these according to the new standard and the fol•• Initial direct costs will be excluded from the measurement of the right-tolowing main categories have been identified: use asset at the date of initial recognition. Excess liquidity investments such as money market funds and tradeable •• Hindsight will be used in determining the lease term for contracts consecurities are held in a portfolio managed on a fair value basis and will be taining options to extend or terminate the lease. classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Trade receivables within the group are in general held with the objecUnder the new standard the present value of lease obligations will be meative to collect contractual cash flows and therefore fulfill the requirements sured and reported as a non-current asset and interest-bearing liability in for being classified into the hold to collect business model with valuation at the Balance Sheet. The asset is adjusted with prepaid rents and received amortized cost. In some countries Elekta holds trade receivables that may incentives. The incentives are currently reported as liabilities in the Balance be sold and are managed within a business model with the objective to realSheet and are accrued over the lease period. In the Income Statement, lease ize cash flows through both collection of contractual cash flows and selling payments currently reported as an operating expense within operating of the asset. These trade receivables are valued at fair value through other result will be replaced with depreciation and interest expenses. This change comprehensive income. The reclassification of assets does not result in any means that total assets and operating profit will increase, which will affect material changes in valuation of assets at the transition date. various key indicators. The cash flow from operations will increase related Hedge accounting will be applied in accordance with IFRS 9 and Elekta to the amortization of the lease liability, the amortization will instead be has confirmed that existing hedging relationships will qualify for hedge shown in the cash flow from financing activities. accounting under the new standard. In general, IFRS 9, more closely than the previous standard, aligns the hedge accounting rules to the risk manPRELIMINARY EFFECTS FROM IFRS 16 ON CONSOLIDATED BALANCE agement objectives of a company. Elekta applies hedge accounting for the SHEET hedging of foreign currency risks and from time to time also for hedging interest rate risks. The application of hedge accounting according to IFRS 9 Reported Adj. Adjusted SEK M Apr 30, 2019 IFRS 16 May 1, 2019 will not result in any financial effects at the transition date. Right-of-use asset 0 1,180 1,180 Other assets 24,064 –20 24,044 Effects of future accounting standards Total assets 24,064 1,160 25,224 IFRS16 is a new standard on accounting for leases which replaces IAS 17 and the associated interpretation statements IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The Total equity 7,779 0 7,779 new standard will affect the accounting for leases in the books of a lessee, whereas the accounting will in all material aspects remain unchanged for Long term lease liability 0 1,020 1,020 lessors. For Elekta, the major effect from implementing the new standard Short term lease liability 0 200 200 relate to operating leases for premises. IFRS 16 is effective for annual reportOther liabilities 16,285 –60 16,225 ing periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and Elekta will apply the Total equity and liabilities 24,064 1,160 25,224 new standard from 1 May 2019. The standard requires all lease arrangement to be recognized in the balAccording to the current standards, IAS 17, there is distinction between ance sheet with a few exceptions for short-time leases and low-value leases. operating and finance lease arrangement, where operating leases is not This recognition is based on the view that the lessee has a right to use an recognized in the Balance Sheet. The value of undiscounted future lease asset for a specific period of time and a simultaneous obligation to pay for fees is disclosed in note 9, amounted to SEK 1,459 M. The preliminary lease that right. liability to be recognized in the Balance Sheet 1 May 2019 amounts to Elekta has decided to apply IFRS 16 with the modified retrospective SEK 1,220 M. The difference is mainly related to the discounting effect of approach and as permitted by the standard the comparative period will not the liability as the liability is calculated as the net present value for the be restated, instead an adjustment on the opening balance will show the future payments, while the amount disclosed in note 9 is not discounted cumulative effect. The lease liabilities will be measured at the present value in accordance to IAS 17. Increases of the payments due to index and extenof the remaining lease payments, discounted using the incremental borrowsionand terminate options included in the lease liability does also explain ing rate at transition date. Right-of-use assets will be recognized based on the difference, together with the exclusion of lease payments related to the amount equal to the related lease liability. low-value assets and short-term leases from the Balance Sheet. Those payIFRS 16 permit to use some practical expedients. Elekta will apply the folments are expensed on straight-line basis in the income statement. lowing practical expedients when applying IFRS 16 at transition date: 114 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 BOARD OF DIRECTOR’S SIGNATURES The board of directors and the President and CEO certify that the annual ing standards, and give a true and fair view of the position and profit or financial report has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted loss of the Parent Company and the Group, and that the management accounting p ­ rinciples and that the consolidated accounts have been prereport gives a fair review of the development and ­performance of the busipared in accordance with the international set of accounting standards ness, position and profit or loss of the Parent Company and the Group, and referred to in R ­ egulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and describes the ­principal risks and uncertainties that the ­Parent Company and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accountthe companies in the Group face. Stockholm July 8, 2019 Laurent Leksell Annika Espander Jansson Cecilia Wikström Chairman of the board Member of the board Member of the board Caroline Leksell Cooke Wolfgang Reim Johan Malmquist Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Birgitta Stymne Göransson Jan Secher Tomas Puusepp Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Richard Hausmann CEO and President Our audit report was submitted on July 8, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Johan Engstam Authorized Public Accountant Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 115 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report Unofficial translation. Elekta’s revenue recognition is dependent on the contract terms stipulatTo the general meeting of the shareholders of Elekta AB (publ), ing the point in time at which the control are transferred to the client and on corporate identity number 556170-4015 their payment capacity, and the terms often imply that invoicing and payment take place at a point in time differing from the point in time at which Report on the annual accounts and the related revenue recognition takes place. Sales in new markets can imply consolidated accounts new clients or contractual terms impacting the point in time at which a sale can be reported. Client agreements can also contain a combination of Opinions machine, services and software which can be complicated to report. The We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Elekta installations are also determined according to when the clients want to AB (publ) for the financial year 1 May 2018 to 30 April 2019. The annual have the products installed and a major portion of the sales takes place at accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages the end of Elekta’s fourth quarter, and a delay in reporting into the follow67–115 in this document. ing financial year can have a major impact on the accounts. Overall, this In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance implies that the reporting of sales and accounts receivables is dependent with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, on management’s assessments of the clients’ payment capacity and on the the financial position of parent company as of 30 April 2019 and its finanstipulations of the contract terms. cial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all mateIn particular, we considered where management made subjective judgerial respects, the financial position of the group as of 30 April 2019 and their ments; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance involved making assumptions and considering future events that are in­­ with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the herently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is management override of internal controls, including among other matters consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk accounts. of material misstatement due to fraud. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and the group. as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has The year’s audit of the consolidated accounts included, in addition to been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance the Parent Company, the subsidiaries in Sweden, England, US, The Netherwith the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. lands, Germany, China including Hong Kong, Italy and Japan. The audit is executed via an ongoing basis throughout the year for these subsidiaries, Basis for Opinions and a number of companies report in conjunction with the second quarWe conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on ter, and the audit of the annual book closing was at 30 April 2019. These subAuditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our sidiaries represent nearly 80% of Elekta’s total net sales. It should also be responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s noted that the majority of the companies within Elekta are subject to statResponsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and utory audits. the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance Materiality with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowlThe scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. edge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggreWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and gate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic deciappropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. sions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitaOur audit approach tive thresholds for materiality, including the overall group materiality for the Overview consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. • Overall materiality level: SEK 80 million, which is These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the equivalent to 5% of income before taxes. scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit proceMateriality • Revenue from the sale of machines and contracts dures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in containing both machines, software and services is aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. to be reported in the correct amounts and in the correct period Group materiality level SEK 80 million (70 million) Scope How we determined it 5 % of income before taxes • Valuation of accounts receivable and accrued income Rationale for We chose income before tax as the benchmark as we Audit scope of the materiality believe that this is the value most often applied by benchmark applied users in comparing group results and as it is a generKey The Elekta Group undertakes the sale of machines for Audit ally accepted benchmark. The level of 5% is used in Matters radiation therapy and related software, as well as of auditing standards as an applicable quantitative maintenance and support services. The operations are materiality threshold. undertaken in subsidiaries located all over the globe, whereby the largest markets are in the US and China. 116 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 AUDITOR’S REPORT KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Revenue from the sale of machines and contracts containing machines, software and services is to be reported in the correct amounts and in the correct period. Elekta’s reported revenue and income refers to the sale of machines, software and In performing our audit, we have evaluated Elekta’s processes and controls services. A significant portion of revenue refers to the sale of machines. The regarding revenue recognition in order to obtain an understanding of how reporting of these amounts is dependent on management’s assessments of conthese function and where any possible errors might arise. Our evaluation has tract conditions in terms of when the control is transferred to the purchaser. focused on the approval of new client agreements, the model for the allocaMany of Elekta’s products and services are sold on a stand-alone basis but are tion of revenue in the various parts of the agreements and on the controls in often included in bundle deals, which are arrangements where equipment, softorder to ensure that the sales are reported in the correct periods. This mapping ware and services may be included in the same contract. These goods and serhas been done in order to ensure that we focus our substantive procedures vices (performance obligations) occur at different stages and the transaction appropriately. After our evaluation, we tested selected key controls and exeprice is allocated between these different obligations under IFRS 15. cuted substantive procedures including, amongst other things: The allocation of the transaction price, including any discount, to the various • Testing of controls related to in revenue recognition. performance obligations in a contract is performed based on the estimated • Analysis of revenue reported during the year compared with expected revestand-alone selling prices for the goods and services identified as performance nue and revenue reported last year. obligations. The revenue for the performance obligations is subsequently recog• Examination of a selection of new, major contracts and sales against connized as each obligation is satisfied. Machines are installed in accordance to the tract terms and Elekta’s guidelines to assess the revenue recognition. contractually agreed upon installation date determined together with the client and it is usual that the revenue referring to the machine is recognized at this point • On a random sample basis, testing against proof of installation start to in time. The portion of the revenue relating to software and is reported after the ensure that revenue was reported in the correct periods and in the correct technical approval has been received from the client. Invoicing occurs at fixed amounts. points according to what has been agreed with the client. Normally invoicing • Evaluation of Elekta’s accounting principles and the note disclosures regardoccurs: upon signing of the agreement, after delivery to customer, and upon ing revenue recognition. acceptance by the customer. This implies that the point in time of revenue recognition is usually not the same as the point in time of invoicing to and payment The result of these audit procedures resulted in no material observation. from the client. As a result of this inherent complexity in revenue recognition and the estimations and assessments made by company management, we have deemed that revenue from sales of systems comprises a key audit matter. For accounting principles and disclosures, refer to Note 6 and 39 in the Annual Report for 2018/19 Valuation of accounts receivable and accrued income Accounts receivable and accrued income are significant items in the balance In our audit, we evaluated Elekta’s processes and controls regarding overdue sheet and the valuation of these items is impacted by management’s assessaccounts receivables and accrued income in order to obtain an understanding as ments of clients’ payment capacity. to how they function and where any possible errors might arise. Our evaluation The payment terms vary between countries and clients. Credit periods vary has focused on the follow-up of older receivables and on management’s assessbetween the markets and clients. In certain markets, partial payments are ment of the clients’ payment capacity and on the valuation of the reported made based on events, such as order receipt, delivery and the client’s approval accounts receivables and accrued income. This evaluation has been done in of the installation. In other markets, full payment is made after the finalization order to ensure that we focus our substantive procedures appropriately. After of the installation or in conjunction with approval. Invoiced amounts are our mapping we executed substantive procedures including, amongst others: reported as accounts receivables while reported revenues which are yet to be • Analysis of older accounts receivables and accrued income, and of the invoiced are reported as accrued income. reported provision for doubtful debts, in order to be able to independently Sales in new markets imply new clients and the premises for securing these evaluate the value of the receivables. clients can imply a high risk of having clients with a weaker payment capacity • On a random sample basis, confirmation of outstanding accounts receivor willingness to pay. ables directly with the clients. We also examined a selection of receivables As a result of the major component of estimations and assessments against payments received after year-end. undertaken by company management, we have deemed that the valuation of • Evaluation of Elekta’s accounting principles and the Note disclosures preaccounts receivable and accrued income comprises a key audit matter in the sented regarding accounts receivables and accrued income. audit. For accounting principles and disclosures refer to Note 23 and 39 in the The result of these audit procedures resulted in no material observation. Annual Report for 2018/19. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misOther Information than the annual statements identified during our audit above SEK 10 million as well as misaccounts and consolidated accounts statements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for This document also contains other information than the annual accounts qualitative reasons. and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–46, 62–65 and 119–124. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this Key audit matters other information. Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurand consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were ance conclusion regarding this other information. addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and provide a separate opinion on these matters. consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 117 AUDITOR’S REPORT If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the Board of Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Directors and the Managing Director The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirethey give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act ments which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’ equity, conadopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are solidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board situation and ensuring that the company´s organization is designed so that of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directhe going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounttors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures ing is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Directhat are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with tor intend to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. alternative but to do so. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s Auditor’s responsibility responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the comOur objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our pany’s financial reporting process. opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Auditor’s responsibility Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual •• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misrise to liability to the company, or statement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report •• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a mateOur objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the rial misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken with the Companies Act. on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing accounts and consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the part of the auditor´s report. company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the adminisReport on other legal and regulatory requirements tration is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor’s report. Opinions PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Torsgatan 21, 113 97 STOCKHOLM, was In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, appointed auditor of Elekta AB (publ) by the general meeting of the sharewe have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the holders on the 30 August 2018 and has been the company’s auditor since Managing Director of Elekta AB (publ) for the financial year 1 May 2018 to 30 the 4 September 2012. April 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit Stockholm 8 July 2019 be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. Signature on original auditors’ report in Swedish1) Basis for Opinions Johan Engstam We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing Authorized Public Accountant standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of 1) This is a translation of the original auditors’ report in Swedish. In the event of any differences between the translation and the original statement in Swedish, the Swedish the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics version shall prevail for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 118 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 GLOSSARY Glossary Adaptive radiation therapy External-beam radiation therapy Intensity-modulated radiation therapy A treatment technique that aims to customize The most common type of radiation therapy, in (IMRT) each patient’s treatment plan to patient which the radiation source is produced by a linIMRT is an advanced type of treatment that uses specific variation by evaluating and characear accelerator and delivered by the radiation multiple very small beams of varying intensity terizing the systematic and random variations beam from the linear accelerator head rotated rather than a single, large, uniform beam. The through image feedback and including them in around the patient. By delivering the radiation radiation can therefore be tailored to the size adaptive planning. from various angles, the radiation dose is distriband shape of the tumor, allowing higher tumor uted more evenly in the tumor without excess doses while minimizing the impact on healthy Benign damage to surrounding healthy tissue. tissue. The term benign is used when describing tumors or growths that do not threaten the health of an Fraction Incidence individual. Benign is the opposite of malignant. Part of the total radiation dose, delivered at a Incidence is the number of new cancer daily treatment. cases arising in a given period in a specified Brachytherapy population. Is also known as internal radiation therapy, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) involves placing a radiation source in or near Is an agency of the US Department of Health Invasive the treatment area. This allows very high tumor and Human Services. The FDA is responsible for A treatment technique that penetrates the skin, doses to be achieved, while limiting the impact protecting and promoting public health through skull, etcetera. The opposite of non-invasive on surrounding organs. The method is typically the regulation and supervision of for example (bloodless). used to treat gynecological cancer and prostate medical devices. cancer, but also breast cancer and certain types LINC of skin cancer. Gamma Knife® radiosurgery Elekta’s two learning and innovation centers in Stereotactic radiosurgery with Leksell Gamma Atlanta, USA and in Beijing, China. The LINC:s Cancer Knife®. are state-of-the-art facilities that provide Elekta Uncontrolled, abnormal growth of cells. users and employees with an ideal environment Glioblastoma for learning. Chemotherapy The most common and most aggressive maligTreatment of cancer diseases with the aid of nant primary brain tumor. They are usually Linear accelerator (linac) chemicals that eliminate diseased cells. highly malignant as a large number of tumor Equipment for generating and directing ionizing cells are reproducing at any given time and radiation for treatment of cancer. Cone beam CT (CBCT) are supported by a large network of blood vesA CBCT system mounted to a linac or Gamma sels. Glioblastoma often infiltrate with normal Magnetoencephalograph (MEG) Knife creates images used for verifying or deterhealthy brain tissue. Equipment for real time mapping of the function mining the location of the patient in relation to in different parts of the brain, by measuring the the treatment beam(s). High dose radiation (HDR) magnetic field generated by brain cells activity. An amount of radiation that is greater than Computed tomography (CT) that given in typical radiation therapy. HighMagnetic resonance imaging (MRI) A radiological method of imaging anatomical dose radiation is precisely directed at the tumor Technology used to visualize and differentiate structures by means of layering, using computer to avoid damaging healthy tissue, and may kill organs and anatomical structures inside the technology. more cancer cells in fewer treatments. body. It uses non-ionizing radiation and is thus harmless to the patient. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) Hypofractionation A brain ‘pacemaker’ is implanted to stimuA treatment schedule in which the total dose of Malignant late brain activity and block signals that cause radiation is divided into large doses and treatRefers to cancerous cells that usually have unwanted symptoms present in functional neuments are given once a day or less often. the ability to aggressively spread, invade and rological disorders, for example tremor. destroy tissue. Opposite to benign. Image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) Electronic brachytherapy IGRT enables high precision targeting and accuMeningioma Type of brachytherapy that uses an X-ray tube to racy using high-resolution multi-dimensional A type of tumor that develops from the menininduce radiation. It can deliver radiation to the X-ray images of the patient’s tissue. ges, the membrane that surrounds the brain and tumor with a high degree of precision whilst minspinal cord. Meningiomas are the most comimizing damage to healthy surrounding tissue. Image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) mon type of primary brain tumors and are often Due to the source of radiation used, electronic with magnetic resonance imaging benign. brachytherapy can be performed in a room with (MRI) minimal shielding. This provides high-quality images of tissue and Metastases tumors while treatment is in progress, and also Secondary malignant tumors originating from enables adaptation of the radiation dose in realprimary cancer tumors in other parts of the time. The method is under development in the body. MR-linac consortium. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 119 GLOSSARY Multileaf collimator cers based on cases diagnosed within one, three Stereotaxy An accessory to the linear accelerator, workand five are presented as they are likely to be of A technique in which a fixed-coordinate system ing like an aperture. With a large number of indirelevance to the different stages of cancer thercan determine the location of a point by specividually adjustable metal leaves, the treatment apy, namely, initial treatment (one year), clinifying the coordinates in terms of height, depth beam can be shaped to the size and shape of the cal follow-up (three years) and cure (five years). and laterally. target volume. Patients who are still alive five years after diagnosis are usually considered cured since the Tesla (T) MR-linac death rates of such patients are similar to those MRI requires a magnetic field that is both strong See image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) with in the general population. and uniform. The field strength of the magnet is magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). measured in teslas (T). The majority of systems Radiation therapy operate at 1.5T, even though there are commerNeurology Fractionated ionizing radiation treatment of cial systems available between 0.2–7T. The study of the nervous system and its cancer. disorders. Treatment planning system Radiosurgery Treatment planning systems provide tools for Neurosurgery Non-invasive surgery in which a high, single dose multimodality image registration, organ and Surgery of the brain or other parts of the central of precise ionizing radiation replaces surgical tumor contouring, treatment simulation and nervous system. instruments. plan optimization. Monaco® is Elekta´s comprehensive treatment planning system that supOncology Stereotactic body radiation therapy ports all major treatment techniques. The study of tumor diseases. (SBRT) SBRT enables accurate delivery of radiation Tumor Oncology information system (OIS) to a tumor and minimizes the radiation dose An abnormal mass of tissue that results when All patient information is collected and accesto surrounding tissue. This enables that small cells divide more than they should or do not sible in an oncology information system, from and medium-sized tumors can be treated with die when they should. Tumors may be benign diagnosis through treatment and follow-up, so higher doses and fewer sessions, known as (not cancer), or malignant (cancer). Also called that clinics can deliver the best possible care for hypofractionation. neoplasm. every patient. MOSAIQ® is Elekta´s world leading oncology information system. Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) Volumetric modulated arc therapy This is typically used to treat tumors and other (VMAT) Parkinson’s disease disorders in the brain. The method involves the VMAT is a more advanced variant of intenParalysis, with trembling and shaking as well as delivery of a single high dose, to small and critsity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT). VMAT muscular rigidity, with a change in movements ically located targets in the brain. The method enables the physician to control the radiation and posture by the patient. offers very high precision, with a minimum beam, dosage amount and speed of rotation impact on surrounding brain tissue. around the patient, which enables faster and Prevalence more accurate treatment. The prevalence of a particular cancer can be Stereotactic radiation therapy (SRT) defined as the number of persons in a defined Radiation therapy of cancer, where high precipopulation who have been diagnosed with that sion and accuracy is achieved by delivering the type of cancer, and who are still alive at the end radiation based on an external fixed-coordinate of a given year, the survivors. Prevalence of cansystem. 120 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 DEFINITIONS Definitions Average number of employees EBITDA Operating margin Total annual number of paid working hours Operating result items plus d ­ epreciation and Operating result in relation to net sales. divided by number of standard working hours amortization. per year. Profit margin Equity/Assets ratio Profit before tax in relation to net sales. CAGR, compound annual growth rate Total equity in relation to total assets. The mean annual growth rate over a specified Return on capital employed period of time longer than a year. Gross orders Profit before tax plus financial expenses in Order intake during a period. relation to average capital employed.1) Capital employed Total assets less interest-free liabilities. Interest cover ratio Return on shareholders’ equity EBITDA in relation to interest expenses. Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Capital turnover ratio Company shareholders in relation to average Net sales divided by average total assets.1) Items affecting comparability shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling Events or transactions with significant financial interests.1) Cash flow per share effect, which are relevant for understanding the Cash flow after investments in relation to the financial performance when comparing income Shareholders’ equity per share weighted average number of shares. for the current period with previous period, Shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling including restructuring programs, expenses interests in relation to the number of shares at Contribution margin per region relating to major legal disputes, impairments year-end (excluding treasury shares). Net sales less cost of products sold and expenses and gains and losses for acquisitions or disposals directly attributable to the respective region. of subsidiaries. Value added per employee Operating profit plus salaries, other remuneraDays sales outstanding, DSO Net debt tion and social security costs and cost of incenThe total of accounts receivables and accrued Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and tive programs divided by average number of income less advances from customers and precash equivalents . employees. paid income in relation to twelve months rolling net sales divided by 365. Net Debt/EBITDA ratio Working capital Net debt in relation to EBITDA. Short-term interest-free assets less short-term Earnings per share interest-free liabilities, excluding current tax and Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Net orders derivatives. Company shareholders in relation to the Order intake during a period adjusted for cancelweighted average number of shares (excluding lations, removals of orders and currency effects. 1) Average based on the last five quarters treasury shares). Operational cash conversion EBITA Cash flow from operating activities divided by Operating result items plus a ­ mortization. EBITDA. Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 121 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Alternative performance measures Reconciliation of non-IFRS measures Alternative Performance Measures (APMs) are measures and key figures that Elekta’s management and other stakeholders use when managing and analyzing Elekta’s business performance. These measures are not substitutes, but rather supplements to financial reporting measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. Key figures and other APM:s used by Elekta are defined on page 119. See below for comments on how APM:s are used by Elekta and, when applicable, reconciliations to the IFRS financial statements. Gross order intake Order and sales growth based on constant exchange rates Gross order intake represents the new orders that have been booked during Elekta’s order intake and sales are, to a large extent, reported in subsidiarthe period and this is in line with industry peers. ies with other functional currencies than SEK, which is the group reporting currency. In order to present order and sales growth on a more comparaNet order intake ble basis and to show the impact of currency fluctuations, order and sales Up until 2015/16 Elekta reported net order intake. The difference between growth based on constant exchange rates are presented. The schedules gross and net order intake are backlog adjustments and currency effects. below present growth based on constant exchange rates reconciled to the total growth reported in accordance with IFRS. Order backlog Order backlog represents all orders that have been booked but not yet revenue recognized. Elekta follows the maturity profile of the order backlog when forecasting revenue. GROSS ORDER INTAKE North and Europe, Middle Asia South America East and Africa Pacific Total % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M 2018/19 vs 2017/18 Change based on constant exchange rates –1 –40 18 977 6 282 8 1,219 Currency effects 8 369 7 373 8 342 7 1,084 Reported change 7 329 25 1,350 14 624 16 2,303 2017/18 vs 2016/17 Change based on constant exchange rates 9 422 4 210 2 105 5 737 Currency effects –5 –218 2 101 –4 –191 –2 –308 Reported change 5 204 6 311 –2 –86 3 429 NET SALES North and Europe, Middle Asia South America East and Africa Pacific Total % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M 2018/19 vs 2017/18 Change based on constant exchange rates 8 295 9 375 16 524 10 1,194 Currency effects 8 318 5 236 7 235 7 788 Reported change 16 613 14 611 23 758 17 1,982 2017/18 vs 2016/17 Change based on constant exchange rates –2 –95 22 763 7 203 8 871 Currency effects –4 –174 2 73 –5 –142 –2 –243 Reported change –6 –269 24 836 2 61 6 629 122 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Gross profit and gross margin Capital employed Gross profit is the difference between net sales and cost of products sold Capital employed represents the value of the balance sheet net assets that and is presented on a separate line in the income statement. Gross profit as is the key driver of cash flow and capital required to run the business. It is a percentage of net sales represents gross margin. The Gross margin is used also used in the calculation of return on capital employed. by management to review effects on the income statement from factors such as product mix and price development CAPITAL EMPLOYED April April April April April EBITDA SEK M 30, 2015 30, 2016 30, 2017 30, 2018 30, 2019 EBITDA is used for the calculation of the interest cover ratio and operational Total assets 21,184 19,441 20,950 23,760 24,064 cash conversion. Deferred tax liabilities –732 –690 –778 –511 –587 Long term provisions –259 –140 –142 –158 –188 EBITDA Other long-term liabilities –20 –73 –33 –63 –55 SEK M 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Accounts payable –1,262 –1,122 –1,000 –1,132 –1,427 Operating result/EBIT 937 423 598 1,845 1,696 Advances from customers –2,165 –1,943 –2,531 –5,316 –4,883 Amortization: Prepaid income –1,673 –1,648 –1,874 –1,990 –2,170 Capitalized development Accrued expenses –1,789 –1,817 –1,875 –1,662 –1,661 costs 236 326 380 408 664 Current tax liabilities –119 –93 –111 –107 –166 Assets relating business Short-term provisions –99 –347 –231 –186 –188 combinations 130 143 119 116 117 Derivative financial instruments –162 –50 –48 –46 –94 Depreciation 146 165 156 151 162 Other current liabilities –225 –157 –281 –257 –308 EBITDA 1,449 1,057 1,253 2,520 2,639 Capital employed 12,678 11,360 12,046 12,331 12,337 Items affecting comparability Return on capital employed The classification of revenue or expenses as items affecting comparability Return on capital employed is a measure of the profitability after taking into is based on management’s assessment of the characteristics and also the account the amount of total capital used unrelated to type of financing. A materiality of the item. higher return on capital employed indicates a more efficient use of capital. Operating income (EBIT) and operating margin RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED Operating income or EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) is part of SEK M 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Elekta’s long term financial ambitions. The measure is presented in the Profit before tax 716 189 340 1,681 1,580 income statement as Elekta consider it to provide users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Group’s operating perforFinancial expenses 259 285 271 225 186 mance from a financial perspective. The operating margin shows the operProfit before tax plus 975 474 611 1,905 1,766 financial expenses ating income as a percentage of net sales. Average capital employed (last five quarters) 11,230 12,039 11,668 11,194 12,010 Return on capital employed, % 9 4 5 17 15 Return on shareholders’ equity Return on shareholders’ equity measures the return generated on shareholders’ capital invested in the company. RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY SEK M 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Profit for the year 552 137 125 1,348 1,198 Average shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interests (last five quarters) 6,260 6,587 6,541 6,015 7,167 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 9 2 2 22 17 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 123 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Interest cover ratio Net debt and net debt/EBITDA ratio The interest coverage ratio shows how much result that is available to pay Net debt is important to understand the financial stability of the company. interest on outstanding debt. Net debt and net debt/EBITDA ratio is used by management to track the debt evolvement and to analyze the leverage and refinancing need of the INTEREST COVER RATIO Group. SEK M 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 NET DEBT EBITDA 1,449 1,057 1,253 2,520 2,639 Interest expenses 217 240 209 163 156 SEK M 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Interest cover ratio, multiple 6.7 4.4 6.0 15.5 16.9 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 4,958 3,065 5,272 4,369 3,558 Short-term interest-bearing Operational cash conversion liabilities 1,075 1,885 0 975 1,000 Cash flow is a focus area for management. The operational cash conversion Cash and cash equivalents and shows the relation between cash flow from operating activities and EBITDA. short-term investments –3,265 –2,273 –3,383 –4,541 -4,119 Net debt 2,768 2,677 1,889 803 439 OPERATIONAL CASH CONVERSION SEK M 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 NET DEBT/EBITDA RATIO Cash flow from operating activities 1,823 1,170 1,819 2,404 1,621 SEK M 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 EBITDA 1,449 1,057 1,253 2,520 2,639 Net debt 2,768 2,677 1,889 803 439 Operational cash conversion, % 126 111 145 95 61 EBITDA 1,449 1,057 1,253 2,520 2,639 Net debt/EBITDA ratio, multiple 1.91 2.53 1.51 0.32 0.17 Working capital In order to optimize cash generation, management focuses on working capEquity/assets ratio ital and reducing lead times between orders booked and cash received. A The equity/assets ratio gives an indication of the financial flexibility and reconciliation of working capital to items in the balance sheet is presented independence to operate and manage variations in working capital needs on page 79. as well as to capitalize on business opportunities. Days sales outstanding (DSO) EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO DSO is used by management to follow the development of overall payment SEK M 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 terms to customers, which have significant impact on working capital and Shareholders’ equity 6,646 6,412 6,774 6,987 7,779 cash flow. Total assets 21,184 19,441 20,950 23,760 24,064 Equity/assets ratio, % 31 33 32 29 32 DAYS SALES OUTSTANDING (DSO) SEK M 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Accounts receivable 4,207 3,301 3,726 3,402 3,455 Accrued income 1,895 2,126 1,640 1,160 1,401 Advances from customers –2,165 –1,943 –2,531 –5,316 –4,883 Prepaid income –1,673 –1,648 –1,874 –1,990 –2,170 Net receivable from customers 2,264 1,836 961 – 2,744 –2,198 Net sales 10,839 11,221 10,704 11,573 13,555 Number of days 365 365 365 365 365 Net sales per day 30 31 29 32 37 Days sales outstanding (DSO) 76 60 33 – 87 –59 124 Elekta Annual Report 2018/19 Elekta offices Elekta AB Box 7593 SE – 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden T +46 8 587 254 00 F +46 8 587 255 00 Europe, Middle East, Africa T +46 8 587 254 00 F +46 8 587 255 00 North America T +1 770 300 9725 F +1 770 448 6338 Latin America, South America T +55 11 5054 4550 F +55 11 5054 4568 Asia Pacific T +852 2891 2208 F +852 2575 7133 Japan T +81 3 6722 3800 F +81 3 6436 4231 China T +86 10 8012 5012 F +46 8 587 255 00 elekta.com /elekta @elekta /company/ elekta © 2019 Elekta AB (publ) All marks identified as a trademark (™) or a registered trademark (®) are the property of the Elekta Group. All rights reserved. No part of this document may ® be reproduced in any form without written permission from the copyright holder. Production: Elekta’s Investor Relations and Finance Team, in cooperation with Springtime-Intellecta. Photo: Sandra Birgersdotter, Elekta, Getty Images, Karoline Glasow, Johnér/caiaimage, Mats Lundqvist and Shutterstock.
