CARING LIVING WORKING 2018 Sustainabilit y Repor t About Cofinimmo Cofinimmo has been acquiring, developing and managing rental properties for over 35 years. The company has a portfolio spread across 1983 Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Founding (capital: 6 million EUR) 1994 Listing on the Brussels stock Germany, with a value of 4 billion EUR. exchange, now called Euronext With attention to social developments, 1996 Cofinimmo has the mission of making high-quality care, living and Adoption of Belgian SICAFI status 2005 First healthcare real estate investworking environments available to its ment in Belgium partners-tenants, from which users Awarding of the first Public-Private benefit directly. “Caring, Living and 2007 Partnership with AB InBev Group Partnership (PPP): the Antwerp courthouse Working Together in Real Estate” is for a portfolio of 1,068 pubs and the expression of this mission. Thanks restaurants located in Belgium and the Netherlands (Pubstone) to its expertise, Cofinimmo has built up a healthcare real estate portfolio of 2008 Start-up in France in the healthcare almost 2 billion EUR in Europe. real estate segment As an independent company that 2011 Partnership with MAAF for a portfolio Adoption of SIIC status (French REIT regime) applies the highest standards of 283 insurance agencies in France of corporate governance and sustainability, Cofinimmo offers its (Cofinimur I) First emission of convertible bonds 2012 Start-up in the Netherlands in the tenants services and manages its healthcare real estate segment portfolio through a team of over Adoption of FBI status (Dutch REIT regime) 130 employees in Brussels, Paris, Breda and Frankfurt. 2013 Cofinimmo is listed on Euronext Start of reconversion works to transform office buildings into 2014 Start-up in Germany in the healthcare residential (Woluwe 34 and Brussels (BEL20) and benefits from the Livingstone I) real estate segment REIT system in Belgium (RREC), France Adoption of RREC status in Belgium (SIIC) and the Netherlands (FBI). Its activities are supervised by the Financial 2015 Services and Markets Authority (FSMA), Capital increase with preference rights in the amount of 2016 Continued investments in healthcare the Belgian regulator. 285 million EUR real estate in the Netherlands and Continued investments in healthGermany On 31.12.2018, Cofinimmo’s total market care real estate in the Netherlands Acquisition of five office buildings in and Germany capitalisation stood at 2.5 billion EUR. Brussels The company applies an investment Opening of the first Flex Corners® and policy aimed at offering a socially responsible, long-term, low-risk 2017 Continued investments in healthLounges® Issue of ‘Green and Social Bonds’ investment that generates a regular, care real estate in the Netherlands predictable and growing dividend. and Germany Delivery of the reconversion works to transform an office building into 2018 Capital increase with irrevocable a nursing and care home allocation rights in the amount of (Woluwe 106-108) 155 million EUR Acquisition of a portfolio of 17 nursing and care homes in Germany 50 % of global portfolio invested in healthcare real estate 2018 Sustainability Report 1 Table of contents Message to the stakeholders 2 Caring, Living and Working Together in Real Estate 4 Key figures 12 Major trends and their impacts on the materiality matrix 14 Value chain 18 Dialogue with stakeholders 20 Business ethics 26 Corporate governance 27 Profitability for investors and access to capital 31 Innovative use of Green and Social Bonds 36 Innovation 42 Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts 46 Safety and well-being 52 Employee training 54 Respect for differences and cultural diversity 57 Mobility 60 Energy consumption and GHG emissions 63 Key performance indicators for 2018, data according to the EPRA sBPR guidelines 65 Dashboard 78 Link between topics of Cofinimmo and SDGs 84 GRI content index 85 Statutory Auditor’s report 90 The Lounge ® The Gradient office building Brussels Decentralised (BE) 2 2018 Sustainability Report Message to the stakeholders Consolidating the sustainable development policy in order to accelerate the reduction of Cofinimmo’s carbon footprint in all business segments. Jean-Pierre Hanin Chief Executive Officer Jacques van Rijckevorsel Chairman of the Board of Directors Message to the stakeholders 2018 Sustainability Report 3 Dear stakeholders, In 2018, Cofinimmo stepped up In the context of its strategic development, Cofinimmo is focusing strongly on healthcare real estate. Obviously, it wishes to its commitment by becoming a apply and transfer its experience regarding sustainability in the signatory of the ten principles office sector to the health care real estate sector, irrespective of of the United Nations Global the geographic location. Compact. By doing so, In Europe, real estate has a significant impact on greenhouse Cofinimmo confirms that, at gas emissions, estimated at 40 % of total emissions. Conscious of the responsibility relating to the choices it makes and of their a minimum, it incorporates, potential impact on climate change, Cofinimmo incorporin its values and its operating ated the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals into principles, compliance with its own sustainability policy. The ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact come from: the Universal Declaration fundamental responsibilities of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation in the areas of human rights, Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the labour, the environment and Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. the fight against corruption. Cofinimmo also supports the “Sign for my future” campaign, a citizens’ movement aimed at encouraging Belgian politicians to conduct an ambitious climate policy in order to keep climate warming below the 2 °C mark. The existence of a bold sustainability policy is a requirement Cofinimmo endeavours as far as possible to give a second life to for safeguarding the value of the company over the long term. the materials and equipments of the buildings that it renovates. Cofinimmo’s different stakeholders have clearly understood this: On this point, it collaborates with a number of companies and the number of shareholders seeking socially responsible investassociations. ments is growing; tenants are demanding energy efficient and comfortable buildings; and, employees are constantly seeking However, a building’s purpose sometimes changes, and this meaning in their activities. reality is also part of the life cycle of buildings. When a district changes or new opportunities to supplement its built areas In the office sector, Cofinimmo has acquired, as a result of arise, Cofinimmo sometimes modifies the use of one of its the regulations but also through an ambitious, determined ­buildings. Therefore, it recently converted the Woluwe 106-108 approach, experience in the (re-)development and operation of office building in Brussels into a nursing and care home called energy-efficient buildings. The Belliard 40 building, inaugurated Vivalys. In this specific case as in others, every effort is made to at the beginning of the year, which has a BREEAM Excellent preserve the construction elements that can be kept in the ­rating and is laureate of the call for projects for exemplary building. Regarding the other materials that are not used in the buildings (Batex) in the Brussels-Capital Region, is an excellent renovation of the building, Cofinimmo endeavours to find new example of this. opportunities for them via certain associations. In the healthcare real estate sector, dialogue with operators Moreover, there is also a trend towards creating diversity. What is essential. Indeed, it is during design or extension works that forms does this take? The combination of shops, offices and Cofinimmo can improve the characteristics of buildings to make hotels in built areas, for example, or the creation of greener them more sustainable. It does not manage the ­buildings in spaces and places for sharing and meeting, etc. Towns and citthis segment on a day-to-day basis but rather offers its services ies are constantly evolving, and here Cofinimmo has an essential to operators to advise them, as required, concerning the more role to play in optimising the quality of life of inhabitants and in energy-efficient management of buildings, or to give them the solutions to be provided to the population’s needs. information about targeted modifications. Cofinimmo has a comprehensive approach. It takes the whole life cycle of the building into account: from the design of the property, including the selection of its location, to the study and implementation of its sustainability and its recycling. 74 % Jean-Pierre Hanin Jacques van Rijckevorsel of the energy used in the construction of a building relates dirChief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board ectly to the constituent materials. Cofinimmo takes this fact into of Directors account when it considers the sustainability of the ­buildings that it places on the market. Its teams has this sensitivity. For example, the redevelopment of the Quartz office building, which will be delivered in early 2020, has been subject to a life cycle analysis as from its design phase. 4 2018 Sustainability Report Caring, Living and Working – Together in Real Estate CARING Be a leading European healthcare REIT with top quality portfolio, also participating to innovative real estate concepts addressing healthcare challenges WORKING LIVING Creating value through Opportunistic add-on capital recycling and approach with secured rebalancing portfolio long-term income towards Brussels Central Business District (CBD) C a r i n g , L i v i n g a n d Wo r k i n g – To g e t h e r i n R e a l E s t a t e 2018 Sustainability Report 5 Breda Brussels Paris Frankfurt >130 people Cofinimmo manages its prop erties through a team of over 130 p e ople, op erating from Bruss els, Paris, Bre da and Frankfurt. 6 2018 Sustainability Report Caring “Cofinimmo aims to accelerate its investments in healthcare real estate to consolidate its leadership in Europe” “Cofinimmo sees healthcare real estate not only as a promising asset class, but also as a way of solving two societal challenges: limiting the increase in healthcare costs and meeting the growing demand of an aging population” “The goal of the Fundis project in Psychiatric Rotterdam is not only clinics Rehabilitation FR NL DE Medical office to meet the residents’ needs, but to create clinics buildings FR DE NL DE Specialised acute care clinics Acute care Primary care a central place to FR NL Other Residential Skilled nursing live for the entire facilities care FR NL BE DE neighbourhood.” Sport & Assisted wellness living centres FR NL BE BE DE Disabled care facilities NL C a r i n g , L i v i n g a n d Wo r k i n g – To g e t h e r i n R e a l E s t a t e 2018 Sustainability Report 7 1.9 billion EUR Fair value of the p ortfolio 50 % Of the overall p ortfolio 900,000 m Ab ove-ground surfac e area 2 15,000 Numb er of b e ds 99.9 % O c cupancy rate 6.0 % Gross yield 15.6 years Average residual leas e length 169 Numb er of ass ets 181 kWh/m² Energy intensity of the s e ctor 2005 First investment in healthcare real estate 32 The Netherlands Breakdown of number 31 of healthcare Germany assets by country 49 57 France Belgium 8 2018 Sustainability Report 560 million EUR Fair value of the p ortfolio 15 % Of the overall p ortfolio 400,000 m² Ab ove-ground surfac e area 98.5 % O c cupancy rate 6.3 % Gross yield 10.1 years Average residual leas e length 1,233 Numb er of ass ets, of which: 962 Pubs and restaurants and 271 Insuranc e agencies 7 Ass ets under management in the PPP-p ortfolio 103 kWh/m² Energy intensity of the s e ctor 2005 Awarding of the first PPP: the c ourthous e of Antwerp 2007 Partnership with the AB InBev Group regarding a p ortfolio of pubs and restaurants “The distribution 2011 networks and PPPs Partnership with MAAF regarding a p ortfolio of insuranc e agencies contribute to the 2018 balance of our portfolio The proje ct, pres ente d by the Cofinimmo/CFE c ons ortium, in c o op eration with Atelier Jean in the long-term and Nouvel is s ele cte d for the NEO II site. Construction of a c onvention c entre that will enhanc e the international are leased to qualitative profile of Bruss els. counterparties.” C a r i n g , L i v i n g a n d Wo r k i n g – To g e t h e r i n R e a l E s t a t e 2018 Sustainability Report 9 Living “The Cofinimmo teams have built up a unique expertise in complex and innovative structures, such as the Antwerp courthouse or, more recently, the NEO II convention centre.” “Because these markets are only accessible to a limited number of sufficiently qualified investors, Cofinimmo intends to play a major role as soon as opportunities arise, as has previously been the case for the transactions with AB InBev (2007) and MAAF (2011), and for the seven PPPs already concluded.” 226 Pubstone (NL) Breakdown of number of distribution 736 network Pubstone (BE) assets by country 271 Cofinimur I (FR) 10 2018 Sustainability Report Working “Cofinimmo’s strategy consists of improving the overall balance of the office portfolio by reducing the part invested in the decentralised area to the benefit of assets located in the Central Business District of Brussels.” “Cofinimmo’s staff is well-versed in the A to Z management of major projects encompassing the design, construction, renovation, reconversion and development of sites, with the goal of either renting or selling. It is an expert in every aspect of the building life cycles.” “Rebalancing the portfolio towards the centre of Brussels” C a r i n g , L i v i n g a n d Wo r k i n g – To g e t h e r i n R e a l E s t a t e 2018 Sustainability Report 11 1.26 billion EUR Fair value of the p ortfolio 34 % Of the overall p ortfolio 600,000 m Ab ove-ground surfac e area 2 88.8 % O c cupancy rate 7.3 % Gross yield 84 Numb er of ass ets 2016 Op ening of the first Flex Corners ® and Lounges ® 11 Numb er of buildings with a BREEAM c ertificate 195 kWh/m² Energy intensity of the s e ctor 12 2018 Sustainability Report Key figures As at 31.12.2018 Operational Financial 3.7 billion EUR Portfolio fair value 2.5 billion EUR Market capitalisation +6.3 % In 2018 Member of the BEL20 212 million EUR Proper ty result 107.27 EUR Average ordinary share price +0.9 % In 2018 1,900,000 m² 7.5 % Total return of Total above-ground surface area the ordinary share in 2018 1,489 Assets 6.55 EUR/share EPRA result 6.5 % Gross rental yield at 100 % occupancy 94.76 EUR/share EPRA Net Asset Value 95.8 % Occupancy rate 43 % Debt ratio 10.9 years Weighted average 1.9 % residual lease length Average cost of debt BBB/long term & A-2/short term Standard & Poor’s rating Key figures 2018 Sustainability Report 13 Non-financial >130 Portfolio Employees breakdown by country 36 % men 64 % women 9.5 % The Netherlands 10.7 % Germany 179 kWh/m² Average por tfolio energy consumption 69 % ‘GRESB Green Star’ 13.9 % France 65.9 % Belgium Portfolio bre akdown by segment (as at 31.12.2018 at fair value) 1% 15 % Healtcare real estate Offic es Prop erty of distribution networks Other 34 % 50 % 14 2018 Sustainability Report Major trends and their impacts on the materiality matrix Cofinimmo must be prepared to the world of tomorrow and integrate society’s major trends into its strategy, otherwise it risks seeing its buildings become rapidly obsolete and endanger its economic sustainability. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) are among these major trends which Cofinimmo must take into account. Cofinimmo positions itself as a driver for change in dealAll the details of the actions carried out in 2018 and future ing with challenges such as climate change, population objectives are set out in a dashboard (see pages 78-83). The ageing, growing urbanisation, changing technologies link between the topics of Cofinimmo and the SDGs is set and working practices and, therefore, built space requireout in a table (see page 84). ments. Cofinimmo is building more efficient buildings and ­managing them more cost-effectively in response to increased regulation on energy performance. However, those are not the only aspects that have to be taken into account. The 21 topics included in the company’s materiality matrix reflect the importance of these trends for Cofinimmo, but also for its stakeholders. By 2030, the United The materiality matrix was drawn up for the first time in Nations aim to end 2014 in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. It is reviewed and refined on an annual poverty and improve basis. Each of its points represents a sustainability topic for the lives of all people the company. Its position is co-determined by stakeholders’ perception of each topic and the impacts’ significance estiwhile protecting mated internally by Cofinimmo. the planet. This The upper right area, beyond the green curve in the chart programme takes at the right, contains the nine priority areas for action from the form of a list the 21 identified internally. The other topics in the materiality matrix are not considered to be a priority and are below of measures to be the green curve. This does not reflect disinterest but can adopted, namely be explained by the fact that these topics are, for the most part, subject to fairly strict legislation that requires comthe 17 Sustainable panies to deal with them, irrespective of the perception of Development Goals their importance on the part of the company. For example, Cofinimmo endeavours to reduce water consumption as (SDG). much as possible by means of the introduction of remote meters, in the same way as it handles energy consumption and GHG emissions. Major trends and their impacts on the materiality matrix 2018 Sustainability Report 15 Materiality matrix 10 Profitability for investors Energy consumption and access to capital and GHG emissions Safety and well-being 9 Business ethics 8 Innovation Mobility Water consumption 7 Accessibility for people with Respect for reduced mobility differences and cultural diversity I M P O R TA N C E F O R S TA K E H O L D E R S Fight against illegal employment Aesthetics, Type of occupation respect for public 6 Use of sustainable / spaces and recycled materials diversity of districts Access to housing for all Employee Impact on green spaces training Construction waste 5 Waste linked to occupation 4 Indirect job creation Disturbances linked 3 to occupation 2 Noise pollution 1 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 I M P O R TA N C E F O R C O F I N I M M O Social Environmental Economic • Safety and well-being • Energy consumption and GHG •P  rofitability for investors and emissions access to capital • Respect for differences and cultural diversity • Mobility • Innovation • Aesthetics, respect for public • Water consumption •B  usiness ethics spaces and diversity of districts • Use of sustainable and/or recycled •T  ype of occupation • Employee training materials • Accessibility for people with • Impact on green spaces reduced mobility • Construction waste • Fight against illegal employment • Waste linked to occupation • Access to housing for all • Disturbances linked to occupation • Indirect job creation • Noise pollution 16 2018 Sustainability Report Ageing population The circular economy The acceleration in the ageing of the population is having Natural resources are clearly limited. In this connection, as an impact on current social models: the increase in the a result of lobbying by NGOs, circular economy initiatives retirement age, the organisation of healthcare, etc. are being promoted and even subsidised by the European Commission and certain countries, regions and cities in The growing healthcare real estate sector has to meet the Europe so as to limit waste and increase the rate of reuse expectations of an ever-increasing segment of the popuof materials. Every year in the European Union, nearly lation. This means care buildings that are more flexible 15 tonnes of materials are used per person and each EU according to the degree of autonomy of individuals, com­citizen generates, on average, more than four and a half bined with suitable housing. tons of waste (“The Circular Economy: connecting, creating and conserving value”, source European Commission). But what are the population projections for the EU-28? “During the period from 2017 to 2080 the working age Aware of its impact during (re)development works, population share is expected to decline steadily through Cofinimmo selects sustainable materials that can easily be until 2050 before stabilising somewhat, while elderly recycled or, preferably, reused. This practice is in line with people will likely account for an increasing share of the total the reflection initiated over a year ago by Cofinimmo on population: those aged 65 years or over will account for the life cycle of its buildings. When buildings are demol29.1 % of the EU-28’s population by 2080, compared with ished, the waste is also very strictly sorted. This is also the 19.4 % in 2017. As a result of the population shift between case in office buildings in operation, where every effort is age groups, the EU-28’s old age dependency ratio is promade to promote sorting, sometimes going beyond the jected to almost double from 29.9 % in 2017 to 52.3 % by legal requirements. 2080. The total age-related dependency ratio is projected to rise from 53.9 % in 2017 to 79.7 % by 2080” (source Well-being at work and hospitality Eurostat, May 2018 data). In the countries where Cofinimmo is present, there is a This trend is addressed by the core strategy of Cofinimmo, gradual decrease in the proportion of working people due which, through its healthcare real estate segment, aims to to population ageing, on the one hand, and to lower birth meet the needs of society: offering housing for all, including rates, on the other hand. This phenomenon should accelto the elderly, the ill, people with disabilities or undergoing erate between 2020 and 2030. This situation is gradually rehabilitation, creating mixed neighbourhoods where each leading to a talent war in which the winning company will function co-exists in harmony, promoting the accessibility be the one in a position to provide its employees with workof buildings to people with reduced mobility, developing life balance, a degree of physical and mental well-being sound buildings in which it is attractive to live. and, above all, meaningful work. The sharing economy It is in this context that Cofinimmo seeks to offer its clients safety and well-being in its buildings, and innovative infraA new awareness by a section of society about the importstructure is therefore made available and offered through ance of limiting its carbon footprint, the search for a more partners. In particular, they comprise concierge-type serefficient and reasoned use of physical and financial resourvices much like in the hotel industry. This includes, for ces is leading an increasing number of people and comexample, play and relaxation areas, a fitness centre, perpanies to embrace the principles of the sharing economy. sonal services such as dry-cleaning, ironing, shopping home delivery, car wash, etc. They become product users rather than product owners or, in the case of real estate, sole tenants. In addition, this New types of certification are supplementing existing approach provides users access to flexible solutions that are environmental certifications (BREEAM, LEEDS, HQE, etc.) more in line with their rapidly changing needs and avoids by assessing buildings according to their ability to meet certain investment costs. human needs: access to quality air and water, daylight, healthy food, contact with nature, etc. Many sharing applications already directly or indirectly impact the office real estate sector: shared vehicles and Every effort is made to ensure a healthy and pleasant bicycles, some of which are electric, pooled parking spaces, working environment, which has a positive impact on the shared meeting rooms in buildings and business parks, well-being of employees, their motivation and their producco-working areas, etc. tivity. However, the sharing economy also affects residential real estate. Housing with more community areas is being built, sometimes for a very targeted group of users, like Generation Y, but also for senior citizens in the form of service flats. Well aware of this topic, Cofinimmo is increasing initiatives in the area of mobility by testing shared vehicle solutions and putting in place infrastructure for cyclists in its buildings. It is also innovating by creating shared spaces such as those clients find in office buildings in the form of Lounge®, shared meeting rooms or Flex Corner®. Major trends and their impacts on the materiality matrix 2018 Sustainability Report 17 Evolving technology to enhance Changing technology real estate: internet of things, for healthcare augmented reality, artificial Technology is enabling a gradual shift from curative to preintelligence, digitalisation ventive medicine. The appearance of remote monitoring devices and portable sensors enables doctors to have a It is difficult to imagine the future extent and impact of evolvmore dynamic picture of their patients’ health and, whening technology in the real estate sector, but early experience ever possible, to more quickly adapt their treatment based can already provide some indications. Technology makes it on their condition. These sensors can even automatically possible to go beyond the automation of repetitive tasks send a message to emergency services if there are serious and today it provides support in more complex intellectual anomalies in a patient’s parameters. All these possibilities processes. have an impact on healthcare infrastructure: hospital stays are now shorter. • In client relationships: o When selecting premises, new technologies optimise Other types of healthcare real estate are being developed the decision-making process on the basis of complex to meet the needs of an ageing population, which nevercriteria, such as travel time between home and work for theless remains very autonomous: rehabilitation centres, employees and visitors, and selected transport modes. day centres, etc. This new generation of senior citizens o Visits can be done virtually without travel, using a digital wants to stay in their own home as long as possible, and tablet or a virtual reality headset, and layouts can be the changes in healthcare technology will make this posselected dynamically. sible. However, it will require flexible housing design that can evolve according to a person’s stage in life. o Working space becomes more personalised and is directly controlled via a smartphone: temperature, lighting, etc. •In equipment maintenance and failure management: augmented reality will guide technicians in their maintenance tasks and provide them with real-time image assistance. In addition, the enriched data provided by communication between technical equipment (Internet of Things) will anticipate failures and carry out a first diagVivalys nursing and care home Brussels (BE) nosis to enable the technician to make targeted repairs. De Driesten medical office building Eemnes (NL) • In energy management: taking into account the New Way of Working in which employees no longer have allocated spaces, a smart building approach will enable the gradual and efficient occupancy of the building. Empty areas can in this way remain vacant and non-air-conditioned, which provides energy savings. As refurbishments progress, Cofinimmo is gradually integrating technology into its buildings (Smart Buildings), making it possible to manage energy more efficiently and in this way reduce their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 18 2018 Sustainability Report Value chain Financing, skills and sustainable materials for the long term. Financing Skills Cofinimmo’s mission is to offer its shareholders a socially To implement projects with an environmental impact, responsible, long-term, low-risk investment, that generates whether it be offices (including the head office) or other a regular, predictable and growing dividend. Cofinimmo types of buildings, Cofinimmo has an ISO 14001:2015-certimust also have access to financing sources that are suffified environmental management system running throughciently diversified and at the lowest possible cost to reduce out the life cycle of its portfolio. The levers at the different the refinancing risk at debt maturity and to guarantee the stages vary by business segment (see table below). company’s long-term future (see also chapter ‘Profitability for investors and access to capital’). Healthcare Distribution networks Offices real estate and PPP Acquisition Design Construction Marketing Operational management Demolition/ refurbishment/ redevelopment Cofinimmo’s influence: low medium high Cofinimmo’s influence is described in detail and by segment in the chapter ‘Management report’ of the 2018 Annual Financial Report (see pages 38, 47, 51 and 58). Materials Cofinimmo has implemented a Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) also takes account of the potential for future development that is intended to be very qualitative. Consideration is of the building. This method is backed by the BREEAM given starting from the design (or redevelopment) phase certification and the ISO 14001 standard. LCA, when comfor a building and helps to beforehand make sustainable bined with other tools, such as BIM (Building Information choices on the construction principles (demolition or Modelling), makes it possible to map, evaluate and budget refurbishment), the materials and the programme for the for all the components of a building. works to be carried out (reuse of the internal elements). It ‘Seniorenzentrum Haus Hüttener Berge’ nursing and care home Ascheffel (BE) Va l u e c h a i n 2018 Sustainability Report 19 Value chain Banks Bondholders Shareholders Loans Equity Acquisition Portfolio Marketing Construction Design Sale Operational Transport management Demolition/ refurbishment/ redevelopment Raw materials Financing Skills Materials Waste Recycling 20 2018 Sustainability Report Dialogue with stakeholders As a real estate company that invests in buildings and through its listing on the stock market, Cofinimmo enables as many people as possible to invest indirectly in real estate. Aware of the impact of its activities, it maintains a regular dialogue with its stakeholders at every stage of a building’s life cycle. From the design stage and the permit application, Cofinimmo organises consultation meetings with, among others, local residents, local government and retailers. The aim is to strike a balance between the interests of each stakeholder, in particular by taking into account the importance of respect for protected natural areas, heritage conservation, traffic in the neighbourhood, retail activity, residents’ well-being, etc. It also considers the needs of future occupants and a sufficient level of profitability to compensate its investment. In the building operation phase, Cofinimmo regularly meets its clients to assess their needs and their satisfaction levels. It also places a lot of importance in the motivation and commitment of each of its employees through in particular transparent and proactive communication, appraisal, feedback, reward, individual and team coaching and training processes, work-life balance, accountability, etc. In some cases, Cofinimmo interacts with its stakeholders in multiple ways: a banker can, for example, be a capital provider and, at the same time, a building tenant or even a local resident. Each Cofinimmo department is responsible for identifying and interacting with its own stakeholders. Through the company’s code of conduct, guidelines are provided to each employee. The communication department is there to guide and assist each department, where appropriate, in its dialogue with its stakeholders. Cofinimmo endeavours to improve the exchanges with each stakeholder on the material subjects relating to its activities and to take them into account in its decision-making process. It also firmly believes that the involvement of stakeholders is essential in order to innovate and ensure its long-term success. But who are Cofinimmo’s key stakeholders? Dialogue with stakeholders 2018 Sustainability Report 21 Shareholders and investors: individual or institutional shareholders and bankers As a company listed on the stock market, Cofinimmo has a duty to have a transparent dialogue with all its investors and to ensure they receive the same information. The people primarily responsible for this dialogue are first and foremost the members of the Executive Committee and, more specifically, the CEO and the CFO, assisted by the external communication and finance departments. In 2018, Cofinimmo participated in 9 road shows and 11 conferences in 7 different countries. During these road shows / Employees conferences, it was able to meet more than 160 institutional investors and answer their questions on the company’s The size of the company, which today has 131 people, strategy. In addition, since 2014, Cofinimmo also publishes a means that there are regular contacts with the human biannual letter to shareholders that relates significant comresources manager or one of the members of the Executive pany news. Committee. Information meetings open to all employees are organised on a quarterly basis and enable discussion Clients and occupants: nursing with members of the Executive Committee. home operators, retailers, Employees are also asked to express their views through public services, office tenants audits carried out in the context of the Investors in People accreditation. and other occupants Depending on the business segment, the first contact that Team-building events are organised as required in order for a client has with Cofinimmo takes place with the sales team employees within a team to get to know each other better or the Property Managers. The aim of the sales staff is to be and, if necessary, to identify points for improving the team able to best meet the needs expressed by the client before dynamics. In 2018, three team-building events with 48 para space is leased, while that of the Property Managers is ticipants were organised. to ensure the client’s comfort and satisfaction throughout the period of building occupation. If necessary, the Project Finally, the half-year and end-of-year individual appraisals Management team is also available to carry out improveare an opportunity to more formally discuss the expectament works on tenants’ premises, or to initiate more structions, role and objectives of each employee within the comtural projects in the case of healthcare real estate. pany. In the office segment, the client meets with a Cofinimmo employee in person at least once a year. In reality, there may be quarterly or even more frequent contacts if telephone conversations and e-mails are included. The client can also contact the company via the Service Desk, which is available 24/7. In 2018, the Service Desk responded to 10,612 client requests. In the healthcare real estate segment, the client also receives visits from Cofinimmo’s Property Managers or their Investors in People is a management representatives. In Germany, Cofinimmo has signed outframework to achieve high performance sourcing agreements for the technical property managethrough people. The IiP accreditation, ment of buildings. Why? Because the buildings are geoa mark of excellence, is acknowledged graphically dispersed. The number of visits therefore ranges worldwide. It aims to optimise performance from one per quarter to one every three years if Cofinimmo by promoting best practices in the managehas no responsibility in the management of the building ment of people and organisations that are through the application of a triple net lease contract. equipped with the tools necessary for success. Organisations that demonstrate the Investors in People standard obtain the IiP accreditation via a rigorous and objective evaluation. (www.investorsinpeople.co.uk) 22 2018 Sustainability Report Media, financial analysts Cofinimmo reaches the entire financial world with an interest in its activities through 38 press releases and half-yearly and annual financial reports that it published in 2018. All this information is available in three languages (French, Dutch and English) on its website. Since 2018, Cofinimmo Suppliers of goods and services: has also published in German press releases relating to its developers, contractors, service operations in Germany, to reach an even wider audience. providers, facility managers, real Civil society, local communities: estate agents, lawyers, consultants local residents, civil society Cofinimmo works with more than 1,750 suppliers, the 20 larassociations, etc. gest of which account for around 50 % of expenditure. These are primarily contractors responsible for the (re) developCofinimmo pays close attention to its impact on civil sociment of buildings and companies who carry out regular ety. In order to listen to it, Cofinimmo regularly takes part maintenance on buildings (technical maintenance, energy in conferences linked to its activities, gives interviews with supply, cleaning, etc.). journalists or agrees to help university students in the context of their academic work. Cofinimmo is also a member There are many interactions with all the suppliers of of associations such as, for example, The Shift, in which goods and services. From the design phase for a building both businesses and NGOs participate. These fora are an being (re)developed, Cofinimmo organises meetings with opportunity to reflect on the potential improvement of the architects and, where appropriate, the contractors. Cofinimmo’s sustainability policy. Subsequently, in the construction phase, site meetings are held on a weekly basis. These make it possible to assess the progress of works, to make decisions on certain issues based on unforeseen factors encountered and to ensure the safety of all the people involved. In the operation phase, Cofinimmo meets on a monthly basis with the companies responsible for the technical installations of the buildings it operates. These meetings are an opportunity to, among other things, discuss the best way to ensure the comfort of the occupants and the safety of The Shift is the national contact point for the technicians, to carry out the maintenance of the instalthe World Business Council for Sustainable lations and to limit energy consumption. Development (WBCSD) and the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Over 370 organisations Supervisory authorities: the from a range of sectors are members of this network: businesses, NGOs, associFinancial Services and Markets ations, universities, public bodies and Authority (FSMA), the National other key actors in society. Bank, auditors, municipal, regional and federal authorities As a Belgian company listed on the stock market, Cofinimmo contributes, in particular with the payment of taxes and duties, to the economic life of the countries in which it is active. It maintains numerous relationships with the public authorities that supervise it in order to ensure the proper payment of taxes and the transparency of the financial information published. These contacts are maintained with the finance team, but also with the operational teams. Discussions with the authorities take place on an ad hoc basis: during applications for building, planning or environmental permits, for tax rulings, for the validation of published financial information and for audits of the financial statements, etc. Dialogue with stakeholders 2018 Sustainability Report 23 Spheres of influence Environmental Economic 169 1,750 Healthcare Suppliers buildings 111 million EUR 146 26.5 % Services Tenants 15,188 10.2 % 4.7 % 10 Banks Residents Shareholding 6.5 % structure 2.1 billion EUR 2 (31.12.2018 in %) Equity Distribution networks 13.8 % 37.9 % 1.6 billion EUR Borrowed funds 271 0.2 % 0.2 % Insurance agencies 962 Investment funds Pension funds Pubs and restaurants Private banking Retail investors 87 He dge funds Treasury shares Office buildings Not identifie d Insuranc e c ompanies 411 Social Tenants 4,135 31,583 Twitter/LinkedIn followers Occupants 24 2018 Sustainability Report Stakeholders: expectations and responses Stakeholders Expectations Responses Shareholders and investors: • A regular, predictable and growing • A clear investment policy in the three dividend; business segments: healthcare real estate, individual and institutional shareholders, distribution networks and PPP, and offices; bankers • Protection of the invested capital; • A search for income over the long-term; • A moderate risk profile; • Transparent financial information, audited • The provision of transparent financial by the external auditor, governed by the information; regulations and supervised by the Financial • A long-term relationship; Services and Markets Authority: annual report, participation in investor events, • A socially responsible investment; General Meeting, etc.; • Reimbursement of debt and payment of • Full application of the corporate interest. governance code. Customers and occupants: • A building in line with the specific needs • A team of professionals active in various of their activities; real estate fields: sales representatives nursing home operators, retailers, public to fully understand customers’ needs, services, office tenants and other occupants • The ability to innovate in order to meet Project Managers to ensure the buildings’ changing needs; construction quality, Property Managers to • Rents in line with their financial potential; ensure efficient management of buildings in operation and control of rental-related • Control of rental-related expenses; expenses. • A trustworthy, stable landlord; • Sustainable buildings. Employees • Pleasant working conditions; • A code of conduct; • Fair treatment; • A system for the annual appraisal of performance and the employee/manager • Guaranteed, stable and attractive wage relationship; scale; • Access to training; • A skills development plan (training, career prospects, etc.); • Regular employee surveys; • Management that listens, with strong • The Investors in People accreditation, a ethical values and a sense of leadership. sign of Cofinimmo’s commitment to the development of its staff; • Fair treatment. Cofinimmo has signed the diversity charter of the Brussels-Capital Region, where its head office is located. Suppliers of goods and services: • Opportunities for working together; • Clear specifications and tender rules; developers, contractors, service providers, • Compliance with purchase orders and • Acceptance of the products and services facility managers, real estate agents, lawyers, signed contracts: product and service delivered agreed on by both parties; consultants prices, payment deadlines, etc.; • Payment of agreed amounts within the • A healthy, well-balanced commercial agreed deadlines; relationship; • Openness to dialogue in the event of a • Respect for suppliers’ staff. dispute; • A code of conduct that includes supplier relationships. Dialogue with stakeholders 2018 Sustainability Report 25 Stakeholders Expectations Responses Supervisory authorities: • Compliance with the laws and regulations • Financial publications and press releases in effect, particularly those governing town that meet regulatory requirements; the Financial Services and Markets Authority planning and environment; (FSMA), the National Bank, auditors, • Timely transmission of information on municipal, regional and federal authorities • Open dialogue through professional the transactions carried out to enable associations; the supervisory authority to review them without undue haste; • Compliance with public space planning rules. • Compliance with the legislation and procedures in effect and the forms required by the authorities. Media, financial analysts • Accurate, reliable information and timely • Annual reports, press releases and other dissemination. publications; • Participation in interviews, round tables, debates and road shows; • Press conferences; • Non-financial ratings. Civil society, local communities: • A response to society’s actual real estate • Investment in segments that represent needs; a demand and respond to a present and local residents, civil society associations, etc. future societal challenge (healthcare real • A contribution to citizens’ well-being; estate, PPP); • Improvement of urban quality of life and • Respect for the neighbourhood when harmony; refurbishing buildings or during new • Payment of taxes. developments; • Citizens’ initiatives supported by Cofinimmo’s employees (mobility week, waste reduction week, help for the homeless, etc.). 26 2018 Sustainability Report Business ethics As a leader in the market and a listed company, Cofinimmo demonstrates transparency and ethical behaviour towards its stakeholders in conducting its activities. It of course condemns any practices that are questionable or punishable by law (corruption, money laundering, undeclared work, social dumping, etc.) and also those that go against the principles of sustainable development, fair treatment, equal opportunities and respect for others. The operating principles apply to all the sectors in which Cofinimmo is active and in all the countries in which it is active. Values 2018 Performance indicators Challenging oneself is an attitude that Cofinimmo has always adopted in order • No cases of misappropriation were identified. to be in sync with a dynamic world. In this • No cases of wrongdoing in calls for tenders were identified. spirit, it has decided to demonstrate certain values for the coming years: Connectivity, 2019 Objectives Accountability and Customer Experience. These words, beyond the concepts, were • Continue to rigorously comply with the transparency and ethics chosen to be closely in line with corporate rules. ambitions. As for the skills expected from • Ensure, via the internal auditor and the tasks assigned to him, every employee, Rigour and Creativity are the identification of the risks of failure to comply with these shifting to Reliability and Pioneership. rules. These are not just buzz words. Cofinimmo • Fully review the texts of the existing charters before consolidatendeavours to define the attitudes and ing them in a single charter and organise internal training on behaviours linked to these key values. To the new charter brought into effect. do so, actions and plans are specifically defined for each business segment. Here, the aim is to respond to the changes affecting society and to provide high-quality caring, living and working spaces (“Caring, Living and Working Together in Real Estate”). Cofinimmo’s positive and sustainable impact on the environment is intended to be a genuine reality. Coffee Corner Bourget 50 office building Brussels Decentralised (BE) Business ethics 2018 Sustainability Report 27 Corporate governance The internal environment The concept of internal environment includes the vision, With respect to corporate governance, Cofinimmo seeks integrity, ethical values, personal skills and the way in which to maintain the highest standards and continuously the Executive Committee assigns authority and responsibilreassesses its methods in relation to the principles, practiities and organises and trains its staff, all under the control ces and requirements of the field. of the Board of Directors. Reference code The business culture of the company incorporates risk TThis governance statement is included the provisions management at various levels based on: of the 2009 Belgian Corporate Governance Code (‘Code 2009’) and those of the Law of 06.04.2010 amending • corporate governance rules and the existence of an the Company Code. The Royal Decree of 06.06.2010 Audit Committee, a Nomination, Remuneration and confirmed Code 2009 as the only code applicable. Corporate Governance Committee entirely composed of The Code is available on the Belgian Official Gazette Independent Directors as meant by Article 526ter of the website (Moniteur Belge/Belgisch Staatsblad) and at Company Code, an Internal Auditor, a Risk Manager, a www.corporategovernancecommittee.be. Management Controller and a Compliance Officer; • the Executive Committee’s integration of the notion of risk The Board of Directors states that, to its knowledge, its corfor any investment, transaction and commitment with a porate governance practice is fully compliant with Code significant potential impact on the company’s objectives; 2009. The Corporate Governance Charter can be viewed on • the existence of a Code of Conduct dealing with conflicts the website at www.cofinimmo.com. It was last updated on of interest, professional secrecy, rules governing the buying 11.03.2019. and selling of shares, prevention of misuse of corporate funds, acceptance of business gifts, communication, resInternal control and risk management pect for individuals and a whistleblowing procedure, that Cofinimmo has implemented a risk management and all are part of the Corporate Governance Charter; internal control process in accordance with the rules of Corporate Governance and the laws applicable to public • adherence to task separation principles and the applicaRegulated Real Estate Companies. tion of rules regarding the delegation of powers clearly established at all levels of the Group; To do so, the Group selected the Enterprise Risk Manage­ ment (ERM) model developed by COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission www.coso.org) as the frame of reference. COSO is a private sector organisation. Its goal is to promote quality improveBourget 44 office building ments in financial and non-financial reporting through the Brussels Decentralised (BE) application of business ethics rules, an effective internal control system and enterprise governance rules. The ERM model consists of the following components: • the internal environment; • the setting of objectives and risk appetite; • identification, analysis and risk management; • control activities; • information and internal communication; • surveillance and monitoring. 28 2018 Sustainability Report • the application of strict criteria for human resources Control activities management, particularly with respect to selection, staff Controls are implemented in the various departments in recruitment rules, training policy, periodic performance response to the risks identified: assessment procedures and setting of annual targets; • at financial level: the differences between the estimated • the existence of a Sustainability Committee whose misbudget and the realised result are reviewed quarterly by sion is to identify and continuously evaluate all elements the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the that can improve the sustainable development strategy. Board of Directors; It is composed on the one hand of representatives of the departments directly involved in the real estate manage• at credit risk level: the solvency of the most important ment of the Group’s assets and on the other hand, supporclients without a financial rating is analysed annually by ting departments such as the legal, communication and the financial department. The amounts and validity of human resources departments; the rental guarantees established by all of the tenants are checked quarterly by the operational teams; • the monitoring of procedures and the formalisation of processes; • at rental level: half-yearly analysis of the rental vacancy, the lease terms and the risks and opportunities in terms • an updated disaster recovery plan. of rental revenue; External players are also involved in this risk control environ• at accounting level: the use of an ERP application ment. They include, in particular, the Financial Services and (Enterprise Resource Planning, that is, an integrated Markets Authority (FSMA), company auditors, legal consultmanagement software package), namely SAP, includes a ants, evaluator experts, banks, credit rating agency, financial number of automatic checks. SAP covers all accounting analysts and shareholders. and financial aspects, as well as all data related to the real estate business (i.e. monitoring of rental contracts, rent The setting of objectives and risk appetite invoices, statements of charges, orders, purchases, work Cofinimmo’s strategy is defined every two years by the site budget monitoring, etc.); Board of Directors based on a proposal from the Executive • at treasury level: the use of a range of financing sources Committee, taking into account the sustainable developand banks and the spreading of maturities limits the risk ment topics proposed by the Sustainability Committee. It is of refinancing concentration; then translated into operational, compliance and reporting • interest rate risk is limited by the application of a hedging objectives. These apply at all of the Company’s operating policy; levels, from the most global level to their implementation in the functional units. • the use of cash flow software facilitates the day-to-day monitoring of cash flow positions and cash-pooling opeA budget, which translates the Company’s objectives into rations; figures, is drawn up annually and reviewed every quarter. It • the dual signature principle is applied within the limits of includes forecast revenue items such as rents for the year delegations of power for commitments to third parties, as well as costs linked to the management and developwhether this involves asset acquisitions, rental transacment of the property portfolio and financial costs linked to tions, orders of any type, approvals of invoices or payments; the business financing structure. The budget is validated by the Executive Committee then submitted to the Board of • the use of workflow software at the different stages of Directors for approval. business activity (leasing) strengthens the controls at the key stages of the process; Identification, analysis and management of risks • the register and movements of COFB, COFP1 and COFP2 This point includes the identification of risk events, their registered shares are integrated in a secure IT applicaanalysis and the measures taken to respond to them in an tion (Capitrack programme), developed and supplied by effective manner. Belgium’s central depository Euroclear. An overall in-depth risk analysis of the Company is carried out periodically in collaboration with all levels of the organisation, each for its respective areas of competence. The analysis is carried out on the basis of the strategic choices, legal constraints and the environment within which the Company operates, including risks related to sustainable development, such as the impact of climate change on the Company’s activities. It begins with the identification of potential risks, their probability of occurrence and their impact on objectives viewed from different angles: financial, legal, operational, counterparty, property and reputation. The analysis is then formalised in a document presented and discussed at an Executive Committee meeting. It is updated throughout the year according to the evolution of business activities and new commitments, taking into account the lessons of the past. Once a year, it is also submitted to the Audit Committee which uses it, among other things, to decide on the audit assignments entrusted to the Internal Auditor. Furthermore, each major project undergoes a specific risk analysis based on an organised framework to improve the quality of information used in the decision-making process. Business ethics 2018 Sustainability Report 29 Information and internal communication present an update on the evolution of their specific busiInformation and communication between the various levness activities. els of the Company and the information they disseminate is based on work meetings and on reporting: Additionally, the assignments of the Internal Auditor cover various procedures. The results of the audits are submitted • the Management Report, drawn up quarterly by the to the Audit Committee, which ensures implementation of Controlling department, details the situation of the the recommendations, and to the Board of Directors. income statement and the balance sheet, the key performance indicators, the acquisitions/sales situation and Shareholding structure as at 31.12.2018 their impact on the results. It also includes an inventory of The table below shows the shareholders of Cofinimmo assets, project progress and cash flow positions. It is distribholding more than 5 % of the capital. Transparency uted to management, department heads and key individdeclarations and control chains are available on the webuals. It is discussed by the Executive Committee, the Audit site. According to the Euronext definition, the free float is Committee and the Board of Directors; 100 %. • each department also periodically draws up specific This table presents the situation based on the transparreports about its own activities; ency declarations received under the Law of 02.05.2007. • the Executive Committee meets weekly to systematicAny changes notified since 31.12.2018 have been pubally review important issues dealing with the Company’s lished according to the provisions of the above mentioned operations and business and to discuss in more detail law and can be consulted on the company’s website property investments and divestments, construction and www.cofinimmo.com. rental matters. A report is created for each meeting with, if necessary, an action plan for the implementation of the The Board of Directors declares that the shareholders listed decisions taken at the meeting. do not have different voting rights. Surveillance and monitoring Company % A closing is prepared each quarter using the same proBlackRock, Inc. 5.54 % cedures as for the end of the financial year. Consolidated accounts are drawn up at this time. Key indicators are calcuCrédit Agricole Group 5.01 % lated and analysed. The data is collected in the Management Cofinimmo Group (treasury shares) 1 0.18 % Report referred to in the point above. All of this data is Others < 5 % 89.27 % discussed and analysed by the Executive Committee, the TOTAL 100.00 % Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. Each department also collects relevant information at its Risk factors own level which is analysed quarterly and compared to the The risk of resilience to climate change (see excerpt below) objectives set for the year. During the course of the year, the is an integral part of risk factors in the Annual Financial Executive Committee invites each head of department to Report (see pages 2-5). Property portfolio risks Risk Potential Mitigating factors description impact and measures Resilience 1. More difficult access to • Analysis of the potential and installation of photovoltaic units in the portfolio to climate electricity networks. on a third-party investor basis. (1) change 2. Physical impact on buildings • Issue of Green and Social Bonds to refinance the acquisition and due to extreme weather development of high-performance buildings. (1,2,3,4) conditions. • Promote buildings with a good location in terms of mobility and sustainable 3. Changes to environmental modes of transport. (2,3,4) regulations. • Incorporation of flood risks and environmental aspects into the due 4. Negative impact on the value diligence process at each acquisition. (2,3,4) of a building. • Active policy to optimise the energy performance of buildings, getting 5. Increase in costs to be incurred ahead of legislation whenever possible. (3,4,5,6) to maintain a building in operating condition. • Active policy of optimising the water consumption of buildings, prioritising on the use of non-drinking water whenever possible. (3,4,5,6) 6. Negative impact on the Group’s ability to operate a building. • Construction and renovation of properties with an excellent energy performance by incorporating life cycle analysis of a building. (3,4,5,6) 7. Potential impact on the Group’s reputation. • Purchase of 100 % renewable electricity for buildings under management. (7) • Transparent communication on non-financial indicators in accordance with EPRA and GRI. (7) 1 The voting rights attached to the treasury shares held by the Cofinimmo Group have been suspended. 30 2018 Sustainability Report Governance structure Board of Directors Compliance officer • Decides the company’s strategic directions • Ensures compliance with the Code • Actively oversees the quality of management and its strategy compliance of Conduct: conflicts of interest, • Examines the quality of the information given to investors and the public incompatible mandates, compliance with company values, market abuses and • Incorporates sustainable development proposals into global strategy manipulations • Provides the company’s entrepreneurial leadership • Ensures compliance with all the legal and • Monitors risks and opportunities related to climate change regulatory provisions in force Audit Committee Executive Committee Nomination, remuneration and corporate governance •A  ssists the Board in: •H andles the company’s day-to day committee t he oversight of the auditors management, under the chairmanindependence ship of the CEO •A dvises and assists the Board with all t he process of preparing financial •P roposes the company’s strategy to issues related to: and non-financial information the Board t he composition of the Board, its t he effectiveness of the company’s committees and the Executive •E xecutes the strategy approved by Committee internal control and risk managethe Board ment mechanisms t he selection, evaluation and appointt he internal audit and its effective•A pproves the sustainability proposals ment of the members of the Board ness submitted by the Sustainability and of the Executive Committee t he legal audit of the annual and Committee t he remuneration policy for the consolidated accounts members of the Board and Executive Committee t he corporate governance Internal auditor Sustainability Committee •C  arries out all verification tasks based •C  ommunicates the Group's achieveon the Audit Committee’s directives ments to all stakeholders under the chairmanship of the Head of Property Services •R  eviews the reliability, consistency & CSR, reporting directly to a member of and integrity of information and operthe Executive Committee ational procedures •E  valuates and manages risks and oppor•R  eviews the systems implemented to tunities related to climate change ensure that the organisation complies with the rules, plans, procedures, laws •P  roposes specific and economically and regulations that may have a signifireasonable measures to improve the cant impact on its operations environmental performance of the company, its portfolio and, by extension, the spaces occupied by its tenants •E  nsures that the Group complies with legal, national and international environmental requirements, with the support of the Environmental Manager who is a member of the Sustainability Committee • F ollows in the field, in collaboration with the operational teams, the implementation of the Group's environmental strategy in all business segments •P  romotes dialogue with all stakeholders in order to determine where efforts must be made and to develop long-term partnerships which will increase the positive impact of the actions implemented Profitability for investors and access to capital 2018 Sustainability Report 31 Profitability for investors and access to capital Profitability is essential to enable Cofinimmo to take up its responsibilities and pursue its activities. It enables the company to measure both its efficiency and the value that clients see in its products and services. It is a determining factor for the allocation of resources and the protection of investments on which its develop2018 Performance indicator ment and the production of its services are dependent. Cofinimmo could not fully take up its economic and social role if it had insufficient profits or a fragile financial base. Economic value generated and distributed in 2018 Economic value Economic value generated (x 1,000 EUR) distributed (x 1,000 EUR) + 248,668 EUR 19,757 EUR Pub Cheval Marin Brussels (BE) Customers Personnel 122,402 EUR 177,836 EUR 27,865 Suppliers of EUR Shareholders Total economic value 30,805 EUR goods and services distributed (x 1,000 EUR) Financial expenditure = 220,803 EUR 4,871 EUR Added value Public sector 42,968 EUR Economic value retained within the Group (x 1,000 EUR) Loi/Wet 57 Office building Brussels CBD (BE) 32 2018 Sustainability Report Management of financial resources Cofinimmo’s financial strategy is Its debt and confirmed lines of credit are not subject to any early refinancing clauses, or changes in margin, related to characterised by the diversification its financial rating. They are generally subject to conditions related to: of its financing sources, regular • compliance with RREC legislation; access to the capital markets, • compliance with debt ratio levels and cash flow hedging a debt ratio close to 45 % and of financial charges; • the fair value of the real estate portfolio. optimisation of the duration and At 31.12.2018 and throughout the 2018 financial year the cost of financing (see the ‘Strategy’ ratios were met. In addition, no payment defaults on the loan contracts, nor violations of the terms and condichapter of the 2018 Annual tions of these same contracts are expected in the coming Financial Report). 12 months. Financing transactions in 2018 Cofinimmo continued to strengthen its financial resources and balance sheet structure in 2018. The financing transactions over the financial year enabled the Group to further diversify its financing sources, reduce the cost of its debt and maintain maturities. Care centre for people suffering from mental disorders Alphen aan den Rijn (NL) Profitability for investors and access to capital 2018 Sustainability Report 33 Extension of the commercial paper programme Early refinancing and additional lines of credit therefore On 26.01.2018, Cofinimmo increased the maximum amount amounted to more than 300 million EUR in the 2018 finanof its commercial paper programme from 500 million EUR cial year. to 650 million EUR. The amount invested as at 31.12.2018 amounted to approximately 628.5 million EUR. Interest rate swaps Cofinimmo seized the opportunity, in an environment of Capital increase with irrevocable allocation low but volatile rates, to modify its hedge portfolio at the rights in the amount of 155 million EUR end of the last quarter of 2018. On 20.06.2018, Cofinimmo launched a capital increase with irrevocable allocation rights in the amount of 155 milSome IRS for 2019 have been shifted and extended, lion EUR, with the aim of financing the 2018 committed ­increasing the coverage of floating rate debt in future years. investment pipeline and undergoing due diligence, while Caps (interest rate options with a maximum level of 0 % for maintaining a debt ratio of around 45 %. this transaction) were subscribed in order to maintain the same level of coverage in 2019. The subscription price of one new share was set at 94.50 EUR, representing a 10 % reduction compared to the These different operations result in: theoretical price (after ex-date of the coupon representing the irrevocable allocation right and of the coupon repre• a decrease in the cost of hedging for 2019, for an senting the pro rata temporis 2018 dividend). The exchange unchanged notional amount; ratio was 13 irrevocable allocation rights against 1 new share. • an increase in the notional amount hedged of 195 million EUR in 2020, 195 million EUR in 2021, 100 million EUR At the end of the subscription period for the holders of in 2022, 250 million EUR in 2023, 250 million EUR in 2024. irrevocable allocation rights, 80.41 % of the maximum amount of the offering had been subscribed. Unexercised Currency risk hedging irrevocable allocation rights, converted to scrips, were On 15.02.2018, the Cofinimmo Group cancelled two ­foreign placed with institutional investors the following day. The exchange put options into euro that it had contracted offering was fully subscribed during this placement, within 2016. The purpose of the hedge, namely the sale of a out a discount compared to the closing market price of the building in a foreign currency, had been unlikely to occur preceding day (103.50 EUR). before the expiry of the hedge due to steps being taken to register the said building on a list of protected buildings. Therefore, on 02.07.2018, Cofinimmo issued 1,642,374 new Cofinimmo therefore wished to take advantage of the preshares at a subscription price of 94.50 EUR, or approximately vailing market conditions to cancel the options contracted 155 million EUR. These new shares were immediately listed on favourable terms. Given that the premiums relating to for trading and give entitlement to a pro rata temporis divithese options were largely accounted for during the 2016 dend as from 02.07.2018. and 2017 financial years, these cancellations generated a profit in the income statements during the first half of 2018. Renewal of credit lines The following lines of credit were renewed (early refinancing) in 2018: • a 40 million EUR credit line at a floating rate for seven years; • a 20 million EUR credit line at a floating rate for seven years; • a 50 million EUR credit line at a floating rate for five years; • a 50 million EUR credit line at a floating rate for six years. • In addition, Cofinimmo has entered into the following new lines of credit: • a 120 million EUR credit line at a floating rate for eight years; • a 25 million EUR credit line at a floating rate for ten years. 34 2018 Sustainability Report Debt structure Consolidated financial debts At 31.12.2018, the Group’s current and non-current consolidated financial debt was 1,625.4 million EUR. It consisted of the following: Bond market • 406.7 million EUR for three non-convertible bonds (accrued interest not yet due): Issuing Nominal amount Issue price Coupon Issue date Maturity date company (x 1,000,000 EUR) Cofinimmo SA/NV 140.0 100 % 3.598 % 26.07.2012 07.02.2020 Cofinimmo SA/NV 190.0 100 % 1.929 % 25.03.2015 25.03.2022 Cofinimmo SA/NV 70.0 99.609 % 1.700 % 26.10.2016 26.10.2026 • 55,0 million EUR in non-convertible ‘Green and Social Bonds’ (accrued interest not yet due): Issuing Nominal amount Issue price Coupon Issue date Maturity date company (x 1,000,000 EUR) Cofinimmo SA/NV 55.0 99.941 % 2.00 % 09.12.2016 09.12.2024 • 215.8 million EUR for a bond convertible into Cofinimmo shares (accrued interest not yet due): Issuing Nominal amount Issue price Conversion Coupon Issue date Maturity company (x 1,000,000 EUR) price date Cofinimmo SA/NV 219.3 100 % 140.1072 0.1875 % 15.09.2016 15.09.2021 The convertible bonds are valued at market value on the the attractive cost of this type of short-term financing probalance sheet. gramme while ensuring its refinancing in the event that the placement of new commercial paper becomes more • 628.5 million EUR in commercial paper, of which 572.5 milcostly or unworkable. lion EUR with an initial maturity of less than one year and • 40.0 million EUR for drawdowns on credit lines maturing 56.0 million EUR with an initial maturity longer than three in 2019; years; • 0.6 million EUR in other loans. • 2.8 million EUR corresponding to the present value of the minimum coupon of Mandatory Convertible Bonds (MCB) The liquidity of the Group’s confirmed lines of credit was issued by Cofinimur I in December 2011. 1,071.0 million EUR at 31.12.2018. Bank facilities Excluding the hedging of commercial paper issues, • 309.1 million EUR in bilateral, syndicated mediumand Cofinimmo has 498.5 million EUR of excess cash to finance long-term bank loans, with an initial maturity of five to ten its activity. years, contracted with ten banks; Consolidated debt ratios • 7.5 million EUR in other loans, advances and rental depoCofinimmo met all financial debt ratio limits as at 31.12.2018. sits received. Its regulatory debt ratio (calculated in accordance with the RREC regulation as: Financial and other debt / Total assets) Current financial debt stands at 43.0 % (compared to 43.8 % at 31.12.2017). Note As at 31.12.2018, Cofinimmo’s current financial debt was that the legal limit for RRECs is 65 %. 613.1 million EUR, of which: The Loan-to-Value ratio (defined as: Net financial debt / • 572.5 million EUR in commercial paper with a maturity Fair value of assets and finance lease receivables) stood at of less than one year, of which 104.0 million EUR with a 42.2 % as at 31.12.2018 (versus 43.4 % at 31.12.2017). maturity longer than three months. Short-term commercial paper issues are fully hedged by liquidity on confirWhen Cofinimmo’s credit agreements refer to a debt limit, med long-term lines of credit. Cofinimmo benefits from they refer to the regulatory ratio and cap it at 60 %. Profitability for investors and access to capital 2018 Sustainability Report 35 Debt maturity Composition of debt as at 31.12.2018 The weighted average maturity of the financial commitments was maintained at four years between 31.12.2017 and 31.12.2018. The calculation excludes short-term commercial 13 % 32 % paper maturities which are entirely hedged by tranches Convertible bonds Non-convertible available on long-term credit lines. It does not take into bonds & long-term account the maturities for which refinancing is already in 1,625 commercial paper place. MEUR 36 % Confirmed long-term loans (credit lines, bonds, commerShort-term 19 % cial paper over one year and term loans), which totalled commercial paper Bank credits 2,110 million EUR as at 31.12.2018, will mature consistently & other through 2029. Maximum 26.6 % of the outstanding amount matures in a single year, in this case 2021. Average costs of debt and Schedule of long-term financial commitments interest rate hedging as at 31.12.2018 (x 1,000,000 EUR) The average cost of debt, including bank margins, was 1.9 % for the 2018 financial year, compared to 1.9 % for the 2017 600 financial year. 500 Cofinimmo has implemented partial hedging of its floating rate debt via the use of IRS and caps. Cofinimmo also 400 330 has a policy aimed at securing interest rates over a period of at least three years for a proportion of 50 % to 100 % of 300 80 projected debt. Given this context, the Group uses a global 105 200 168 approach (macro hedging). As a result, it does not hedge 200 180 83 each variable-rate line of credit individually. 100 146 219 55 100 90 89 25 At 31.12.2018, the distribution of fixed-rate debt, of hedged 40 40 10 62 50 12 10 16 0 floating-rate debt and of non-hedged floating-rate debt 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 was as indicated in the opposite graph. Drawn credit lines Classical bonds & ST commercial paper At 31.12.2018, the anticipated interest rate risk was hedged Undrawn credit lines Convertible bonds at over 79 % through 2021. However, Cofinimmo’s result remains sensitive to changes in interest rates. Financial rating Breakdown of fixed-rate debt, of floating-rate debt Cofinimmo has received a longand short-term financial hedged and of floating rate debt not hedged rating from the Standard Poor’s rating agency since 2001. as at 31.12.2018 – in % In 2018, Standard & Poor’s confirmed the company’s BBB/ stable outlook rating for the long term and A-2 for the short 100 6% term. The Group’s liquidity is rated high, based on the sig12 % 14 % 90 21 % nificant liquidity available on its lines of credit. 80 39 % 44 % 70 41 % 55 % 40 % 60 50 54 % 40 48 % 43 % 30 47 % 46 % 20 39 % 25 % 10 12 % 13 % 0 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Fixed-rate debt Floating-rate debt hedged Floating-rate debt not hedged 36 2018 Sustainability Report Innovative use of Green and Social Bonds Cofinimmo is the first european real estate company to issue Green and Social bonds. On 09.12.2016, Cofinimmo successfully closed a private placement of green and social bonds for an amount of 55 million EUR with an eight-year maturity and a 2.00 % coupon. The bonds, which were Fund allocation meant to (re)finance projects with a positive contribution Cofinimmo’s Treasury department ensures that the funds to sustainable development, were placed with institutional collected via the Green and Social Bonds issue are alloinvestors. cated exclusively, within the year following the issue and throughout the life of the bond, to projects that make up This operation was subject to an external opinion from the the Green and Social Bonds portfolio. In what proportions? ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) research and 50 % is allocated to offices with an environmental and services agency Vigeo Eiris, concerning: sustainability certification. The other 50 % is allocated to • its compliance with the 2016 Green Bond Principles and healthcare assets dedicated to the housing of vulnerable or the Guidance for Issuers of Social Bonds of the International dependent people in need of special care. Capital Market Association (ICMA); Auditing • its environmental and social aims; Until the bond’s maturity in 2024, the external auditor, cur• its responsible nature. rently Deloitte, will annually assess the allocation of funds, The projects were selected in accordance with the procethe compliance of the selected projects and the indicators. dures defined by Cofinimmo and assessed by Vigeo Eiris The audit report can be consulted in the Statutory Auditor’s based on probative procedures. report (see pages 90-92). Selection procedure in line with the sustainability strategy An assessment and selection framework was defined and published on Cofinimmo’s website. It was backed by interBelliard 40 office building Brussels CBD (BE) nal and external expertise. The current Green and Social Bonds portfolio consists of the projects on page 39. Their selection was based on defined criteria, such as fund allocation and environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria. The selection procedure was based on the expertise of Cofinimmo’s in-house teams responsible for these projects, on the one hand, and on impact assessment studies, BREEAM requirements and other external technical factors, on the other. Each assessment step was approved by the Executive Committee and is part of an analytical approach to a building’s life cycle. Profitability for investors and access to capital 2018 Sustainability Report 37 Components of ICMA’s Green Bond principles Fund Project Fund Annual External allocation selection management indicators report auditing Criteria and objectives: Two categories of eligible projects The funds are meant to (re)finance projects making a positive contribution towards sustainable development. The buildings selected to make up the Green and Social Bonds portfolio have been recently delivered, renovated or are under development and have environmental or social objectives. 50 % 50 % Gre en offices He althcare re al estate Investments in existing/future green offices in Investments in existing/future assets providing and/or proCofinimmo’s portfolio with an environmental and susmoting access to essential healthcare services for vulnertainability certification (BREEAM or BREEAM In-Use with able groups of people and in certain medical specialisations at least a Very Good rating). (psychiatrics, geriatrics or care for people with disabilities) Objectives Objectives •C limate change mitigation by implementing energy •R  enovating and/or expanding the healthcare real estate savings and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. portfolio to meet current and future needs for the housing and care of vulnerable people (nursing and care homes, •E nvironmental design and management of projects rehabilitation, psychiatric and acute care clinics). through: • Encouraging healthcare operators to reduce the energy > energy performance scorecard; footprint of buildings by incorporating sustainable archi> equipment and installation upgrades. tecture, ecological materials and more energy-efficient • Extension of BREEAM and/or BREEAM In-Use certififacilities (construction or renovation of buildings). cates. Sustainable benefits Climate change mitigation: Improvement of healthcare services: Reduction of GHG emissions. Increased provision of healthcare beds and services. Protection of natural resources: Water and energy savings, use of sustainable materials, etc. Selection procedures In line with the strategy Assessment and selection framework • Improve the environmental footprint • Environmental criteria; • Expertise of internal teams; of the portfolio and the company; • Social criteria; • External assessments and •E  nsure the safety and well-being requirements; • Governance criteria. of occupants; • Approval by the Executive •S  elect socially-aware and Committee; responsible projects. • Treasury allocation; • Assessment by the external auditor. 38 2018 Sustainability Report Green and Social Bonds portfolio When the bonds were issued, certain indicators were not selected beforehand and are not included in the Second Party Opinion of Vigeo Eiris. They are therefore not applicable and are marked in this table with n/a (not applicable). GENERAL INFORMATION Eligibility criterion Type of works/asset Progress of works Tenant(s) Above-ground surface area Number of beds Year of construction or last refurbishment Date of acquisition or future delivery ALLOCATION OF FUNDS RAISED (55 MILLION EUR) Total cost of projects Amounts allocated % of allocation (Re)financing SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS Climate change mitigation CO2 emissions per year Protection of natural resources Yearly energy consumption Yearly water consumption Improvement of healthcare services Number of beds (new/existing) Medical specialty Profitability for investors and access to capital 2018 Sustainability Report 39 HEALTHCARE REAL ESTATE GREEN OFFICES Residence Tillens Villa Sonnenmond Domaine de Vontes Guimard 10-12 Rue Beeckman 26 Am Stein 20 Vauguinier, BP 19 Rue Guimard 10 1180 Brussels (BE) 56479 Neustadt/Westerwald (DE) 37320 Esvres-sur-Indre (FR) 1040 Brussels (BE) Nursing and care home Nursing and care home Aftercare and rehabilitation clinic BREEAM Very Good Creation of an environment Nursing and care home, based Extension and reorganisation of Large-scale renovation of the maximising the lifespan of people on a “Village in the building” the aftercare and rehabilitation building to significantly improve suffering from dementia. The concept, particularly wellclinic. its energy performance (insulated presence of green spaces with suited to people suffering from curtain wall with double glazing, appropriate plants provides real dementia. installation of a heat pump and added value to this type of asset. condensing boilers, LED lighting, Special attention has been paid to etc.). patient safety. Works completed Asset in operation Extension works in progress Works completed Armonea Convivo Holding GmbH Inicéa Bank Degroof Petercam SA/NV European Socialist Party Rohde Public Policy SPRL/BVBA 4,960 m² 2,940 m² 6,352 m² (8,208 m² with 10,410 m² extension) 80 71 105 (between 150 and 160, n/a according to fare optimisation, with extension) 2015 2012 1967 2015 Acquired on 29.07.2011 Acquired on 01.09.2017 Delivery of extension works Acquired on 24.12.2004 on 08.02.2019 31.0 million EUR 48.9 million EUR 16.4 million EUR 6.1 million EUR 8.5 million EUR 27.5 million EUR 27.5 million EUR 15.0 million EUR 6.0 million EUR 6.5 million EUR 50 % 50 % 27 % 11 % 12 % 100 % refinanced 100 % refinanced 100 % refinanced 100 % refinanced n/a n/a n/a 31 kg CO2 e/m² n/a n/a n/a 137 kWh/m² n/a n/a n/a 0.36 m³/m² Between 301 and 311 out of 2,532 beds in the categories nursing and care homes, rehabilitation, n/a psychiatric and acute care clinics. Psychogeriatrics Psychogeriatrics Psychiatry n/a 40 2018 Sustainability Report ESG-MANAGEMENT (AT 31.12.2018) ENVIRONMENT Environmental strategy Five-year portfolio renewal objective Energy efficiency of buildings Yearly energy consumption (standardised by surface area) GHG emissions per year (standardised by surface area) Estimated MWh (solar energy production) Cooperation with tenants to reduce Multi-tenant buildings equipped with the environmental impact of buildings remotely readable meters (in %) Number of Green Charters signed Number of inspection visits Inclusion of environmental factors in Materials reused after building the logistics chain refurbishment (in tonnes) Number of supplier contracts with environmental clauses concerning major development and refurbishment projects SOCIAL Responsible customer relations Number of flexible contracts (space, duration) Number of requests Progress of asbestos detection and removal Number of inspection visits Inclusion of social factors in the logistics chain Number of controversies related to social aspects in the logistics chain Promotion of social and economic development Number of contracts with a clause for the promotion of local youth employment Building accessibility Number of accessibility audits for persons with reduced mobility Number of audits for building connectivity (proximity and multi-modal transport) GOVERNANCE Prevention of corruption and money laundering Number of audits and controversies Audit and internal control Number of internal controls and results Profitability for investors and access to capital 2018 Sustainability Report 41 HEALTHCARE REAL ESTATE OFFICES TOTAL 5.36 % 2.99 % 3.45 % 181 kWh/m² 195 kWh/m² 179 kWh/m² 38 kg CO2e/m² 43 kg CO2e/m² 39 kg CO2e/m² 647 MWh 1,185 MWh 1,832 MWh n/a Guimard 10-12 is one of the 56 buildings n/a equipped with remotely readable meters. In total, 89 % of multi-tenant buildings are equipped with remotely readable meters. n/a 18.8 % of office spaces are covered by a Green n/a Charter. Two out of the three assets in the Green and n/a n/a Social Bonds portfolio received inspection visits. In total, 65 buildings in the healthcare real estate segment received inspection visits in 2018. During these visits, the environmentrelated aspects were discussed with the operator on-site. n/a In 2018, no redevelopment projects were n/a identified where the opportunity arose to recover materials before demolition. The environmental policy is attached to all n/a n/a general contracting agreements. n/a In 2018, 23 contracts were signed in the Flex n/a Corners® for gross surface areas between 36 m² and 248 m² and durations between 12 and 36 months (with exception of one contrat of 9 years). n/a In 2018, the Service Desk handled 10,612 n/a requests of which 177 in Guimard 10-12. The data for 88 % of the portfolio have been 49 % of the total portfolio is free of asbestos. For the global portfolio see chapter ‘Safety processed. 61 % of the portfolio (including the and well-being’. three assets in the Green and Social Bonds portfolio) contain no traces of asbestos. Two out of the three assets in the Green and n/a n/a Social Bonds portfolio received inspection visits in 2018. In total, 65 buildings in the healthcare real estate segment received an inspection visit in 2018. During these visits, the social aspects were discussed on-site with the management. No controversies related to social aspects in the logistics chain were identified. n/a A clause concerning the employment of a n/a trainee is included in all general contracting agreements. The compliance checks are part of the due 18 buildings have been audited since 2013. n/a diligence procedure and are regulated by a licence for the operation of the assets. At the time of acquisition an audit is Quantitative audits for 100 % of the portfolio n/a not mandatory, but is often carried out (see page 60). proactively (at the due diligence stage). In 2018, two external audits were carried out on the accounts and IT by Deloitte. No cases of misappropriation or wrongdoing in the calls for tender were identified. In 2018, one mission of internal control was carried out by the internal auditor on the organization and reporting in the Netherlands. Moreover, at 31.12.2018, 34 recommendations are ongoing coming from the internal and external audit missions of 2018 and previous years. 26 recommendations were closed in 2018. 42 2018 Sustainability Report Innovation As a major property owner in Europe, Cofinimmo endeavours to be a visionary and to stimulate the debate on future real estate needs. It does its utmost to integrate major societal trends into its strategy to avoid the accelerated obsolescence of buildings and to preserve economic sustainability. Innovative solutions are therefore a must to create new growth opportunities and ensure the sustainability of the current portfolio. 2018 Performance indicators Cockx 8-10 office building Brussels Decentralised (BE) Flex Corner® Two new Flex Corners® were set up in the buildings Arts/ Kunst 46 (Brussels Leopold District) and Colonel Bourg 122 (Brussels Decentralised). The existing Flex Corner® at Omega Court (Brussels Decentralised) was expanded. Coffee Corner In total, nine shared meeting rooms were set up in the buildings Bourget 50 (Brussels Periphery) and Omega Court (Brussels Decentralised). These rooms have a capacity ranging from 4 to 70 people. They are available to tenants as well as external clients. Two recent spaces were also laid out as gardens at the office buildings Meeûs 23 (Brussels Leopold District) and Omega Court (Brussels Decentralised). Five pubs have been made available temporarily for residential use. 2019 Objectives •C reation of a second Flex Corner® in the Park Lane Business Park (Brussels Periphery). •O ngoing marketing of the Lounges® meeting rooms at Park Lane and The Gradient as well as of the shared meeting rooms in the buildings Bourget 50, Omega Court and Science/Wetenschap 41. •F urther implementation of the prototypes for new innovation ideas. • Continuation  of the redevelopment of the Quartz building (formerly Arts/Kunst 19H) using BIM software. Innovation 2018 Sustainability Report 43 Achievements in 2018 Cofinimmo periodically sets up working groups of around a dozen internal employees. The aim here is to consider how to integrate new societal trends identified beforehand. These groups develop their research through meetings with visionaries in fields of activity that may influence the real estate sector of tomorrow (mobility, urban agriculture, smart cities and buildings, the digital revolution, big data, etc.). Taking into account new construction techniques and more sustainable technologies, these groups submit various proposals in line with the needs of clients and tenants. The objectives: to reduce the amount of vacant premises in the portfolio, to extend the life cycle of buildings and to facilitate their operation. However, innovation is not exclusive to these specific working groups, and it also emanates from Cofinimmo’s various departments. In this respect, tools are made available to all employees. With a view to searching for solutions, a digital platform for exchange enables all employees to share their Flex Corner ® Souverain/Vorst 36 office ideas or present the challenges they face. buildingBrussels Decentralised (BE) Flex Corner ® Souverain/Vorst 24 office Flex Corner® buildingBrussels Decentralised (BE) The Flex Corner® concept consists of a set of small office spaces of various sizes, equipped with shared facilities (kitchenette, lounge, several meeting rooms of different Lounge® and shared meeting rooms capacities). The result here is maximum flexibility. The What is the Lounge®? These are modern and multifuncoffice spaces are pre-cabled and basic amenities, such as tional spaces comparable to airport VIP lounges. They are carpeting, are already installed. Tenants can also call on equipped so that people can work, meet or relax in them. Cofinimmo’s expertise to complete the setting up of their The concept is in line with changing working practices, private spaces. The shared meeting rooms are made availwhich are becoming more flexible and mobile, such as able in proportion to the size of the leased premises and co-working, teleworking and the need for increased concan be booked via a reservation system accessible from the nectivity between people and objects. client’s computer or from a screen near the rooms. Cofinimmo opened its first Lounge® in December 2016 at The minimum lease length is one year, but it can be tailored the Park Lane Business Park (Brussels Periphery). In 2017, to the tenant’s needs via the Custom your lease® option and a second Lounge® was opened in The Gradient building suitable contractual conditions. Tenants receive a monthly (Brussels Decentralised). Together, these two Lounges® invoice which includes the rent, inclusive taxes, and a set amount to a surface area of 1,338 m² and comprise shared amount for shared rental-related expenses (electricity, spaces, brainstorming areas, a number of different alcoves, maintenance, Wi-Fi, use of meeting rooms). multimedia meeting rooms of different capacities and relaxation areas (library area, table football). Ten office buildings are now equipped with these types of facilities. They also provide catering facilities. The Lounge® at The Gradient has a sandwich shop and catering service. The Park Lane site, in turn, has a brand new restaurant set up in 2018. The Lounges® are managed by the Community Manager, a true orchestrator who is responsible not only for ensuring the proper functioning of the spaces, but also promoting contacts between tenants and organising events to gradually create a spirit of community among the clients. It is also possible to rent all or part of the Lounges® for corporate Cockx 8-10 office building events (product launches, seminars, year-end activities, etc.). Brussels Decentralised (BE) En 2018, Cofinimmo increased the number of shared meeting rooms by equipping the Bourget 50 (Brussels Periphery) and Omega Court (Brussels Decentralised) buildings. These rooms, one of which can accommodate up to 70 people, are rented to Cofinimmo’s tenants but also to visitors. 44 2018 Sustainability Report Year Building Type Surface Floor Capacity Number of Total capacity of area meeting rooms meeting rooms 2015 Paepsem 20 Coffee Corner 52 m² 0 0 0 2015 Paepsem 20 Flex Corner 677 m² 0 1 8 2016 Paepsem 20 Flex Corner 546 m² 0 1 8 2016 Park Lane D The Lounge 404 m² 0 100 people 3 28 2016 The Gradient Flex Corner 1,426 m² 2 3 16 2017 Bourget 42 Flex Corner 808 m² 1 3 20 2017 Omega Court Flex Corner 938 m² 2 3 18 2017 Paepsem 20 Flex Corner 773 m² 4 1 12 2017 Park Hill 20B Flex Corner 472 m² 4 2 24 2017 Park Lane D Flex Corner 474 m² 0 Use of The Lounge meeting rooms 2017 Science/Wetenschap 41 Meeting rooms 77 m² 0 1 10 2017 Souverain/Vorst 36 Flex Corner 836 m² 3 3 16 2017 The Gradient The Lounge 934 m² 0 200 people 5 103 2017 Waterloo Office Park J Flex Corner 403 m² 2 1 6 2017 Park Hill 20B Coffee Corner + 120 m² 4 30 people 0 0 terrace 2017 Souverain/Vorst 36 Coffee Corner 211 m² 0 0 0 2018 Arts/Kunst 46 Flex Corner 678 m² 2 2 12 2018 Bourget 50 Coffee Corner + 524 m² 0 6 84 meeting rooms 2018 Omega Court Coffee Corner + 344 m² 0 60 people 3 46 meeting rooms 2018 Colonel Bourg 122 Flex Corner 595 m² 3 1 8 2018 Omega Court Flex Corner 1,205 m² 2 3 20 In the planning stage 2019 Park Lane E Flex Corner 780 m² 4 Use of The Lounge meeting rooms TOTAL 13,273 m² 390 people 42 439 Innovation 2018 Sustainability Report 45 Paepsem Business Park Brussels Decentralised (BE) Roof-top terraces and office building surroundings In 2018, Cofinimmo continued the gradual fitting out of the roofs of certain buildings and gardens to provide outdoor relaxation areas for their occupants. Two projects were completed in 2018: • Omega Court (Brussels Decentralised): the inner courtyard of this building was harmoniously converted with the planting of solitary birches and ginkgos. • Meeûs 23 (Brussels Leopold District): the inner courtyard was also redeveloped into a relaxation area. This area is now equipped with new urban furniture, where the occupants can have picnics at lunch time. Property of distribution networks: temporary use of vacant premises As soon as rented premises are vacated and while awaiting a new tenant, Cofinimmo examines the possibility of temporarily making it available for a use that differs from the basic purpose of the building. This is a particularly common practice for the pubs and restaurants portfolio in the Netherlands. In 2018, five vacant premises were used for housing. 46 2018 Sustainability Report Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts As a property landlord and investor, Cofinimmo is able to influence the aesthetics and diversity of districts through its investment and construction choices, even though they are primarily based on economic considerations. The sustainable development of cities is based on urban balance, and offices, residential buildings, shops and green spaces must coexist and single-purpose districts gradually disappear. Through the reconversion of certain vacant office buildings, Cofinimmo can re-establish diversity in neighbourhoods from the design stage and in this way improve the attractiveness of buildings. 2018 Performance indicators The architectural aesthetics of buildings are a source of satisfaction for the occupants living in them, and they con28,192 m² tribute to the brand image of the companies that use them. Renovated/built in the healthcare real estate sector The Group strives for urban beauty and harmony by promoting the construction of iconic buildings. 20,320 m² Renovated/built in the office sector 2019 Objectives Belliard 40 office building Brussels CBD (BE) •R  enovation and extension of the portfolio: ‘Domaine de Vontes’ in Esvres-sur-Indre (FR), ‘Les Oliviers’ in Le Puy-Sainte-Réparade (FR), the French Red Cross in Chalon-sur-Saône (FR), Förstereiweg 6 in Ascheffel (DE), Buchauweg 22 in Schafflund (DE), Wijnkoperstraat in Gorinchem (NL), ‘De Nootelaer’ in Keerbergen (BE). •D  elivery of refurbishment works on two pubs and six apartments, namely Falstaff in Brussels (BE) and ‘Café des Nations’ in Knokke (BE). •C  ontinuation of the redevelopment of the Quartz building (formerly Arts 19H). Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts 2018 Sustainability Report 47 Realisations delivered From a technical point of view, the building is constructed in line with ambitious environmental requirements. The or ongoing in 2018 masonry building with brick cladding is fitted with PVC frames and also has a green roof. It is part of an exterior Kaarst (DE): development of a psychiatric landscaping plan with trees and greenery. clinic on a former semi-industrial site Cofinimmo acquired a psychiatric clinic under construction Heat is produced by gas condensing boilers coupled with a in Kaarst. The city is ideally located 15 km from Düsseldorf combined heat and power generation unit. All the electrical and 45 km from Cologne, in the State of North Rhineinstallations meet German energy efficiency requirements Westphalia. in line with the VDE standards. The average level of primary energy consumption is estimated at 219 kWh/m²/year, i.e. This clinic is on the site of a former IKEA warehouse. The site 36 % less than the current benchmark for this type of buildis part of a vision for the broader development of Kaarst-Est, ing in Germany. which was the subject of an ideas competition won by the Scheuvens-Wachten association and WGF Landschaft. The site is located at the entrance of the reorganisation of Situation before works this industrial area and is part of a new access route to the city that will comprise housing, shops and also green and meeting spaces. The presence of a new psychiatric clinic will meet the treatment and support needs of patients suffering from depression and burn-out. The clinic will cover an aboveground surface area of more than 6,600 m² and will have approximately 70 beds, as well as 20 outpatient clinic places surrounding two private inner courtyards. The construction works have just begun and delivery is expected to take place in the spring of 2020. The clinic will be operated by Oberberg GmbH. Situation before works Psychiatric clinic under construction Kaarst (DE) Situation after works 48 2018 Sustainability Report Rotterdam (NL): renovation of a rehabilitation This complex will also be supplemented with some shared centre and a nursing and care home spaces enabling residents to meet, as well as a brasserie. On 19.07.2018, Cofinimmo signed an agreement, subject to conditions, regarding the acquisition of a site located The goal is not only to meet the needs of these residents, in Hillegersberg, a district of Rotterdam, which comprises but to make it a true central living space for the entire a geriatric rehabilitation centre built in 1966 and a nursing neighbourhood. Therefore, part of the building is intended and care home built in 1999. for local treating doctors who are consulted by families. The local residents can also enjoy the nice brasserie, and the Cofinimmo will finance the large-scale renovation works children of the neighbourhood a beautiful garden. on the rehabilitation centre as well as the demolition and redevelopment works on the nursing and care home. The assets are operated by Fundis. The delivery of the works is planned for the end of 2020. They will take place in several phases and care will continue to be provided throughout the duration of the works. The new buildings will have an above-ground surface area of almost 11,000 m². They will have 27 rehabilitation places, 60 geriatric rehabilitation places and 48 places for long-term care. Actual situation before works Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts 2018 Sustainability Report 49 Finally, the clinic will also host an innovative concept of care Sustainable measures: pension for the elderly who are not fully cured after their • use of sustainable/recycled materials (for example biorevalidation and who still require temporary assistance. composite façade slats, materials such as straw, bamboo, flax and hemp insulation and silty stucco products) to be This large-scale renovation will prioritise the reuse of materidetermined during execution; als. Architect Thomas Rau has been chosen to carry out this •w  ithout gas connection; project. Thomas Rau is recognised as being at the forefront of the construction of buildings that are CO2 neutral, and •p  hotovoltaic panels (800 m²); even positive (producing more energy than they consume), • L ED lighting; as well as for integrating the principles of circular architec•h  ealing environment with exercise garden and natural ture. lighting; •c  ircular construction (flexibility of the new construction and reuse of shell of the existing part). Future situation after works (Thomas Rau) 50 2018 Sustainability Report Chalon-sur-Saône (FR):  construction project for the French Red Cross Through a sale before completion transaction, Cofinimmo Group acquired the shell of an after-care and rehabilitation hospital still under construction being built by the French Red Cross in Chalon-sur-Saône, in the Bourgogne-FrancheVivalys nursing and care home Comté region. The facility is located in a Joint Development Brussels (BE) Zone that already houses a hospital, a nuclear medicine centre and a medical centre. Completion of the works is planned for the end of the first quarter of 2019. The facility will offer a capacity of approximately 130 beds, spread over a net usable area of Vivalys, formerly Woluwe 106-108 (BE):  close to 9,300 m², and will include units in neurology, pulconversion of an office building into monary medicine, cardiology and neurovegetative care. a nursing and care home A decreasing demand for offices in the decentralised area Certivea will grant the building a ‘NF-HQE® Bâtiments tertiof Brussels made Cofinimmo opt for the reconversion of the aires Hospitalier Millésime 2008 Démarche HQE’ certificate, Woluwe 106-108 building in Brussels into the Vivalys nursaccompanied by a ‘Passeport Bâtiment Durable’, with an ing and care home. The new Vivalys nursing home, with 151 Excellent level in both the Program and Design phases. beds, has been operational since the first quarter of 2018. These labels are evidence of the desire to develop a very The conversion of such a building, rather than its demolihigh quality building from an environmental perspective tion/reconstruction, enables considerable energy savings and to meet users’ comfort needs. over the asset’s life cycle since its initial construction. This can be seen in the building’s technical characteristics: Cofinimmo decided to keep the architectural concrete of • the building has full outer insulation, thereby avoiding the left and right wings, which is typical of office buildings thermal bridging; of the 1980s, and to create a new central area in glass and • selection of sustainable interior materials that limit emisaluminium to give the overall building a contemporary sions of harmful volatile organic compounds and formalappearance. The car park at the rear of the building was dehyde. This is combined with efficient ventilation; converted into a garden for the residents. • installation of efficient systems to reduce energy conFalstaff (BE): restoration of brasserie and sumption as much as possible. Consumption is estimated redevelopment of the upper floors into housing at approximately 90 kWh of primary energy per m² and This brasserie, an Art Nouveau gem, has long been a point of per year: reference for the people of Brussels. o connection to the existing urban network for heating and hot water production; However, the upper floors of this listed building had been o cooling produced by heat pumps with reversible operabandoned for several decades. Cofinimmo is redeveloping ation. the upper floor and (re)creating housing in the heart of the city. In addition, special attention is being paid to the construction phase. Using a clean site approach, the environmental On completion of the renovation, three large apartments impact of the site is limited, in particular concerning the will have been brought up-to-date, in compliance with all safety and comfort of the people working on the site, as the electrical, insulation, safety and fire prevention stanwell as the visual aspect with respect to local residents and dards. potential clients. Sustainable measures: • installation of counter frames, as the existing listed frames are being restored and conserved; •u  se of natural and environmentally-friendly products: wood fibre insulation; •c  ondensing boiler. Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts 2018 Sustainability Report 51 Quartz (BE): central spot on the ‘Avenue des Arts/ Kunstlaan’ based on a transparent architecture Quartz office building Cofinimmo started the redevelopment of the Quartz buildBrussels CBD (BE) ing, formerly Arts/Kunst 19H, which was built in 1973 and partially renovated in 1998. This building, which will be delivered in early 2020, will be a nearly zero emission building seeking a BREEAM Excellent certificate (already obtained for the design stage). The surface area will amount to 9,200 m² over seven floors (ground floor + six floors). This project was the subject of an architecture competition won by the Polo architects office. Indeed, Cofinimmo wants this building to be aesthetically remarkable and gives a view over the interior garden from the rue Joseph II/Jozef II-straat. In terms of comfort and technical elements, the building will have the following characteristics: • natural light for every workstation; • a ceiling height of 3 m; • modularity of 1.35 m; • triple-glazed windows; • a high-performance heating and ventilation system; • low-energy lighting with presence detection; • a system for centralised management of technical equipment enabling great flexibility; • a car park for 42 cars, 2 motorbikes and 55 bicycles. Quartz office building Brussels CBD (BE) 52 2018 Sustainability Report Safety and well-being The impact of real estate on the exterior environment is increasingly well managed. But what about its impact on the interior environment? In today’s society, it is not enough to just guarantee safety in buildings. Expectations have changed, and buildings have 2018 Performance indicators to meet the functionality and well-being needs of communEmployee well-being ities for which hospitality plays a central role. This change is Absenteeism rate 2017 2018 supported by new labels and benchmarks, and it is therefore important that Cofinimmo provides buildings that meet Short-term 1.6 % 1.5 % these new expectations. The development of Lounges® and Long-term 2.6 % 3.8 % Coffee Corners is part of this approach. Work-related accidents 4 1 Number of accidents/worked hours 0.0016 % 0.0004 % 131 Employees The Lounge The Gradient office building ® 28 Brussels Decentralised (BE) Employees working part-time 11 % Of men work part-time 27 % Of women work part-time Asbestos management in leased buildings Healthcare real estate: 894,996 m2 Pubstone distribution network: 336,730 m2 Cofinimur I distribution network: 58,314 m2 PPP: 143,119 m2 Offices: 631,661 m2 Global portfolio: 2,064,821 m2 0% 25 % 50 % 75 % 100 % Traces of encapsulated asbestos No asbestos traces Data being processed 91 % Of portfolio under operational control is assessed in the form of a fire audit and asbestos monitoring No infringements with a financial or health impact on the occupant relating to fire audits and asbestos monitoring has been detected in the portfolio under operational control. 2019 Objectives •C  omplete the asbestos data for the various sectors and gradual clean-up. Safety and well-being 2018 Sustainability Report 53 Achievements in 2018 Employees Cofinimmo has always implemented a series of measures to promote the well-being of its employees and the performance of their role under the best possible conditions. On arrival, new employees receive a welcome pack setting Subcontractors out all the practical measures and the workplace safety Fairness to suppliers during purchasing negotiations and standards. Employees are individually welcomed by the concern for the safety of their staff are important aspects Human Resources manager and the CEO. for Cofinimmo. Commercial relationships can only be maintained through the mutual respect of the parties and the There are also discussion forums where employees can understanding of their respective concerns and objectives. share their ideas and/or concerns: quarterly information The outsourcing of building and maintenance activities go meetings, working groups on improving internal and interhand in hand with strict monitoring of these subcontractdepartmental communication, and workshops on psychoing operations. social risks. In the context of large-scale renovations, Cofinimmo has Cofinimmo also pays close attention to mental well-being employees trained in safety coordination who identify and and to the phenomenon of stress at work. The increase in monitor the risks and preventive measures to be implestress at work, which is very common in the business world, mented for each work site. Cofinimmo also calls on extercan have severe consequences that can lead to burn-out in nal safety coordinators if required by the workload. In the some cases. This type of condition leads to the prolonged context of calls for tenders, Cofinimmo clearly describes the absence of the affected person, and to disruption and addiresponsibilities of each party in the specifications and contional costs for the employer. Cofinimmo therefore regularly tracts. raises awareness among all managers on this subject. In the context of the portfolio maintenance, Cofinimmo Building occupants equips its buildings with safety systems in order to ensure Construction choices and maintenance quality have an the physical safety of suppliers (for example cradles and impact on the safety and well-being of occupants. The presanchor points for window-cleaning teams). Subcontractors’ ence of unverified hazardous materials, non-compliance services are covered by framework contracts to ensure the with safety standards and incorrect settings on air-condidevelopment of a mutually beneficial partnership. tioning equipment can have consequences on well-being and health. Cofinimmo systematically analyses all elements that are likely to have an impact on public health. It is mandatory for the presence of asbestos, soil pollution and the fire fighting and protection elements in particular to be examined during the due diligence process. The asbestos risk for older buildings in the portfolio is closely monitored. Asbestos found in buildings is encapsulated in the materials. In the event of deterioration, these materials are removed in accordance with the legal requirements ensuring public safety. The presence of relaxation and well-being opportunities is now one of the criteria for the selection of a building. In this regard, yoga, bums & tums and relaxation sessions are organised in collaboration with the company Easy Day in the Lounges®, and occasionally followed by a healthy and vitamin-rich drink or lunch. The role of the Community Manager, who is responsible for the Lounges®, is to promote initiatives having a positive impact on the well-being of the building’s occupants. 54 2018 Sustainability Report Employee training Human capital is a decisive competitive advantage for Cofinimmo, for the quality of the services that it offers to its clients but also for its economic and social performance. 2018 Performance indicators In the medium term, Cofinimmo promotes the professional and personal development of every employee, at each stage of 5 days his career. In the longer term, it aims to ensure that the end of Of training per employee per year a career is both rich in challenges and free of future concerns. Belgian regulations require businesses to provide an average of five days of training per employee. Investing in its employees allows Cofinimmo to benefit from their increased effectiveness and commitment, and above all to open the way to excellence. 5,376 hours Cumulative total of training hours, of which 214 hours of individual or team coaching. 2019 Objectives 37 % •C  ontinuous training for employees and managers. •S  ummer academy / language academy 2019 edition. •N  ew types of training: webinars, e-learning, tutorials. 63 % Men • Investors in People: taking all necessary steps to retain Women the Gold accreditation achieved in 2018. 75 % Of employees who attended one or more training courses 2% 47 % 5% 15 % 31 % Pers onal development training Training in business-relate d te chnical skills Language training S ustainability training IT training 48 % University graduates 26 % Postgraduates 100 % Of employees received regular performance and career development reviews Employee training 2018 Sustainability Report 55 Achievements in 2018 Continuous training policy for employees and managers Investors in People (IiP) accreditation Cofinimmo offers all its employees, without any discriminThis accreditation is extremely widespread in the world, ation whatsoever, the same training and development especially in Anglo-Saxon countries, but also in Flanders. opportunities. Since 2006, Cofinimmo has been one of fewer than ten companies to have achieved accreditation in the BrusselsIt is motivated by the desire to ensure that each person is Capital Region. However, no companies have yet achieved ready, at all times, for a new position within Cofinimmo or this accreditation in Wallonia. Since that date, Cofinimmo elsewhere, but also that his skills are in line with market has managed to renew the accreditation every three years, requirements. Cofinimmo promotes from within whenever which enables it to position itself as a company with trustpossible. worthy management that operates in accordance with Five areas of training are emphasised: business-related its corporate values. This accreditation highlights the fact technical skills, sustainability, languages, IT and personal that Cofinimmo invests in its employees and that it listens development. to them. Such an accreditation also makes it possible to attract new talent that appreciates the company’s sustainTraining courses are selected jointly by the employee, his able approach. manager and Human Resources. They take into account advances made by the competition and the sector, the Gold level development needs of the teams, new trends, and also the IiP reviews its approach on a regular basis to ensure that potential for taking up a higher-level position. Cofinimmo it is always in line with how companies work and with encourages all employees with potential to train in leaderemployee expectations. In 2018, Cofinimmo achieved the ship and people management techniques. renewal of the accreditation, for which it is evaluated in three main areas. In the slower summer period and during a Summer Academy, employees have an opportunity to refresh or Leading improve their skills in Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, Managers play a central role in the company culture and Access and LinkedIn. In 2018, Cofinimmo simultaneously in supporting unfailing commitment from employees. They launched a Language Academy with an external partner. must show vision in a complex environment, something Over three days of intensive classes, in groups of three or which is becoming increasingly difficult. Managers are four people of the same level, employees had the opporalways expected to do more, often in less time and, sometunity to improve their Dutch, French, English or German. times, with fewer resources. This opportunity to refresh knowledge and build on it within Supporting a limited timeframe was a great success with employees. Organisations are facing constant change, and employees This type of approach is clearly a win-win for both employare expected to be more and more flexible. Flatter and more ees and the employer. supportive organisations result in faster decision-making and greater client focus. This calls for confidence, autonomy In 2018, employees also registered for e-learning sessions and accountability, as well as recognition. given in the form of webinars and tutorials on topics as varied as pivot tables, meeting management, etc. This new Improving training trend enables employees to manage their time more efficiently and in a more personalised way, without The new world of work requires creative and innovative the obligation to have to free themselves up for at least a approaches to the development of people and products. half-day on a given date. Here, IiP expects companies to make the motto “Being better tomorrow than we are today” their own. Managers (in place or potential) were, in turn, provided with (individual and/or group) leadership and people manageIn 2018, the bar was set (very) high to achieve Gold-level ment development courses to improve their understandaccreditation. To achieve this, Cofinimmo has been fully ing of the different, and very specific, aspects of this role. In committed since 2015, the last time the accreditation was addition to in-depth knowledge, the role requires behavawarded. iours and approaches that will generate motivation and commitment on the part of their reports. All of these opportunities are provided equally, regardless of the country in which the employee performs his duties. They are in line with the company’s Diversity and Investors in People accreditation commitments. 56 2018 Sustainability Report The salary package Cofinimmo offers its employees is based on identical criteria for every employee and takes into account an objective classification of duties. ‘Pflegeheim Seniorenwohnanlage Niebüll-Gath’ nursing and care home Niebüll (DE) Remuneration policy The salary package Cofinimmo offers its employees is based on identical criteria for every employee and takes into account an objective classification of duties. It includes, among other things, a benefit plan, a profit-sharing scheme and, since 2009, a non-recurring bonus tied to company results. Given the issues of traffic jams and work-life balance, employees are expressing the need to optimise the use of their time. In order to meet this request and enable them to work remotely in an efficient manner one day a week, Cofinimmo has provided them with IT solutions (top-of-therange laptop computer, appropriate telephone equipment) and added an internet subscription to the salary package. This is in addition to the other fringe benefits they already enjoy (company car, group insurance, hospitalisation and outpatient insurance, meal vouchers and eco-cheques, medical check-ups, Pilates classes, fresh fruit baskets, smartphone, laptop computer, option plan, etc.). In its search for highly qualified profiles, Cofinimmo draws from the same talent pool as other BEL20 companies. However, most of them are much larger, while Cofinimmo is closer in size to an SME. In addition to our dynamic culture and shared values, Cofinimmo therefore pays close attention to alternative forms of remuneration to ensure the loyalty of the next generation of talent (profit-sharing scheme, non-recurring bonus tied to results, etc.). Remuneration by gender % women/men 2017 2018 Board of Directors1 72 % 80 % Executive Committee2 92 % 71 % Managers 3 82 % 89 % Employees4 85 % 82 % 1 The chairman is male, which explains the difference at the Board level. Non-independent members are excluded from calculation, because they are included in the Executive Committee. 2 The CEO is male, which explains the difference at the Executive Committee. 3 The difference at the Manager level can be explained by the fact that there are more male operational Managers. 4 At the employee level, there is a small difference because many are women who have an administrative assistant role. Diversity policy 2018 Sustainability Report 57 Diversity policy Cofinimmo firmly believes in the appeal of diversity (cultural, generational, linguistic, gender, etc.) for both the company and the community. Equal opportunities are a fundamental value for democracies. Respect for differences Diversity in the Board of Directors and its Committees and cultural diversity Diversity on the Board of Directors is reflected in the significant presence of women, but also in the presence of three Cofinimmo has been awarded the Diversity Label for more different nationalities and varied backgrounds. This selecthan ten years. It rewards initiatives and confirms the comtion helps to expand the knowledge in the Board and its pany’s deep and unwavering commitment in this field, committees of the different countries in which the comreflected in its recruitment, staff management and external pany operates. positioning. Diversity within the Management The main goal of governance is to achieve quality, developFor many years, the majority of the group’s employees have ment and sustainability. The highest degree of managebeen female and many of them have a management role. ment quality can be achieved through, among other things, 54% of managers are women, a proportion that demondiversity. strates the equity with which the management team is organised. All the female managers perform this role in support teams (human resources, accounting, finance, treasury, communication and investor relations, etc.). All employees are offered flexibility in the organisation of their working life, which is mostly used by women but is increasingly being used by male employees. The potential for development and growth within Cofinimmo remains unchanged for women returning from maternity leave, as promotions are based on the recognition of talent and skills, regardless of their origin. Diversity among employees Diversity management is an integral part of Human Resources management. Equity, also demonstrated by the regular renewal of the company’s Investors in People accreditation, is sought in every area and at all levels: access to training, coaching and stress management, skills transfer, career management, etc. Cofinimmo is one of the few Belgian real estate companies where there is also a significant presence of women. The main goal of Furthermore, employees have varied cultural origins and educational backgrounds, which stimulates internal creagovernance is to tivity and enhances team performance. Generational diversachieve quality, ity, in turn, helps to bring together experience and innovation, and in this way find reproducible solutions. development and sustainability. The highest degree of management quality can be achieved through, among other things, diversity. 58 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 Performance indicators Inde­pen­dent Gender ratio in % Age in % Inter­natio­ Background in % members/ nali­sation total rate in % Men Women 30-50 > 50 years Financial Real estate Industrial, years CSR and others Board of Directors 8/11 55 % 45 % 9% 91 % 27 % 27 % 18 % 55 % (73 %) Executive Committee 60 % 40 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 40 % 40 % Audit 3/3 Committee 33 % 67 % 100 % 33 % 67 % 33 % (100 %) Nomination and 4/4 Remuneration 75 % 25 % 100 % 50 % 25 % 75 % Committee (100 %) 13 131 Managers Employees of which 13 Team Managers 46 % 54 % 36 % 64 % Men Women Men Women Ratio men/women 0% 23 % 38 % 17 % 0-5 years 11-15 years < 5 years 11-15 years 31 % 46 % 24 % 21 % 6-10 years > 15 years 6-10 years > 15 years Anciennity 35 % 22 % 30-39 years > 50 years 69 % 31 % 7% 36 % 30-50 years > 50 years 19-29 years 40-49 years Age 100 % 87 % 11.5 % Belgian Belgian EU 1.5 % non-EU Nationality 38 % 25 % Financial Financial 24 % 38 % 54 % 21 % Real Estate Industrial, CSR and others Background/ Real Estate Support Departments 2019 Objectives • Pay attention to the ration of men to women. • Focus on recruiting young people via a presence at university employment days and the desire to offer traineeships to students during their studies. • Examine other ways when recruiting a person with reduced mobility and hearing or visually impaired people, via contact with associations specialising in this area. Diversity policy 2018 Sustainability Report 59 Achievements in 2018 Recruitment Flex Corner ® The Gradient office building In 2018, Cofinimmo recruited 13 new colleagues in Belgium Brussels Decentralised (BE) and three in France. Among these, three of them are under 26 years old and one is aged over 50. The company’s outlook on talent aims to be diverse and open to all types of profiles. The company’s performance in terms of sensitive ratios (age, origin, etc.) continues to be a focus for the Group’s human resources department. Staff management Cofinimmo presents the Diversity Charter, which is an integral part of the welcome pack, to all new employees on their first day. Communication Today, the company’s external communication regarding its commitment to diversity is mainly through documents such as the Annual Financial Report, the Sustainability Report and the website. At the same time, Cofinimmo pays specific attention to internal communication by sharing a commitment to openness with all stakeholders. Above all, the company is successful in creating among its employees a shared desire to commit to always performing better. 60 2018 Sustainability Report Mobility For a building to be attractive, 2018 Performance indicators it must be accessible. However, Infrastructure for cyclists 11.7 % increasing vehicle traffic is making Of bicycle parking spaces available in the office segment city travel more difficult and it creates 1,404 Bicycle parking spaces discomfort for residents through 147 increased air pollution and noise. This Showers is why many European countries have Evolution of bicycle parking spaces implemented a Low Emission Zone (LEZ) in major cities over the past few 1,404 years. 851 1,046 2016 2017 2018 Electric vehicle charging terminals 0.4 % Of car parkings equipped with terminals in the office segment, of which: 42 Terminals for office building tenants 1 Terminal available to the general public Shared and public parking spaces 2.7 % Of parking spaces available in the office segment, of which: Bicycle parking Loi/Wet 227 office building 118 Brussels CBD (BE) Shared parking spaces 200 Public parking spaces Mobility-related emissions account for over half of a building’s ecological footprint. The overall impact of travel to a low energy consumption building located outside the city Accessibility of office buildings centre will be greater than that of travel to a less energy-ef(by public transport/bicycle) ficient building located in the city centre. While reducing car use via alternative transport methods 22 % 19 % (for example electric vehicles) has a positive impact on the environment and the well-being of people, this neverthe17 % less requires the implementation of specific facilities. 42 % Very go o d Go o d Ac c eptable Weak Mobility 2018 Sustainability Report 61 2019-2021 Objectives Achievements in 2018 • Gradually improve infrastructure for cyclists. For employees Cofinimmo implements innovative measures to facilitate • Examine the gradual conversion of 2,500 parking the transition from cars to alternative mobility options, in spaces into public parking spaces as permits are particular through cleaner vehicles. The mobility policy renewed. includes the Ecoscore concept and promotes alternative mobility methods. The combination of a company car with • Improve the average CO2 emissions of the fleet. a bicycle and/or a public transport pass is now possible. Moreover, the mobility coordinator constantly encourages staff to use alternative modes of transport. Since January 2017, 24 % of new orders already combine a company car with a sustainable mode of transport and diversification in the choice of fuel has also been noted (7 % petrol cars, one hybrid car and one electric car). The result is a 3 % reduction in CO2 emissions compared with 2017 (-29 % compared with 2010). Shared equipment was also provided to all staff members as part of the transition. In this way, the fleet now includes one electric car, one scooter, one Villo card and one electric bicycle. Its use has encouraged some employees to give preference to the electric bicycle for commuting and others are planning to do so in the near future. Furthermore, Cofinimmo has provided IT solutions (top-ofthe-range laptop computer, appropriate telephone equipment) to all its employees in order to facilitate teleworking for those who are interested in doing so. In 2018, 15 employees chose to work from home one day a week. The consequences are doubly positive and impact not only travel, which is decreasing, but also the well-being of the people involved. Arts/Kunst 46 office building Brussels CBD (BE) 62 2018 Sustainability Report For client-tenants Cofinimmo’s main role is to raise awareness among its client-tenants, but what is its impact? Today, the bicycle, and especially the electric version, has become a real competitor for the car for commuting journeys of between 10 and 20 km. It is therefore essential to improve facilities in office buildings in this respect. For cyclists, this means bicycle parking spaces, which are preferably covered, and showers, with or without storage lockers. However, the introduction of specific equipment does not stop there. The use of electric vehicles in response to the issue of increasing vehicle traffic requires, for example, the Pub ‘Café Luxembourg’ Brussels (BE) installation of charging terminals. The company has, moreover, also a carpooling platform for several years now. Given the importance of critical mass in carpooling, this platform was made available to the tenants of four office sites. A final incentive to reduce the number of journeys by car is to Finally, the Lounges® create an ideal environment for offerdecrease the number of parking spaces available on arrival. ing innovative mobility alternatives to occupants. During a Following the introduction of the Cobrace (‘Code Bruxellois presentation by Office On Wheels (www.officeonwheels.be), de l’Air, du Climat et de la maîtrise de l’Énergie’) air, climate 15 people from eight different tenants expressed an interest and energy management legislation, a mobility study was in such a project. It aims to transform commuting time into carried out on three buildings in the Brussels office portworking time. The bike clinic also offers tenants free bicycle folio. Its aim was to estimate the number of spaces required maintenance during their lunch break and it has been a based on different purposes (visitors, deliveries, charging real success! terminals). If the Brussels authorities leave today the choice between the payment of an environmental tax and the Mobility is, however, having less impact in the healthcare transition to shared/public car parks for spaces that will no real estate segment, even though a building accessible by longer be authorized at the end of the environmental perpublic transport is preferred for occupants, visitors and staff. mit, Cofinimmo considers the second option to be more sustainable because rotation makes it possible to increase the occupancy of parking spaces. Since the entry into force of the ‘Cobrace’ legislation in 2014, only 21 % of spaces have actually been deallocated or reallocated in the BrusselsCapital region. Today, the bicycle, and especially the electric version, has become a real competitor for the car for commuting journeys of between 10 and 20 km. Energy consumption and GHG emissions 2018 Sustainability Report 63 Energy consumption and GHG emissions In Europe, the real estate sector is responsible for 40 % of CO2 emissions. In view of this fact, Cofinimmo wishes to limit the emissions resulting from the operation of the buildings in its portfolio. As such, their energy performance must be optimal. Moreover, from 2020, all new buildings in Europe will have to meet passive standards, which creates an opportunity for Police station Dendermonde (BE) Cofinimmo to differentiate itself in anticipation of this regulation. Indeed, buildings that have better energy performance are more attractive from a commercial point of view as they offer occupants both greater comfort and lower rental-related expenses. 2018 Performance indicators 238 tonnes of CO2 per EUR million1 GHG intensity according to property result. -6.2 % GHG emissions -8.1 % Electricity consumption -2.0 % Fuel consumption with constant climate 2019-2023 Objectives 3.45 % Renovation of the portfolio (excluding new constructions and acquisitions) 2,544 MWh/year Renewable energy production 30 % Office space covered by a Green Charter, a sustainability collaboration agreement between Cofinimmo and the tenant Scopes 1, 2 and 3 Study on a GHG emissions reduction target in line with Science Based Targets (SBT) 1 In the context of a carbon tax at 44.60 EUR/tonnes CO2, (source ‘ADEME’), this corresponds to a tax of 2 million EUR. 64 2018 Sustainability Report Achievements in 2018 Measure Reducing energy consumption starts with a better understanding of the building portfolio. With this in mind, Cofinimmo is gradually, and more optimally, recording the consumption of the buildings’ facilities. The action plan implemented since 2013 has now been completed and all multi-tenant buildings are therefore equipped with remotely readable meters. These connect the facilities to Renewable source the energy accounting software. All the consumption data Minimal energy consumption will always be a necessity. from all the shared spaces managed by Cofinimmo, as well Here, the overall goal is to increase the share of renewable as the private consumption data voluntarily provided by the energy. In 2018, the company deepened its knowledge of different tenants (for example, the electricity consumption the photovoltaic panels installed in the portfolio: 11 buildof 62 % of the healthcare real estate portfolio), are collected ings together produce 1,832 MWh per year. All the energy in this software. All the energy consumption and GHG produced by these facilities is self-consumed. However, legal emissions results are available in the ‘2018 Key Performance constraints make it difficult to expand production without Indicators’, which are data compliant with the EPRA1 stanbecoming an energy supplier. In addition, in Belgium, only dard. the subsidy system in the Brussels-Capital Region is favourable to this type of installation. As such, photovoltaic proAvoid jects are implemented under a third-party investor scheme. In the real estate business, what is the best way to actively This mechanism releases Cofinimmo of all responsibility as participate in global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emisan energy supplier and makes it possible to exploit areas sions? It is a matter of avoiding consumption through the that cannot be used for other activities. redevelopment or large-scale renovation of the portfolio (2.2 % of the total portfolio in 2018). Cofinimmo therefore In the healthcare real estate segment, operators also parstrives to go as far as possible in terms of energy efficiency, ticipate in third-party investor projects for the installation often beyond legal requirements but within the scope of photovoltaic panels and other equipment with a positive of the desired economic profitability. In the distribution impact on the net energy requirement. At the start of the network segment, Cofinimmo completed 104 interventions year, in the Netherlands, the Amphia car park in Breda was in 2018 as part of its sustainability approach. equipped with photovoltaic panels. Reduce The approach of reducing consumption differs depending on the segment. For offices, Cofinimmo is often involved in the construction/renovation phase and in the day-to-day management of a majority of buildings. This enables it to have an influence on consumption as soon as the building is occupied. At 31.12.2018, 38 tenants had signed a Green Charter (a sustainability collaboration agreement that makes it possible to share energy consumption data and to implement initiatives to reduce it) covering 117,622 m², i.e. 19 % of the office portfolio. In other segments, Cofinimmo’s involvement is limited to raising tenants’ awareness. Building occupants are The Gradient office building responsible for managing their own energy consumption. Brussels Decentralised (BE) Cofinimmo’s involvement is in this case sometimes limited to the exchanging of data. However, the company believes that landlords and tenants have a shared interest, namely that of reducing the environmental impact of a rented space. 1 Cofinimmo has adopted the performance measures recommended by the European Public Real Estate Association (EPRA). The 28 measures corresponding to 21 GRI Standards drawn from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) provide a very clear picture of the performance of different buildings from year to year. Since 2018 the data are consolidated in the EPRA sBPR database. Key performance indicators for 2018 (EPRA) 2018 Sustainability Report 65 Key performance indicators for 2018 Data according to the EPRA sBPR guidelines Organisational boundaries Third Party Assurance The data are calculated based on information in the possesAll the measures included in the pages 67-77 have been sion of Cofinimmo as the landlord, and Cofinimmo Services externally assured by Deloitte Reviseurs d’Entreprises SC and Superstone as the manager of its real estate portfolio. s.f.d. SCRL (see the Statutory Auditor’s report), in accordThey also include the data collected from the building ance with ISAE 3000. This report provides an external and occupants. In this way, an operational control approach objective perspective on the data and helps to ensure that was adopted. The spaces under operational control (directly they accurately reflect reality. No observations were made. managed) include Cofinimmo’s head office, the operational The measures monitored correspond to the 28 performmulti-tenant leases and medical office buildings MOB ance measures recommended by EPRA and represent 21 (441,704 m2/2,064,821 m²). Global Reporting Initiative disclosures (GRI Standards). They are considered to be material for the real estate sector. Cofinimmo has no operational control over consumption in buildings in the following segments: healthcare real estate excluding MOB, distribution networks and PPP, and sinBoundaries on consumption gle-tenant office buildings, which together represent 79 % Consumption data are received directly from the tenant for of the portfolio. These buildings are indirectly managed. a sample of spaces (54 % of portfolio indirectly managed), based on a mix of operational and financial leases. Coverage 99 % of the consumption data for the private spaces of Coverage is always expressed in m² per segment. The surmulti-tenant buildings are obtained by the landlord’s faces used match the above-ground surface area of the Property Manager (57 %) or by the distribution network’s buildings as in the chapter ‘Property report’ (see pages manager with the formal agreement of the tenant (42 %). 90-101 of the 2018 Annual Financial Report). Cofinimmo can only act on the consumption of the shared Estimation of consumption technical equipment of the multi-tenant and healthcare buildings for which Cofinimmo Services and Superstone The consumption estimations for all the meters are made handle property management, and of the head office (21 % using the same formula, the data source of which is menof the portfolio). tioned on an annual invoice. To align the consumption for a calendar year, an estimation is made to complete the Normalisation missing period until the end of the year on an annual consumption basis (for example: consumption for the period The normalisation is clearly indicated for each measure. from June 2017 to May 2018 will be the basis for estimatFuel consumption is usually normalised to assess the harshing the consumption for the period from June 2018 to ness of the climate. The comparison is based on normalised December 2018). For fuels, the formula takes degree days consumption, based on degree days (DD). The number of into account. The method has been validated, and these DD rises as it gets colder. The average DD value for a location data are verified for a sample of sites during the external (established over the past 30 years) is called normal degree audit. days (NDD). If the private consumption for multi-tenant buildings is Normalised consumption = incomplete because information is not exchanged by the  Recorded consumption x NDD / DD tenants, the missing private consumption is estimated based on the known average private consumption for other The environmental intensity measures are always expressed floors in the same building. per unit of surface area. The surface area used as the denominator is the above-ground surface area. 66 2018 Sustainability Report Segmental analysis In addition to the distinction between buildings under or without operational control, a distinction is made between the following segments: healthcare real estate, distribution networks and PPP, and offices. The impact of the head office is transparently communicated on a separate line. 64 % Energy coverage The measures are then analysed by geography without the operational control distinction given that environmental legislation differs in each country. Disclosure on own offices 55 % Water coverage In a fully transparent manner, each measure shows the results for the head office, as well as the evolution of results, on a separate line. No estimations are made for the head office. 27 % Waste coverage The social measures concerning employees relate to all employees (131 people) in Belgium (123 people), France (4 people) and the Netherlands (4 people). All the other measures only relate to the spaces in Belgium (3,868 m²), 2,064,821 m2 Surface of por tfolio since the spaces occupied in France (93 m²) and in the Netherlands (52 m²) are not material. Narrative on performance The results relating to electricity, fuel and water consumption, as well as waste, cover buildings under Cofinimmo’s operational control and those under the operational control of the tenants. The findings below concern the 2017-2018 like-for-like analysis of the results for buildings under operational control. On a like-for-like basis, there was a 2.5 % decrease in greenhouse gas emissions, with the following breakdown: • a 0.9 % decrease in electricity consumption; The information concerning the governance measures are • a 4.3 % decrease in gross fuel consumption. published in the chapter ‘Corporate governance statement’ (see pages 124-151 of the 2018 Annual Financial Report). More details on performance by measure is available on the following pages in the notes at the end of the results for Reporting period each measure. The measures cover the period from 01.01.2018 to 31.12.2018. All the 2018 data were taken from the energy accounting. A comparison is made with the 2017 figures. The material topic relating to energy consumption and No adjustments were made to the 2017 historical data on GHG emissions is included in the chapter on pages 63-64. an individual basis. The consolidation of the historical data The objectives relating to the coverage of energy consumphas been aligned with the changes on operational control. tion and GHG emissions are included in the ‘Dashboard‘ In addition, a consolidation by the age of the building is no (see pages 78-83). longer considered relevant. Instead, a consolidation of the portfolio by country is analysed. Materiality Location in report A complete materiality analysis was carried out and is docuAll the environmental and social measures are published in mented in the chapter ‘Major trends and their impacts on this chapter (see pages 67-77). the materiality matrix’ (see pages 14-17). Key performance indicators for 2018 (EPRA) 2018 Sustainability Report 67 Environmental performance measures Total electricity consumption (MWh/year) Based on the GRI 302-1 and 302-2 disclosures Total electricity consumed from indirect renewable and non-renewable sources (indirect means that the electricity is produced off-site and purchased from an electricity supplier). Number of Coverage Elec-Abs Elec-LfL Electricity Estimated buildings in m² from renewelectricity able sources consumption 2017 2018 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 91/158 61 % 38,954 32,810 31,949 32,292 1.1 % 0.1 % estate Distribution 21/1,240 25 % 5,596 5,730 5,593 5,730 2.4 % 4.1 % 2.1 % networks, PPP Offices 26/27 100 % 50,284 35,782 45,054 35,719 -20.7 % 0.5 % TOTAL 138/1,425 54 % 94,834 74,322 82,596 73,741 -10.7 % 0.4 % 0.4 % indirectly managed Healthcare real 11/11 100 % 1,700 2,308 1,700 1,736 2.1 % estate Offices shared 58/59 99 % 19,452 20,237 19,452 19,885 2.2 % 1.7 % Offices private 28/28 100 % 9,804 11,146 (purchase by landlord) Offices private 30/31 98 % 3,459 9,036 21.2 % (purchase by tenant) Head office 1/1 100 % 343 348 343 348 1.5 % 1.4 % TOTAL 70/71 99 % 34,758 43,074 21,494 21,968 2.2 % 0.8 % 4.4 % directly managed TOTAL 208/1,496 64 % 129,592 117,397 104,090 95,709 -8.1 % 0.5 % 1.9 % 1 The values shown are the total consumption for the building, without differentiating between the private and shared areas, except for directly managed offices for which there is a breakdown of the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the buildings, the private consumption purchased by the landlord and by the tenant. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. Number of Coverage Elec-Abs Elec-LfL Electricity Estimated buildings in m² from renewelectricity able sources consumption 2017 2018 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 48/57 88 % 16,132 16,416 16,132 16,001 -0.8 % estate (BE) Healthcare real 34/49 71 % 13,007 13,331 13,007 13,228 1.7 % estate (FR) Healthcare real 19/32 50 % 6,763 5,372 4,510 4,800 6.4 % 0.8 % 0.2 % estate (NL) Healthcare real 1/31 2% 4,751 0 0 0 estate (DE) Distribution 21/1,240 25 % 5,596 5,730 5,593 5,730 2.4 % 4.1 % 2.1 % networks, PPP (BE) Offices (BE) 84/86 99 % 83,000 76,201 77,770 76,137 -2.1 % 0.5 % 2.7 % 1 No information is available for the distribution networks in France and the Netherlands. 68 2018 Sustainability Report Total district heating and cooling consumption (MWh/year) Based on the GRI 302-2 disclosure Number of Coverage DH&C-Abs DH&C-LfL Energy from Estimated buildings in m² renewable energy sources consumption 2017 2018 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 1/21 9% 1,740 1,516 1,641 1,516 -12.9 % 100.0 % estate (NL) TOTAL 1/1,425 0.4 % 1,740 1,516 1,641 1,516 -12.9 % 100.0 % indirectly managed 1 The conversion factor used is 278 kWh/GJ. 2 Heat consumption accounts for 0.001 % of total fuel consumption. 3 Cofinimmo’s buildings are not supplied by district cooling. Total fuel consumption (MWh/year) Based on the GRI 302-1 and 302-2 disclosures The types of fuel used are gas and fuel oil. Number of Coverage Fuels-Abs Fuels-LfL Fuel from Estimated fuel buildings in m² renewable consumption sources 2017 2018 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 85/158 59 % 65,877 60,777 53,408 56,651 6.1 % 2.5 % 0.6 % estate Distribution 20/1,240 27 % 8,185 8,687 8,061 7,263 -9.9 % 1.0 % networks, PPP Offices 26/27 100 % 24,149 13,810 19,998 13,810 -30.9 % TOTAL 131/1,425 53 % 98,212 83,274 81,468 77,724 -4.6 % 1.8 % 0.6 % indirectly managed Healthcare real 9/11 86 % 1,008 1,229 1,008 1,209 20.0 % estate Offices 58/59 99 % 33,373 31,932 33,373 31,932 -4.3 % 0.3 % Head office 1/1 100 % 348 342 348 342 -1.7 % TOTAL 68/71 98 % 34,729 33,504 34,729 33,484 -3.6 % 0.3 % directly managed TOTAL 199/1,496 63 % 132,940 116,778 116,196 111,207 -4.3 % 1.3 % 0.5 % 1 The values of fuels used concern 90.3 % for heating gas and 9.7 % for heating oil. 2 The values shown are the total consumption for the building, without differentiating between the private and shared areas. 3 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 4 The like-for-like analysis is based on the total consumption of the building, without differentiating between the private and shared areas. Key performance indicators for 2018 (EPRA) 2018 Sustainability Report 69 Number of Coverage Fuels-Abs Fuels-LfL Fuel from Estimated fuel buildings in m² renewable consumption sources 2017 2018 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real 48/57 88 % 40,640 42,996 40,640 42,215 3.9 % 0.9 % estate (BE) Healthcare real 29/49 65 % 10,336 13,748 9,881 12,227 23.7 % estate (FR) Healthcare real 16/32 45 % 6,958 3,504 3,896 3,419 -12.2 % 43.3 % estate (NL) Healthcare real 1/31 2% 8,952 1,759 estate (DE) Distribution 20/1,240 27 % 8,185 8,687 8,061 7,263 -9.9 % 1.0 % networks, PPP (BE) Offices (BE) 84/86 99 % 57,522 45,742 53,371 45,742 -14.3 % 0.2 % 1 No information is available for the distribution networks in France and the Netherlands. To assess the harshness of the climate, it is standard practice to compare the normalised consumption of fuels based on degree days (DD). The number of DD rises as it gets colder. The average DD value for a location (established over the past 30 years) is called normal degree days (NDD). Normalised consumption = Recorded consumption x NDD / DD Number of Coverage Normalised Normalised like-for-like Normalised buildings in m² consumption consumption intensity MWh MWh kWh/m² 2017 2018 2017 2018 ∆ 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real estate 85/158 59 % 70,377 66,462 57,056 61,950 8.6 % 131 130 -1.0 % Distribution networks, 20/1,240 27 % 8,744 9,500 8,612 7,943 -7.8 % 73 67 -8.1 % PPP Offices 26/27 100 % 25,798 15,102 21,364 15,102 -29.3 % 90 71 -20.7 % TOTAL 131/1,425 53 % 104,919 91,064 87,032 84,994 -2.3 % 111 105 -5.4 % indirectly managed Healthcare real estate 9/11 86 % 1,076 1,344 1,076 1,322 22.8 % 62 71 13.9 % Offices 58/59 99 % 35,652 34,919 35,652 34,919 -2.1 % 91 85 -7.2 % Head office 1/1 100 % 372 374 372 374 0.6 % 96 97 0.6 % TOTAL 68/71 98 % 37,101 36,638 37,101 36,616 -1.3 % 90 84 -6.5 % directly managed TOTAL 199/1,496 63 % 142,020 127,702 124,133 121,610 -2.0 % 105 98 -6.3 % 1 The 15/15 DD in Uccle/Ukkel for 2017 was 1,780.4. 2 The 15/15 DD in Uccle/Ukkel for 2018 was 1,739.3. 3 The NDD in Uccle/Ukkel was 1,902 (base year 2015). The decrease in fuel consumption is partially due to weather conditions. 2018 was warmer than 2017, with an average of 1,739,3 degree days (1,780.4 in 2017). Consumption decreased by 4.3 %. With constant climate, the objective for a decrease in fuel consumption was achieved. Fuel consumption with constant climate decreased by 2.0 %. 70 2018 Sustainability Report Building energy intensity (kWh/m²/year) Based on the GRI 302-3 and CRE1 disclosures Ratio between the total energy consumed from all sources, i.e. electricity, fuel, district heating and cooling, divided by unit of surface area. The total energy consumed or the numerator corresponds to the sum of the following three measures in absolute values: electricity, district heating and cooling, fuels. The surface area used as the denominator is the above-ground surface area. Elec-Int Fuels-Int Energy-Int Normalised Energy-Int 2017 2018 ∆ 2017 2018 ∆ 2017 2018 ∆ 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real estate 66 62 -6.3 % 123 119 -3.3 % 189 181 -4.3 % 197 192 -2.8 % Distribution networks, 41 42 3.4 % 68 61 -10.3 % 109 103 -5.1 % 113 109 -4.0 % PPP Offices 176 169 -4.3 % 84 65 -22.5 % 261 234 -10.2 % 266 240 -9.9 % TOTAL 94 85 -9.7 % 104 96 -7.6 % 198 181 -8.6 % 205 190 -7.3 % indirectly managed Healthcare real estate 99 104 5.0 % 58 65 11.2 % 158 169 7.3 % 162 175 8.4 % Offices 84 98 17.0 % 85 78 -9.3 % 169 176 3.7 % 175 183 4.4 % Head office 89 90 1.5 % 90 89 -1.7 % 179 178 -0.1 % 185 187 1.0 % TOTAL 85 98 16.4 % 84 77 -8.7 % 169 175 3.8 % 175 183 4.5 % directly managed TOTAL 91 89 -2.0 % 98 90 -8.5 % 189 179 -5.4 % 196 187 -4.3 % 1 The values shown are the total consumption for the building, without differentiating between the private and shared areas. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. Elec-Int Fuels-Int Energy-Int Normalised Energy-Int 2017 2018 ∆ 2017 2018 ∆ 2017 2018 ∆ 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real estate 47 48 0.9 % 120 124 3.3 % 168 172 2.6 % 176 184 4.4 % (BE) Healthcare real estate 85 88 4.0 % 86 101 17.5 % 170 189 10.8 % 176 198 12.4 % (FR) Healthcare real estate 93 109 17.2 % 112 79 -29.0 % 205 188 -8.1 % 212 196 -7.9 % (NL) Healthcare real estate 130 0 266 382 43.5 % 396 382 -3.6 % 415 418 0.8 % (DE) Distribution networks, 41 42 3.4 % 68 61 -10.3 % 109 103 -5.1 % 113 109 -4.0 % PPP (BE) Offices (BE) 123 122 -0.6 % 85 73 -13.7 % 208 195 -6.0 % 214 202 -5.3 % 1 No information is available for the distribution networks in France and the Netherlands. Key performance indicators for 2018 (EPRA) 2018 Sustainability Report 71 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes of CO2e/year) Based on the GRI 305-1, 305-2 and 305-3 disclosures Scope 1: amount of greenhouse gas emitted directly through the use of fuel on-site per year. Scope 2: amount of greenhouse gas emitted indirectly through the purchase of electricity and district heating per year. Total: total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. GHG-Indir-Abs GHG-Dir-Abs GHG-Abs GHG-Abs-LfL 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real estate 8,858 7,461 13,463 12,421 22,321 19,882 18,180 18,921 4.1 % Distribution networks, 1,273 1,303 1,673 1,775 2,945 3,078 2,919 2,787 -4.5 % PPP Offices 11,435 8,137 4,935 2,822 16,370 10,959 14,332 10,945 -23.6 % TOTAL 21,565 16,901 20,071 17,019 41,637 33,920 35,432 32,653 -7.8 % indirectly managed Healthcare real estate 386 525 206 251 592 776 592 642 8.4 % Offices shared 4,423 4,602 6,820 6,526 11,244 11,128 11,244 11,048 -1.7 % Offices private 3,016 4,589 3,016 4,589 Head office 78 79 71 70 149 149 149 149 -0.1 % TOTAL 7,904 9,795 7,097 6,847 15,001 16,642 11,985 11,839 -1.2 % directly managed TOTAL 29,469 26,696 27,169 23,866 56,638 50,562 47,417 44,492 -6.2 % 1 The values shown represent the total emissions of buildings, without distinguishing between the private and shared areas, except for directly managed offices for which there is a breakdown of the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the buildings and the private consumption of the tenants. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 The CO2 emission factor is 227.4 g/kWh for electricity (source IEA 2016) and 204.37 g/kWh for gas (source DEFRA 2018). 4 The conversion coefficients used are based on location. Taking market conversion coefficients into account, total indirect emissions for directly managed portfolio (excluding private consumption of offices) are zero as a result of the green electricity contract that Cofinimmo Services and Superstone signed for all its directly managed surfaces. GHG-Indir-Abs GHG-Dir-Abs GHG-Abs GHG-Abs-LfL 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real estate 3,668 3,733 8,306 8,787 11,974 12,520 18,180 18,921 4.1 % (BE) Healthcare real estate 2,958 3,031 2,112 2,810 5,070 5,841 2,919 2,787 -4.5 % (FR) Healthcare real estate 1,538 1,222 1,422 716 2,960 1,938 14,332 10,945 -23.6 % (NL) Healthcare real estate 1,080 0 1,829 360 2,910 360 35,432 32,653 -7.8 % (DE) Distribution networks, 1,273 1,303 1,673 1,775 2,945 3,078 592 642 8.4 % PPP (BE) Offices (BE) 18,874 17,328 11,756 9,348 30,630 26,676 11,244 11,048 -1.7 % 1 No information is available for the distribution networks in France and the Netherlands. 72 2018 Sustainability Report Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (kg CO2e/m²/year) Based on the GRI 305-4 and CRE3 disclosures Total amount of greenhouse gas emitted directly and indirectly per m² and per year. The surface area used as the denominator is the above-ground surface area. GHG-Indir-Int GHG-Dir-Int GHG-Int GHG-Int-LfL 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real estate 15 14 25 24 40 38 37 39 4.2 % Distribution networks, 9 10 14 12 23 22 23 22 -4.9 % PPP Offices 40 38 17 13 57 52 68 52 -23.6 % TOTAL 21 19 21 20 43 39 43 39 -7.7 % indirectly managed Healthcare real estate 23 24 12 13 35 37 34 37 8.3 % Offices shared 11 11 17 16 29 27 28 27 -1.7 % Offices private 8 11 8 11 Head office 20 20 18 18 39 39 39 39 -0.1 % TOTAL 19 22 17 16 36 38 28 28 -1.2 % directly managed TOTAL 21 20 20 18 41 39 38 36 -6.1 % 1 The values shown represent the total emissions of buildings, without distinguishing between the private and shared areas, except for directly managed offices for which there is a breakdown of the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the buildings and the private consumption of the tenants. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 The CO2 emission factor is 227.4 g/kWh for electricity (source IEA 2016) and 204.37 g/kWh for gas (source DEFRA 2018). 4 The conversion coefficients used are based on location. Taking market conversion coefficients into account, total indirect emissions for directly managed portfolio (excluding private consumption of offices) are zero as a result of the green electricity contract that Cofinimmo Services and Superstone signed for all its directly managed surfaces. Total water consumption by supply source (m³/year) Based on the GRI 303-5 disclosure The total volume of water consumed is used to supply the air-conditioning installations, the sanitary facilities and the kitchenettes. The only water supply source is municipal water. Number of Coverage Water-Abs Water-LfL Estimated buildings in m² water consumption 2017 2018 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real estate 84/158 57 % 547,485 458,137 424,202 433,384 2.2 % 0.4 % PPP 1/7 20 % 36,929 31,414 26,977 31,414 16.4 % Offices 22/27 82 % 42,132 29,263 39,927 29,263 -26.7 % 1.1 % TOTAL 107/1,425 43 % 626,546 518,814 491,106 494,061 0.6 % 0.4 % indirectly managed Healthcare real estate 7/11 63 % 4,520 3,440 2,954 3,079 4.2 % 53.2 % Offices 58/59 99 % 99,647 95,548 99,647 95,548 -4.1 % 4.5 % Head office 1/1 100 % 599 592 599 592 -1.1 % TOTAL 66/71 97 % 104,766 99,580 103,200 99,219 -3.9 % 6.2 % directly managed TOTAL 173/1,496 55 % 731,312 618,394 594,306 593,280 -0.2 % -1.4 % 1 The values shown are the total consumption for the building, without differentiating between the private and shared areas. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 No information is available for the distribution networks. Key performance indicators for 2018 (EPRA) 2018 Sustainability Report 73 Building water intensity by supply source (m³/m²/year) Based on the GRI CRE2 disclosure The surface area used as the denominator is the above-ground surface area. Number of Coverage Water-Int Water-Int-LfL buildings in m² 2017 2018 ∆ 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real estate 84/158 57 % 1.04 0.93 -10.3 % 0.93 0.95 2.2 % PPP 1/7 20 % 0.85 1.11 30.4 % 0.95 1.11 16.4 % Offices 22/27 82 % 0.20 0.17 -16.6 % 0.23 0.17 -26.7 % TOTAL 107/1,425 43 % 0.80 0.75 -7.0 % 0.74 0.75 0.6 % indirectly managed Healthcare real estate 7/11 63 % 0.29 0.25 -14.3 % 0.24 0.25 4.2 % Offices 58/59 99 % 0.26 0.23 -9.2 % 0.24 0.23 -4.1 % Head office 1/1 100 % 0.15 0.15 -1.1 % 0.15 0.15 -1.1 % TOTAL 66/71 97 % 0.26 0.23 -9.4 % 0.24 0.23 -3.9 % directly managed TOTAL 173/1,496 55 % 0.61 0.55 -10.5 % 0.55 0.55 -0.2 % 1 The values shown are the total consumption for the building, without differentiating between the private and shared areas. 2 Cofinimmo has no control over the private consumption of tenants in the buildings. It can only act on the consumption of the shared technical equipment of the directly managed buildings. 3 No information is available for the distribution networks. Total weight of waste by type and disposal route (tonnes/year) Based on the GRI 306-2 disclosure Quantity of waste collected by disposal route: reuse, recycling, composting, incineration, landfilling, etc. The recycling and incineration of waste with energy recovery are the only disposal routes. Number Coverage Waste-Abs Waste-Abs Waste-LfL Waste-LfL ∆ of buildin m² ings 2017 2018 2017 2018 Recy­ Inci­ Total Recy­ Inci­ Total Recy­ Inci­ Total Recy­ Inci­ Total cled ne­ra­ cled ne­ra­ cled ne­ra­ cled ne­ra­ ted ted ted ted PPP 1/7 20 % 13 62 75 15 61 76 13 62 75 15 61 76 2.5 % Offices 19/27 42 % 150 209 359 115 159 273 123 138 261 115 159 273 4.9 % TOTAL 20/1,425 7% 163 271 433 130 220 350 135 200 335 130 220 350 4.4 % indirectly managed Healthcare 6/11 65 % 10 27 36 20 60 80 10 27 36 11 24 35 -4.6 % real estate Offices 58/59 99 % 680 654 1,334 562 658 1,219 680 654 1,334 562 658 1,219 -8.6 % Head office 1/1 100 % 14 5 19 15 7 22 14 5 19 15 7 22 19.9 % TOTAL 65/71 97 % 704 685 1,389 597 724 1,322 704 685 1,389 588 688 1,276 -8.1 % directly managed TOTAL 85/1,496 27 % 867 956 1,822 728 944 1,672 839 885 1,724 718 908 1,626 -5.7 % 1 Waste is collected at source by type: general waste, paper, cardboard, plastic, cans, glass, etc. 2 The breakdown of waste by disposal route varies based on the type of waste. 3 The values shown are the total quantities for the buildings, without differentiating between the private and shared areas. 4 Cofinimmo has no control over the private quantities of waste of building tenants. It can only act on the quantities of waste of the directly managed buildings. 5 Waste classified as hazardous is processed directly by the tenants. The total quantity of hazardous waste in the records of the directly managed buildings accounts for 0.2 % of the total weight. 6 Conversion factor depending on type: general waste 60 kg/m³, paper/cardboard 50 kg/m³, plastic/cans 30 kg/m³ and glass 320 kg/m³. 7 No information is available for indirectly managed healthcare real estate and distribution networks. 74 2018 Sustainability Report Proportion of waste collected by disposal route: reuse, recycling, composting, incineration, landfilling, etc. The recycling and incineration of waste with energy recovery are the only disposal routes. The surface area used as the denominator is the above-ground surface area. Waste-Abs Waste-Int Waste-Int ∆ Recycled 2017 2018 tonnes/m² tonnes/m² 2017 2018 LfL Recy­cled Inci­ne­ra­ Total Recy­cled Inci­ne­ra­ Total ted ted PPP 17 % 20 % 17 % 0.45 2.19 2.63 0.55 2.15 2.70 2.5 % Offices 42 % 42 % 47 % 1.12 1.55 2.67 1.28 1.76 3.04 13.9 % TOTAL 38 % 37 % 40 % 1.00 1.66 2.66 1.10 1.86 2.96 11.1 % indirectly managed Healthcare 26 % 25 % 26 % 1.92 5.34 7.26 1.40 4.14 5.54 -23.6 % real estate Offices 51 % 46 % 51 % 1.74 1.68 3.42 1.36 1.60 2.96 -13.4 % Head office 76 % 69 % 76 % 3.65 1.17 4.81 3.98 1.79 5.77 19.9 % TOTAL 51 % 45 % 51 % 1.76 1.72 3.48 1.39 1.68 3.07 -11.7 % directly managed TOTAL 48 % 44 % 49 % 1.54 1.70 3.24 1.33 1.72 3.05 -6.0 % Type and number of sustainability certified assets (kWh/m2) Based on the GRI CRE8 disclosure Total number of buildings that have received a certification by type. The table shows the number of buildings that have received at least one PEB certificate. The energy performance level shown is the weighted average of the scores by segment. Number of Coverage Energy performance LfL energy performance buildings in m² 2017 2018 ∆ 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real estate 82/158 48 % 225 202 -9.9 % 209 254 21.7 % Distribution networks, PPP 293/1,240 29 % 210 211 0.2 % 210 210 Offices 14/27 36 % 267 244 -8.5 % 224 244 8.9 % TOTAL 389/1,425 40 % 230 209 -8.9 % 211 240 13.3 % indirectly managed Healthcare real estate 11/11 100 % 209 181 -13.2 % 208 209 0.4 % Offices 34/59 58 % 186 177 -4.7 % 185 184 -0.3 % Head office 1/1 100 % 238 238 238 238 TOTAL 46/71 61 % 188 178 -5.2 % 187 187 -0.2 % directly managed TOTAL 435/1,496 45 % 217 200 -7.8 % 204 223 9.4 % 1 PEB certification is regulated differently for each country and segment. 2 For some PEB certificates the score is 0 kWh/m² due to a lack of information. These certificates are not included in the average. Key performance indicators for 2018 (EPRA) 2018 Sustainability Report 75 Number of Coverage Energy performance LfL energy performance buildings in m² 2017 2018 ∆ 2017 2018 ∆ Healthcare real estate (BE) 8/57 20 % 55 29 -46.7 % 32 34 5.7 % Healthcare real estate (FR) 36/49 78 % 311 393 26.5 % 307 395 28.7 % Healthcare real estate (NL) 32/32 100 % 202 164 -18.9 % 203 202 -0.5 % Healthcare real estate (DE) 17/31 54 % 116 63 -45.7 % 116 104 -10.2 % Distribution networks, PPP (BE) 27/743 23 % 163 164 1.0 % 160 160 Distribution networks (FR) 265/271 97 % 294 294 0.1 % 294 294 Distribution networks (NL) 1/226 1% 0 Offices (BE) 48/86 51 % 214 193 -9.6 % 195 200 2.4 % The table shows the number of buildings that have received at least one BREEAM and/or BREEAM In-Use certificate. Number of Coverage BREEAM BREEAM BREEAM BREEAM BREEAM buildings in m² In-Use In-Use Good Very Good Good Very Good Excellent PPP 1/7 20 % 20 % Offices 1/27 4% 4% TOTAL 2/1,425 2% 2% 1% indirectly managed Offices 9/59 15 % 8% 3% 5% Head office 1/1 100 % 100 % TOTAL 10/71 15 % 8% 1% 2% 5% directly managed TOTAL 12/1,496 5% 2% 0.2 % 1% 1% 1% 1 No certification is available for healthcare real estate and distribution networks. 2 All the certified buildings are located in Belgium. 76 2018 Sustainability Report Social performance measures Governance bodies and employee gender diversity ( % of employees) Based on the GRI 405-1 disclosure Diversity-Emp 2017 2018 Women Men Women Men Board of Directors 42 % 58 % 45 % 55 % Executive Committee 25 % 75 % 40 % 60 % Managers 50 % 50 % 54 % 46 % Employees 63 % 37 % 64 % 36 % 1 In 2017, 19 % of women and 3 % of men worked part-time. 2 In 2018, 27 % of women and 11 % of men worked part-time. Gender salary and remuneration ratio ( % women/men) Based on the GRI 405-2 disclosure Diversity-Pay 2017 2018 Board of Directors 72 % 80 % Executive Committee 92 % 71 % Managers 82 % 89 % Employees 85 % 82 % 1 The chairman is male, which explains the difference at the Board level. Non-independent members are excluded from calculation, because they are included in the Executive Committee. 2 The CEO is male, which explains the difference at the Executive Committee level. 3 The difference at the Manager level can be explained by the fact that there are more male operational Managers. 4 At the employee level, there is a small difference because many women have an administrative assistant function. Employee training and development (number of hours) Based on the GRI 404-1 disclosure Emp-Training 2017 2018 Total Average Total Average Women 3,159 37 3,367 40 Men 1,808 35 2,009 43 Employees 4,967 36 5,376 41 1 The denominator for the average per employee is 131 people (= total number of employees). Employee performance appraisals ( % of employees) Based on the GRI 404-3 disclosure Emp-Dev 2017 2018 Employees 100 % 100 % Employee turnover and retention Based on the GRI 401-1 disclosure Emp-Turnover 2017 2018 Departures New hires Departures New hires Total % Total % Total % Total % Employees 9 6.6 % 15 10.9 % 17 13.0 % 12 9.2 % 1 The denominator is 131 people (= total number of employees). 2 In 2018 four new functions have been created. Key performance indicators for 2018 (EPRA) 2018 Sustainability Report 77 Employee health and safety Based on the GRI 403-9 disclosure H&S-Emp 2017 2018 Rate of Rate of WorkNumber of Rate of Rate of WorkNumber of short-term long-term related accidents short-term long-term related accidents absenteeabsenteeaccidents by worked absenteeabsenteeaccidents by worked ism ism hours ism ism hours Employees 1.6 % 2.6 % 4 0.0016 % 1.5 % 3.8 % 1 0.0004 % 1 The denominator is the total number of working days including leave days in accordance with Belgian legislation. 2 Short-term means absenteeism of 20 days or less while long-term means more than 20 days. 3 There were no serious or fatal work-related accidents. The unique case in 2018 concerns only minor injuries. Asset health and safety assessments ( % of buildings in m²) Based on the GRI 416-1 disclosure H&S-Asset 2017 2018 Healthcare real estate 60 % Offices 100 % 92 % Head office 100 % 100 % TOTAL directly managed 100 % 91 % 1 Fire audit, asbestos monitoring. Asset health and safety compliance (number of accidents) Based on the GRI 416-2 disclosure H&S-Comp 2017 2018 Healthcare real estate 0 Offices 0 0 Head office 0 0 TOTAL directly managed 0 0 1 In 2018, no infringements related to fire audits and asbestos monitoring with a financial or health impact on the occupant were detected. Community engagement, impact assessments and development programmes ( % of buildings in m²) Based on the GRI 413-1 disclosure Comty-Eng 2017 2018 Healthcare real estate Offices 100 % 100 % Head office 100 % 100 % TOTAL under operational control 100 % 95 % 1 The accessibility of office buildings has been assessed in the chapter ‘Mobility’ (see page 60). The strategy also includes individual actions for each building, such as the opening of a garden to the public (see the chapter ‘Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts’ on pages 46-51). 2 The engagement relating to the head office is described in the GRI content index (see page 88). Governance performance measures Composition of the highest governance body (total number) Based on the GRI 102-22 disclosure Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Based on the GRI 102-24 disclosure Process for managing conflicts of interest Based on the GRI 102-25 disclosure The Gov-Board, Gov-Selec and Gov-Col measures are described in the chapter ‘Corporate governance statement’ (see pages 124-151 of the 2018 Annual Financial Report). 78 2018 Sustainability Report Dashboard ID Commitments Scope Actions taken in 2018 Business ethics 1 Maximise the transparency of the Cofinimmo Group • Received an EPRA Sustainability sBPR Gold Award. company’s non-financial information. • Received third party assurance for the performance measures recommended by EPRA and published on the Cofinimmo website. • Produced a sustainability report in line with GRI Standards at Core level and received third party assurance for it. • Participated in the GRESB survey and improved score from 66 % to 69 %. 2 Extend the Environmental Management Offices • Extend the ISO 14001:2015 certification. The certification includes all the Property System’s ISO 14001 certification in Management, Project Management and Development activities. addition to the existing certification for the management of the global office portfolio, Project Management and Development. 3 Annually review the materiality matrix for Cofinimmo Group • Continued the dialogue with external stakeholders through an analysis of the the company’s sustainability topics. various existing contacts. 4 Promote the Green Charter, a collaboration Offices • Promoted the Green Charter to new tenants at the time of lease signature. agreement signed by Cofinimmo, • Coverage of 18.8 % of office spaces by a Green Charter. Cofinimmo Services and tenants in • Implement a Green Lease with environmental clauses, that are more binding than order to actively promote sustainability a Green Charter, in BREEAM certified assets. and encourage all parties to reduce the • Sent an automated consumption tracking report to tenants who signed a Green environmental impact of leased properties: Charter. sharing of consumption data, initiatives to reduce consumption, better waste sorting, etc. 5 Include a separate clause in contracts and Global portfolio • The environmental policy is attached to all general contracting agreements. calls for tenders regarding the adoption of Cofinimmo encourages its suppliers to adopt environmental-friendly behaviours. sustainability practices by subcontractors as • Signature of the UN Global Compact charter containing ten principles with a selection criterion. regard to fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and the fight against corruption. Profitability for investors and access to capital 6 Mobilise employees. Cofinimmo Group • Implemented the action plan developed by each Cofinimmo team to improve the application of the company’s values in all its activities. • Set an objective relating to the company’s sustainability strategy in the individual annual objectives of each employee for 2018. Innovation 7 Develop a culture of innovation within Cofinimmo Group Continued the implementation of innovation projects: the company. • Opened two new Flex Corners® at Colonel Bourg 122 and Arts/Kunst 46, and extended the existing Flex Corner® at Omega Court. • Temporary use as housing of five pubs in the Netherlands awaiting reletting. Aesthetics, respect for public spaces and diversity of districts 8 Improve the aesthetics and public space Global portfolio • Delivery of redevelopment works on the Belliard 40 building, redesigned by when redevelopping existing buildings. renowned architects Marc Thill from the office Art & Build and Pierre Lallemand. • Started the redevelopment works on the Quartz building (formerly Arts/Kunst 19H). • Delivery of the works for the conversion of the Woluwe 106-108 building into the Vivalys nursing and care home. 9 Obtain BREEAM and BREEAM In-Use Offices • Renewed the BREEAM In-Use certificate for Woluwe 58, Cofinimmo’s head office certificates. by increasing the score from Good to Very Good. • Extended the BREEAM In-Use certificate for seven buildings. 10 Improve collection of water consumption Global portfolio • 97 % of data collected for water consumption in the multi-tenant office segment data. and MOB, 57 % for healthcare real estate, 20 % for PPP and 82 % for single-tenant offices. 11 Increase the surface area of green spaces Offices • Laid out two spaces as gardesn at Meeûs 23 and Omega Court. in the office portfolio while respecting • There are currently five beehives in our office portfolio. biodiversity. Dashboard 2018 Sustainability Report 79 Measurement of Progress Future actions Deadline objective in 2018 Scores obtained for 100 % • Improve Cofinimmo’s score on the GRESB survey. 2019 the different surveys • Publish EPRA performance measures. • Active participation in the Vigeo Eiris rating. • Produce the annual report for the Green and Social Bonds issued in December 2016, included in the 2019 Sustainability Report. Certification renewal/ 100 % • Continue the study on the life cycle analysis for the properties managed by the company. 2019 extension Completion of the 100 % • Organise further round tables with different stakeholders to re-examine the materiality 2020 planned actions matrix. % surface area 18.8 % • Coverage of 30 % of office spaces by a Green Charter. 2020 % agreements 100 % • Formalise a sustainable purchasing policy starting with Cofinimmo’s supplies. 2019 • Publication of the 2018 Sustainability Report as Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact website. Completion of the 100 % • Set an objective relating to the company’s sustainability strategy in the individual annual 2019 planned actions objectives of each employee for 2019. Completion of the 100 % • Creation of a second Flex Corner® in the Park Lane Business Park (Brussels Periphery). 2019 planned actions • Ongoing marketing of the Lounges® meeting rooms at Park Lane and The Gradient as well as of the shared meeting rooms in the buildings Bourget 50, Omega Court and Science/ Wetenschap 41. • Further implementation of the prototypes for new innovation ideas. • Continuation of the redevelopment of the Quartz building (formerly Arts/Kunst 19H) using BIM software. Number of projects 100 % • Renovation and extension of the portfolio: ‘Domaine de Vontes’ in Esvres-sur-Indre (FR), 2019 ‘Les Oliviers’ in Le Puy-Sainte-Réparade (FR), the French Red Cross in Chalon-sur-Saône (FR), Förstereiweg 6 in Ascheffel (DE), Buchauweg 22 in Schafflund (DE), Wijnkoperstraat in Gorinchem (NL), ‘De Nootelaer’ in Keerbergen (BE). • Delivery of refurbishment works on two pubs and six apartments, namely Falstaff in Brussels (BE) and ‘Café des Nations’ in Knokke (BE). • Continuation of the redevelopment of the Quartz building (formerly Arts/Kunst 19H). Number of buildings 100 % • Examine the potential to obtain BREEAM In-Use certification for the global office portfolio. 2020 • Confirm the BREEAM certificate for the large-scale renovation projects once completed: Quartz (formerly Arts/Kunst 19H) BREEAM Excellent certificate expected in 2020; Belliard 40 BREEAM Excellent certificate expected in 2019. % of data coverage 55 % • Increase coverage to 75 % of building surfaces (75 % for healthcare real estate, 100 % for 2019 multi-tenant offices, 90 % for single-tenant offices). Number of beehives 100 % • Improvement of biodiversity during renovations of roofs in green roofs and other green 2019 spaces. 80 2018 Sustainability Report ID Commitments Scope Actions taken in 2018 Safety and well-being 12 Gradually decontaminate buildings still Global portfolio • Updated the inventory of buildings with remaining traces of asbestos. containing traces of asbestos. • Decontaminated building during demolition works for the Quartz (formerly Arts/Kunst 19H). Employee training 13 Implement the framework necessary for Head office • 5,346 hours of training, of which 214 hours of coaching, followed by 75 % of the development of employees. employees, representing an average of 5 days of training per employee. • Received new Investors in People certificate, Gold level in May 2018. Respect for differences and cultural diversity 14 Ensure sufficient diversity at all levels of the Head office • Improved gender balance on the Board of Directors: 45 % women and 55 % men, company. vice versa on the management team: 54 % women and 46 % men 15 Audit and search for potential Offices • 18 buildings have been audited since 2013. improvements in building accessibility for persons with reduced mobility (PRM). Mobility 16 Inform clients about the accessibility of Offices • Extension of the carpooling platform to all businesses in the building The Gradient. buildings using alternative transport modes to the car. 17 Promote the use of alternative transport Offices • Added 29 charging terminals, bringing the total to 43 charging terminals for modes to the car by improving facilities. electric vehicles in 14 buildings. • Creation of 358 bicycle parking spaces in the office buildings. 18 Increase the rate of use of car parks by Offices • Assessed the implementation of public car parks in the context of the renewal of sharing them or through a conversion into the environmental permit for three buildings. car parks for semi-public or public use. • 2.7 % of the parking spaces available in the office portfolio are converted into shared and public parking spaces (318 spaces in total). 19 Implement a mobility plan. Head office • Participated in european mobility week. Organised training on using a bicycle in the urban environment, supply of tools to cyclists and organised bicycle maintenance twice a year. • Implement mandatory measures in line with the mobility plan. • Participation in The Bike Project, initiative of the Brussels-Capital Region to promote alternatives to the car, including the bike, accompanying the companies adhering to the project in the form of coaching. Energy consumption and GHG emissions 20 Increase renewable energy production. Global portfolio • Current photovoltaic production of around 1.8 GWh for the entire portfolio, which represents 2 % of the electricity consumed in the portfolio. • Tender for the installation of solar energy production in the healthcare real estate portfolio in the Netherlands (phase 1). • Installation of a solar energy production facility on the parking lot Amphia in the Netherlands (estimated annual production: 381 MWh) and on the buildings Colonel Bourg 122 and 124 in Belgium (estimated annual production: 117 MWh). 21 Improve the portfolio’s energy performance Global portfolio • 2.2 % of the real estate portfolio underwent redevelopment or large-scale with a building renovation programme. renovation, which improved the energy performance (excluding new constructions and acquisitions). 22 Extend energy accounting to the Healthcare real estate • 62 % of the consumption data for the healthcare real estate segment have been healthcare real estate segment. collected. • Creation of a healthcare real estate benchmark. 23 Better measurement and management of Offices • Seven buildings have been equipped with remotely readable meters. In total, the energy consumption of multi-tenant 56 buildings are connected. office buildings. • Implemented quantified energy reduction objectives in the context of energy audits for 17 buildings since 2015. • Assessed the energy reduction targets of 15 buildings from the healthcare real estate sector and 53 office buildings in Brussels as part of the application of the Local Action Plan for Energy Management (‘PLAGE’). 24 Partially recycle materials during renovation Offices • Fitting of 100 % recycled carpeting for all renovations of premises, unless explicitly projects. requested otherwise by a new tenant. 12,850 m² of recycled carpet were fitted. Dashboard 2018 Sustainability Report 81 Measurement of Progress Future actions Deadline objective in 2018 Coverage in m² of 58 % • Improve the quality of data collected for the various segments. 2019 buildings without traces of asbestos Average number of days 100 % • Continuous training for employees and managers. 2019 per employee • Investor in People: taking of all necessary steps to retain the Gold accreditation achieved in 2018. % of women/ % of 85 % • Continuous vigilance on a parity men/women on the Board of Directors and the Executive 2021 men on the Board of Committee. Directors Coverage in m² of 23 % • Audit 50 % of multi-tenant buildings. 2022 audited multi-tenant • Gradually improve accessibility based on audit observations. offices Number of buildings 100 % • Gradual preparation of multi-modal sheets for office buildings. 2019 Number of buildings 100 % • Gradually improve infrastructure for cyclists by: 2019 increasing bicycle parkings; improving the type of bicycle parking; increasing the number of showers. Number of shared or 2.7 % • Study for the gradual conversion of 2,500 parking spaces into public parking as permits are 2030 public parking spaces renewed. Number of actions 100 % • Raise the awareness of staff members using a company car about their average 2019 consumption. Production in MWh 2% • Install solar energy production systems in the Netherlands (estimated annual production: 2019 471 MWh). • Raise tenant awareness about investing in renewable energy sources during construction/ renovation/extension projects. % surface area 100 % • Cofinimmo is planning to refurbish 3.45 % of its portfolio between 2019 and 2023 2023 (excluding new constructions and acquisitions). % surface area 64 % • Increase the consumption data for the healthcare real estate segment to 75 %. 2019 Number of buildings 89 % • Track energy consumption reduction results. 2019 • Designation of a ‘PLAGE’ coordinator and implementation of an energy cadastre. % of recycled carpet 100 % • Recovery of materials planned for new renovation projects. 2019 fitted compared to carpet purchases 82 2018 Sustainability Report ID Commitments Scope Actions taken in 2018 25 Digital invoicing from suppliers and to Head office • In 2018, 16,228 invoices were received in digital format, i.e. 63 % of all invoices clients. received (9,715 invoices scanned and 16,228 invoices sent by e-mail). • Likewise, for 63 % of tenants, all documents (rent bills, rental-related expenses breakdowns, etc.) were sent in digital format. 26 Improve waste sorting in multi-tenant Offices • 44 % of the collected waste was recycled. office buildings by raising awareness among occupants. 27 Update the head office’s carbon footprint. Head office • Updated the head office’s carbon footprint based on the 2017 data. The company’s carbon footprint has decreased. Over the last three years, it has gone from 715 tonnes of CO2e in 2014 to 600 tCO2e in 2017. By majority this is explained by the new travel policy (decrease of flights in business class). Specifically, the most significant source of emissions (59 %) is travel (company cars, business travel, commuting, journeys made by the company’s visitors). 28 Decrease the CO2 emissions of leased cars. Head office • Measured the impact of the mobility policy implemented in 2017, which provides mobility solutions and enables the combination of company cars with soft mobility. • The efforts made since 2010 have enabled a 29 % decrease in the average CO2 emissions (manufacturer data) of leased cars. Dashboard 2018 Sustainability Report 83 Measurement of Progress Future actions Deadline objective in 2018 Number of invoices 63 % • 75 % of invoices will be received in digital format. 2019 received/sent in digital • 75 % of tenants will receive their rent bills and rental-related expenses breakdowns in format digital format. % of waste recycled 63 % • Improved waste sorting. 2019 compared to the 70 % target Carbon footprint per 100 % • New assessment of Cofinimmo’s carbon footprint. 2020 employee based on the spread of the real estate portfolio % vehicles 3% • Cofinimmo has committed to align itself with the new European Commission target of 2021 < 95 g CO2/km 95 g CO2/km by 2021. 84 2018 Sustainability Report Link between topics of Cofinimmo and SDGs Link between topics of Cofinimmo and SDGs SDG Topics SR pages 3 Good health and well• Gradually decontaminate buildings still containing traces of asbestos. 52-53 being 4 Quality education • Implement the framework necessary for the development of employees. 54-56 6 Clean water and sanitation • Improve collection of water consumption data. 72-73 7 Affordable and clean • Increase renewable energy production. 63-70 energy • Improve the portfolio’s energy performance with a building renovation programme. • Extend energy accounting to the healthcare real estate segment. • Better measurement and management of the energy consumption of multi-tenant office buildings. 8 Decent work and • Mobilise employees. 26 economic growth 9 Industry, innovation and • Develop a culture of innovation within the company. 42-45 infrastructure 10 Reduced inequalities • Ensure sufficient diversity at all levels of the company. 57-59 •A  udit and search for potential improvements in building accessibility for persons with reduced mobility (PRM). 11 Sustainable cities and • Improve the aesthetics and public space when redevelopping existing buildings. 46-51 communities • Obtain BREEAM and BREEAM In-Use certificates. 60-61 • Inform clients about the accessibility of buildings using alternative transport modes to the car. •P  romote the use of alternative transport modes to the car by improving facilities. • Increase the rate of use of car parks by sharing them or through a conversion into car parks for semi-public or public use. • Implement a mobility plan. • Increase the surface area of green spaces in the office portfolio while respecting biodiversity. 12 Responsible consumption • Partially recycle materials during renovation projects. 82-83 and production • Digital invoicing from suppliers and to clients. • Improve waste sorting in multi-tenant office buildings by raising awareness among occupants. 13 Climate action • Update the head office’s carbon footprint. 82-83 • Decrease the CO2 emissions of leased cars. 16 Peace, justice and strong • Maximise the transparency of the company’s non-financial information. 78-79 institutions •E  xtend the Environmental Management System’s ISO 14001 certification in addition to the existing certification for the management of the global office portfolio, Project Management and Development. 17 Partnerships for the goals • Annually review the materiality matrix for the company’s sustainability topics. 14-17 •P  romote the Green Charter, a collaboration agreement signed by Cofinimmo, Cofinimmo Services and tenants in order to actively promote sustainability and encourage all parties to reduce the environmental impact of leased properties: sharing of consumption data, initiatives to reduce consumption, better waste sorting, etc. • Include a separate clause in contracts and calls for tenders regarding the adoption of sustainability practices by subcontractors as a selection criterion. GRI content index 2018 Sustainability Report 85 GRI content index All the GRI Standards (see pages 85-89) have been reviewed by the Auditor, Deloitte Bedrijfsrevisoren/Reviseurs d’Entreprises. Cofinimmo is not subject to the European legislation on non-financial reporting (EU Directive 2014/95). The Sustainability Report is therefore a voluntary initiative compliant with the legal requirements of the transposition of this directive into Belgian law. Universal Standards SR: See pages in 2018 Sustainability Report. AFR: See pages in 2018 Annual Financial Report. GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 1. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation Cofinimmo SA/NV 102-2 Activities, brands, products and SR 4-11, 19, 23 services AFR 27-61 102-3 Location of headquarters Boulevard de la Woluwe/Woluwedal 58, 1200 Brussels, Belgium 102-4 Location of operations SR 13 102-5 Ownership and legal form SR 12 AFR 254-267 102-6 Markets served SR 13, 18 AFR 27-61 102-7 Scale of the organisation SR 12-13 102-8 Information on employees and SR 57-59, 66, 76 Cofinimmo does not work with external contractors. other workers All employees are recruited for an indefinite term. Social data are consolidated by the social secretariat Securex for Belgium and by the human resources department for France and the Netherlands. 102-9 Supply chain SR 18-19 102-10 Significant changes to the AFR 24-25 organisation and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach SR 27-30 AFR 2-5 102-12 External initiatives SR 13, 78 Participation in GRESB and Vigeo Eiris surveys. 102-13 Membership of associations The Shift, Women on Board, ‘UPSI/BVS’, IiP, EPRA, RICS, ULI, Alter Forum, ‘ONA’ 2. STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decisionSR 2-3 maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities AFR 2-5 86 2018 Sustainability Report 3. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and SR 26-30 https://www.cofinimmo.com/about-us/governance/ norms of behaviour 4. GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure SR 27-30 AFR 124-151 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on SR 20-25 economic, environmental and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest SR 30, 58 governance body and its AFR 124-151 committees 102-24 Nominating and selecting the AFR 124-151 highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest AFR 138-139 5. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 24-25 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements There is no trade union representation within Cofinimmo due to a lack of candidates in the compulsory employee elections held every four years. Cofinimmo is part of Joint Committee 200 which governs the status of employees. 102-42 Identifying and selecting SR 20-25 stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder SR 20-22 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 26-64 6. REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the AFR 226-227 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic SR 14-17 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics SR 15 102-48 Restatements of information No significant restatement of information compared to information communicated in the 2017 Sustainability Report. 102-49 Changes in reporting No substantial changes in the content and boundaries of topics compared to information communicated in the 2017 Sustainability Report. 102-50 Reporting period Financial and tax year from 01.01.2018 to 31.12.2018. 102-51 Date of most recent report The most recent sustainability report covers the sustainability strategy for 2017. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions Jean Van Buggenhout, Head of Property Services & Corporate regarding the report Social Responsibility. Hanna De Groote, Environmental Manager. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI with the GRI Standards Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI content index SR 85-89 102-56 External assurance SR 90-92 Deloitte Bedrijfsrevisoren/Reviseurs d’Entreprises SC s.f.d. SCRL performed a limited assurance audit on the performance measures, the compliance of the 2018 Sustainability Report with the GRI Standards Core option, as well as the Green and Social Bonds portfolio. GRI content index 2018 Sustainability Report 87 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SR 26-64 and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and its SR 26-64 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management SR 26-64 approach Topic-specific Standards GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARDS Net result from core activities per SR 12 share Net Asset Value (NAV) (in fair value) SR 12 per share Dividend SR 12 Average cost of debt SR 12 GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated SR 31 and distributed GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption SR 26 and actions taken GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS CRE1 Building energy intensity SR 70 CRE2 Building water intensity SR 73 CRE3 GHG emissions intensity SR 72 CRE8 Type and number of sustainably SR 74-75 https://www.cofinimmo.com/sustainability/ certified assets performance-data/ GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 Reason for omission: Given the number of renovation and/or redevelopment projects each year, the publication of these disclosures is not material compared to the other impacts of the activities of Cofinimmo. However, the Group remains vigilant as to whether actions are required for recycled materials. GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the SR 67-69 organisation 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the SR 67-69 organisation 302-3 Energy intensity SR 70 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR 63 GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018 303-5 Water consumption SR 72 88 2018 Sustainability Report GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY 2016 Reason for omission: The activities of Cofinimmo do no impact protected areas and do not impact empty lots in urban areas. Biodiversity disclosures are therefore not material for these activities. However, Cofinimmo remains vigilant as to whether actions are required. GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR 71 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG SR 71 emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG SR 71 emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR 72 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SR 63 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SR 73-74 GRI 400: SOCIAL STANDARDS Operations with a significant real or SR 42-51, 60-61 potential negative impact on local communities Deployment of the company’s Participation in Mobility Week. strategy relating to active citizenship Philanthropic initiative at year-end. In 2018, Cofinimmo has spent almost all of its budget for donations to a single philanthropic action. It has provided financial support to SOS Children’s Villages, a non-governmental organisation supported by the FPS Foreign Affairs, for the construction of a veranda so to expand the living space of children in the Children’s Village SOS Chantevent, located near Marche-en-Famenne (BE). Children do not always have the chance to grow up in a healthy family environment. When security, physical and emotional condition of a child is compromised, an alternative hosting solution may have to be considered. The SOS Chantevent Children’s Village offers a new home and personalised support for children in this situation. GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee SR 59, 76 turnover GRI 402: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding The minimum notice period for operational changes operational changes is six weeks. GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 403-9 Work-related injuries SR 52 GRI content index 2018 Sustainability Report 89 GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year SR 54 per employee 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving SR 76 regular performance and career development reviews GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and SR 57-59 employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and SR 56, 76 remuneration of women to men GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and No incidents of discrimination were reported in 2018. corrective actions taken GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which In 2018, no operations or suppliers in which the right the right to freedom of association to freedom of association and collective bargaining and collective bargaining may be may have been at risk were claimed. Respect for at risk human rights is a red line in the collaboration with the partners. In addition, exposure is low given Cofinimmo’s geography and business. GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2016 413-1 Operations with local community SR 77 engagement, impact assessments and development programs GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY 2016 415-1 Political contributions No financial or in kind political contributions were made in 2018. GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety SR 52-53 impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance SR 77 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 90 2018 Sustainability Report Statutory Auditor’s report Statutor y Auditor’s report 2018 Sustainability Report 91 92 2018 Sustainability Report COFINIMMO Boulevard de la Woluwe/Woluwedal, 58 B – 1200 Brussels Tél. +32 2 373 00 00 Fax +32 2 373 00 10 R.L.P of Brussels VAT : BE 0426 184 049 www.cofinimmo.com Send us your feedback info@cofinimmo.be Design and realisation www.chriscom.eu Jean Van Buggenhout, Head of Property Services & Corporate Social Responsibility Hanna De Groote, Environmental Manager Pictures Buildings : David Plas, Yvan Glavie, Oilinwater Design Studio, Adriaan Van Dam Fotografie, RAU Architecten Portraits : David Plas This report is also availaible in Dutch and French. The Dutch and English versions are translations made under Cofinimmo's responsibility. Only the French version constitues legal evidence. www.cofinimmo.com
