Profiler GmbH | United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress C O M M UNIC ATI O N O N PRO GR E SS 201 9 ABOUT PROFILER Profiler is a leading provider of expertise. We empower businesses by offering expert knowledge through Consulting & Staffing Solutions. With our extensive pool of experts, we are able to support renowned companies from various industries in implementing their projects quickly and effectively. We form the link between experts and companies. Profiler has been active in the IT-Industry for over 12 years and the Aerospace Industry for 6 years. INTRODUCTION Statement Of Continued Support This is Profiler’s 5th Communication on Progress as an active participant of the United Nations Global Compact and covers all of our activities and developments during 2018 in this regard. In our very first COP report for 2014, we were keen to make the principles more visible in the our day to day business. This COP is particularly interesting, allowing us to reflect and appreciate how far we have come since 2014. “I am very pleased to confirm that Profiler In the last five years we have made good progress in increasing the reaffirms its support of the UNGC and the visibility of the Ten Principles in our company culture and day-to-day Ten Principles of the United Nations Global business and processes. For 2019 and the years to come we remain Compact in the areas of Human Rights, committed to continuously improving our efforts to run a socially responsible principled business. Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption I thank all stakeholders, especially our employees and business partners, and look forward to continue supporting for the trust and support in achieving or goals and we look to continuing these into 2019 and beyond.” this collaboration. Fathima Khan, Founder & Director I am very pleased to confirm that Profiler reaffirms its support of the UNGC and the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption and look forward to continue supporting these into 2019 and beyond. 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. FOCUS THIS YEAR Human Rights & Labour We support the International Human Rights, stated in the Universal Declaration of the Human Rights. We are a multicultural company, stand strongly against discrimination and place great value on tolerance, diversity and mutual respect. These principles have always been embedded in our corporate culture and since signing with the United Nations Global Compact we have worked hard to continue living and working accordingly and raising awareness of these values. Over the last year we have been able to maintain and continue enforcing our workforce diversity as well as policy of equal opportunities as described in our last reports. Salary, promotions and pay raises are only a matter of performance and achievement. There have not been any violations of this principle or indications of discrimination. FOCUS BUSINESS TOP SME EMPLOYERS 2018 ๏ Motivated staff is our most valuable asset. The key to success in any company is not the technology, nor the process or the strategy but the people and their expertise. ๏ Our employee feedback is a good indicator of our employee satisfaction and helps us optimize our processes, working conditions and service. According to an independent survey conducted by the German news magazine FOCUS Profiler ranks among Germany's top medium-sized employers. For the second time FOCUS Business, together with the evaluation portal Kununu, presented the best employers of German Mittelstand. Mittelstand stands for small, medium and owner-managed companies. They are driven by employee loyalty, performance, team spirit and are called the backbone of Germany's economy. We are proud to announce that Profiler GmbH has been honoured with the Focus Business Top Arbeitgeber Mittelstand 2018 Focus Business Top SME Employers 2018 award. EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT ๏ One of our goals this year was to offer our employees more seminars and training opportunities. Paying attention to the factors of personal success and employee development and giving employees the opportunity to improve their skills and careers does not only show appreciation but also displays the company’s willingness to invest in their workforce. ๏ Our non-native German speakers are offered a weekly in-house German course. This not only helps communication, but also increases employee confidence and maximizes professional skills. ๏ Furthermore, employees were given the opportunity to participate in various training courses and seminars. These include soft skill seminars on leadership and team dynamics, as well as IT-specific seminars. ๏ A particular highlight was our data protection training. Even before the General Data Protection Regulation, data protection was embedded in the main principles of Profiler and was hereby extended and strengthened. FLEXIBILITY ๏ Profiler is a family-oriented company. ๏ Our goal is to enable all our employees to achieve a balance between work and family and to make achieving this balance as easy as possible for all our employees. ๏ Above all, we want women not to be subjected to the pressure of society to choose between their own career and their family. This is an important step for any employer to ensure gender equality. ๏ As a result, we offer great flexibility for expectant mothers and parents. They have the opportunity to allocate their tasks and working hours flexibly. They also have the opportunity to work from home and thus easily coordinate family life. HEALTH ๏ Protection of Health and disease prevention are fundamental elements of our occupational health management and are of key importance for the quality of our services. ๏ We believe that it is the responsibility of every employer to provide for its employees and to offer them the best opportunities. This also means raising the awareness and knowledge of our employees on health issues. Profiler has helped to promote a healthy lifestyle through targeted prevention and counselling as well as a range of regular services. ๏ This why our cooperation with HBC Healthy Business Consulting continued this year. It allows us to offer all employees a premium membership in the largest fitness and wellness club chain in the region, with the opportunity to visit 15 different gyms in the Rhine-Main area for free, including various courses and personalized training plans and wellness areas. ๏ The regular offers include, in addition to group fitness classes, health days and seminars focusing on health and fitness topics. This year, the focus of our seminars was especially on nutrition, healthy lifestyle and exercise. Employees were also given the opportunity to put their acquired knowledge to practical use during team building events. EMPLOYEE SURVEY ๏ Employee surveys can provide important insights into the company’s strategy, direction, processes and leadership as well as determine the atmosphere and motivation within the company. They capture the mood among employees and allow for improvement measures. ๏ This is necessary as a company's success is largely based on the commitment of motivated employees. ๏ We plan to conduct a large-scale employee survey this year to ensure satisfaction of our employees and to locate the development potential of Profiler's working conditions. ENVIRONMENT Digital Document Management ๏ One of our existing goals is to make Profiler a paperless company ๏ Running a paperless office has some key benefits, such as sustainability and securing future competitiveness. But also, more efficient time management and easier teamwork due to central storage locations for documents. Moreover, it allows mobility for all employees as they can remain flexible and are able to work from home or on the go. ๏ Employee files and salary statements are now managed digitally at Profiler, as well. ๏ In addition to extending our digital document management system in the last years, it is planned to implement the digital administration of holiday requests in 2019. ๏ It is encouraged to only print when absolutely necessary. Job Tickets ๏ All employees are encouraged to use public transportation whenever possible. This is why we provide every employee with a job ticket. Our new office premises are conveniently located to both our clients and public transportation. ANTI-CORRUPTION ๏ Profiler prohibits any form of corruption and every employee is instructed to report any form of corruption or suspicion of corruption. There have not been any indications of corruption, extortion or bribery. ๏ We place great value on transparency for both our employees and customers and work for this to have preventive effect on corruption, as corruption is oftentimes a product of nontransparent processes and high pressure. This is why we demand open and honest communication in all cases.
