SHINHAN FINANCIAL GROUP Climate Change CSR REPORT 2018 Stakeholder Engagement Women Empowerment Responsible Investment ESG Risk Management Human Rights Ethics and Governance Shinhan Financial Group Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Shinhan Financial Shinhan Financial Group set up the 2020 CSR strategies based on corporate social responsibility issues and the participation of stakeholders and has consequently established brilliant social responsibility outcomes and leading Group CSR Framework global practices. STEP 1. Identification of CSR Issues STEP 2. Stakeholder Participation STEP 3. Establishment of the 2020 CSR Strategies Omnidirectional issue identification spanning from economic, Shinhan Financial Group listens to a range of opinions from key Shinhan Financial Group brings its CSR goals into fruition based social, environmental factors to business areas such as financial stakeholders including customers, partner companies, shareon three targets, six strategic directions, and ten strategic goals. and competitive factors as well as political/geopolitical factor is a holders and investors, local community, government/academia, prerequisite for a thorough discovery of a range of CSR issues in executives and employees, etc, on countermeasures to different and out of the Group. CSR management issues, future goals and directions to pursue and more. Asia’s Leading Financial Group Financial Customers factors Economic Shareholders/ Partner Social factors factors Investors companies Socially Responsible Growth Social Partnerships Invest in Our Future ＞ ＞ Shinhan Responsible Financial Management Group Political/ Issues Competitive Executives & Local Provide Solutions to Increase Financial Carry Out Corporate Geopolitical factors employees community Enhance Customer Value Inclusiveness Social Responsibilities factors EnvironGovernment/ mental Academia Fair and Ethical Establish Creative and Manage Environmental Factors Business Practices Open Corporate Culture and Societal Risks Step 4. Establish a Leading Global Practice The preemptive implementation of the global initiatives by Shinhan Financial Group raises the level of its CSR management practices to meet the global standards. 1. Innovative growth 2. Enactment of the Principles 3. Announcement of 4. Disclosure on Financial Impact 5. Cultivating female project for Responsible Banking the ECO Transformation 20·20’ of Climate Change (TCFD) Leaders Invest KRW 1.7 trillion in productive Co-signatory bank of the UNEP Finance Loan and/or invest in KRW 20 trillion Signed up to champion Launch a female leader cultivation finance Initiative’s Principles for Responsible in the Low Carbon Green Industry the TCFD recommendations program,”Shinhan SHeroes” Banking Reduce GHG emissions by 20% Took part in the 2nd pilot program Set up principles to nurture female for financial institutions talent, R.O.S.E Principles 2 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook “Different Approaches to Finance, As a pioneer blazing new trails in Korean Finance, Shinhan Financial Group was established in 2001 and has become the first private financial company in Korea that succeeded in broadening its scale and areas of expertise, Benefiting the World” while positioning itself as a leading Korean financial group with a business portfolio that is balanced between banking and non-banking businesses. Our mission, “Compassionate Finance, Your Companion for the Future” Shinhan Financial encapsulates the mutual virtuous cycles in which the value of “customers,” “Shinhan” and “society” all grow together. Building on this mission, Shinhan Financial Group is committed to running its business under the principle Group’s Commitment of CSV (Creating Shared Value) management. In order to firmly support ordinary people and SMEs, we will enhance our inclusive and productive financial to a sustainable Future support and ensure the environmental/social sustainability of financial support projects to attain accountable finance while assuming a leading role in responsible management by contributing to the revitalization of green finance with investments in new and renewable energy and environmental industries. Shinhan Financial Group will continue to spread the message of heartwarming hope in which mutual growth and shared prosperity are attained by means of innovative financial practices by taking the initiative to realize futureoriented paradigm shifts. Shinhan Financial Group’s Sustainability Management Performance Rating Agency 2018 Performance RobecoSAM Included in DJSI World for 6 years in a row DJSI Asia Pacific Korea for 10 years running This report was prepared based on GRI Standards, international standards for sustainability reporting, and Global 100 Included in the Global 100 for 7 years running abides by recommendations for public disclosure by Selected as a top 9 business in the world and number 1 in Asia, TCFD and reporting principles based on the principles ranked as the number 2 financial company in the world for responsible banking. For details on its governance structure, please refer to the “2018 Annual Report on CDP Entered the hall of fame Governance Structure and Salary System” and “Annual Report” posted on our official website. Selected for the Carbon Management Honors club for 5 years running (Leadership A) 2018 Annual Report on Corporate Governance & Remuneration System KCGS Won an A+ rating for integrated ESG ratings for 4 years running 2018 Annual Report MSCI ESG Secured an AA rating for 3 years running 3 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Contents Business Impact 02 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Framework 31 Providing Solutions to Enhance Customer Value 03 Shinhan Financial Group’s Commitment 35 Fair and Ethical Business Practices to a sustainable Future 40 Increasing Financial Inclusiveness 05 CEO’s Message 43 Establishing a Creative and Open Corporate Culture 07 CSR Track Record 46 Carrying Out Corporate Social Responsibility 10 CSR Governance 52 Manage Environmental and Societal Risks 11 2020 CSR Strategies 12 2020 CSR Dashboard Theme Report Factbook 16 “Innovative Growth Project” in Response to a Changing 57 Corporate Governance Structure Industrial Ecosystem 61 Human Rights 19 Enactment of UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking 64 Materiality Assessment 21 Announcement of the “ECO Transformation 20•20” 66 Increasing Value for Stakeholders 23 Disclosure on Financial Impact of Climate Change (TCFD) 68 ESG Data 27 Cultivating Female Leaders 87 Global Initiatives 92 GRI Standards Index 96 Independent Assurance Statement 98 About This Report 4 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook CEO Message Since 2017, Shinhan Financial Group diverted all our energy towards accelerating the implementation of the “2020 SMART Project” with a view to make our “Leap to a Leading Asian Financial Group.” Last year, we secured tangible outcomes under the four directions including “Balanced growth,” “Accelerating Glocalization,” “Digital Transformation,” and “Upholding the Shinhan Culture.” First, we’ve maximized group values with balanced growth. We’ve attained solid, organic development in all facets of management such as banking-nonbanking, interest income – non-interest income, and management performed online and offline. At the same time, various forms of inorganic growth were also attained as evident in the acquisition of Orange Life/ Asia Trust, in the domestic market and the M&A of ANZ Retail/ Prudential Vietnam Finance Company Limited in Vietnam, in the global market, thereby setting a cornerstone for a greater leap forward. On the other hand, we’ve expedited the pace of glocalization. We’ve established a wide-reaching global network at 188 branches in a total of 20 countries by newly establishing Shinhan DS (Digital Solutions) Vietnam and Hong Kong GIB (Group & Global Investment Banking) and strongholds in Vietnam, Cambodia and Myanmar. Based on the network, we’ve achieved the highest global net incomes in Korea, suggesting new possibilities for Korean finance. We’ve also made effort to elevate the Group to transform it into Digital Shinhan. While we founded “Shinhan Digital Campus” and run the “Shinhan Digital Innovation Institute” at the group level, we also established a unique mobile platform consisting of SOL/FAN/Shinhan Plus/Smart Loan Center, etc. to provide customers with excellent customer experiences. 5 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Lastly, in line with upholding the Shinhan culture, we established the “Image of the Group’s Managerial Leader” to foster The year 2019 marks a significant milestone future talents and CEOs and launched the “Shinhan SHeroes,” for the 2020 SMART Project to an extent that the first program in the financial sector to nurture female leadit demands even greater endeavors. ers. In an attempt to actively respond to climate change and Building on our competitive advantage, create a transformation into a low carbon economy, we have “One Shinhan,” all our executives assumed a leadership role as a top financial group as evident and employees will continue to make a concerted in our proclamation and implementation of “Eco Transformaeffort toward becoming a “Leading Financial Group in Asia.” tion 20•20,” an eco-friendly management vision, as well as the presentation of “Principles for Responsible Banking” for the sustainable management of the global financial industry at the Global Roundtable of the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). The year 2019 marks a significant milestone for the 2020 We will further the Group’s Digital Transformation by atWe have been able to achieve such outstanding management SMART Project to an extent that it demands even greater entempting to achieve qualitative growth for our global business performance and bring meaningful results socially responsideavors. Building on our competitive advantage, “One Shinthrough the diversification of global investment, local assessble management practices through compassionate finance han,” all our executives and employees will continue to make a ments & risk system upgrades, and other moves, and actively because of the solid trust and support from our customers, concerted effort toward becoming a “Leading Financial Group respond to the specialized Internet banks that are gaining tracshareholders, and various stakeholders. I would like to take this in Asia.” tion. opportunity to thank you on behalf of the executives and employees of Shinhan Financial Group. To do so, we will expand on the value creation of One Shinhan Finally, we will keep on striving to advance the ESG (Environwith an emphasis on the Matrix Business, which is central to the mental, Social, Governance) sustainability management system This year, all our executives and employees will exert their utGroup’s capabilities, while at the same time, further enhance based on our specialty, finance, in a bid towards embodying most effort with the slogan ‘Higher Vision, Innovative Shinhan!’ its strong point, or a balanced business portfolio with optimized the mission of “Compassionate Finance, Your Companion for We would be grateful for your continued patronage, interest post-acquisition integration after the acquisition of Orange Life the Future” and to create a virtuous cycle of shared prosperity and support. and Asia Trust. to elevate the value of customers, society and the nation on the two axes of the “Hope Society Project” and the “Innovative Thank you. Growth Project.” Cho Yong-byoung CEO, Shinhan Financial Group 6 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook CSR Track Record Compassionate Finance, Your Companion for the Future Originated from Shinhan Bank’s original motto at the time of its establishment, “be original, productive, and compassionate,” “Compassionate Finance” constitutes the essence of Shinhan Culture and the backbone of Shinhan Financial Group’s sustainability management strategies. With its mission to benefit the world with finance, Shinhan Financial Group is actualizing “Compassionate Finance for the future” that can enhance financial inclusiveness and value creation. 2005 2008 2009 Shinhan Bank, published a CSR report Joined ‘UN Global Compact’ and Issued the Group’s CSR report (the first of its kind in the financial the UNEP Finance Initiative’ (the first in financial groups) sector) CSR Track Record Compassionate >> 2005 2008 2009 Finance ESG Trends >> 2009 Launched the sustainable management exchange initiative 7 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook In 2005, Shinhan Bank published a Corporate Social ResponShinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management joined the Carbon In addition, the Group joined the United Nations Environment sibility (CSR) Report for the first time in the Korean financial Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2007 and 2008, respectively, and Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) in January 2008 with industry, reflecting its determination to take an industry lead in the Group followed suit in 2009 and jointly responded to CDP the aim to fulfill its role towards sustainable development. In CSR management. In an effort to step up its CSR efforts to the in terms of reporting on the short and long-term management May of the same year, it joined the UN Global Compact (a globgroup level, in 2009, the Group issued the first group-wide CSR strategies for relevant GHG gas emission info and issues. The al initiative officially launched at the proposal by the former report in Korea. Group was included in the Carbon Management Honors Club UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 2000), with an ongoing On the other hand, Shinhan Financial Group has been parfor five years in a row, obtaining a “Leadership A” rating from its commitment to human rights, labor empowerment, the environtaking in a major global sustainability management intuitive CDP evaluation in 2019. ment, and as part of efforts to prevent financial malfeasance as part of its endeavors to join the initiatives of international and corruption. society to ensure sustainable development. Shinhan Bank and 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Established an integrated green Made a ‘Compassionate Finance’ Announced its plan to offer Selected as a member of Dow Johns Set up 9 CSR strategies for the Group management system declaration financial economic education Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World Announced ‘Compassionate Finance, Acquired ISO 5001 certificate Your Companion for the Future’ mission 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2014 Announced the ISO 26000 Disclosed the issuance of GRI Introduced Japan’s Stewardship Introduced the UK Stewardship Code (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Code The Legislation of the Framework Act on Low Carbon, Green Growth 8 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook The Group was first included in 2009 the Dow Jones SustainTo ensure reasonable and objective decision making and the On the other hand, Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management inability Index (DJSI) and subsequently ranked first in the Korean effective execution of CSR, Shinhan Financial Group founded a troduced a “Stewardship Code” in December 2017 to reinforce banking industry and was included in the Asia Pacific Index. In “CSR Committee,” the first of its kind in the domestic financial the voting scope and rights of its institutional investors in a bid 2013, it became the first Korean Financial Group to be included sector, under the umbrella of its Board of Directors in 2015. The to enhance the mid to long-term values of investees and to stay in the DJSI World Index and has maintained its inclusion for six CSR Committee consists of five directors, including a Chairman accountable for the greater performance of customers’ assets. consecutive years through 2018. and CEO, and is responsible for resolving and deliberating the In September 2018, the Group became the first Korean enterAgainst this backdrop, the Group set up the “9 CSR Strategies” Group’s CSR directions, its enactment, review and abolition of prise to offer its support of the Task Force on Climate-Related in 2014 to systemically implement sustainability management relevant rules, policies and others. Financial Disclosure Recommendations, which makes up the in a more effective manner and to clearly put forward its CSR guidelines for financial disclosures related to climate change, goals and direction in the fields of the economy, society, and to disclose the impact of climate change and management dithe environment. rections in terms of governance, strategies, risk management, indices, etc. 2018 – ‘Principles for Responsible Banking’ launched 2015 2016 2017 by the UNEP FI 2019 Installed CSR Committee Obtained ISO 14001 certificate Established the 2020 CSR Strategies Announced ‘ECO Transformation 2020’ 2019 Selected for Bloomberg Gender Introduced the Stewardship Code Became a signatory of the TCFD Equality Index(GEI) (the first in the (Asset Management) recommendations Korean companies) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 – Revision of the National Pension Act Establishment of Korea’s Stewardship Announcement of the Announcement of the UN Sustainable Code TCFD Recommendations Development Goals (SDGs) The Paris Agreement 9 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook CSR Governance Shinhan Financial Group introduced its CSR Committee in May CSR Governance 2015 as part of efforts to fulfill its social responsibility as a corporate citizen by proactively responding to demands from internal and external stakeholders including customers, shareholders and the local community and to fully realize its mission, Shinhan Boards of Directors Committee “Compassionate Finance, Your Companion for the Future.” CSR Committee involves itself in the discussions of key CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) issues in the areas of the economy, environment, and society, and in determining the direction of Corporate Audit Committee CSR to be implemented by the Group. It deliberates and resolves Outside Director Member Governance Risk Board Steering Remuneration Recommendation Audit Committee CSR Committee & CEO Management the enactment, review and abolition of the rules, and policies Recommendation Committee Committee Committee Recommendation Committee related to the Group’s CSR including climate change, human Committee Committee rights, financial inclusiveness, and sustainable finance, among others. Also, the company reports to the CSR committee on major issues over sustainability management such as the results of the CSR report, and stakeholders’ interests. Group CSR Council Group Risk Management Council ESG Agenda Environmental Climate Change Human Rights Financial Inclusiveness Sustainable Finance Diversity and Societal Risk Management 10 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 2020 CSR Strategies Shinhan, the Leading Financial Group in Asia To enhance the mid to long-term values of customers, society and shareholders, Shinhan Financial Group has set up “2020 Three Pillars Responsible Growth Social Partnerships Investments for the Future CSR Strategies” in an attempt to proactively respond to a changing sustainability management environment. The strategies formulate the three pillars including “Responsible Growth,” 6 Commitments Provide solutions to enhance Increase Financial Carry out Corporate “Social Partnerships” and “Investments for the Future” as well value for customers Inclusiveness Social Responsibilities as six commitment strategies ranging from products to service Improve customer satisfaction with Contribute to the mutual growth Take the lead in bringing about to management. In a bid to successfully implement the commitcustomer-oriented products, services of society as a whole with financial positive changes over the society and solutions support for ordinary people and SMEs with responsible investments such as ment strategies, furthermore, it sets up yearly targets for straIncrease future customer values by Offer financial services to more the provision of social/environmental tegic indicators, which are reflected in the individual company offering products and services that customers with the establishment of a solutions and information to clients. assessments and annually monitors its performance status. match a changing environment such as financial accessibility platform digitalization and an aging society. Fair and Ethical Business Establish a Creative Manage Environmental Practices and Open Corporate Culture and Societal Risks Provide customers with fair information Maintain expertise by fostering Attain a carbon neutral status through based on ethical business practices executives and employees’ capabilities, an active response to environmental Improve corporate reliability by establish a flexible, creative corporate changes and continued environmental protecting customers through such culture and smart working environment. efficiency management and to share means as personal information the awareness of the significance of an protection environment with stakeholders. UN SDGs 11 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 2020 CSR Dashboard In 2017, Shinhan Financial Group has established 10 strategic indicators to effectively gauge the implementation status of mid to long-term CSR strategies, and has prepared yearly targets to achieve by 2020. The implementation performance is designed to be reflected in the evaluation system of annual management performance as the linchpin of mid to long-term execution. Provide solutions to enhance Fair and ethical Increase financial Establish a creative Carry out corporate Manage customer values business practices inclusiveness and open corporate culture social responsibilities environmental and societal risks ① Customer ② Subscription to ③ Number of ④ Percentage of ⑤ Financial support ⑥ Support for the ⑦ Employee training ⑧ Participation rate ⑨ Value of ⑩ Volume of GHG satisfaction index digital financing participants in employees receiving for working groups startup ecosystem hours in the smart work investments/loans emissions services financial literacy ethical behavior system for eco-friendly courses training and signing industries a pledge of ethical behavior Customer satisfaction index (Unit: points) Subscription to digital financing services (Unit: %) Performance Target Performance Target 72.2 94.2 70.1 94.2 94 70.1 93.8 66.8 93.6 93.8 68.2 65 2017 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2019 2020 12 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Number of participants in financial literacy courses (Cumulative, Unit: persons) Percentage of employees receiving ethical behavior training (Unit: %) and signing a pledge of ethical behavior Performance Target 1,000,000 879,000 Performance Target 99 99 98 98 786,693 98 98 637,568 635,000 757,000 2017 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2019 2020 Financial support for working groups (Cumulative, Unit: KRW trillion) Support for the startup ecosystem (Cumulative, Unit: KRW trillion) Performance Target 6.3 Performance Target 4.6 8.5 4.1 6.6 4.9 3.0 4.4 1.9 3.2 1.5 1.6 2017 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2019 2020 13 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Employee training hours (Unit: hours per person) Participation rate in the smart work system (Unit: %) Performance Target Performance Target 65 105 72 64 102 60 100 100 100 100 50 55 2017 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2019 2020 Value of investments/loans for eco-friendly industries (Cumulative, Unit: KRW trillion) Volume of GHG emissions (Unit: tCO2eq) Performance Target 20 Performance Target 98,273 96,556 16.8 97,630 95,933 92,356 3.5 89,347 1.1 2.0 0.5 2017 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2025 2030 14 2018 신한금융그룹 사회책임보고서 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Theme Report 16 “Innovative Growth Project” in Response to a Changing Industrial Ecosystem 19 Enactment of UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking 21 Announcement of the “ECO Transformation 20•20” 23 Disclosure on Financial Impact of Climate Change (TCFD) 27 Cultivating Female Leaders 15 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook “Innovative Growth Shinhan Financial Group launched ‘Innovative Growth Project’ to invest KRW 1.7 trillion in innovative growth companies for four years by 2022. The project will spur up to KRW 6 trillion worth of investment Project” in Response to and benefit around 20,000 companies and, as a result, contribute to the discovery and the cultivation of a new growth engine for the Korean economy. Along with Society of Hope Project, the project begets the a Changing Industrial Group to establish the two pillars to undertake its inclusive and productive finance. Ecosystem Helping people with low Future’s Lab credit ratings Helping career-interrupted New technology-based women find jobs finance Helping childcare for the Matching the governmentInclusive finance underprivileged raised funds Productive finance Helping young people find Investment in funds jobs overseas Giving Solution to young Investment in social people’s debts enterprises Society of Hope Project Innovative Growth Project 16 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook “Innovative Growth With the Innovative Growth Project initiated against this backdrop, the Group plans to invest KRW 1.7 trillion by 2022, genThis is an advanced extension of “Compassionate Finance” in tandem with the current paradigm shift of the times. With all Project” in Response to erating a gross investment effect of around KRW 6 trillion. It the capabilities of its subsidiaries, the Group will take the lead clearly manifests the strong will of Shinhan Financial Group as in tackling challenges faced by startups and venture companies a leading Korean financial group to assist Korea in sharpening and in meeting the needs of the government and society to a Changing Industrial its competitive edge and in responding to the urgent demands of society in terms of job creation. stimulate a new era of venture companies. Ecosystem Starting from the “Hope Society Project” realizing “inclusive finance” in late 2017, the Group holds a firm belief in the “Innovative Growth Project” which promotes the Group to position 1.7trillion itself as a leader in the private financial sector of “Productive Since early 2019, Shinhan Financial Group has commenced Finance” whereby investments in startups, venture companies, “Innovative Growth Project” that aims to promote investments and promising SMEs are encouraged. KRW to discover and continuously foster promising startups and Invest KRW 1.7 trillion by 2022, venture companies. While a hardware-based manufacturing KRW 6 trillion worth of investment sector underpinned our economy in the past, now the industrial ecosystem is transitioning into a greater deployment of startups and venture companies armed with innovative ideas and technologies. 17 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Investing Total KRW 1.7 trillion in Terms of preemptively proposed to mutually raise the matching and inReinforcing the Group’s own competence and prowess is a pre“Discovery” and “Incubation” vestments with the government and broaden its operative horicondition to effectively execute investments in the perspective zon. Following last year’s attempt to revitalize the social econoof “Discovery” and “incubation,” two axes of our Innovative Shinhan Financial Group plans to invest as much as KRW 240 my’s ecosystem by raising exclusive funds for social enterprises, Growth Project. This awareness will lead to our thorough rebillion over the next four years to seek promising enterprises for the Group will be actively involved in actual investments from construction of internal organizations, and manpower and progreater growth with financial backing among the early startthis year on. We will make sure that consistent effort will be cesses of the Group to assist startups, venture companies and ups and venture companies. The Group scaled up its Fintech made increasing the provision of venture capital to a growing innovative SMEs. We plan to modernize our sales capabilities, Startup/Venture Incubation Platform, or “Shinhan Future’s Lab” venture or innovative SMEs as well as for greater investment investment assessment process, risk management, and employthe first of its kind in the domestic financial sector which was results for the Group. It is clear that this will result in a win-win, ee evaluation/reward system in order to ensure our engagelaunched in 2015 to newly establish a re-discovery program virtuous cycle for both these enterprises and the Shinhan Fiment to listen to challenges posed by companies in the field that expands the scope of applicable enterprises and continues nancial Group. and provide them with solutions. to support all applicant companies, while promoting recommendations from external partners with greater consolidated cooperation. We will also step up our effort to beef up solely Investment Plan for Innovative Growth Project (Draft) (Unit: KRW 100 million/ No.) operating GP capabilities in the new tech business finance field for startups and venture companies and to source new Classification Category Investment SFG investment plan Expected effects Remarks investment destinations. In addition, we will increase direct intarget Duration Total Total No. of vestments in innovative tech SMEs based on Tech Credit Bureau (year) Amount investment beneficiary (TCB) and take an aggressive stance towards making new direct Discovery 2,400 3,800 1,267 investments in prospective startups with significant growth potential. As such, we will be committed to “discovering” early Shinhan Future’s Lab Direct FinTech 4 200 200 67 FinTech company nurturing/ Investment companies investment program startups and venture firms to get them the financial support reExplore & invest Innovative growth 4 800 800 267 quired in a timely manner by increasing our direct investment in in individual companies companies individual enterprises. New technology-based Startups/ Venture 4 1,400 2,800 933 SFG’s venture capital business On the other hand, we also plan to broaden our investment Finance companies in terms of “fostering” for venture and innovative SMEs at the Cultivation 14,600 55,700 18,567 growth stage, with funds amounting to around KRW1.46 trilCultivate & invest in individual Direct Innovative growth 4 9,100 9,100 3,033 Led by Shinhan Investment lion by 2020. Existing indirect funds to Support Startups and companies Investment companies bank Ventures operated by Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management, Shinhan BNPP Startup Indirect 3 4,200 42,000 14,000 Pump-priming effect a subsidiary of Shinhan Financial Group will experience an exVenture Fund Investment by private matching ceptional upgrade in terms of the investment target selection Matching with the governmentThe government3 1,000 4,000 1,333 Matching with the governmentraised fund raised fund raised fund process with further ameliorated cooperation with excellent (Growth ladder, Fund of funds, Job etc.) venture capitalists (VC). Moreover, the Group will play a leading Investment funds Social enterprises 4 300 600 200 Investment funds in social enterprises for 『Certified Social Enterprise』 role in exploring investment areas and themes, which will be Total 17,000 59,500 19,833 18 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Enactment of Shinhan Financial Group enacted ‘Principles for Responsible Banking’, the international Agreement in the field of finance initiated by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) UNEP FI Principles for as a core member of the 28 financial institutions. Principles for Responsible Banking is an international agreement to define the role of the financial sector in implementing the Paris Agreement and the Responsible Banking UN Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) and the group is committed to proactively carry out its responsibility based on its proper role and function as a financial group. Principle 1. Alignment Principle 4. Stakeholders We will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to the needs of individuals We will proactively and responsibly consult, and social goals, as expressed in the Sustainable engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris Climate achieve social goals. Agreement and relevant national and regional Alignment Stakeholders frameworks. We will focus our efforts where we will have the most significant impact. Principle 2. Impacts Principle 5. Governance & Target Setting We will continuously increase positive impact while reducing negative impact on, and managing Principles for Governance We will implement our commitment to these Printhe risks for people and the environment resulting Impacts Responsible & Target ciples through effective governance and a culture from our activities, products and services of responsible banking, demonstrating ambition Banking Setting and accountability by setting public targets relating to our most significant impact. Principle 3. Principle 6. Clients & Customers Transparency & Accountability Clients & Transparency & Customers Accountability We will work responsibly with our clients and our We will periodically review the individual and customers to encourage sustainable practices and collective implementation of these Principles and enable economic activities that create shared be transparent about and accountable for positive prosperity for current and future generations and negative impact and our contributions to social goals. 19 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Enactment of These Principles are set to offer global benchmarks for the financial sector that plays a pivotal role in the economic system CEO Cho underscored the importance of the financial industry in the long-term development of a society and economy in the UNEP FI Principles for to disseminate a positive influence over society and the envisession discussion under the theme of “Transforming Banking” ronment and to contribute to the mitigation of negative factors and introduced the current status of inclusive finance and by means of business strategies, products and services. Another productive finance support by Shinhan Finance as a model Responsible Banking notable significance of the Principles can be found in their suggestion for finance playing a leading role in ensuring a sustainexample. He also declared that the Group will be committed to assisting sustainable growth by tackling imminent challenges such as able future. stagnant global growth, an aging society, youth unemployment, cliAfter the review process and joint goal establishment by the fimate change and to build a co-prosperous, virtuous cycle where both Shinhan Financial Group jointly enacted and announced the nancial sector, the PRB will be adopted and opened for signing socio-environmental values and corporate values are raised. “Principles for Responsible Banking (hereinafter “PRB”)” at the and ratifying at the UN General Assembly in September 2019. Global Roundtable of UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (hereinafter “UNEP FI”) held in Paris, France on NoShinhan Financial Group enacted Discussion of the Topic of Transforming Banking ‘Principles for Responsible Banking’ vember 26, 2018. This principle stipulates the roles and responsibilities of the financial industry in implementing the Paris as a core member of the 28 financial institutions. Agreement and the United Nations Sustainable Development The Global Roundtable of UNEP FI under the theme of “The (2018.11) Goals. In conjunction with 28 global financial institutions such Role of Finance in Accelerating the Paris Agreement and the as the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, BNP Paribas, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)” was and ING Group, Shinhan Financial Group seeks to establish accompanied by various discussions to apply the issue of susthese principles. tainability management to the financial industry in commemoration of the 3rd anniversary of the adoption of the Paris Agreement and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). There were about 1500 representatives from global central banks, CEOs of financial institutions, pension funds, asset management companies, but CEO Cho Yong-byoung of Shinhan Financial Group was the only Korean financial institution partaking the establishment of the Principles for Responsible Banking. 20 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Announcement of Shinhan Financial Group proclaimed the “ECO Transformation 20•20,” a Group-wide eco-friendly management vision to contribute to an effective response to climate change and a transition into a low “ECO Transformation carbon economy. The Group resolved to implement “ECO Transformation 20•20,” a mid to long-term ecofriendly management vision through a CSR Committee and plans to provide KRW20 trillion in investment 20·20” and support in the green industry by 2030 and to launch fully-fledged carbon management to cut down on GHG gas emissions by 20%. ECO Transformation Goal 20 20 Creating both Environmental Value (EV) and Corporate Value (CV) Until year 2030 Target Investing and Financing Reducing GHG Emissions KRW 20 tril. by 20% in Green Industries (baseline 2012) Direction Ⅰ. Leader in Low-Carbon Ⅱ. Eco-friendly Ⅲ. Strengthening Financing Business Management Green Partnerships Strategy · Active investment in green industrial sectors · Expanding investment in green infrastructure · Building green networks and partnerships · Customized financial products and services for · Creating a virtuous cycle of sustainable resources · Eco-friendly brand communication each sector · Establishing a carbon management system · Disclosing financial data of environment-related · Environmental risk management system business Enablers Eco Governance Raising Employees’ Environmental Awareness and Organizational Implementation and Fostering Leaders for Sustainable Management 21 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Announcement of To promote eco-friendly activities by customers, it will develop a range of financial products including deposit and installment Declaration of the Increased Use of Renewable Energy “ECO Transformation saving accounts, credit cards, insurance, and mutual funds through Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Card and other Group subsidOn the other hand, Shinhan Financial Group participates in the iaries. A broader eco-friendly financial service will be attained 20·20” by expediting a paperless and digital transformation. Moreover, a fortified environmental society risk management system will Right of Choice for the RE Initiative to tackle the predicament of climate change and fine dust. The Right of Choice for RE Initiative led by the National Assembly’s Renewable Energy Forum and help with the analysis, evaluation and management of the imsix NGOs was launched with the aim to legalize a new and repact of economic activities by financial service providers. To newable energy power procurement system that separates solar “ECO Transformation 20•20” takes three distinctive directions promote eco-friendly management, it will undertake various power, wind power, and other sources of renewable energy from of: leading low-carbon financial markets; spreading eco-friendinitiatives covering the introduction of electric vehicles for other forms of power generation. The Group is geared toward ly management and; consolidating environmental leadership business purposes, building infra for recharging these vehicles, promoting a wider energy choice by businesses by proposing and partnerships. To proactively usher in a low-carbon finanand increase energy efficient facilities, while combining this directions to ensure the effective design of a new and renewable cial market, the Group will bolster its support for investments with the virtuous cycle of resources by reducing disposable energy power procurement system, and a roadmap to encourage and loan hybrid funds involved in the new and renewable items and by promoting recycling to reduce the generation of domestic firms to use renewable energy and take part in promotenergy industry and businesses and related projects while reviwaste that can adversely affect the environment. ing the voluntary use of new and renewable energy. talizing ESG funds, green bonds and green building businesses. Green Bonds refer to financial instruments issued for the purpose of raising funds to invest in eco-friendly projects regarding climate change and renewable energy or infrastructure Direction projects. The Group was the first commercial bank in Korea that issued KRW 200 billion in green bonds in August 2018. Ⅰ. Leader in Low-Carbon Ⅱ. Eco-friendly Ⅲ. Strengthening Financing Business Management Green Partnerships · Active investment in green industrial sectors · Expanding investment in green infrastructure · Building green networks and partnerships Strategy · Customized financial products and services · Creating a virtuous cycle of sustainable · Eco-friendly brand communication for each sector resources · Disclosing financial data of · Environmental risk management system · Establishing a carbon management system environment-related business Implementation • Support hybrid finance for investors in • Provide electric vehicles for work use and • Strengthen cooperation with international the new, renewable and high-efficiency install charging infrastructure organizations (UNEP FI, CDP, etc.) and with energy sectors • Expand energy-efficient facilities in local governments and NGOs • Expand investments in ESG funds, green buildings • Adopt and implement global initiatives bonds, green buildings, etc. • Obtain ISO14001 certification • Strengthen communication to improve • Improve eco-friendliness of checking/ • Manage environmental performance eco-friendly image savings cards, funds, insurance and loans; indicators and goals • Follow TCFD recommendations and issue develop new products business reports • Economic/social risk reviews and information sharing 22 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Disclosure on Financial Shinhan Financial Group was the first Korean enterprise that voluntarily participated in the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure Recommendations (TCFD) in its effort to proactively respond to Impact of Climate climate change and take the initiative towards fulfilling its responsibility. The Financial Stability Board (FSB) is a multilateral cooperative organization founded in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis and assumes a Change (TCFD) leading role in financial system stabilization and financial regulation system reforms. The TCFD launched by the FSB on December 2015 urged investors, lenders and insurers to disclose their financial impact relevant to the risks and opportunities of climate change in its recommendations released in June 2017. The organization’s governance around Governance The actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning Strategy Risk Management The processes used by the organization The metrics and targets used to assess to identify, assess, and manage climateand manage relevant climate-related related risks risks and opportunities Metrics and Targets 23 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Disclosure on Financial 1. Governance 2. Strategy Impact of Climate Shinhan Financial Group has a CSR Committee in place that takes care of issues pertaining to climate change in line with In 2018, the Group announced, “ECO Transformation 20•20,” a Group-wide eco-friendly management vision to play a pivotal Change (TCFD) the Group’s sustainability management in an integrated way. role in taking action against climate change and to ease the Established in May 2015, the Committee has the power to make transition to a low carbon economy. The vision materialized a final decision on behalf of the Group and leads the way in in three directions of: leading low-carbon financial markets; taking action against ever aggravating climate change and in spreading eco-friendly management and; consolidating enviAs of January 2019, a total of 580 businesses (including 318 ficreating enterprise-wide environmental values with systematic ronmental leadership and partnerships. It set up the quantinancial companies) around the world were in favor of the TCFD environmental management undertakings. tative goal to invest KRW 120 trillion in the green industry by recommendations, while inter and intragovernmental bodies As an umbrella body of the Board of Directors (BOD), the CSR 2030 and to slash its GHG gas emission volume by 20%. such as the European Union (EU) and the Asian Development Committee reviews climate change related countermeasures, To lead the way in the low-carbon financial market, the Group Bank (ADB) are preparing policies in consideration of the recpolicies, plans for company-wide activities, projects and others plans to beef up its support for investment and loan hybrid ommendation. by holding three regular meetings per year. Also, it is responfunds related to the new and renewable energy industry In recognition of the importance of social responsibility for a sible for checking and monitoring short and long-term targets and businesses, projects, and to introduce new products and low-carbon financial market, Shinhan Financial Group is fully and performance via the Risk Management Committee. services that are tailor-made to different business types to devoted to serving its role as a leading financial company by establish an environmental risk management system. As for actively taking part in a global initiative to fight against climate the promotion of eco-friendly management, it will establish a change. carbon management system with various efforts such as further In September 2018, as it signed up for TCFD Recommendations investment in eco-friendly facilities and engaging in generating as the first Korean enterprise, it externally demonstrated its a virtuous cycle of sustainable resources. commitment toward transitioning to a low-carbon economy by In an attempt to strengthen its environmental leadership and taking a leading role. partnership, the Group will secure an active eco-friendly brand In 2019, Shinhan Financial Group plans to partake a 2nd picommunication channel while expanding its international lot program, overseen by UNEP FI, to implement TCFD for the cooperations and networks for tackling climate change. Morefinancial sector. The Group will organize a working group enover, the Group has built a continuous management system for compassing a strategic planning team, risk management teams climate change by disclosing relevant information in accorand others from holding companies to carry out the TCFD Recdance with the framework on Climate-Related Financial Discloommendations. sures. 24 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 3. Risk Management 4. Metrics and Targets Investments in Green Industries Nat’l proportion of renewable energy (%) Shinhan Financial Group constructed a green management Shinhan Financial Group will set in motion the transition to a Shinhan’s green industry investments (KRW trillion) system to enable group-wide, multidimensional analyses and low-carbon economy with full engagement from ‘ECO Transto effectively tackle risk and opportunity factors of climate formation 20·20’, a vision to sharpen its competitive edge in 20% change including transitional risk and physical risk. To control finance and to ensure future-oriented, eco-friendly manage10.5% transitional risks, it classifies its asset portfolio by different ment. The transition into a low-carbon economy may give rise 6.2% items. Centering on the IFC guidelines for risk management, the to both new market creation and greater investment opportu18.4 20.0 Group selected 12 areas of interests on socio-environmental nities accompanied by falling values of carbon emission related 16.8 issues including global warming, fine dust, biodiversity, indusassets and the development of low-carbon and eco-friendly 1.1 trial safety, health, etc., by referring to various standards from technologies. global financial institutions, ESG rating agencies and research In this regard, the Group is preparing a loan portfolio in considinstitutes, and others, and performs a monitoring of various eration of climate change. We will cut back on its investments Green industry loans 12.6 perspectives covering everything from exposure to areas of and loans falling in the category of the carbon emission group 2018 net increase of Green industry investments 2.0 KRW 15.7 trillion Renewable energy 0.4 interest, industrial and technological changes by socio-enviwhile augmenting its investment in the eco-friendly industry (Surpassed target of Customer green loans/funds 0.3 ronmental issues, and regulative trends, and more. These oband technologies (reducing its GHG gas emissions by 37% from Green specialized loans 0.2 KRW 1.5 trillion) servations will be used in setting up the appropriate measures: BAU levels). The Group will raise financial support in new and Green building investments 0.2 the complete withholding of or conditional financial assistance renewable industries while expanding its investment scale in and; lowering the level of investment or support in an industry ESG funds, green bonds, and green buildings, etc. by investing 2017 2018 2024 2030 with sizable fossil fuel exposure. Furthermore, the Group conKRW 120 trillion by 2030. It will also identify and actively invest ducts environmental and social impact assessments for projin new areas of sustainable finance such as eco-friendly transects that are subject to significant financial influence so as to port and eco-friendly buildings, etc. classify the risk rating of the project for the tangible evaluation of its impact on the environment and society. If diminishing or GHG Emissions controlling any environmental or societal risk factors is deemed Nat’l target (million tCO2eq) Shinhan target (tCO2eq) necessary, it will be controlled in the form of a financial agreement. In addition, the Group manages ESG loans, bonds, invest691 650 ment products by relevant items and different subsidiaries and 536 plans to phase in investments and support. 95,933 92,570 89,347 2018 2024 2030 25 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook TCFD Promotion Roadmap To implement the TCFD recommendations, we will systematically manage the financial impact of climate change by improving strategy and risk management and climate change governance. GHG reduction goals reached Climate change impact assessment To-Be of entire portfolio Established the 20-20 ECO Transformation Strategy As-Is Established the 2020 CSR Strategy 2017~2018 2019~2025 2026~2030 Corporate Governance CSR Committee Accelerate climate change agenda Establish group-wide monitoring system Set climate change agenda for business impact assessment to achieve reduction goals Strategy • Active eco-friendly business investment • Improve climate credit risk management • Manage portfolio risk weight • Introduce new products and services by sector • Portfolio risk management by individual • Reduce weight of business with high • Establish environmental risk management transaction and product unit conversion risk system Risk Management Low-risk portfolio Stronger risk management High-risk portfolio Unmanaged risk Expanded scope Quantitative Indicators • Green business investment KRW 16.8 trillion • Green business investment KRW 18.4 trillion • Green  business investment KRW 20.0 trillion and Reduction Goals • GHG emissions 95,933 tCO2eq • GHG emissions 92,570 tCO2eq • GHG emissions 89,347 tCO2eq 26 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Cultivating Female It also established a set of principles for carrying out this process. It is called “R.O.S.E.” with R standing for “Relationships,” O standing for “Opportunity,” S standing for “Segmentation and E standing for Leaders “Environment.” “Relationships” involves strengthening processes, such as mentoring programs to enhance the networking abilities of talented women and setting up conferences where they can further exercise these talents. “Opportunity” means offering women a wide range of job experiences through increased employment opportunities and career development programs. It also involves promoting job exchanges among Group subsidiaries and increasing the number of transfers to departments at Group headquarters. Segmentation” refers to building a nurturing system based on a woman’s job description and responsibilities as she progresses through her working life. It includes specialized training courses exclusively for women, supporting their development while taking leave, and assisting them while caring for newborn children. Last, but not least, Environment means creating policies that will ensure that highly-qualified women have constant access to a supportive and nurturing environment, from the perspective of gender equality. In practical terms, this means upgrading the Group’s smart work systems to include flex-time work, alternative work schedules, and telework, as well as making improvements to the Group’s leave and vacation programs and creating a working environment that enables ongoing communication at both the internal and external levels. Mid-term Goals and Key Tasks Relationships Opportunity Strengthen relationships Offer more opportunities 2018 2019 2020 R O ＞ ＞ Segmentation S E Environment Create conditions for fostering Increase consistency Build healthy cycle Build platform to foster Add more supports for developing Build healthy cycle of Define targets Create a positive environment female leaders competencies fostering female leaders 27 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Cultivating Female The Group carried out a number of nurturing activities for promising female employees based on these R.O.S.E. principles The subsidiaries of the Group continue to develop and run unique female talent nurturing programs to secure excellent Leaders in 2018. They include: network consolidating among female female talent pools in the mid and long-term. For example, as leaders in a bid to provide them with the vision and motivation Shinhan Bank ameliorated its human resources standards to for continued growth and; the group-wide “SHeroes Mentohelp it create a larger pool of highly-qualified female leaders, ring Program” for the 29 female middle managers including it allowed a female worker to be promoted during maternity Upholding the philosophy of its CEO, Cho Yong-byoung, the head managers and supervisors. The Group helped its female leave. Shinhan Card set up “S-Diva,” a measure to foster female Shinhan Financial Group established a well-arranged process employees enhance their capabilities with coaching and mentalents, while also operating female leadership training proto foster female talent, which it practices by means of “Shinhan toring by external female leaders and those who completed the grams. SHeroes,” the first program in the Korean financial sector to fosprogram will have access to in-house female mentors. Also, by ter female leadership. In 2019, the Group’s commitment to nurthe time when the “SHeroes Mentoring Program” is completed, turing female leaders will be accelerated with various mentorthe Group will hold the first female conference to envision and ing programs, the establishment of an academy that specializes motivate its female employees. in female education, and conferences on the theme of gender diversity. Principles to Cultivate Management and Female Leaders With a “TFT to nurture the development of talented female employees,” the Group identified the task of cultivating female leaders and establishing a mid-term roadmap in the second Goal Cultivate management leaders to accomplish half of 2017. Building on the roadmap, it launched “Shinhan the Group’s missions and visions SHeroes,” a female leader cultivating program on March 2018. This is a portmanteau of “Shinhan,” or “SH” and “She” for feOwnership Clients Mutual Respect Change Excellence Excellence males and “Heroes” to signify “female heroes.” Ambassador for Creator of Open Trailblazer Entrepreneur Advocate Shinhan client and cooperative for progress producing for personal culture value partner sustainable development results Method Cultivation through Cultivation through Customized education/ work relationship trainings Philosophy Develop self-motivation based on self-awareness Principle Transparency & fairness Diversity & inclusiveness 28 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Shinhan Investment increased its range of programs for In line with the previous year’s efforts, the Group plans to foster strengthening female leadership within its facilities, and also a number of high-performing female employees by continuing made a series of improvements to its maternity leave programs. to operate specialized mentoring programs and by establishing Shinhan Life Insurance began offering the “S-Wing” female an academy devoted to female leadership training programs. leadership program, as well as revamping its system for achievAll of these programs will be monitored on the basis of the ing a healthier work-life balance for all its employees. In addi“Shinhan SHeroes Conference” in the latter half of the year as tion, the Group and its subsidiaries pay particular attention to well as interviews with acknowledged management leaders. improvements to their systems from the perspective of gender As for the SHeroes Mentoring Program, the Group will keep on equality to help all employees enjoy a healthier work-life balrunning mentoring programs for female workers in manageance. This includes establishing the Group’s joint childcare cenment positions with external experts and at the same time, the ter and arranging for more flexible work schedules. The Group in-house mentoring program will be expanded in conjunction also promoted three female employees to executive managewith the Group and its subsidiaries driven by in-house female The 1st Shinhan Financial Group Female Leader SHeroes Conference ment positions within the organization including two new exmentors who successfully completed the 1st SHeroes course in ecutive vice-presidents at Shinhan Bank and a division head at 2018. It aims to achieve the mutual development of the female By founding the SHeroes Academy, the Group will introduce Shinhan Card. Also, the percentage of female managers (based talent pool within the Group and establish a virtuous cycle syscapacity-building programs designed to develop female leadon its total number of deputy managers and higher) increased tem. ership with an emphasis on cultivating management leaders. In by 19% from December 2017. addition, the Group will seek to hold a conference as a platform of communication for female talents to share their visions and enhance their competitiveness. The purpose of this conference will be to strengthen communications sufficiently to form a consensus regarding the true meaning of “gender diversity” within the Group. It will also stress the ongoing importance of nurturing the development of highly-promising female employees, and attempt to increase the participation rate of male employees in all its programs dealing with issues of gender and diversity. It is expected that the full-fledged cultivation programs customized to different subsidiaries will be launched in 2019 and there will be diversified endeavors to foster female talents from the viewpoints of R.O.S.E (R.O.S.E.: Relationship (strengthening relationship), Opportunity (broadening opportunity), Segmentation (target segmentation), Environment (fostering environment)) Launch of Shinhan SHeroes 29 2018 신한금융그룹 사회책임보고서 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Business Impact 31 Provide Solutions to Enhance Customer Value 35 Fair and Ethical Business Practices 40 Increase Financial Inclusiveness 43 Establish Creative and Open Corporate Culture 46 Carry Out Corporate Social Responsibilities 52 Manage Environmental and Societal Risks 30 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Provide Solutions to Shinhan Bank Ranked first in all fields of external customer satisfaction for two years running. (2017~2018) Enhance Customer “Shinhan SOL” ranked first in Korea Customer Surprise Brand Index (K-CSBI) for four years running Value (2016~2019) Awarded Best Retail Bank and Best Digital Bank in South Korea (The Asian Banker Awards 2019) “SOLmate Orora” won second prize in the “Artificial Intelligence & Analysis” category under Shinhan Financial Group always strives to be a financial service financial innovation organized by the European Financial Management Association (EFMA) in 2018 that empowers its customers. To be able to offer compassionate financial services that reach the heart of its customers, the Ranked first in the “Smart & Intelligent Finance” category in evaluating Innovative Asian Enterprises Group does its utmost best in generating a virtuous circle of enhancing the values of Shinhan and society. It fortifies its service Digital Consultation Service “Sol Kit” to win the grand prize from the 2018 Korea Innovation competencies for customer satisfaction at its best and offers Awards and National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) new customer values through digital innovation. Shinhan Card Won the “Presidential Award” at the 23rd annual celebration of Customers’ Day Obtained a Customer Centered Management (CCM) Certificate by the Fair Trade Commission for two consecutive times Shinhan Investment Obtained the CCM certificate (2017) Obtained the KS-SQI (Korean Standard-Service Quality Index) certificate by the Korean Standards Association Secured “Favorable” ratings for 9 out of 10 items under evaluation in terms of financial service protection status by the Financial Supervisory Service Shinhan Bank’s Customer Satisfaction Award History Korean Standard Service Global Customer Satisfaction Korean Standard Service Korean Customer National Customer Classification Quality Index Competency Index Quality Index Satisfaction Index Satisfaction Index Hosted by Korean Standards Association Global Management Association Korea Management Association Korea Management Association Korea Productivity Center Consulting Consulting 2018 No.1 (5 consecutive years) No.1 (14 consecutive years) No.1 (8 consecutive years) No.1 (5 consecutive years) No.1 (2 consecutive years) 31 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Client-oriented Financial Products and Services Launch of Financial Products in the Realization Digital-based, Innovative Customer Experience of Stable ROIs for Customers Provide Optimized Financial Solutions With brilliant product planning and co-op with asset manageQuick and Easy Super-Customized Digital Platform With heightened competitiveness of its asset management ment firms, Shinhan Bank introduces various customer-centric On February 2018, Shinhan bank launched the “Shinhan SOL” products and services, Shinhan Financial Group provides cusproducts that enable customers to secure mid-risk and midapp that realizes an innovative user interface (UI/UX). The tomers with more segmented products and services. In its effort ROI reflecting products and risk management strategies. The SOL platform underpins three keywords – “convenience, custo uplift customer values, the Investment Products & Services bank launched the “Shinhan BNPP Redefine K200,” ideal for tom-made, experience” and offers a service that is faster and Headquarters (IPS) offers tailor-made services and solutions a highly volatile market with strengthened features to bolster easier to use than any existing apps. that meet customers’ needs and conditions, and comes up with ROI against falling indices. It is a fund that may complement The SOL app is characterized by: easy membership sign-up in public/private investment products of a brand-new structure the “Shinhan BNPP Covered Call Fund,” introduced in 2016, just 30 seconds; the largest means of log-in services including in collaboration with the Group & Global Investment Banking in terms of its ability to flexibly brace against market changes, biometric authentication such as fingerprint and iris recogniGroup (GIB) and Global Markets and Securities (GMS) along and it sets Shinhan Bank apart from others in terms of customer tion, simple PIN, pattern, etc.; “Zero Panel” that enables users with asset analysis service. services. In conjunction with the IB Group, it also takes care of to manage most of banking services on the main screen; simple Also, it provides corporations, unions, mutual funds, and funds enhancing Group synergy and customers’ values by ensuring transfer to send money to persons listed in the main contacts with a specialized corporation consulting service through its a stable supply of products such as ABCP. Shinhan bank will without a security medium; “Keyboard Banking” to allow cusdevoted “corporate asset management consulting” team concontinue to launch products that feature high ROI and stability tomers to send money while chatting in a messenger app, and sisting of WM specialists. Recently, its area of consulting has against the uncertainty of the financial market. more. It clearly displays the bank’s commitment to offering easy been broadened to encompass IB, taxation, and real estate The bank’s endeavor is not restricted to product sales, but also and convenient digital services for customers. and offers optimized products and solutions based on accurate extends to follow-up. This includes system-based follow-up by “Gift Installment Savings,” a product exclusively available in predictions about the ever-complicated financial market. With headquarters rather than that which relied on individual emSOL was recognized as a paradigm-changing quality as it repextraordinary analytical skills of its investment strategy anaployees, and includes asset diagnosis and automated proposals resents the idea of “giving someone a savings habit as a preslysts, Shinhan Investment supplies research reports for various for portfolio rebalancing through the “SOL Rich” mobile investent.” There are other super-customized services including “SOL sectors on a regular basis and presents the latest information ment product platform. This helps customers to achieve stable easy loans for workers” that recommend the most advantaand investment ideas at various conferences such as the finanROI in the long run and consequently contribute to a higher geous loan products to customers with a single application, an cial market forum. level of customer trust. AI chat-bot “SOLmate” available to perform consultations and banking tasks 24 hours a day and more. Securing 8 million customers within 293 days from its date of launch, SOL offers tailor-made content that satisfy the financial needs of diverse customer groups (Original, SOHO, Senior, Worker, Lady, Premier, College Student) with its seven “SOL’s customized Themes.” 32 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Leveraging domestic experience and knowhow, the bank has To ensure a timely response to a rapidly transforming digital Seoul Municipal Depository Bank with Greater Stability upgraded its overseas mobile banking platforms in Vietnam and financial environment and to significantly enhance the customand Convenience Indonesia. “Vietnam SOL” introduced in November 2018, in er experience, Shinhan Card reconstructed its service under a Designated as a new Seoul Municipal Depository bank in 104 particular, accomplished the splendid feat of securing 50,000 new name, “Shinhan PayFAN.” The focus of the change is to years, Shinhan Bank is now responsible for handling the largcustomers within two months from its launch date thanks to facilitate customers to use various services ranging from conest budgets of municipalities in Korea as well as the revenue fully localized features including innovative UI/UX, easy logsultations such as the lookup of card payment details, applying and expenditures of 10 million citizens. The establishment of in, one-click money transfer, and money transfer to those in the for payments by installment, etc. to various benefits such as the Seoul Municipal Depository puts an emphasis on helping contact list. franchise offers and lease purchases, etc. in a single app. It emcitizens pay taxes in a convenient manner to the extent that In addition, the bank developed and commercialized an autophasizes increasing digital contacts with customers by allowing it integrated the entering box for payments and searches on mated OTC derivatives transaction process using blockchain Shinhan PayFAN to handle most of the customer services. the Seoul Municipal Taxation Payment Official Website, ETAX and pursues joint projects with various partners including (etax.seoul.go.kr) and allows taxpayers to easily check their Samsung Electronics, KT, Coinplug and others so as to provide local government tax notices via Kakao Alimtalk. In addition, a range of innovative services like overseas money transfers, the bank introduced a simple authentication program through 8.1trillion local currency exchange, blockchain Wallet services, etc. to be fingerprints, patterns, face recognition to STAX, the Seoul Tax directly available to customers. Payment app, added an automated card payment feature, and Since the launch of “App Card,” the first credit card payment KRW ensured any banks to receive tax payments. It plans to advance app in the world, on April 2013, Shinhan Card recorded 10 Annual payments by ‘App Card,’ tax administration tasks with a gradual upgrade with IoT, Big million members as of July 2018 based on convenient payment the first credit card payment app in the world, Data, AI, etc., for the digitally marginalized class such as the disgrew 2,600% from its launch functions and various services and benefits, and its annual abled and the elderly. payments marked a stunning growth of KRW 8.1 trillion in 2018 from KRW 0.3 trillion in 2013. 8 million people Customers within 293 days from the launch of application ‘SOL’ 33 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Big Data based Services Utilization of New Digital Technologies Customer-oriented Management Shinhan Card has carried out about 170 Big Data consulting Shinhan Investment provides customers with greater values by services based on the industry’s best data capacbility. With developing products and services based on new digital techCustomer Service Quality Management booming of data-based economy, we are working with public nologies. It sought an artificial intelligence project to create an Since its inception, “Customer-oriented Management” has institutions, local autonomous entities and research institutes algorithm that is able to sense the global market and products been the Group’s foremost important management philosophy to support policy-making and improvement based on big data and even to distribute assets. This algorithm will lead to a sepand all its executives and employees are fully committed to analysis. arate foundation of an AI investment and consulting firm in achieving this principle. Shinhan Investment offers “Experts’ Secret Notebook” service 2019. In addition, it adopted a Robo-advisor service for retireShinhan Bank is a pioneer to adopt the “Window Service characterized by tailor-made investment information based on ment pensions and launched “Shinhan SOL Rich” that substiMonitoring System” in Korea in order to manage customer serBig Data and Artificial Intelligence (AI). “Experts’ Secret Notetuted for its first Robo-advisor service (M-Folio) in the financial vice quality, and to develop and apply its own service quality book” helps investors to obtain higher investment returns by industry as an advanced version. control indicator, SCALE (Service Capability Level) to different offering the list of data on investment portfolios recommended With the introduction of advanced financial service based categories such as employees, branches and regions. All its emby experts based on an objective observation of customers’ on Insurtech, Shinhan Life Insurance seeks for new horizons ployees take part in cultivating a customer-oriented mindset trading styles. for innovative customer experiences. The existing insurance in the form of a CS campaign and monthly CS training and in contracts are delivered to customers in the form of a paper or spreading its differentiated CS culture. storage medium, which becomes problematic as they require With an emphasis on connecting with customers, Shinhan Card reissuance in case of loss. runs various communication channels, which are useful in imTo solve the problem, Shinhan Life Insurance introduced a moproving systems and business practices in terms of customer bile insurance contract dispatch service to facilitate customers protection. to check their documents such as policy, terms of service, etc., “Hyper Connect (HC) Customer Panel” system building on its anytime and anywhere via mobile devices. The company’s 2018 strategic direction “Deep Change Super-connection commitment in creating new customer value is evident in: its Management” – is composed of a wide age range from those addition of a paperless digital insurance window in offline ofbetween their 20s to 50s and contributes to digital and new fices to shorten the processing time, thereby raising the level of finance, the development of allotment products and system imcustomer satisfaction and; a newly launched Smart Insurance provements. Design Report service to create new customer value in cooperAside from this, the company engaged in first-hand communiation with an Insurtech provider. cations through “Excellent Customer Proposal Awards including Yes-Reward, Sumbi Sori and Change that selects model cases that turned customers’ complaints into business improvements while conducting a simplified annual survey, “Shinhan Poll” for online customers to make it more convenient for customers to leave their views and comments. 34 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Fair and Ethical Shinhan Bank Obtained the ISMS certification from the Korea Internet & Security Agency (KISA) Business Practices Secured the ISO27001 Certification for Information Security Management Won the Grand prize for K-ICT Information Protection hosted by the Ministry of Science Transparent and ethical management practices by Shinhan Fiand ICT (2016) nancial Group helps it to solidify customer trust and to redefine itself as the most reliable, trusted global financial group not just by its stakeholders such as customers and shareholders, but Ranked third in the comprehensive implementation assessment for money laundering prevention Shinhan Investment by the Korea Financial Intelligence Unit (KoFIU) also by society in general. Setting its sights on forming an outstanding, ethical enterprise, the Group makes sure that all executives and employees can proactively partake in ethical management and compliance and keeps on improving its level of ethical management by improving ethical behavior training and various monitoring activities. Shinhan Bank has reserved the second week of each month The company also conducts ethical compliance training for all for anti-bribery and corruption training. During that time, the its executives and employees on an ongoing basis. This includes Compliance Representatives in each of its departments will upgrading the skills of its compliance officers, offering courses Ethical Management and Compliance provide all its employees with “Compliance Letters” covering on ethics and compliance, and training to prevent sales without education and training in the areas of financial regulations and detailed explanations and money laundering. Practice of Rigorous Ethical Standards and Principles rules and the prevention of money laundering and other acts Shinhan Investment has also elevated the level of ethical beShinhan Financial Group created a “Shinhan Financial Group of corruption. This high standard of education and training is havior among its executives and employees. This includes ofCode of Ethics” and an “Employee Code of Conduct” to ensure also required at all Shinhan Bank’s overseas units. Now that the fering training and education regarding changes to laws and ethical behavior by all its executives and employees and makes Group’s companies have advanced so far into the global marstatutes related to financial services institutions, monitoring the ethical business actions part of its overall corporate culture. ketplace, it provides an English version of the Group’s Code of levels of employee compliance, and taking measures to prevent This includes developing Group-wide, online training programs Ethics cases in pop-up videos to distribute to overseas corporafraud. Shinhan Life Insurance posts a “compliance letter” on in the areas of ethics and compliance, as well as offering intertions and branches and applied more stringent ethical training ethical standards, key legal information and anti-money launnal training programs tailored to each employee’s job characfor local employees. dering work on its internal portal to share with executives and teristics in subsidiaries. Shinhan Card has implemented its own ethical management employees. Also, it offers division-wide training and educationguidelines. They include the mandatory signing by all execual opportunities and self-assessment services to all its employtives and employees of a sworn statement outlining the need ees. for ethical behavior and compliance with all relevant rules and regulations; internal inspections carried out by all departments; and a webzine dealing with internal controls. 35 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook In addition, it provides its employees with field training on According to the Act, each of the Group’s financial subsidiaries Shinhan Investment’s whistleblower system is open for use by internal controls and money laundering prevention trainhas also established an Internal Control Committee headed by all its executives and employees. They can access it through the ing through different channels and headquarters in order to its CEO. Each committee is required to conduct an annual incompany’s Intranet, at offline meetings, or by phone or email. strengthen the awareness for ethics and compliance, the estabspection of its company’s internal control system and to superAll of its executives and employees are reminded of its exislishment of a corporate culture that extols the virtues of sales vise how it was implemented during the preceding year. Their tence on a quarterly basis, as well as through intuitive intranet based on detailed explanations and putting customers first reports are then sent to the respective Boards of Directors. banners. when conducting sales. Shinhan Life Insurance has an online bulletin board on its webFinally, Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management has strengthWhistleblower System site called “Sinmungo.” Information regarding it is made availened its regulations regarding employees’ sales activities by Through its whistleblower system, Shinhan Financial Group is able to all company employees when they undergo training in adding to the level of detail involved in the trading of its finandevoted to pre-inspection and measures on any unethical beits internal control processes and policies. cial products. It has also increased its vigilance concerning imhaviors and runs a revitalized internal control program. proper transactions and the taking of illicit financial benefits by It includes a wide variety of reporting tools, such as both online Anti-money Laundering Activities executives and employees. and mobile websites. It can be accessed by all employees and In 2012, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an internaexecutives of all Group subsidiaries. tional organization for money laundering prevention, set forth Strengthen Internal Controls These endeavors are also prevalent throughout the Group’s guidelines to prevent money laundering that can be used in Each subsidiary member of Shinhan Financial Group is required subsidiaries. Shinhan Bank has established its own whistleblowthe effective evaluation and management of risk associated to appoint Compliance Officers who are responsible for carryer system, called the “Shinhan Guardian.” It can be accessed by with money laundering and terrorist financing. Building on the ing out a prescribed list of internal control activities. They are its own executives and employees, as well as by workers at all guidelines, the Korea Financial Intelligence Unit (KoFIU) has supervised by the Group’s own Compliance Officer, who perof its partner companies and even customers. It is featured by a announced, “Risk-Based Approach handling standards” to lay forms the same functions at the Group level. The Group-level wide range of reporting channels, such as email, faxes, regular a foundation for financial institutions to appropriately apply Compliance Officer also receives reports outlining the complipostal mail, and a website. The website clearly stipulates in its the system and subsidiaries of the Group to continually beef up ance monitoring and internal trading activities of the Group’s “Guidelines for Shinhan Guardian” that the company will entheir money laundering prevention systems. subsidiaries and carries out inspections of their various internal sure the confidentiality of the identities of whistleblowers. Shinhan Bank undertakes a system-building project for assesscontrol processes and activities in the field. Shinhan Card also operates its own whistleblower system, ing money laundering risk in an attempt to equip itself with the In accordance with the enactment and enforcement of the Act targeting its executives, employees, and business partners. pre-identification, assessment and improvement process of risk on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies, the Group’s They can access it through a wide range of channels, includfactors concerning possible money laundering that may occur subsidiaries that are financial entities now reflect the key reing a website, the Intranet, email, fax, regular postal mail, and in banks in order to take several measures such as: differentiatquirements of the Act concerning their internal controls includpersonal interviews. Any and all information regarding a whised organizational diagnosis for divisions in headquarters and ing: information about whistleblowers; ordered leave systems; tleblower’s identity or job position is kept strictly secret so as to branches for identifying and analyzing risks and; identified risk provisions for the separation of duties for high-risk clerical prevent them falling victim to any personnel disadvantage and factors and scope of risks that may be posed to different diviemployees; processes for developing and selling new products others and strives to have institutional tools in place for the syssions in headquarters and branches. and; policies regarding internal inspections. Therefore, it is tem to run smoothly. possible to promptly respond to more stringent financial regulations and to ensure the Group’s internal control system to be built and operated in a manner that is consistent and effective. 36 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Shinhan Card has enhanced its money laundering prevenEnhanced Training on Preventing Market Abuses It strives to forestall any transaction activities based on confition system in operations covering identification checkups for In efforts to prevent market abuse, the Group provides eddential information and unfair transactions by sharing major incustomers who make a transaction with the company such as ucation and training programs and monitors its subsidiaries spection outcomes every quarter with those responsible for the card issuance and loan appliance and monitoring, whether or to ensure they do not violate any regulations concerning the relevant operations including notifications on the maintenance not money laundering is suspected by existing customers, etc., Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act. The of financial product accounts and market abuses related laws while receiving consulting from external expert institutions to Group conducted a collective training for all relevant execuand regulations, mandatory leave, and others. introduce a risk evaluation system to identify and analyze just tives and employees of its subsidiary companies with common how vulnerable the company is to money laundering risk, which educational materials in 2017, while Group-wide training was Financial Consumer Protection is to be applied in pursuit of a company-wide money launmaintained in 2018 in the form of video case studies. dering system upgrade. These are a few examples of Shinhan Shinhan Bank uses the FSS’s “Declaration of Financial InvestStronger Protection for Consumer Rights and Interests Card’s constant endeavors to meet the international standards ment Accounts” and “Declaration of Trading Particulars” to There is an irrevocable global trend towards tougher financial on combating money laundering. limit any unauthorized use of confidential information and consumer protection to ensure the sustainable development of Shinhan Investment has newly adopted a company-wide Riskunfair trading practices. It also provides additional training for the financial industry, accompanied by growing social demand Based Approach (RBA) system designed to avoid money launemployees of departments most likely to be in possession of for further rights and interests of financial consumers. Against dering from taking place, and it identifies areas particularly confidential information. the backdrop of such a paradigm shift, a qualitative difference vulnerable to money laundering and terrorist financing, and Shinhan Card issues reports on the sales of financial investment in financial institutions’ consumer protection system is recogconsequently takes on addressing these areas. Its efforts to products to prevent unfair trade practices, such as those outnized to be tantamount to their competitive edges. prevent money laundering take the form of intensified customlined in the FSS’s “Prohibition on the Use of Non-Public MateriShinhan Bank has an exclusive financial consumer protection er check-ups for high-risk customers, the filtering of persons al Information.” It carried out searches for other types of unfair team in place and appoints a Chief Customer Officer (CCO) on the blacklist, the monitoring of various types of suspicious transactions through regular monitoring activities, and offers a for matters under the direct control of the CEO, thereby entransactions, employee training, and more. wide variety of training and educational opportunities for exsuring the independence of the job. It implements preemptive Shinhan Life Insurance established a system to identify, analyze, ecutives and employees. system improvements enabled by a rapid adjustment of opinand assess inherent money laundering and terrorist financing Shinhan Investment undertakes efforts in advance to prevent ions among different departments at the monthly “Consumer risks. Through these efforts, it establishes a strategy for remarket abuses by providing regular training and educational Protection Council” for the head managers of the headquarsponding to the risks and conducts anti-money laundering acprograms in accordance with “Guidelines for Preventing Unfair ters hosted by the CCO, and any customer complaints will be tivities to mitigate risks. Trades” that it enacted. It also conducts in-depth monitoring expromptly resolved in the discussions of Voice of Customers ercises aimed at precluding certain market manipulative transac(VOC) and details of external channel monitoring at a monthly tions such as false and wash sales. executive meeting. The management leads the way in financial Shinhan Life Insurance is engaged in the regular examination customer-oriented management as it is keen on considering of all its financial investment product account openings. It also areas for improvement directly proposed by customers and cuschecks reports on all dealings by employees involved in asset tomer responses for main services and on reflecting them in its management activities, along with the details of their meetings, policies in a timely manner. communications, and information exchanges amongst operational departments. 37 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Establishment of the Complete Sales Process Reliable Customer Information Protection Establishment of Complaints/ VOC In 2018, to eradicate the practice of incomplete sales, Shinhan Management & Response Process Bank became the first bank that enacted the “Shinhan Sales Today, we are living in an era where we are seeing an abrupt Code of Ethics,” that specifies the basic principles to be abided by transition into a knowledge-information based society due to 1 C  omplaints/VOC salespersons including good faith, compatibility, ban on restricadvancements in information and communication technology Receival Stage tive behaviors, etc. And it held a pledging ceremony to promote 2 R  esource-building (ICT) and internet industry. It is not an exception to the finanstage the practices of the “Shinhan Sales Code of Ethics” attended by cial industry where one can witness an unrelenting increase External (FSS, etc), Window of Co the CEO and all executives and employees who swore to uphold branches, homepage, S bank, ns in electronic financial services such as internet banking and um er the Code. It is of increasing importance to endeavor to protect phone/mail, etc. (A mobile banking that take advantage of information systems. dv sta stem consumers with the preventive system of financial institutions tis n sy It is possible that the combination of the progress of a knowltio ec f and operations of such processes. To prevent sales without exot nt o edge-information based society, financial industry and ICT pr me yses) ce al planations, the Group adopts preemptive consumer protection an , an technologies implies that if customer information held at fis Consumer tic through its institutions and system. Shinhan Life Insurance adnancial institutions is released, misused or abused, it may lead Protection vanced its customer protection system that seeks to register all to not just an adverse setback or long-term repercussions over Center customer cases to the system and conducts pre-monitoring of e the company’s management, but may also pose a significant iev n cases that are likely to escalate to a bigger issue. Shinhan Investach atio ad threat to its very existence. Shinhan Financial Group fully unAim to t qu ment joins the trend by providing a “withdrawal service” within en nc art derstands the quintessential importance of customer informalem 10 he er five days and a “Complaint Zero Service” that returns the princiimp 0% he s tion protection and has armed itself with infallible measures for ra te with ra pal of the investment to customers who have been sold a finanre s/b customers to use our banking system without concern with its Spread/sha ent rtm cial product without thorough explanation. thorough administration and proactive protection activities in depa the collection, storage and use of customer information. 4 Feedback stage 3 C  ommunication Stage Shinhan Investment’s Consumer Damage Customer Information Protection Organization Prevention Service in Purchasing Financial and Budget Status Products The Group runs an exclusive department for the “customer information protection center” and appoints a Chief Information It also established “Consumer Protection Indicators” in accordIn case of an incomplete sale of financial products, a repurchase of Security Officer (CISO) in charge of establishing information ance with the best practices of financial consumer protection the relevant product and a compensation for any difference protection strategies and policies, checking compliance relating and uses quantified measures to determine whether or not to customer information protection laws and regulations, and Return of the repurchase amount and sales commission of an branches have met its sales principles – the prohibition of auresponds to cyber infringement attempts and online threats. application for the withdrawal for a financial product is received thoritative abuse, information protection, good faith, compatThe Group formulates and executes its annual budget for inibility, etc. in the financial product sales process – and provide Prevent possible financial fraud with an additional authentication formation protection projects, which exceed the amount recnotifications of its monthly results and enhances areas of improcess other than a digital certificate signature, such as via SMS ommended by the “Regulation on the Supervision of Electronic provement. or phone. Financial Activities,” and inspects its reasonableness for the 38 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook compilation and execution of the budget during a regular manruns an integrated security control center in the computer data and customer information security management contracts in agement status evaluation by the Financial Supervisory Service. center equipped with a world-class physical and administrative sealing any agreements and to carry out fair biddings and partsecurity system, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Recently, it upner selection according to procurement rules and provisions. Compliance with Laws relating to Customer graded its system to an intelligent customer protection system Information Protection that is based on an artificial intelligence monitoring system. Removing Irrationality from Trading Relationships Shinhan Bank strictly abides by the laws and regulations conShinhan Bank makes it mandatory to hold a preliminary briefcerning information protection such as the “Personal InformaGlobal Information Protection Laws ing session for bidders, which serves to provide the bank with tion Protection Act and its Enforcement Rules” and the “Use It is a widely-held phenomenon that laws and regulations on opportunities to gather ideas and comments on improving and Protection of Credit Information Act and its Enforcement personal information protection are getting stricter as shown in trading relationships in the areas of procurement process, work Rules.” In an effort to ensure the stringent compliance of the the enactment and enforcement of cyber protection laws and process establishment, rectification of any inefficient areas, and laws, the executives and employees of the bank are engaged personal information protection laws in the US, Europe, China, more. Also, Shinhan Card uses regularly held conferences as a in checking the customer information protection management Japan and elsewhere. Shinhan Bank is fully prepared for the platform of communication where it collects suggestions for status in the field and reporting the outcomes to management enforcement of the relevant laws by various means such as inimprovement from subcontractors. and the president of the bank on a regular basis. The bank also formation protection by overseas financial supervisory authoritakes the initiative to build and operate the “Information Proties, consulting with law firms, the establishment of information Assurance of Reasonable Prices tection *Reg Tech” system based on Big Data to facilitate more protection operation systems by dispatching information secuShinhan Financial Group is committed to returning rightful systemic and effective compliance-checkups. rity experts, etc., for its overseas corporations and branches. rewards at all stages, from bidding to payment. In the bidding stage, the Group continues to reduce private contracts espe*Reg Tech: A compound word of “Regulation” and “Technology,” Shared Development with Partner Companies cially vulnerable to arbitrary pricing. To ensure the right prices, meaning a more systematic and effective internal control and compriority negotiation counterparts are notified on the day of and Fair Trade pliance with relevant information protection laws and regulation by price bidding, and any room for re-negotiation for the submitmeans of ICT technologies. ted estimates stating prices below the expected price level are Principles for shared development with partner companies precluded. To ensure quick payment, a payment schedule is Building and Operating a Customer Information System Shinhan Financial Group seeks to build a mutually beneficial shortened to 15 days and any meeting with subcontractors exTo securely protect customer information, the Group is the first relationship with partner companies such as suppliers and sertraneous to business is not permitted. commercial bank to encrypt personal identification numbers such vice providers through fair and equitable trading. To ensure Shinhan Life Insurance avoids low bidding in an effort to as resident registration numbers, and all terminal screens and printeven-handed transactions that are free from discrimination, it achieve transaction transparency (except for bids on a negotied materials go through data masking(*) so as to hide customer prohibits bidding limits or discriminatory evaluations based on ation basis) and phases out private contracts according to the information. The access to customer information is limited to cerbusiness size and it follows the principles of transparent transacplan to increase the competitive bid contracts by 2020. It also tain occasions for the purpose of business and the purpose and tions that put forth unambiguous standards on contracts. Shinhan exempts partners that concluded contracts within 3 years from reasons for use on a daily basis should be reported to a supervisor. Bank publicly discloses project biddings on its website and stiputhe contract deposits and offers opportunities to various comTo prevent cyber hacking attacks targeting financial institulates a co-prosperous partnership based on mutual respect in its panies by conducting split biddings by different items. Shinhan tions’ information systems and security incidents of customer agreement with partner companies. It is customary for Shinhan Card also contributes to the stabilization of its partner compainformation, the Group constructs a variety of customer inforCard to include a written pledge of executing a contract of innies’ corporate earning structure by concluding long-term conmation protection systems aided with cutting-edge ICT and tegrity, a Code of Conduct for partner companies of the Group, tracts with excellent partner companies. 39 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Increase Financial Shinhan Bank Named as the “Best Provider of Financial Services for the Underprivileged by the Financial Supervisory Service for 6 years running Inclusiveness Annual Ceremony of Finance Day – Awarded a commendation by the Chairman of the Financial Service Commission (FSC) (Jo Myeong-chol, Deputy manager, Bomun-dong branch) For a virtuous cycle of finance that adds greater value to Shinhan and society as a whole, Shinhan Financial Group offers a variety of services and products that encompass SMEs, retail The lab assists Korean companies that want to enter the VietWith the aid of scrapping technology, applicants can easily sellers, ordinary people and the underprivileged. The Group nam market. In 2019, it plans to support domestic startups to submit income or employment proof and check the loan astakes the initiative in introducing new technologies and serexplore the global market, with an emphasis on Asian econosessment results through their smartphones, which marks the vices for all its customers to enjoy convenient and safe services mies such as Indonesia and Japan and other emerging econocomplete non-face financial service for the working group. regardless of their age, disability or nationality mies. The bank provides youth, the elderly, and the disabled with an opportunity to mitigate financial costs with newly introduced Shinhan FUTURE’S Lab Realization of Inclusive Finance for special prime rates. With a view to support the alienated class the Financially Deprived Class from the mainstream financial services who are influenced by the lowered top interest rates in the moneylending businesses Launched in 2015, Shinhan FUTURE’S Lab is a shared develtaking effect in February 2018, the bank launched specialized opment program that supports the growth of FinTech startups Loans for Working Class financial products for the working class, referred as, “Shinhan and boasts the widest reach in cooperation and significant Shinhan Bank was the biggest contributor in the banking secSafety Net Loan,” in cooperation with the Korea Inclusive Fioutcomes in the financial sector. At its 4th screening of 21 tor to the joint loan product called “New Hope Spore Loans” nance Agency and the National Happiness Fund and targets enterprises in January 2018, a total of 61 companies are in cospecialized in supporting low credit/low-income class as it people who suffered from high interest rates. operation with the Shinhan FUTURE’S Lab, which developed supported KRW 635.7 billion in 2018. With an accumulated a total of 43 joint business models with FinTech companies. To transaction volume of KRW 3.274 trillion, the bank enjoys the ESG Information-based relational finance ensure startups to garner support from various fields, it broadno.1 status in terms of performance in the banking industry. In Shinhan Financial Group provides long-term loans, equity inened its cooperative space to startup support institutions and particular, the bank offered timely support to shipbuilding and vestments and consulting services through long-term trust reother support programs and invested around KRW 8.3 billion in automobile workers who have faced hard times to make both lationships with companies, and conducts related financing to the development of FinTech companies. Most notable of all is ends meet in 2018 with emergency livelihood funds, “New share the company’s business performance. Relational finance that the company expanded its scope of support to living platHope Spore Loans,” so as to assist the revitalization of the local is a system that comprehensively evaluates ESG information form companies including O2O, let alone FinTech firms, it has economy by solving the financial difficulty posed on residents of an enterprise as well as existing financial information to positioned itself as an unparalleled FinTech cultivation program and workers in the areas suffering from an industry-specific support the required funds for a long period of three years or in Korea. Moreover, a first for a Korean company, “Vietnam economic depression and unemployment. In May 2018, the longer and to provide a wide range of accounting and legal FUTURE’S Lab” opened in Ho Chi Minh City, and built a coopbank launched a mobile platform-based “Micro New Hope management consulting services. ESG elements include social erative tie with 11 Vietnam businesses after the 1st and 2nd Spore Loans,” a pocket loan that obviates the needs for faceinformation such as labor disputes, industrial safety, customer screening process. to-face visits or documents. satisfaction, turnover rate, benefits, and social contribution as 40 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook well as governance issues such as accounting transparency, ment via a mobile platform. voice OTP, Braille security cards, Visible ARS, screen magnifiers, management morality and reputation. In 2018, the amount of video captions, etc., has allowed the bank to win the Web Acrelational financial support expanded 98.9 percent, which is Exclusive Channel for Working Class. cessibility Quality Certificate. On the other hand, as shown in 1.26 trillion won compared to the previous year(6,332 billion As the first bank that opened up “Financial Hope Plaza,” a the number of monthly users accessing the consultation service won). After financing, ESG information is continuously monihub account for working class finance in the banking sector, that specializes in serving the elderly, which consists of 1000 tored through regular interviews and on-site visits, and risks are Shinhan bank runs Hope Finance Plazas in 167 main regions users for special counselor services and 200 users for slow managed through consulting and debt adjustment, if necessary. throughout the country. Moreover, it has “Financial Hope Supspeech services, there has been a generally favorable response porters,” a dedicated staff offering financial services for the from elderly customers. Deposit Products for Working Class working class whose service ranges from loans, credit manageAlong with loan support for the underprivileged, the bank has ment, financial consultations, help finding employment and Financial Economy Education for Better been operating “Now Hope Installment Deposit” to empower appropriate welfare programs, etc. Understanding of Finance the deprived to be independent and accumulate property since December 2011, and benefits not just the socially deprived class Innovative Finance with a Higher Accessibility Solidify a Digital-based Financial Education Platform such as those living on welfare, the disabled, and multicultural Shinhan Bank opened the “Joint Heart Windows for the elderEach year, Shinhan Bank develops diverse content for a diffamilies but also customers who paid towards any working class ly and the disabled” across its 697 branches throughout the ferentiated financial education system and adopts them to its loan products. The no. of accumulated payment reaches 3.59 country and conducted relevant training for all branches. This programs. So far, it has trained about 800 financial economy million cases with its increasing amount of KRW 667.6 billion. window features a “sign language consultation service” for the instructors to support a steady stream of education and new disabled while key branches are equipped with specially deinstructors that are annually appointed for training backed by Debt Rearrangement signed telephones for the disabled. In an effort to build a Braille standard financial training plans and contents. The newly genSince October 2012, Shinhan bank has been operating its “SHB service process, it adopted a Terms of Service in Braille for visuerated financial education contents building on AR/VR techHousehold Debt Healing Program,” a unique debt rearrangeally impaired persons and makes it mandatory to apply VOICE1 nologies in 2018 are designed to facilitate access and intrigue ment program for attenuating a financial shock on customers of (Speech to Text barcode) in its Terms of Service and product those who are in need of financial education with app-encredit loans or mortgage loans in the form of “Credit Loan 119” descriptions, etc. abled, interactive content. This sets the Bank’s financial educaand “Housing Healing Program.” Customers who are currently Through ‘MySHOP’, which is a win-win platform that connects tion content apart from others and complies with the demands behind or have been behind their debt payments are eligible customers and the franchisee stores optimally, Shinhan Card of the digital era. Considerations on content expansion into for the “Credit Loan 119” program that helps private rescue adds necessary benefits to customers and supports marketing YouTube channels and demand-oriented content are underwith lowered loan interest rates and conversion of the balance of small entrepreneurs. Based on the industry’s largest big data way as well. to payments on an installment basis. “Housing Healing Loan” of 22 million customers and 2.7 million stores, the company specifically offers benefits to customers whose mortgage loan provides the franchisee owners with market insights and recFinancial Education for the Future Generation payments are in arrears in terms of repayment delay and reommend the stores to the customers with an AI-based model. The financial education offered by the Group delivers practical payment in installment, interest delay and so on. This program In addition, it provides customers with 1:1 franchisee benefits knowledge and first-hand experience to its audience classified helped more than 44,000 customers in 2018. The bank plans to according to their individual preferences. by different ages and strata. The Group conducted financial help customers in arrears not to become lenders with long-term Shinhan Investment’s commitment to improving the conveeducation programs tailor-made to around 50,000 youth and liabilities or blacklisted by notifying the debt rearrangement nience of seniors and the visually and hearing-impaired with adults in 2018. system in advance and helping them to apply for the arrangevarious services including smartphone voice over recordings, 41 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Shinhan Children’s Financial Experience Class is the Group’s In 2018, the bank took part in the Korea Education Donation representative educational donation program for elementary Exhibition organized by the Ministry of Education with the inschool students where students can attain hands-on expetention of offering the opportunity for more students to obtain rience in finance. Students are invited to an experience hall career experience. For 2018 alone, the bank carried out 176 which simulates the actual settings of a bank window and career experience trainings for 15,879 students. encourages them to participate in a set of tasks in the form of In addition, it fortified the contents of a “Financial Experience missions such as opening an account, issuing a bank card, etc. Class on the Wheel,” that utilizes mobile banks (BankBird) and Greatly appreciated by both students and their parents, the systematically offered classes covering experience-oriented class was held at the Gwanghwamun and Busan branches and content involving finance (elementary school), career (middle/ a total of 61 classes were held for 3,937 students in 2018. high school) for 80 schools in financially deprived regions. As Shinhan Card’s Big Data Summer School is a pro-bono prothis is a rare opportunity for students residing in secluded placgram of big data training for college and graduate students, es to explore bank jobs or career aptitude as bankers, it was Financial Education for North Korean Defectors providing them with opportunities to find jobs explore their well received by communities. careers through mentoring. The program is run in collaboration The bank was also active in conducting a 1-company 1-school with leading institutions such as Seoul National University, the Financial Education campaign organized by the Financial SuMinistry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, the Seoul Metropolitan pervisory Service, resulting in a total of 339 classes for 24,087 Government, and CJ &M. Launched in 2014, the program has students and subsequently received the Head of Financial Suattracted approximately 580 participants over 6 sessions. pervisory Service Award as a model example for the campaign Shinhan Investment established a relationship with elemenawards ceremony. Its remote video-based career mentoring, tary, middle and high schools and runs the “Compassionate the first of its kind in the financial sector to make use of digital Finance Camp” to allow teenagers who will shape the future of platforms is an interactive program and offered career exploIt also provides teenagers with developmental disorders with the economy to cultivate the proper awareness of finance and ration opportunities to students in 26 schools in financially dedaily financial education programs combining theory and experience the financial environment. In 2019, the financial prived regions in rural, mountainous and fishing villages aided hands-on experience while distributing a standard curriculum coding course will be available allowing students to experience by its educational system within the Shinhan Youth Financial for special education teachers for free. various financial practices and career experience opportunities Economic Education Center. As a result, the course has received a commendation from the in response to the 4th Industrial Revolution and digital environMinister of Education at the 13th Financial Competition in mental transition. Financial Education for the Underprivileged 2018. Shinhan Life frequently engaged in offering training for Shinhan Bank extends its financial education services to the the elderly of the financially deprived so as to help them to Financial Education for 1 Company 1 School less fortunate who have relatively limited opportunities for edindependently solve any finance-related matters concerning fiIn line with the government’s policy to run a free semester ucation. To help North Korean defectors settle in South Korean nance, asset management, and various forms of financial fraud system, Shinhan Bank consistently offers career and job exsociety, it continuously provides defectors and teenagers of the prevention such as voice phishing. The training is conducted in perience training. The experience hall at the Youth Financial group who receive training from the Settlement Support Center conjunction with the Korea Association of Senior Welfare CenEconomic Education Center at the Gwanghwamun branch for North Korean Refugees (Hanawon in Anseong, Hwacheon) ters to dispatch an in-house lecture team to senior centers. In provides students with the opportunity to explore their career with financial education and daily financial training, respec2018, a total of 143 lectures were delivered to 7,552 elders at aptitude by participating in a banker experience. tively, 38 times in 2018. senior centers throughout the country. 42 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Establish Creative Shinhan The first Korean Company to be included in the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index (GEI) in 2019 Financial Group and Open Corporate Culture Fostering Digital Talent Shinhan Financial Group relies on a creative and innovate orSecuring Talent and Developing Human Resources In 2018, the Group gave its employees various training opporganization culture to reinforce the capabilities of its executives tunities including digital training for executives and managers, and improves and brings about positive changes to the Group. Fostering Experts Specialized in Uplifting Customer Values a masters program in Digital Finance Engineering at Korea It is devoted to establishing an employee-friendly working enviShinhan Financial Group offers diverse training programs by its University Graduate School of Computer & Information Techronment where every member of the Group can achieve happisubsidiaries to empower its employees to enhance the capabilinology, Data Scientist Fostering and Digital Technology (Digital ness. ties to take on the challenges of an evolving era. marketing, Cloud, etc.) Expert Courses and more. With an eye To support employees’ competency building and professional on transforming all executives and employees into digital procareer development, Shinhan bank adopts the practices of refessionals, the Group plans to introduce various forms of digital cruitment by different sectors from business/asset management, training suited to different competency levels. To overcome the asset operations, digital/Big Data, ICT, etc. As part of these limits in timeframe and spatial issues, the Group is planning to efforts, it also runs systems such as “Reserve manpower for release “S-MOOC,” an online university course program specifiprofessional activities” and “Reserve manpower for employees cally designed for a professional level of training. living abroad” etc. to assist those who would like to assume professional jobs involving IB, risk management, digital, Big Data, global markets, etc. to develop the relevant capabilities. Since 2018, it has been operating a “Managerial Leader System,” designed to select, coach and foster professional in terms of management and plans to expand the managerial leader pool, increase the number of female managerial leaders and employees eligible for coaching. It continues to reinforce training in the field of corporate finance and asset management to offer a customized, comprehensive solution to satisfy various needs of customers and operates an expert cultivation program in cooperation with Korea’s leading universities. 43 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Development of a Smart Learning Platform Workplace Wellbeing and Improving Human Rights In accordance with the promulgation of the Amended Labor The advent of the 4th Industrial Revolution shines a spotlight Standard Act that seeks to “shorten working hours” in March on smart digital education platforms. In this regard, Shinhan Smart Work System for Work-Life Balance 2018, domestic businesses are legally obligated to maintain Investment developed its own smart learning platform called By building a workable corporate culture, Shinhan Financial weekly labor hours within 52 hours, and the Group and its “S-Hub” to effectively increase the expertise of executives and Group is committed to ensuring its employees’ happiness, subsidiaries are subject to the Amended Labor Standard Act employees. With the aid of Big Data analysis, individually cuswhich, in turn, shall be reflected into the best possible customer applied to the consecutive order of business size (no. of permatomized video services will be provided to promote ongoing services. nent workers). learning of respective career fields of interest and high usage In celebrating its 16th anniversary in September 2017, all subShinhan DS, an ICT subsidiary of the Group was first bound to of the platform is secured by regularly uploaded in-house edusidiaries within the group simultaneously employed a groupabide by the revised law to the Group on July 2017. Shihan DS cational content. wide flexible work system. Following the lead by Shinhan Bank conducted an exclusive TFT project to review types of flexible in July 2016 that introduced a “Smart Work System” encomworking systems and their feasibility and consequently adopted Inclusion in the “Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index” passing telecommuting and flex-time work, Shinhan Group an alternative work arrangement for those in System ManageShinhan Financial Group is the first Korean company to be became the first financial group in Korea to have implemented ment (SM) positions and a discretionary work arrangement for chosen as a distinguished company to be included in in the the flexible work system in all its subsidiaries. Previously, CEO those in System Integration (SI) while implementing a PC-OFF Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (hereinafter “GEI”), anCho Yong-byoung of Shinhan Financial Group asserted, “The control system throughout the Group. nounced on January 2019. The intention behind Bloomberg’s happiness of customers derives from the happiness of employShinhan Bank and Jeju Bank are to be impacted by the revised introduction of GEI is to facilitate investors to see how compaees,” and thus suggested that all subsidiaries in the group adopt law in January 2019, followed by Shinhan Card, Shinhan Innies are committed to the upward mobility of female employees a flexible work system, which was well received by the CEOs of vestment and Shinhan Life Insurance in July 2019. It will be as it is common practice for investors and businesses to evaldiffering Group subsidiaries, resulting in the all-out, group-wide joined by a total of 6 Group subsidiaries including Shinhan Fiuate corporate reputation, risks and performance in terms of implementation of the system starting from September 1, 2017. nancial Group Co., Ltd., Shinhan BNP Paribas AM, Shinhan Capenvironment, society and governance (ESG) information. ComAiming for “work-life balance,” and the “creation of good ital, Shinhan Savings Bank, Shinhan AITAS, and Shinhan Credit panies eligible for GEI should have a market value of over USD place to work,” Shinhan Financial Group took the initiative to Information on January 2020, followed by Shinhan Alternative 1 billion in the NYSE and pass the performance of around 70 implement a flex-time work system that gives all employees an Investments and Shinhan REITs Management on July 1, 2021. indices across four categories including internal employment & opportunity to plan their working time, while the rest of the female management statistics, female workforce policy, comsubsidiaries gradually adopt the system depending on their cirmunity support activities and gender-equality related products/ cumstances. services. 80points 2018 Shinhan WAY survey of organization satisfaction Group average (4.0 on a scale of 5) 44 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook It is the intention of the Shinhan Financial Group to manage Support Maternity Protection and Work-Family Life labor hours with the introduction of a flexible working system Reconciliation and PC-Off control in consideration of the business characterTo reconcile work and family life, the Group operates a range istics and unique circumstances of the subsidiaries subjected to of welfare programs for childcare. For instance, Shinhan Bank the 52-hour work week in 2019. And after assessing whether or offers parental leave, a two-hour shortened work period a day not individual measures taken by the subsidiaries are effective, for pregnant employees and a flexible work system. it will take countermeasures optimal to different business enFurthermore, Shinhan Card has lengthened the period of pavironments to ultimately address two issues at once – the legal rental leave to 24 months including maternity leave per baby. responsibility of curtailing work hours and work-life balance. It also supports employees in needs of fertility treatment with subfertility leave. Also to be included is various pregnant womUsing RPA to Improve Work-life Balance by Reducing en protection programs is a shortened work hour system for Repetitive Tasks childcare and specially designed chairs for relieving the fatigue Shinhan Bank has successfully completed the RPA (Robotics of pregnant women Process Automation) ONE project, which is specifically designed to ensure the efficiency of repetitive tasks. Adopted with the view of the introduction and a wider utilization of The Group endeavors to support childcare by operating Child Care Centers as well. The group operates three Child Care Centers which are located in Jung-gu, Gangbuk in Seoul and 6 Centers Child Care Centers are operated RPA, the “RPA ONE project” automated 13 processes across Ilsan, Gyeonggi-do. Shinhan Bank operates its own three (Ilsan, with various supporting programs six departments and greatly enhanced work efficiency by auYangcheon, Songpa) in-house childcare centers in Seoul. tomating around 6000 daily tasks, in addition to introducing a ground-breaking process that automatically handles tasks related to the surveyor’s report on real-estate image registration even after business hours. 6,000 Tasks Automated by “RPA ONE project” in 13 processes across six departments 45 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Carry Out Corporate Sustainable Finance and ESG Investment Products Investments in New and Renewable Energy Development Projects Social Responsibilities Establishment of the Leading Position in Low Carbon Invigorated by new and renewable energy policies pursued Financial Market by the international community and the Korean government, 195 parties of the UN Framework Convention on Climate the Group established a midto long-term climate finance Change in Paris including Korea and EU collectively agreed to roadmap that is centered on investing KRW 20 trillion in the Shinhan Financial Group strives to attain sustainable finance keep the increase in the global average temperature to below environmentally-friendly industry and technologies. Accordwhereby Group’s values are aligned with social and environ2°C, to further limit it to less than 1.5°C. South Korea plans to ingly, the Group is an active player in project financing remental values, thereby creating a synergistic effect. increase the proportion of new and renewable energy in power garding new and renewable energy infrastructure market at The Group views sustainable finance as its backbone of mangeneration by 35 to 40%, while reducing its GHG gas emissions home and abroad. Its investment commitments include: KRW agement activities to the extent that sustainability is proacby 37% from business-as-usual (BAU) levels by 2030. In this 2 billion in Energy Storage System (ESS) Project(9MWh) in cotively taken into account when it comes to determining loans regard, the target emission amount is at 536 million tons. In operation with Honam Wind Power; KRW 50.3 billion in the and investment. As a result, it not only enhances the relevant keeping with the paradigm shift in energy, Shinhan Financial PV(Photovoltaic) Power Plant (129MW) Construction project of financial products, but also encourages sustainable business Group is actively engaged in supporting project financing in Techren Solar, US; KRW 36.5 billion in the Photovoltaic Power practices for customers and clients. the new and renewable energy business as well as investment Generation Project (25.5MWKazono, 15MW Yokogawa)in In addition, the Group exerts leadership in generating greatand loan hybrid funds for the environmentally-friendly industry Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan; KRW 7.8 billion in a Hydropower er hope in society as it launched a “Society of Hope Project” and technologies in order to sharpen its competitive edges in Project(218MW) in Angat, Philippines, KRW 38.3 billion in the geared towards solving social problems such as the eradication finance and take the lead in future-oriented climate finance. Tafilah Wind Power Plant Project, Jordan and; KRW 56 billion in of polarization and job creation, and is injecting resources a Photovoltaic Power Generation Project in Cam Lam, Vietnam amounting to KRW270 billion by 2020. in 2018. Also, KRW 39.7 billion was provided for fuel cell facility loans and KRW 50 billion for biomass power generation. Total KRW 15.7trillion Environmentally-friendly investments/ project financing for the nine projects is KRW 280.4 billion. In addition, the Group offers green finance loans to increase loans to green enterprises and induce environmentally-friendly living in individual customers (transaction volume for the loans in loans in 2018 2018 – KRW 310.8 billion in total). * Sustainable finance refers to finance that seeks sustainability while considering ESG factors. The European Union (EU) defines it as a key requirement to realize “better finance” that will bring sustainable finance to the economy and society in the long term in order to prepare for new risks. It will lead to better jobs, less inequality and the transition to a low-carbon economy. 46 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook The First Green Bond Issuer in Korean Won In August 2018, Shinhan Bank issued 200 billion won worth of Green Bonds to support green finance for the first time as a commercial bank in Korea. Green bond refers to specifically labeled bonds whose proceeds are exclusively used for environmentally-friendly green projects such as new and renewable energy. Shinhan Bank prepared a green bond management system in accordance with the Green Bond Principle (GBP) established by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) and has been verified through external agencies. As the spread of the social atmosphere that emphasizes corporate social responsibility and the share of socially responsible investment (SRI) in the bond market has expanded, it is expected that demand for ESG bonds related to environment, society and governance will continue to increase. Shinhan Bank will post the Shinhan Investment lends KRW 56.3 billion in the form of projShinhan Life Insurance also keeps on intensifying its investexpected figures on Green Bond support projects and expected ect financing for the US gas-fired combined cycle power plant ments in ESG covering companies of environmentally-friendly contribution to environmental improvement on its website in with an output of 1,181MW of power, which is valued as much energy and with sustainable growth potential. In 2018, it inthe form of annual investor reports until the amount of bonds as KRW 1.46 trillion in project costs and invests in the fund to vested in Photovoltaic Power Generation and wind power genissued is exhausted. acquire a stake in a Dutch waste processing company (177MW), eration (5 cases in Korea, KRW 119.6 billion/ 2 cases overseas, and supported the fund amounting to KRW 11 billion in a medKRW 115 billion) Increased Responsible Investments (ESG Investment) ical waste power generation project of Samyoung E&E. MoreShinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management continues to expand We are witnessing a soaring influence of ESG factors such as over, it invested KRW 21.6 billion in Calpine, a new and renewits investment in ESG in terms of environmentally-friendly enerenvironmental pollution, power abuse or harassment by busiable energy generator situated in California, the US and KRW gy and new and renewable energy companies. As of late 2018, ness owners, product responsibility, corruption, etc. over cor12.4 billion in EMKH, a domestic waste treatment company, the scale of investment reached KRW 800 billion and it will porate value. Responsible investment can be understood as a making its total investment and loan amount in 2018 to amount establish a co-op system with domestic and foreign new and remethod of investment that considers not just financial indexes to KRW 149.7 billion. At the same time, we acquired corporate newable energy invested companies and continue to expand inof a business but its comprehensive social responsibility encombonds for domestic eco-friendly companies (total acquisition vestment in related fields. Shinhan REITs Management holds the passing environmental, social aspects and governance. In its amount: KRW110 billion), contributing to smooth financing. ‘Prime Tower’ (KRW 175.5 billion) in trust. The building acquired effort to promote responsible investment, the Group is devoted In concert with Nissan Motor, Shinhan Card launched an green building certification granted to environmentally-friendly to continuously develop responsible investment products that environmentally-friendly card that benefits customers who buildings. yield stable ROIs in the mid and long-term as well as to assist purchase the company’s electric vehicle, LEAF, with premium customers’ ESG investments. membership benefits, recharger installation support, recharging cost discounts, etc. It intends to add more environmentally-friendly concept products in the future. 47 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Responsible investment assets of Shinhan Bank PWM customIn addition, it carries out Group-wide marketing and training Introduction and Implementation of ers total 140.8 billion KRW (10 billion KRW in funds and 130.8 programs to enhance customer understanding of responsible the ‘Stewardship Code’ Fulfilling the Obligation of Trustee billion KRW in loans), and Shinhan Investment’s WM customers investment. These programs help customers to gain better comAmid the increasing social pressure to ensure acceptable sharehave total assets of KRW 269.9 billion (as of the end of 2018) prehension of the necessity of ESG factors and the company holder returns and to reform governance structure, emphasized They include private equity funds in green energy and Social to be engaged in raising awareness that an increase in the ESG by the Fair Trade Commission, transparent management has Responsibility Investment (SRI) public equity funds that incorinvestments may lead to a higher ROI for customers. never been more important to a corporation. It is a recommenporate excellent ESG enterprises into investment portfolios. While the former investment method applied to a strategic fund dation at national level to boost shareholder returns including Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management relies on an exterof Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management, ‘TOPs Beautify SRI corporate dividends, and against this backdrop, the need for nal consulting agency in assessing ESG factors of individual Fund’ (AUM KRW 56.9 billion) was to refer ESG ratings from an the stewardship code has emerged. Many countries around the companies used to screen its potential investment. It regularly external consulting firm and corporate analysis results from the world are already implementing stewardship codes, and more examines corporate analyses and takes part in the relevant internal stock research team, it will be modified to include the and more countries are adopting them. Since the introduction seminars, and promptly reflects any governance-related, eninternal ESG rating system to the fund operation in an attempt of the stewardship code in Korea, not only the National Penvironmental or social issues to socially responsible investment to fortify socially responsible investment in 2019. Shinhan BNP sion, but also many asset management companies are participortfolios. In line with growing social demand in ESG investParibas Asset Management fully integrates ESG elements into pating and expanding the scope. ments, it established an internal system to evaluate ESG ratings the investment process and demonstrates excellent results in In a transforming investment environment, Shinhan BNP Paof businesses and plans to reflect them in fund management the midto long-term. ribas AM set the pace by joining the stewardship code in Dewithin the year. In addition, the company preemptively adopted cember 2017 so as to guide a sound investment culture and the stewardship code that encompasses socially responsible subsequently strives to improve mid and long-term ROIs for its investment in December 2017, and is strategically cultivating customers. socially responsible investment funds. Keeping with the global The goal of the stewardship code is to establish a long-term trends of an increasing importance of ESG factors in investment investment culture and to contribute to the sustainable growth decisions, it has singled out socially responsible investment of a company by specifying and exercising the accountabilities funds as its strategic funds with ensuing endeavors such as proof trustees. It leads to more invigorated shareholder activities in moting pension funds and institutional funds. examining core management matters covering business strategies and performances, risk management, environmental and social issues and governance, etc., and Shinhan Financial Group is devoted to ameliorating investment culture and ROIs by proactively exercising its voting rights of the invested assets. It is our firm belief that these endeavors will eventually lead to greater fruits for our customers on a mid and long-term basis and is consistent with the Group’s mission to do good in the world based on the power of finance. 48 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Society of Hope Project Rehabilitation of Families in Crisis and Discovery Youth Education for the 4th Industrial Revolution of Heroes of Hope Youth Education Project for the 4th Industrial Revolution speFinancial Recovery for People with Low Credit Ratings The Group is engaged in projects to spread the culture of sharcifically focuses on providing students with developmental Injecting KRW 30 billion over three years, the Financial Recoving by assisting the rehabilitation of families in crisis by providdisabilities the necessary skills and talents to weather through ery Program for People with Low Credit Ratings helps finaning economic aid for a better tomorrow. It also awards social the era of the 4th Industrial Revolution. The Group made a joint cially deprived persons who face hardships posed by the credit heroes who had gone out of their way to help people in danger. effort with special schools to offer various courses, including crunch and unemployment to attain economic independence The projects are undertaken under six distinctive titles including: software coding, color therapy, financial education programs, by offering a maximum of KRW 1.8 million per person as a train‘A Better Tomorrow’ to support housing and living expenses’ etc. It also recruits and fosters specialized software lecturers, ing allowance during the duration of the training for vocational ‘A Brighter Tomorrow’ to assist with educational and child upespecially from those who majored in special education to competence development from the Ministry of Employment bringing expenses; ‘A Safer Tomorrow’ to help families suffering heighten the specialty and effectiveness in software education and Labor. In particular, the 1st model case competition proved from domestic abuse; ‘A More Cheerful Tomorrow’ to support training for the developmentally disabled. Through this project, the program’s effectiveness and successfully paved the way to disaster/accident relief and; ‘A More Hopeful Tomorrow’. In the Group intends to bring about a positive change in the lives improve public awareness of the financially deprived. cooperation with the Community Chest of Korea and Good of these students who are likely to be left in blind spots of inNeighbors, the Group provided support to 445 households from formatization about the 4th Industrial Revolution. Support for Women facing Career Interruptions the underprivileged and awarded 7 heroes of hope last year. Under the MOU with the Ministry of Gender Equality and FamiTotal Care for Youth Debt ly sealed in January 2018, the Group’s projects to assist women Support for Youth Employment Overseas The Group is committed to gain a foothold on sustainability in from the most vulnerable classes to reentry into labor market The Group’s Overseas Employment Support of Youth project is social contribution activities based on the reinforced connecand to establish after-school childcare centers for elementary conducted under the MOUs with Hankuk University of Foreign tion with businesses with several measures such as: expanding students and co-op childcare centers helped around 5,000 caStudies and KOTRA and selects and aids 100 young people who assistance to the financially deprived through more programs reer-disrupted women to receive training allowances, thereby would like to find a job in another country through domestic and explore new projects to meet its innate role as a financial promoting economic activities to narrow income gaps. Starting and overseas training to reinforce their global competencies group with a joint undertaking of CSR programs with other from the first Shinhan Childcare Center facility built in Seodaeto job matching through overseas networks of the relevant inGroup subsidiaries. As a part of the effort, it signed an MOU on mun-gu, Seoul, the group completed the opening of 42 facilistitutions. The Group is committed to turning the project into a ‘Total Care for Youth Debt’ and pursues a project to help young ties throughout the nation. The after-school childcare activities forward-looking platform to introduce promising young talents people who are facing economic difficulties due to education to dual-income family children alleviates the burden of childto the world. loans even after being employed escape from the debt trap and care from parents, contributing to the reconciliation of work to become self-reliant as healthy members of society. and family life and supporting the women from interrupting their careers due to child fostering. The first Shinhan Childcare 30 billion 5,000people Center facility is recognized as an excellent model of low-fertility support, becoming a popular location for showcasing public KRW welfare policy and an ideal benchmarking case. Financial Recovery Program for People Support for Women facing Career with Low Credit Ratings Interruptions 49 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Social Contribution Do Dream Space The outcome marks an outstanding figure that may lead to job Shinhan’s Do Dream Space is engaged in activities to give creation for 270 people considering that the average employDo Dream Project to Support the Future of Youth young people substantial support in finding a job and opening ment effect of startups according to the Small and Medium Shinhan Bank had operated social contribution program with a business by offering office/study spaces and various eduBusiness Administration remains at 3.2 persons. Korea SMEs and Startups Agency for young people from 2012 cational/training content along with opportunities to open a In addition, ‘Do Dream Match Makers’ program that aims to to 2017 and upgraded it as Do Dream Project to foster smart store, Cafe or office in front of Seoul Forest which attracts 1.5 connect promising startups with young job seekers provided leaders in the era of 4th industrial revolution. Through SME repmillion visitors a year. In 2018, Do Dream Space selected 210 106 students with training courses on key job competencies utation improvement and benchmarking trips for overseas exyoung adults to provide various startup competency training required by startups for 20 hours in 5 weeks, and 18 trainees cellent companies, it matches excellent talent with SMEs. As of covering industry analysis, business model development, data actually got hired through ‘Job Matching Day.’ 2018, 43 universities and 123 SMEs participated in this project analysis, marketing, law and others, which resulted in a total of and 156 employees were recruited. 85 business items being commercialized. Cafe Do Dream Vocational School in an Urban Space Cafe Do Dream is a virtuous job creation platform whereby Shinhan Bank supports the social/economic independence of out-of-school youths with training and jobs based on internal resources and re-invests its education expenses. Though the program, 6 interns were recruited and received onthe-job training and barista training in 2018 and now the expansion of the business is in review to make the most out of the unused space in the bank. Digital Life School, Do Dream Space Startup Training Cafe Do Dream 50 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Global One Shinhan Volunteer Festival Social Contribution Brand of Shinhan Card ‘Areumin’ ‘Areumin volunteer group,’ joined by all executives and employJoined by executives and employees of Shinhan global net‘Areumin’, the social contribution brand of Shinhan Card, ocees including the CEO, is actively engaged in diverse volunteerwork, ‘Global One Shinhan Volunteer Festival’ is a represencupies the center stage of the company’s public welfare ening programs throughout the year. Their commitment is seen tative voluntary service activity with an 11-year long history deavors encompassing ‘Areumin library’, ‘Areumin volunteer to be noteworthy judging from their hours of voluntary service and covers a range of activities in 23 regions in 18 countries group’, ‘Areumin site’ and so forth. From 2018, the company in 2018, which recorded 28,315 hours in total (12 hours per around the world. In Korea, the Group maintains its sponsorship undertook ‘Euljiro 3-ga Project’ under MOUs with Seoul Metperson on average). The volunteer services span from environin Seoul International Wheelchair Marathon from 2005, and ropolitan City and Seoul Metro to promote urban rehabilitation mental protection, support for isolated children and teenagers the annual campaign to take care of cultural properties in rural and revitalization of small private businesses. Opened in 2010, and assisting the elderly living alone, wage sharing, etc. Shinhan settings since 2008. For nine years, executives and employees ‘Areumin library’ is aimed at improving the quality of life and Card runs the largest number of donation channels through its of the Group visited and offered helping hands to rural chores culture through reading by supporting environmentally-friendly ‘Areumin site’ where customers can easily donate their points in the pertinent village under a ‘1 company 1 village sisterhood’ reading environments and recommending books for children, and credit card, check card or gift card payments to 151 do(Shinhan Bank – Omija, Shinhan Card – Sambaeri, Shinhan teenagers and local residents. As of 2018, there are a total of mestic NGOs through the website, applications, the ARS service Investment – Sanggunduri, Shinhan Life Insurance – Canoe). 478 ‘Areumin libraries’, 473 in Korea and 5 overseas. Therefore, (1661-1122) or the customer service staff. The first of its kind In addition, they are engaged in various welfare programs and they contribute to enhancing the quality of life of the members in the financial sector, ‘Areumin site’ has contributed KRW 5.41 voluntary environmental efforts such as the provision of basic who are likely to be overlooked in terms of education offered in billion in accumulation from 2005 to 2018, positioning the site supplies. regional childcare centers, local welfare centers, children’s hosas the representative channel specialized in domestic donations. pitals, and overseas (Vietnam, Indonesia, and Myanmar.) Sport Sponsorship Shinhan Financial Group is committed to promoting the domestic sports culture and to supporting athletes and its inGlobal One Shinhan Social Contribution frastructure. In 2018, Shinhan Bank signed a KRW 24 billion worth-sponsorship contract with the Korea Baseball OrganizaHo Chi Minh City, Vietnam Jakarta, Indonesia China tion (KBO), effective for three years, an unprecedented move About 100 local employees of Around 50 local executives and Employees from local corporations in the field of finance, which set a new record in terms of sponShinhan Investment and Shinhan employees of Shinhan Bank, in Beijing, Qingdao, Xunyang, Life Insurance donated bicycles Shinhan Card and Shinhan Wuxi, Shanghai, gave financial sorship contract amount in the domestic professional sports in order to help impoverished Investment support children in support for patients suffering leagues. This win-win relationship between the KBO, the most children get to school. orphanages with educational from rare diseases and offered popular sport in Korea, and the bank allows them to form closer materials and food supplies. necessary goods required for ties with the public. retirement homes. Mumbai, India Kazakhstan, Cambodia, The Bank has been operating the ‘Shinhan Rookie Sponsorship Conducted tree planting and Myanmar and Mexico program’ designed to source and support promising young athprovided electronic books for We improved voluntary services in letes in Korea on a long-term basis while sponsoring ‘Korean the disabled welfare facilities and provided PCs Basketball Festival’, the most prestigious amateur basketball at local schools for improvement of game in Korea as a women’s pro basketball title sponsor during educational facilities. the seasons of 2017 to 2018. It also sealed a sponsorship contract with the Korea Volleyball Association in May 2018. 51 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Management of Shinhan Awarded a commendation from the Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport for a reduction Financial Group in GHG gas emissions Environmental MOU with the Korea Energy Agency for revitalizing new energy industries and new and renewable and Societal Risks energy generation projects MOU with Hanwha Energy to promote new and renewable energy business. Shinhan Financial Group has established an environmental and social risk management system that includes environmental Integrated ESG Risk Management and social risk management best practices. It selected areas of concern in the areas of environment and society and manages The Group has set a roadmap to introduce an ESG Risk ManageFurthermore, it makes it mandatory to conduct a socio-environthem through monitoring and other relevant activities. It also ment System in 2017 so as to reflect not just financial performental risk assessment for a project financing whose potential establishes clear guidelines on conditional financial assistance mance of a business but also its non-financial performance in socio-environmental impact is significant, and if necessary, it to illegal activities and construction of coal-fired thermal powthe areas of environment, society and governance on its investshould add the provision stipulating the measures to mitigate er plants, evaluates socio-environmental impacts for a highment decision making. Accordingly, the Group established best the impact to the financial agreement. The Group carries out a risk PF, and if necessary, it may make it mandatory to reflect practices for the Group’s socio-environmental risk management review to evaluate the potential environmental and social imcountermeasures to lessen the impacts in the form of provisions that defines the overall socio-environmental risk management pact of a proposed project on the neighboring natural environin a financial agreement. system covering the purpose of managing socio-environmenment, eco-system, the infringement of living rights, the health tal risks, principles and key tasks, and R&R, among others. The of residents, etc., and reflects the outcome in the decision-makESG engagement kernel of the system, the management of areas of concern and ing process. the review system for environmental and social aspects was In addition, it rules out any financial support for the production We conduct client engagement activities on ESG risks and opportunities, also subsequently established. As for the areas of concern, the or transaction of goods or services that violates the laws and and take measures such as loan withdrawals and credit rating downgrades best practices identifies 12 industries including forestry, mining, regulations of the relevant countries while it makes it a rule to in case of negative issues. The followings are engagement cases. drift-net fishing, crop production, tobacco, coal processing, oil restrict loan offerings for unhealthy industries including manurefining, electricity generation, infrastructure, arms and munifacturers of unsound recreation devices, bars and money lendFor loans supplied to global restaurant chains listed on the KOSDAQ, tions, chemical substances, wastewater/waste, and the Group is ing business and demands new applicants from the industry to the reputational risks have been identified by embezzlement and engaged in regular monitoring of their individual exposures and acquire an approval from the Loan Review Committee. malpractice of CEOs and obstruction of business. We found a massive accounting fraud of an electrical contractor main risks accordingly. Considering issues on climate change, The Group will assist the further exploration and expansion of specializing in electrical works for nuclear power plants, a SME that it established and adopted its own financial support standards the sustainable development areas including renewable enwas not subject to external audit, during the process of regular credit that circumscribes the conditions of financial support given to a ergy, GHG reduction, fuel-efficient vehicle, resource recycling evaluation. and partake in a global level response to challenges including project financing of new coal-fired thermal power plants in KoWe detected habitual gambling of the CEO of a small-sized blue chip rea and OECD countries to apply a supercritical technology or TCFD and others. company manufacturing cosmetics during the qualification process for new loans. above, or to be less than 800g CO2 /kWh. 52 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Risk Management System Advancing the Environmental Management System For the first time in the financial industry, Shinhan bank pubThe Group’s risk management committees constitute the primaAs domestic and overseas environmental regulations are lishes an annual environmental report to transparently disclose ry mechanism to establish risk management policies and stratestrengthened and demand for renewable energy and energy quantitative data on resource and energy usage, environmengies in line with its management strategies. efficiency continues to expand, Shinhan Financial Group has tal pollutant emission and discharge, green purchasing results Risk management committees and related working committee, been upgrading its environmental management and paved a along with its environmental management strategies and perexclusive teams handling risk management, form specific poliway to effective risk management. formances, which can be accessed via its website to facilitate cies and strategies consistent with those of the Group. easy communication with external stakeholders. With the aid of the scenario-based integrated risk situation analysis and various early alarm indicator monitoring, they Environmental Management Advancement Roadmap prepare a Group-wide risk management system and determine the level of risk through impact analyses and implement subsequent countermeasures. The Group Risk Council shares Phase I (~2016) Phase II (2017~2020) Phase III (2021~) these details and jointly tackles any risks through the Group Risk Management Committee depending on the significance of Establishment of the Environmental Upgraded Environmental Management Risk Management & matters. In addition, it also runs ‘Risk Expert Network’ joined by Management System & Basis for Risk Management Full-fledged Value Creation those who are in charge of risk management in the Group subsidiaries and risk experts. It is held regularly for more than once Environmental Management Set up the Group’s environmental Lead the international society’s initiatives Connect a reward system with the management rules – partake in a global network such as performance of countermeasures for a month for theme-based study and research, discussion and Management Strategy/organizational Manage environmental and UNEP FI Core Group environmental issues foundation sustainability indexes shares the current risks faced by the Group and seeks to find Install a team to respond to creative solutions to increase synergy within the Group. environmental issues Shinhan Financial Group is continuously upgrading its risk manGHG management Energy Target Management System (2012) Set the mid and long-term GHG reduction Achieve and maintain carbon neutrality Establishment and management of annual target and manage the Group-wide Create a long-term target to attain agement system to respond flexibly to business changes such as reduction goal performance (ex. 2050) digital finance and to prepare appropriate loan operation strategies according to different risk levels. Shinhan Bank concentrated External communication External/internal CSR activities on Expand the scope of disclosure of Expand the scope of disclosure of its effort on fortifying its risk management competency as shown environment environmental info. (i.e. intensity) environmental info. – release the CSR & environmental reports Broaden the external environmental environmental impact of all financial in its development of Asset Liability Management (ALM) that network activities manages assets and liabilities in an integrated manner in 2017. Risk Management Environmental risk Build the Group-wide environmental & Reflect environmental risk to all financial sector management social risk management system – select activities – participate in the Equator and manage the area of concerns – Principles establish a socio-environmental risk review Assess the environmental impact of system financial products Financial sector Products & services Increase PFs of new and renewable energy Launch a fully-fledged carbon credits as a response to Raise the financial support for fostering system and environmental IB in the environmentally-friendly industry and out of Korea environmental issues Provide leading products and services 53 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Implementation of GHG Emissions Reduction Environmentally-friendly & Highly-efficient, In addition, the effective cooling tower operation through a Shinhan Bank is a participant of the “GHG/Energy Target ‘Integrated Data Center’ water treatment facility helped it to cut down annual makeup Management System” committed to executing annual GHG Shinhan Data Center, responsible for integrating and manwater and city water consumption by 1,829 tons while recyreduction targets so as to contribute to meeting the National aging data in the Group, set its goal to attain a building that cling heavy water and rainwater to save 4,946 tons of water a GHG Emissions Reduction Target. Since being designated as can be labeled as the ‘Optimal Green Data Center’ and conyear. It also reduced annual CO2 emissions by 341t CO2 comthe business under the Target Management System in 2012, sequently designed a building that obtained a Gold rating by pared to 2016 as it produced 93.56MWh photovoltaic energy the bank has been reducing its GHG emissions by an average of LEED certification developed by the US Green Building Council and 56,680MJ as solar heat with its own photovoltaic infra23% or more compared to the target level, and in 2018, as the (USGBC), a prestigious international body in green architecstructure. government allocated 95,452 tons of GHG emission allowances ture, as it is characterized by high energy efficiency and the 341tCO to the bank, with a concerted effort of all executives and emminimum amount of GHG emissions. To summarize its efforts: ployees, it exceeded the permitted level by 16.3%(15,567 tons). it installed LED lamps to the most of the lighting to save more It is a consequence culminated in the bank’s various projects than 1,300MWh energy a year; replace the mechanical differ2 including switching to LED lighting, the operation of environential pressure switches of turbo refrigerators with digital ones Annual CO2 Emissions Reduced in 2018 mentally-friendly data centers, keeping recommended cooling/ to annually save 193MWh in 2018 and; decreased annual gas compared to 2016 in Group Integrated Data Center heating temperatures, shorten the signboard lighting hours, consumption by 2,714㎥ by effectively operating indoor cooletc., in the headquarters and branches. ing and heating temperature, hot water temperature and usage Shinhan Investment practices the energy-saving principles in times. the headquarters and branch buildings. In the first half of 2018, the company changed its 3,286 lights in the headquarters building into energy-efficient LEDs, and prevented excessive energy consumption by putting the upper and lower limits on indoor cooling and heating temperatures in summer and winter. In its effort to protect the environment and to achieve its GHG emissions target, it replaced its commercial vehicles Cost-saving Effect of Data Center by Increasing Energy Efficiency with hybrid-types and planted over 100 Japanese apricot trees through its ‘Tree-Planting Voluntary Service.’ To cut down its Category Year 2018 Year 2017 Amounts reduced Costs reduced (KRW) indoor energy consumption by 5% by 2020, Shinhan InvestCooling water pump (kwh) 551,416 744,743 -193,327 -17,206,103 ment plans to expand energy-saving activities and provide its Gas (㎥) 26,090 28,804 -2,714 -2,035,500 executives and employees with training and activities to instill a Photovoltaic power (kwh) 93,550 -13,390,477 greater awareness of environmental protection. Solar power (MJ) 56,680 -886,853 Tap water (㎥) 39,551 41,380 -1,829 -4,863,311 Wastewater (㎥) 1,412 -3,754,508 Sewage (㎥) 3,534 -9,396,906 Total -51,533,658 54 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Investment in Environmentally-friendly Facilities Use of Eco-friendly Materials (KRW million) Green IT Purchasing (KRW million) and Introduction of High Energy Efficiency Products Shinhan Bank is increasing its investment in environmentalEco-friendly construction Blind construction Copiers and printers Monitors PCs and laptops ly-friendly facilities by augmenting the use of environmen321 4,375 tally-friendly building materials during its branches’ environ636 411 3,401 ment-renovation works and adopting environmentally-friendly prefabricated systems (partitions, walls, service counters, etc.) In addition, as it actively encourages the use of products from environmentally-friendly, green enterprises, it leads to the use of highly-efficient products such as water purifiers, air cleaners, 817 and bill counters by purchase or rental contracts. This endeavor will expand to the introduction of electric vehicles for business purpose, the establishment of electric vehicle recharge infra 1,055 898 and continued use of high energy efficiency products. 672 1,224 560 Realization of Paperless Branches via Digital Windows 669 131 368 715 Shinhan Bank has made SOL kit service, a consultation service 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 based on tablet PCs, available in all of its windows throughout Total 1,308 1,309 1,375 Total 5,175 2,409 4,676 the country. The tablet PCs are loaded with a ‘consultation content management portal’ that has information on over 1,000 different financial products, and it eliminates the need to print separate notification and consultation materials, thereby saving paper resources. In addition, the consultation materials disPaper Document Reduction played on the tablet PC will be delivered, if requested, to a customer via text message or Kakao Alim Talk. The SOL kit service 17 helps the bank digitalize more than 17 million paper documents a year, if converted to one piece of A4 paper (4.37g), which is 2018년 million pages estimated to reduce the use of 75 tons of paper per year. With environmental management in mind, the bank will maintain its commitment to complete a paperless bank by broadening the 2017년 13 million pages scope of digitalization of face-to-face works and establishing a solid basis for a digital consultation process. 55 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Factbook 57 Corporate Governance Structure 61 Human Rights 64 Materiality Assessment 66 Increasing Value for Stakeholders 68 ESG Data 87 Global Initiatives 93 GRI Standards Index 96 Independent Assurance Statement 98 About This Report 56 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Corporate Governance corporate management and other efforts made in line with the principle of diversity include more defined standards to encomTo strengthen our expertise, the Board of Directors is composed of independent directors who are experts in the six fields of pass over 20% of female candidates to the long list. finance, business administration, economy, law, accounting and IT, as specified by the Act on Corporate Governance of In the interest of long-term development and protecting stake(Unit: persons) Financial Companies. It is because of the unique characteristics holders including shareholders and financial consumers, Shinof the financial industry that we aim to appoint independent han Financial Group is committed to establishing a governance Area of Before March ‘18 After March ’18 Since December directors of such wide-ranging experience. structure that secures transparency, soundness, and stability Expertise Shareholders’ Shareholders’ 26, 2018 Meeting Meeting and at the same time, fully reflects its pathway to growth and organization culture. Finance 5 5 4 Principle of the Operation of the Board of Directors Economy 1 1 1 Independence of Board of Directors Business Obligation to Participate in Activities of the Board of 4 3 3 Administration Directors Accounting 1 1 1 The Company is a listed corporation on the New York Stock ExTo ensure the soundness of the Board of Directors, the Group Law 1 1 1 change (NYSE) and adopts a minimum attendance rate of 75% appoints independent outside directors, which is stipulated in Information as the qualification requirements for outside directors as speciits Article 39 of the Articles of Incorporation, Annual Report on Technology 0 1 1 fied in the guidelines of Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS). Corporate Governance and the official website. Furthermore, Total 12 12 11 In 2018, there were a total of 13 Board of Directors meetings the Group voluntarily abides by the independence requirement held (four general meetings per semester, and nine temporary of outside directors of listed corporations as specified by the meetings) and the average attendance rate of directors was New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) No. of female candidates in the outside director pool 97%. The group discloses the activities and attendance rate of the Board of Directors through the annual report on corporate Diversity and expertise in the composition (Unit: persons) governance. of the Board No. of female candidates Variation compared to Classification in the outside director the previous period Prohibition of Concurrent Board Membership In an effort to materialize a diverse governance structure, the As of Feb., 2015 11 In accordance with Article 39-2 of the Articles of IncorporaGroup stipulates “principle of diversity” in the composition of tion stipulates that the outside directors of the Group cannot As of Aug., 2015 14 +3 the Board of Directors, and the provision ensures that directors be elected as outside directors of other companies. Whether As of Feb., 2016 39 +25 cannot have common backgrounds or represent specific interor not they are holding a concurrent office is transparently As of Dec., 2016 49 +10 ests. Aslo, it adopted a clear standard of ‘Diversity’ which redisclosed in the brief biographical information of the Board of As of Aug., 2017 42 -7 quires to arrange a long list of candidates for outside directors Directors. with varying experience and perspectives in terms of ethnicity, As of Jan., 2018 39 -3* gender, age, experience and cultural backgrounds. At present, As of Oct., 2018 33 -6** the Board of Directors consists of outside directors from four * Total candidate pool was reduced by 66 persons, resulting in an increase in the proportion of women (Female candidates: Aug. 2017 23.1% → Jan. 2018 33.6%) different nationalities including South Korea, Japan, the US ** Decline caused by overall candidate pool reduction after qualification evaluation and France to contribute their respective, global viewpoints to by Independent Director Recommendation Committee 57 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Governance Report Status of the Board of Directors (Base date: Mar 31, 2019) Classification Name Date of first appointment Experiences Executive Director Yong Byung Cho Mar. 23, 2017 CEO, Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management (CEO) CEO, Shinhan Bank Shinhan Finance Group CEO (current) Chairman of Board of Directors Cheul Park Mar. 25, 2015 Senior Deputy Governor, Bank of Korea (Independent director) Chairman & CEO, Leading Investment & Securities Co.,Ltd Independent director Hwa nam Kim Mar. 22, 2018 Chairman of Board of Directors, Jeju Girl's School Foundation (current) CEO, Gimhae Corporation Co.,Ltd (current) An Soon Park Mar. 23, 2017 Chairman, the Korean Residents Union in Japan (current) Chairman, Taisei Group Co.,Ltd (current) Yang Ho Byeon Mar. 27, 2019 President, Korea Financial Inteligence Unit Company Advisor, VIG Partners (current) Jae Ho Sung Mar. 27, 2019 Chairman, Korea council of International Law (current) Professor, Sung Kyun Kwan University School of Law (current) Man Woo Lee Mar. 26, 2014 Chariman, Korean Accounting Association Professor, Korea University Business School (current) Yoon Jae Lee Mar. 27, 2019 Secretary to the President for Finance and Economic Affairs CEO, KorEI Kyong rok Choi Mar. 22, 2018 Research Associate, Information Technology Center at Keio University CEO, CYS Corporation (current) Philippe Avril Mar. 25, 2015 CEO & Representative Director BNP Paribas Securities(Japan) Ltd Chief Country Officer BNP Paribas, Tokyo Branch (current) Yong Hak Huh Mar. 27, 2019 CIO of Alternative Investment, Hong Kong Monetary Authority First Bridge Strategy Ltd. CEO Yuki Hirakawa Mar. 25, 2015 CEO, Hirakawa Industry Co.,Ltd CEO, Level River Industry Co.,Ltd (current) Non-executive Ok Dong Jin Mar. 27, 2019 CEO, Shinhan Card director CEO, Shinhan Bank (current) 58 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Process and Criteria for the Appointment of Evaluation of the Board of Directors based on the methods agreed upon by the board with the help Independent Directors of an external assessment agency to ensure the objectiveness The Board of Directors evaluates the adequacy of resolutions and anonymity of the evaluation. Evaluations of independent Independent directors are elected at the general shareholders’ and reporting items, level of management information providdirectors for their performance in 2017 were conducted during meeting with the recommendation by the Independent Direced, its roles and responsibilities, and others with regard to the January of 2018. As for the independent directors who were tor Recommendation Committee and Shinhan Financial Group operation of the board each year and refers the result to its considered for reappointment, the result of their performance makes sure that independent directors with financial experioperation in accordance with the Internal Code of Corporate evaluation was reported to the 3rd Independent Director Recence and expertise in various areas can be included in the comGovernance (evaluation of the performance of Board of Direcommendation Committee meeting which was held on February mittee based on the independence requirements stated in the tors and others). Also, all members of the board are evaluated 7, 2018 to reflect it to the board’s decision on their reappointrelated laws and regulations. The Independent Director Recomon their performances in conjunction with an external assessments. The performance evaluation of independent directors is mendation Committee recommends the candidates after veriment agency to ensure the fairness and independence of the composed of a self-assessment, the board’s review (assessment fying that they are qualified to meet the requirements specified evaluation based on operating performance (including the apby all independent directors excluding the person subject to in the related rules and regulations through a fair and transparpropriateness of the meeting duration, agendas, and frequency the assessment) and employee review and the evaluation inent process and fully utilizes recommendations by shareholders, of the meetings) and their given roles (for the activities relevant dicators include items related to expertise, fairness in carrying stakeholders, and external advisory agencies, if necessary. to the authority of the board defined in the Internal Code of out duties, ethical responsibility, and faithfulness. In addition, Corporate Governance of the Shinhan Financial Group). Meanopinions on each independent director are described comprewhile, all sub-committees are subject to the evaluation with hensively to reflect quantitative factors to the assessment. Seven Principles on the Appointment of regard to their operation including the adequacy of resolutions Independent Directors and reporting items, level of management information providPerformance Assessment and Compensation ed, its roles and responsibilities, and others at least once per 1. Expertise: An individual that is equipped with sufficient experience and expertise in related areas such as finance, economy, management, year and the result are reflected to their operation and such The compensation system for inside directors is determined by accounting, and law that are required to carry out the duty evaluation is carried out by all members of sub-committees and the Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors and 2. Fairness in carrying out duties: An individual that is not influenced by the external assessment agency. the amount of variable compensation is decided based on both special interests and is able to conduct his or her duty for the interest of annual and long-term operating and financial performance all shareholders and financial consumers 3. Ethical responsibility: An individual that has a proper sense of ethics and Evaluation of Independent Directors of the group. As for independent directors, their compensaresponsibility to conduct his or her duty tion system is determined by the Board of Directors and the 4. Faithfulness: An individual that is able to make efforts required to carry The initial term of independent directors is 2 years, provided total amount of remuneration by us varies depending on the out the duty of an independent director in good faith that the term of re-election shall not exceed one year. In case number and level of participation in meetings of the board 5. Diversity: Nationality, gender, age, experience, background and and sub-committees. The compensation cap of directors is apof recommending independent directors for reappointment, harmonization with current board members annual performance evaluation results are reflected (in acproved at an annual shareholders’ meeting and the Board of 6. Compatibility to Shinhan Financial Group: An individual that is able to cordance with Article 24-4 of the Internal Code of Corporate Directors determines the details within the maximum ceiling for share the vision, growth paths, and corporate culture and contribute to the development of Shinhan Governance, and Article 10-3 and 10-7 of the Regulation of the year. As for inside directors, details on the compensation for 7. Effectiveness: An individual that can converge the competitive edges Independent Director Recommendation Committee). Currently, the group Executives including internal directors are additionof various industries in consideration of paradigm shifts in the financial an internal evaluation of independent directors is conducted ally reviewed by the Remuneration Committee, which consists industry of independent directors only. 59 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Remuneration System non-financial evaluation factors including the 10 CSR strategic CEO-to-Employee Pay Ratio (Group-wide; Unit: KRW million) goals including customer satisfaction, digital finance subscripThe compensation limit of the Board of Directors is detertion rate, number of financial economic education, and ethics compliance education completion rate are reflected in their CEO’s total compensation Employee compensation Ratio mined at the general shareholders’ meeting by resolution and (times) compensation is paid fairly and transparently according to the performance evaluation. 1,149 Median 126 9.1 compensation rules after the shareholders’ resolution. The Average 119 9.6 information on the employee compensation system including Criteria for Deferred Compensation, Alignment, the remuneration information of directors and auditors are Clawback, and Guarantee of Performance-based disclosed transparently through an annual report on the govCompensation Shares held by Executive Directors and CEOs ernance and remuneration structure. In particular, the annual compensation for internal and independent directors of the The performance-based compensation consists of perforThere is no requirement to hold shares in the company, but the board and individual annual compensation paid by us to our mance units and performance shares. The performance units directors have acquired shares as part of responsible managedirectors and auditors whose annual compensation is over KRW are paid by cash in a lump sum based on the operating and ment. 500 million is disclosed in an annual report on the business plan financial performance of the company of the previous year and governance. and performance shares are provided in the form of deferred Title Name No. of Multiple of shares held base salary compensation based on the 4-year performance after it is iniKey Performance Indicators for CEOs tially granted. Among the performance-based compensation, Chairman & CEO Cho Yong-byoung 12,000 1.19 and Executives the performance shares are subject to adjustment based on the Other Executives Park Woo-hyeok 18,390 0.89 average performance of 4 years after they are initially granted and 4 others To assess the financial performance of the CEOs of the holding and the final amount is determined according to the market Executive Vice President Park Woo-hyeok 2,141 0.41 company, Shinhan applies its key performance indicators (KPI) price of the company’s shares at the end of adjustment period. Assistant Executive Vice Ryu Seung-heon 7,903 1.85 concerning shareholder value (total shareholder return), profitThe total amount to be paid can be adjusted if a corporate loss President Jeong Ji-ho 1,321 0.31 ability (ROE and ROA), soundness (NPL), risk (RAROC), efficiency takes place before the payment or the company fails to achieve Kim Im-geun 2,025 0.47 (CIR), and others. To assess their non-financial performance, we the expected performance. Also, the plan is designed to adjust Executive Director Lee In-gyun 5,000 1.39 are evaluating their achievement in strategic tasks in line with the amount to be paid when the market price of the company’s * Based on share price as of April 29, 2019, the group CEO owns shares worth KRW 534.6 the strategic directions of Shinhan (Digital Transformation, Gloshare falls due to decreasing corporate value. million and receives a basic salary of KRW 450 million. balization, Proactive Risk Management, etc.). Executives of the holding company are evaluated on their performances based CEO Compensation on the group’s KPIs and the implementation rate of key strateShareholders with ownership (As of December 31, 2018) gic tasks according to their duties. As for the CEOs and Execuof 5% or greater In 2018, our Chairman and CEO received total compensation of tives of subsidiaries, all KPIs of the group, company, and their KRW 1,149 million, consisting of salary and wages. In addition, Shareholder No. of shares Shareholding duties, as well as strategic tasks of their duties are reflected in he was granted 18,200 performance shares whose exercisability owned percentage (%) their performance assessment in certain ratios. Hence, both will be determined by a review of our business performance and National Pension Service 44,497,838 9.38 financial indicators of the group, company, and their duties and share price movements during the period from 2018 to 2021. BlackRock Fund Advisors 29,063,012 6.13 60 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Human Rights Promise to Respect Human Rights Areas of Concern relating to Human Rights Issues Shinhan Financial Group is committed to the protection of human rights and respect for human rights as set out in the •  Provide executives and employees with safe and pleasant work environments and prevents unfair labor practices such as Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Guiding Princiforced labor or child labor. • Observance of Working Hours: In accordance with standards prescribed by the pertinent labor relations laws and regulations at ples on Business and Human Rights by the UN Commission on which a business site is located, specify regular and overtime work hours and provide employees who have worked extra hours Human Rights. This declaration is made based on the pertinent 1. outside a regular work schedule with overtime allowance according to the aforementioned rules. laws and regulations of the regions and areas of concerns on Protection of Labor • Reward Employees with Proper Salaries: Pay employees’ salaries and benefits above the level of the minimum wage set forth in Rights human right issues of all business sites operated by the Group the pertinent labor relations laws and regulations at which a business site is located. and shared among all executives and employees of the Group, • Prohibition of Discrimination: Do not discriminate against employees without grounds in its human resources management including the maintenance of employment, performance evaluation, promotion and salary payment because of their partner companies and key stakeholders. educational or regional background, age, gender, ethnicity or religious beliefs. The Group takes the initiative to advance human rights in its management activities as it eradicates a potential source of human rights infringement in the life cycle of financial products covering development, sales, service provision and if any infringement case occurs, it will undertake its utmost endeavors 2. • Restrict sales activities such as loans and deposits and investments in specific regions, industries, companies or individuals to ensure a prompt and effective remedy for victims. Application of suspected to be engaged in forced labor or child labor. The Group pursues a co-prosperous relationship with its partESG Screenings for • Restrict sales activities such as loans and deposits and investments industries, companies or individuals that may be inclined to ner companies, including subcontractors and service providers Investments infringe human rights of indigenous people caused by significant environmental and social impact. by ensuring fair transactions in a fair and equitable manner. The promise to respect human rights is applicable to the Group’s affiliates, subsidiaries and joint ventures and partner companies tied by a contractual relationship. Shinhan Financial Group is fully aware of the fact that sales and business activities relating to the provision of financial prod• Equal Services: Do not offer discriminative financial services to customers based on gender, ethnicity, religious beliefs, or ucts and services may exercise direct or indirect influence on 3. political inclination. stakeholders’ human rights and thus strives to prevent potential Improved • Information Protection: To prevent any human rights infringement arising from the leakage of customer information, take human rights related issues from occurring in its value chain. Accessibility to necessary technological actions and collect the minimum information necessary for sales activities. Financial Services • Protection of the Financially-deprived: Provide additional information and guidance for users such as the elderly, the disabled, To do so, the Group conducts an annual human rights risk asand the less fortunate whose access to financial services is limited. sessment and makes a transparent report on the impact assessment process, the outcomes and preventive measures taken. 61 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Process of Managing Human Rights Impacts By adopting ex-ante assessment of the substantial and potential impact of its management activities, Shinhan Financial Group fulfills its obligation to meet human rights due diligence requirements and has been conducting a human rights risk assessment for all stakeholders annually since 2016. Human Rights Impact Management Risk identification & Due diligence Action Monitoring Reporting Process • Identify scale of potential • Identify potential human • Carry out human rights impact • Carry out mitigation plans human rights issues in • Establish plans for resolution • Report results and review rights issues and risks for assessment • Annual review of potential management and supply and mitigation evaluation process each stakeholder • Distinguish primary issues issues chain • Internal review and sharing of • Protect employees in customer• Identify human rights risk • With stakeholder participation, evaluation results facing jobs Action and impact through • Review processes of savings, review human rights impact in • Report to CSR Council and CSR • Issue and review mitigation • Monitor human rights issues document review and analysis loans and investment (PF, etc.) order of priority and identify Committee plans for core human rights • Provide training in human rights of global initiatives weaknesses issues protection 62 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Results of the Human Rights Risk Assessments The human rights risk assessment identifies six potential human rights issues and mitigation plans to prevent the identified human rights issues in advance were established by the relevant affiliates, departments and partner companies. Stakeholders Human rights issues Risk identification No. of sites with mitigation plans Remedial measures and mitigation process Employees Prevention and remedy for Operate the whistleblowing system No. of reports: 23 (workplace rudeness, legal violations in work Revise office regulations and personnel management regulations to prevent and take workplace harassment processes, etc.) action against workplace harassment No. of processed cases: 23 Completion rate: 100% Securing industrial safety Detailed analysis of medical checkFollow-up management Provide follow-up and management programs by symptom-type after medical checkup and health for employees up and health risk evaluation Applicable group affiliates: 8 : Notify workers with diseases on health risks and offer a referral to a tertiary hospital, Provide mental health & wellness Group affiliates engaged: 8 detect major diseases for high-risk workers and prevent problems in advance checkup for executives and Engagement rate: 100% (re-checkup rate 100%) employees Provide psychological counselling and diagnosis to deal with stress, depression, and to improve childcare and family life Partner companies Stress management for Operate a protection system for Protection for customer-facing employees Operate a systemized break time after facing customers with behavior problems customer-facing employees “emotional laborer” workers Applicable group affiliates: 7 Give warnings to customers utilizing abusive language, sexual harassment, Group affiliates engaged: 7 and other threats and transfer them to the exclusive consultation group that deals Engagement rate: 100% with blacklisted customers Permanently operate the Grievance EAP(Employee Assistance Program) and the Dream Counselling Center for mental health and wellness of consultants Customers Customer information Investigate the status of information Security check results Subject of security inspection: 411 total (branches, outsourcing, partner companies) protection protection in affiliates and partner Targets: 411 entities (branches, contractors, partner companies) The 3rd party check/field inspection/self-assessment based on security inspection companies Mitigation-needed: 108 entities checklist Completion rate: 100% Main document storage/disposal, personal info. masking, etc. The underprivileged Improving financial Offer financial and economic Dedicated service counters Provision of financial and economic education: 149,125 persons in 2018 group including accessibility education Applicable group affiliates: 7 Designate windows for the elderly and disabled in 697 branches throughout children, Provide additional services such as Group affiliates engaged: 7 the country the disabled, migrant providing dedicated staff for Engagement rate: 100% Provide Terms of Services in Braille for the visually impaired workers, etc. the underprivileged Local community Protection of the local Conduct a socio-environmental Implementing environmental and social risk reviews Environmental and social risk reviews, community and the impact assessment when providing 4 projects (2 A-rating projects and 2 B-rating projects) Collect opinion reviews and monitor issues indigenous people in case of financial support for implementation of a largePF development scale development project 63 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Materiality Assessment Shinhan Financial Group carries out materiality assessments that select material issues from the perspectives of customers, the Group and society based on the definition of materiality according to the guidelines of GRI Standards and the Five Part Materiality Test methodology of AccountAbility AA1000SES. • Review on current issues inside the Group, mid and long-term In addition, the group has derived material issues by applying Strategic management strategies and directions Connectivity a broad scope encompassing its 2020 CSR strategies and the (KPIs) • Review on KPIs performance and internal performance data 3 strategic directions of the Group, stakeholder influence, • Examine key issues, current situation of successful among others. The Group’s strategic 2 leaders of sustainability management and Issue direction businesses in the same field Benchmarking 1 • Report on domestic and overseas sustainability management and analyze the activity trends Domestic companies in the same field 2020 CSR Strategies Issue Pool Formation + Global leaders Macro Trends • International standard indexes and guild lines on Global sustainable management and others. Guideline • GRI Standards, DJSI, SASB, ISO26000 Stakeholder Impacts Media • 1,607 cases of articles and media release in 2018 Research • Articles released to 110 news agencies including newspapers throughout the nation, TV and news, etc. 1 2 3 Issue Pool Formation Materiality Assessment Methodology Reflecting Strategies, Trend, Stakeholder Opinions • Examine and analyze reporting practices by Korean companies in • Business Impact • Stakeholder Impact • Reflect the Group strategies and specific targets the same field of business and leading foreign companies Relevance to Strategy Issue benchmarking • Check the current trend such as social responsibility of financial • Refer to companies in other industries recognized for having an (KPIs) Global guideline business and digital finance effective response relevance to external assessments such as DJSI Media research • Determine the expectations of stakeholders 64 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook A total of seven material issues have been identified by the materiality assessment and are consequently reported in conjunction with the 2020 CSR strategies. The Group is devoted to enhancing its sustainability by reporting both mid-and longterm and potential issues. 4 5 Materiality Matrix Materiality issues and 2020 CSR strategy mapping •  Conduct the assessment based on business impact • Seven material issues are reported in accordance and stakeholder impact with the 2020 CSR strategy • Identified 7 material issues and 8 mid/long term and potential issues High Ethical Business and Compliance Strategies Material Issues 2017 Performance 2018 Performance 2020 Goal Financial Stability Material Issues Providing Solutions to Customer Customer satisfaction index Customer satisfaction index Customer satisfaction index Enhance Customer Value Experience 93.8 points 94.2 points 94.2 points Information protection Customer Experience 637,568 participants in 786,693 participants in 1,000,000 participants in and Security financial literacy courses financial literacy courses financial literacy courses H (cumulative) (cumulative) (cumulative) Response to Corporate Digital Innovation Climate Change Digital Innovation Subscription to digital Subscription to digital Subscription to digital Governance financing services – 66.8% financing services – 70.1% financing services – 72.2% Sustainable Finance Fair and Ethical Business Ethical Business Percentage of employees Percentage of employees Percentage of employees Stakeholder Impact Financial Practices and Compliance receiving ethical behavior receiving ethical behavior receiving ethical behavior Inclusiveness training and signing a pledge training and signing a pledge training and signing a pledge Human Capital Development H of ethical behavior – 99% of ethical behavior – 99% of ethical behavior – 99% Social Contribution Increasing Financial Financial Financial support for working Financial support for working Financial support for working Inclusiveness Inclusiveness groups KRW 1.9 trillion groups KRW 4.1 trillion groups KRW 6.3 trillion Environmental Impact (cumulative) (cumulative) (cumulative) H Human Rights H Support for the startup Support for the startup Support for the startup Corporate Culture and ecosystem KRW 4.4 trillion ecosystem KRW 8.5 trillion ecosystem KRW 6.6 trillion Well-being in Workplace (cumulative) (cumulative) (cumulative) Tax Strategy Establishing a Creative Human Capital 102 hours of training per 105 hours of training per 100 hours of training per and Open Corporate Development employee employee employee Culture Participation rate in the smart Participation rate in the smart Participation rate in the smart work system – 72% work system – 64% work system – 65% Carrying Out Corporate Sustainable Value of investments/loans for Value of investments/loans for Value of investments/loans for Social Responsibility Finance eco-friendly industries KRW eco-friendly industries KRW eco-friendly industries KRW 1.1 trillion (cumulative) 16.8 trillion (cumulative) 20 trillion (cumulative) H H Human rights issues Manage Environmental Response to Volume of GHG emissions Volume of GHG emissions Volume of GHG emissionsand Societal Risks Climate Change 97,630tCO2eq 95,933tCO2eq 89,347tCO2eq (2030) Low Business Impact High 65 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Increasing Value for Shinhan Financial Group is committed to the mutual growth of the values of the Group and society through communication with diverse stakeholders. It fulfills its responsibilities and obligations for its customers, shareholders and investors and strives to attain Stakeholders greater satisfaction and co-prosperity of its executives and employees and partner companies. Moreover, it realizes compassionate finance that aligns with various entities such as local community, NGOs and government agencies, resulting in a virtuous cycle in society. Stakeholders Key Expectation Responses of Shinhan Financial Group Communication Channel Customers Innovative customer Offer exclusive products to Shinhan SOL app experience Provide investment information service based on Big Data Customer Reviewers Website VOC Improved service convenience Convenient Tablet PC consolation service, SOL kit Shinhan Poll Protection of underprivileged Support a smart banking service for foreigners who are restricted in terms of time and language customers Shareholders Increased trustee’s obligation Introduce Shinhan BNP Paribas Stewardship Code /investors Consultation with investors Considering long-term Secure a foundation for sustainable growth via ESG risk management and socially responsible investment Investor engagement shareholder values Improved corporate Obtain ‘A+’ rating in the ESG section for its Board of Directors’ independence and transparency governance by the Korea Corporate Governance Service (KCGS) Executives & employees Work-life balance Run 3 and 6 childcare centers in the Group and bank branches, respectively Expand the scope of application of its flexible work system, Smart Work System Increase work efficiency by reducing simple and repetitive tasks with RPA In-house suggestions Competency building for Introduce a management leader system to foster talents to raise customer values Labor-management council executives and employees Intranet Execute training on digital competency building Develop a smart learning platform Cultivation of female workforce Create ‘Shinhan SHeros’, a program dedicated to foster female talents 66 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Stakeholders Key Expectation Responses of Shinhan Financial Group Communication Channel Communication with partner Partner companies Invite and hold briefing sessions partner companies to discuss win-win collaboration and solutions companies Meeting for co-prosperity Welfare support for partner Initiate “Hands-on Classes for Finance” for the children of partner companies’ employees Survey on transaction companies satisfaction rate Operate cultural programs with participation of partner companies Local social contribution Local community Local community Operate 1 company-1 village sisterhood system activities and NGO meetings Global social contribution VOC on Website Host ‘Global One Shinhan Voluntary Festivals’ activities Government Expansion of inclusive finance Increase loans, deposits and debt arbitration for the working class Response to environmental Announce ‘ECO Transformation 20·20’ strategy to take an initiative in climate finance to fund the implementation of policies the Government’s 3020 plan Consultative body on the financial Job creation Take measures to support young people with Shinhan Do Dream Space, Match maker’s Program, Cafe Do Dream authority’s policies Signed MOU with KOTRA to assist young people in finding jobs overseas Signed MOU with the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family to help women whose careers have been interrupted to become employed 67 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Quantitative Data Economy 1. Economic Performance Creation of Economic Values (Unit: KRW billion) Revenues by segments (Unit: KRW billion) 2016 2017 2018 Sales 31,989.7 38,432.5 35,344.0 Wholesale/Corporate/Investment Banking 3,432 Project Finance 113 Pre-tax profit 3,170.5 3,797.6 4,466.6 Asset Management 500 Net Profit* 2,774.8 2,918.8 3,156.7 Wealth Management/Private Banking 474 Retail Banking 3,994 * Net profit : Based on shares of controlling company Others (Insurance, etc.) 1,467 Total 9,980 Distribution of Economic Values (Unit: KRW billion) 2016 2017 2018 2. BIS Leverage Ratio Shareholders/ Dividends and 4,718.5 4,643.3 5,745.4 Investors Interests (Unit: KRW billion) Executives & Payroll 1,827.0 1,914.7 1,945.3 employees Benefits 688.5 753.5 791.3 BIS Leverage Components 2017 2018 Government Corporate tax 345.5 848.1 1,268.3 (Basel III) Tier 1 Capital 27,673 30,678 Local community Social contribution 49.4 104.1 181.8 (Basel III) Total exposure (on and off balance sheet exposures) 464,100 512,921 investment Partner companies Purchases and services 1,452.8 1,482.7 1,583.3 (Basel III) Leverage Ratio 5.96% 5.98% 68 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 3. Tax by Country 4. Effective Tax Rate (Unit: KRW billion) (Unit: KRW million) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Domestic Sales 31,018.8 37,253.2 33,602.6 Earnings before tax 3,170,472 3,796,257 4,466,610 Operating profit 2,876.1 3,503.5 4,023.9 Corporate tax 284.0 759.9 1,173.2 Reported taxes 345,553 848,133 1,268,345 Overseas Japan Sales 169.8 176.4 187.8 Effective tax rate (%) 10.9 22.3 28.4 Operating profit 72.0 103.0 99.6 Corporate tax 23.1 29.0 29.5 Cash taxes paid 718,757 749,649 900,016 China Sales 230.1 284.4 284.9 Cash tax rate (%) 22.7 19.7 20.1 Operating profit 12.8 35.1 49.1 Corporate tax 4.1 9.9 10.6 Vietnam Sales 148.8 194.5 296.8 Operating profit 62.8 60.2 124.4 Corporate tax 12.6 11.9 24.4 5. Defined benefit plan obligations and other requirement plans US Sales 91.7 108.8 135.1 Operating profit 29.1 36.5 15.9 (Unit: KRW billion) Corporate tax 10.3 15.4 1.2 Other total Sales 330.5 415.2 836.8 2016 2017 2018 Operating profit 55.9 90.4 186.5 Corporate tax 11.4 22.0 29.4 Present value of defined benefit liabilities 1,690.0 1,695.2 1,842.0 Total Sales 31,989.7 38,432.5 35,344.0 Fair value of external accumulated assets (1,559.1) (1,688.1) (1,714.6) Operating profit 3,108.7 3,828.7 4,499.4 Recognized liabilities from Corporate tax 345.5 848.1 1,268.3 130.9 7.1 127.3 defined benefit plan 69 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 6. Financial Accidents and Measures 7. Policy Impacts (Unit: Cases, Persons) (Unit: KRW billion) Classification 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Violations Embezzlement 5 1 7 Total fees of relevant associations 29.2 32.7 32.1 Malpractice 2 2 2 Bribery 0 3 0 Korea Federation of Banks 8.6 8.3 9.2 Intercession of private loan 2 0 1 Credit Finance Association 1.8 2.1 0.2 Violation of real-name policy 1 3 2 Provision of private loan 4 3 3 Korea Financial Investment Association 17.7 20.9 21.4 Others 2 3 1 Korea Life Insurance Association 0.7 0.9 0.9 Measures Salary reduction 6 2 3 Reprimand 5 2 10 Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry 0.4 0.5 0.4 Warning 5 13 18 * Shinhan Financial Group strictly complies with the Political Funds Acts of Korea prohibiting donations of corporates or entities and never offer any funds intended to directly influence the existing policies or the formation of a policy Caution 7 14 11 such as political funds, campaign funds, funds for lobbying specific political group or party. However, it contributes to Others (beyond salary reduction) 8 5 11 the development of public goods with associations whose political neutrality is checked and maintained. The group fully understands a possibility of costs on policy influence that may turn into a risk factor in the mid and long run and preclude the possibility by managing the total donation details and sizes. According to contribution management guidance, it established a working-level contribution committee in charge of operating contribution and deliberating donation decision and execution and if the donation exceeds KRW 1billion, it is obligatory to pass a resolution by the Board of Directors in advance. 70 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Qualitative Data – Sustainable Finance 1. Sustainable finance (Unit: KRW billion) Business Division ESG Business Company Category Content 2018 Corporate Finance/ ESG Loans Shinhan Bank Innovative finance Technological finance 9,598.1 Investment Job creation & innovative growth guarantee loans 383.5 Banking Loans secured by moveable assets 18.8 Social finance Products for social enterprises 313.9 Eco-friendly New and renewable energy win-win guarantee loans 118.2 New energy industry guarantee loans 65.5 Loans for rational energy use 52.4 Business loans for solar power 25.5 Green remodeling loans 11.1 Loans for environmental improvement 10.6 Loans to nurture recycling businesses 9.0 New green corporate loans 7.5 Loans to nurture environmental businesses 4.3 Corporate loans for excellence in environmental management 3.2 Environmental improvement loans for private childcare facilities 1.5 Loans for gas safety 1.4 Finance loans for alternative industries 0.4 Structural adjustment loans for regional and small business 0.2 Total – ESG loan amount 10,625.1 Total – All credit exposure 126,274.5 ESG loan ratio (%) 8.4% 71 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook (Unit: KRW billion) Business Division ESG Business Company Category Content 2018 ESG bonds Shinhan Bank Green bonds 200.0 ESG bond issues 200.0 Total bond issues 30,348.9 ESG bond issue ratio (%) 0.7% Green/sustainable Shinhan Bank CGN Yulchon Fuel Cell Facility No. 4 39.7 infrastructure Cam Lam, Vietnam – PV plant (100MW) 55.9 finance U.S. Techren Solar I PV plant 50.3 CGN Daesan Power, Biomass 50.0 Jordan Tafila wind power plant (51.75MW) 38.2 Japan Shizuoka Prefecture, Kazono PV plant (22.5MW) 22.3 Japan Shizuoka Prefecture, Yokogawa PV plant (15MW) 14.2 Philippines – Angat hydroelectric plant 7.8 Korea Honam Region, Energy Storage System 2.0 Shinhan Investment Corp. U.S. South Field, Combined-cycle natural gas power plant 56.3 Netherlands Total underwriting for waste treatment 48.4 U.S. – Invested in U.S. gas/new energy firm Calpine 21.6 Korea Invested in waste treatment company EMKH 12.4 Korea Financing for energy company Samyoung E&E 11.0 Shinhan Life Insurance Korea – Priority loan refinancing for Yeongwol Solar 400.0 Korea – Priority loan for solar project in Wando, Sinji-myeon 179.8 Korea – Expressway solar power, new/renewable energy (25MW) 92.8 Netherlands Total underwriting for waste treatment 48.4 Korea Financing for energy company Samyoung E&E 11.0 Green/sustainable infrastructure finance 1,162 Total infrastructure finance 3,668 Green/sustainable infrastructure finance ratio (%) 31.7% 72 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook (Unit: KRW billion) Business Division ESG Business Company Category Content 2018 Asset management ESG investment Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Sustainability Renewable energy/Energy efficiency 811.4 Eco-friendly transportation 360.1 Basic infrastructure for developing countries 294.1 Job creation, SME financing 131.9 Natural resources 13.8 Healthcare, education 11.1 Best in Class SRI fund 0.5 ESG assets under management (AUM) 1,622.9 Total assets under management (AUM) 28,179.3 ESG AUM ratio (%) 5.8% PB·WM ESG investment Shinhan Bank Sustainability Job creation, SME financing 63.6 Basic infrastructure for developing countries 39.7 Healthcare, education 23.8 Natural resources 1.6 Renewable energy/Energy efficiency 0.1 Best in Class SRI fund 10.0 ESG assets under management (AUM) 138.8 Total assets under management (AUM) 2,684.5 ESG AUM ratio (%) 5.2% Green/ESG loans Shinhan Bank Shinhan SOHO loan 28.6 Shinhan Jeonse guarantee loan 6.1 Shinhan Companion SME 2.2 Growth loans for companies not subject to external audit 0.9 Shinhan Jeonse home loan 0.8 SME facility investment loan 0.7 Shinhan Green Growth Loan 0.1 73 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook (Unit: KRW billion) Business Division ESG Business Company Category Content 2018 New Hope Spore Loan 0.1 Jeonse home loans for the people 0.1 Jeonse home loan for workers 0.1 Shinhan S-Dream Jeonse loan 0.1 ESG loan balance 39.6 Total loan balance 567.4 ESG loan ratio (%) 7.0% Retail banking Green/ESG loans Shinhan Bank Finance for the Shinhan Jeonse guarantee loan 4,265.7 working class Shinhan New Hope Spore Loan 471.3 Buttress Jeonse loan 283.9 Buttress loan for SMEs, young entrepreneur rental deposit 159.5 Shinhan Sol Pyeonhan New Hope Spore 53.4 Shinhan university/youth sunshine loan 11.7 SUNNY New Hope Spore Loan 5.2 Shinhan New Hope Dream Loan 1.9 Shinhan Stepping-Stone Loan 1.0 Eco-friendly Shinhan EV-MYCAR Loan 0.8 ESG loan balance 5,254.4 Total loan balance 34,640.4 ESG loan ratio (%) 15.2% ESG investment Shinhan Bank Sustainability Basic infrastructure for developing countries 98.8 Eco-friendly transportation 21.5 Job creation, SME financing 7.7 Natural resources 6.5 Renewable energy/Energy efficiency 2.3 Best in Class SRI fund 5.2 ESG assets under management (AUM) 142.0 Total assets under management (AUM) 8,237.2 ESG AUM ratio (%) 1.7% 74 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 2. Fossil Fuel Exposure 3. Environmental and Social Risk Review for Project Financing (Shinhan Bank, Unit: KRW billion) (Unit: case) 2016 2017 2018 2018 Fossil fuel exposure1 3,443.3 3,197.4 3,985.5 No. of projects under environmental and social risk review 4 Narrow exposure2 248.5 277.8 304.6 Mining industry Coal mining industry 91.5 133.1 176.9 A class 2 Crude oil and natural gas mining industry 5.3 144.6 104.3 B class 2 Service industry related to crude oil and 151.7 0.1 23.4 natural gas mining C class 0 3 Wide exposure 3,194.8 2,919.6 3,680.9 Manufacturing Corks and related products manufacturing 3.0 3.1 2.2 industry industry Briquettes and other coal product 22.6 10.5 5.8 manufacturing industry Crude oil refining and processing industry 1,221.9 967.9 1,518.4 Lubricant and grease manufacturing 37.8 53.2 48.9 industry Other petroleum oil refinement retreatment 26.3 28.8 24.0 industry Electricity, gas, steam, Thermal power generation industry 1,316.6 1,224.7 1,462.5 and water industries Gas manufacturing and pipe supplying 566.6 631.5 619.1 industries Ratio of fossil fuel exposure compared to total loan amounts within 1.38% 1.21% 1.40% the group 1 Energy Industry Classification Status (Korea Energy Economics Institute) – [included] mining, manufacturing and supplying activities related to energy [excluded] distribution, transportation industries, etc. 2 Narrow exposure: direct mining of fossil fuels (mining industry) 3 Wide exposure: including direct mining and manufacturing/power generation businesses 75 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Quantitative Data – Inclusive/Productive Finance 1. Inclusive Finance 2. Innovative Finance 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Shinhan New Hope Spore loan KRW billion 472.0 543.8 635.4 Corporate Technological finance KRW million 7,676.7 9,598.1 bank Mid-interest rate loan finance Job creation & innovative growth KRW billion 60.0 109.4 159.5 KRW million 123.4 383.5 for the working class guarantee loan Household debt healing Loans secured by moveable KRW billion 633.0 769.0 944.0 KRW million 6.6 18.8 program assets Microfinance* KRW billion 18.0 18.0 16.2 Venture Discovery Shinhan Future’s Lab KRW million 0.8 1.6 Shinhan hug loan KRW billion 59.7 105.4 117.0 capital Company discovery KRW million 0.0 12.3 Korea Inclusive Finance Agency KRW billion 8.0 4.1 53.0 Finance for new technology KRW million 26.1 13.8 businesses Fee discount for socially KRW billion 0.6 Nurturing Company nurturing KRW million 19.0 234.8 vulnerable groups New hope installment savings KRW billion 353.0 239.0 281.0 Shinhan BNPP FoFs KRW million 0.0 100.0 Shinhan Premium discount for socially KRW million 47.0 63.0 53.3 Match government funding KRW million 26.0 0.0 life vulnerable groups Social enterprise fund KRW million 0.0 9.0 insurance Payment delay of premiums KRW million 4.0 20.0 11.8 for disaster-affected families Total KRW million 7,878.6 10,371.9 Microinsurance KRW million 214.0 283.0 190.5 Shinhan Sunshine loan KRW billion 84.0 186.0 235.6 savings Mid-interest rate loan for KRW billion 11.9 24.8 51.8 bank the working class Shinhan hug loan KRW billion 41.0 57.0 73.3 Jeju bank New Hope Spore loan KRW billion 5.6 6.4 7.1 Mid-interest rate loan for KRW billion 2.3 0.6 0.6 the working class Total KRW billion 2,013.5 2,422.5 2,830.7 * 1,353 cases in 2018 (Cumulative 11,911 cases) 76 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 3. Social Enterprise Support* 4. Social Contribution (Unit: KRW billion) (Unit: KRW billion) 2016 2017 2018 2018 Loan 15.6 20.7 57.9 Amount of investment in social contribution 181.8 Goods Procurement 0.3 0.1 1.2 Charitable donations 81.2 Sponsorship and donation 0.2 0.1 0.1 Investment in local community 69.6 * Data coverage: 2016~17 bank, 2018 group Commercial initiatives 31.0 Investment Amount by Donation Types (Unit: KRW million) 2018 Cash 181,583 Converted values of voluntary service input 106 Voluntary service time (time) 234,843 Converted value of goods donations1 68 Indirect costs2 176 77 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Quantitative Data – Customers 1. Customer Satisfaction 2. Customer Complaint Handling (Unit: point) (Unit: case) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Shinhan Bank 95.8 96.2 95.4 Total no. of customer complaints 2,307 2,175 2,582 Shinhan Card 87.2 87.6 88.3 No. of processed cases 2,307 2,175 2,581 Shinhan Financial Investment 94.6 94.4 93.2 Completion rate 100% 100% 100% Shinhan Life Insurance 95.0 96.0 96.0 Jeju Bank 97.6 97.6 97.5 3. Information Protection 2016 2017 2018 Number of cases of customer No. of cases 0 0 0 information leakages Information protection Training hours 132,820 132,820 129,810 training for executives and employees No. of participants 21,597 20,776 20,551 Information protection Training hours 25,182 24,309 23,908 training for external/business partners No. of participants 5,352 5,423 5,171 78 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Quantitative Data – Employees 1. No. of Executives and Employees (Unit: persons) 2016 2017 2018 Female Male Female Male Female Male Total no. of employees 9,522 12,646 9,308 12,414 9,155 12,261 Positions Management* 6 167 8 185 10 187 Regular employees 9,046 11,440 8,893 11,262 8,714 11,037 Contract workers 470 1,037 407 967 431 1,037 Total no. of turnovers and retirees 827 956 793 1,137 858 1,057 No. of voluntary turnovers** 192 248 352 553 655 694 * Director -CEO ** (Excluded) honorary retirement, regular retirement, disciplinary dismissal, transfer within group, (Included) voluntary retirement 79 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 2. Diversity (Unit: persons) 2016 2017 2018 Female Male Female Male Female Male * Female leadership Management 6 167 8 185 10 188 Upper-level managers** 2,332 8,334 2,489 8,326 2,427 8,207 Managers 709 1,468 732 1,447 774 1,514 No. of veteran employees 425 662 405 648 387 628 No. of disabled employees 55 153 57 152 58 146 * Director CEO ** Managers General Managers 3. Safety and Health 2016 2017 2018 No. of industrial accidents (case) 2 5 11 Absence from industrial accidents (day) 5 79 242 Absenteeism 0.0001 0.0015 0.0045 Total missed hours (time) 40 632 1,936 Total work hours (time) 44,336,000 43,444,000 42,832,000 Accident rate 0.0090 0.0230 0.0514 Lost time injury frequency rates (LTIFR) 0.05 0.12 0.26 80 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 4. Maternity leave status 2016 2017 2018 Female Male Female Male Female Male Employees scheduled to return to work in the current year after maternity leave (persons) 790 11 879 12 842 21 Employees who returned to work in the current year after maternity leave (persons) 715 8 796 10 722 19 Share of employees that returned to work in the current year after maternity leave 91% 73% 91% 83% 86% 91% Returning employees that served over 12 months after maternity leave in the previous year (persons) 412 8 485 7 573 9 Share of returning employees that served over 12 months after maternity leave in the previous year 65% 100% 68% 88% 72% 90% 5. Labor Associations 2016 2017 2018 No. of candidates to join labor associations (persons) 16,446 16,228 15,926 No. of members of labor associations (persons) 15,938 15,938 15,592 Membership ratio of labor associations 96.9% 98.2% 97.9% 81 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 6. Competency Enhancement (Unit: hours, KRW million) 2016 2017 2018 Total education hours 2,352,974 2,054,556 2,071,844 Total education expenses 22,713 25,030 23,960 Education hours per person 115 102 105 Education expense per person 1.1 1.2 1.2 7. Increase in Awareness of Ethics and Human Rights 2016 2017 2018 No. of participants in training Online training (persons) 91,080 22,019 21,646 Signing on the pledge of ethical behavior (persons) 5,817 21,893 21,391 Training hours Online training (hours) 2,846 27,013 43,292 Human rights education (hours) 3,670 21,646 82 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Quantitative Data – Environment 1. GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO2eq) 2016 2017 2018 Emission amount total (Scope1+2) 98,590.1 97,630.5 95,933.0 Scope1 16,732.1 16,733.3 15,699.1 Scope2 81,858.0 80,897.2 80,263.9 GHG emission intensity (Employees*) 4.9 4.9 5.0 * Based on regular workers excluding Jeju 2. GHG Emissions (Scope3) (Unit: tCO2eq) 2016 2017 2018 Scope3 18,501.7 19,465.5 19,158.6 Business trips Airline (Domestic) 95.8 181.8 79.3 Train 117.3 188.6 116.5 Bus 30.5 47.5 9.4 Cash-in-transit Gasoline Diesel 409.8 418.6 429.3 LPG 3.1 0.7 83 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Purchase of Products and Services Printing paper 5,031.4 4,581.2 3,613.8 Credit cards 11,800.3 13,128.8 13,996.4 Savings accounts 191.6 175.8 164.7 Capital goods Laptops 0.1 2.3 PC desktop 180.5 28.2 112.9 Monitors 79.6 143.0 65.1 Printers 66.1 122.3 156.1 LED lights (50W) 226.4 176.1 148.3 Waste Credit cards 113.3 126.0 134.4 Savings accounts 4.1 3.8 3.5 General waste (Incineration) 41.1 39.9 31.8 Recyclable waste (Paper) 22.6 10.6 4.9 Recyclable waste (Styrofoam) 0.1 0.0 Recyclable waste (Styrofoam) 1.5 1.9 2.6 Recyclable waste (Cans) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Recyclable waste (Plastic) 0.1 0.2 0.3 Water Tap water 65.0 64.1 65.4 Underground water 21.6 24.2 23.9 84 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 3. Energy Consumption (Unit: MWh) 2016 2017 2018 2030 Goal** Total Energy Consumption 53,945.5 56,411.7 54,158.1 50,007.4 Electricity 33,327.0 35,395.1 34,343.1 31,855.6 Gas 5,532.1 5,588.3 5,991.2 5,029.5 Gasoline 14,879.6 15,261.3 13,659.4 12,972.1 Diesel 206.8 167.0 164.5 150.3 Energy Intensity (employees*) 2.7 2.9 2.8 * Based on regular workers excluding Jeju, ** 10% reduction compared to 2017 4. Paper Consumption (Unit: ton) 2016 2017 2018 Paper 764.7 666.3 542.8 5. Water Consumption (Unit: m3) 2016 2017 2018 Tap water 195,745.0 192,978.0 197,136.0 Underground water 64,970.0 72,813.0 71,903.0 Total 260,715.0 265,791.0 269,039.0 85 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 6. Waste Discharge (Unit: ton) 2016 2017 2018 General waste 334.0 324.8 258.3 Recycled waste 214.1 117.4 85.9 7. Environmental Investment (Unit: KRW million) 2016 2017 2018 Environmental investment amount 5,790 4,455 6,651 Purchase of eco-friendly IT products 4,310 2,409 4,676 Purchase of LED lights 1,480 737 599 Replacement of outdated facilities 0 1,309 1,375 86 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Global Initiative Indices for Principles for Responsible Banking Report Framework Report Area Principle 1: Alignment 1.1 Business model 2020 CSR strategies Announcement of 1.2 Linkage among strategies, SDGs, the Paris Convention and relevant frameworks the “ECO Transformation 20•20” Principle 2. Impacts 2.1 Identify significant risks that may lead to positive/negative ESG impacts Materiality Assessment 2.2 Management of the identified positive/negative impacts Principle 3. Clients & Customers 3.1 Policies and process for responsible management of clients and customers Fair and Ethical Business Practices Sustainable finance and ESG 3.2 Endeavor to encourage sustainable economic activities of clients and customers investment products Principle 4: Stakeholders 4.1 Identification of stakeholders, management and communication of key pertinent issues Increasing Value for Stakeholders Principle 5. Governance & Target Setting Manage Environmental and 5.1 Environmental and social risk management Societal Risks 5.2 Governance and the management of executives and employees to implement the principles for responsible banking CSR Governance 5.3 Target setting for managing significant positive/negative impact 5.4 Endeavor to manage the targets 2020 CSR strategies 5.5 The outcome of the previous target management Principle 6. Transparency & Accountability Enactment of UNEP FI Principles 6.1 Endeavor to implement the principles for responsible banking for Responsible Banking 87 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook UNGP Index Report Framework Report Area PART A: GOVERNANCE OF RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY COMMITMENT A1 What does the company say publicly about its commitment to respect human rights? A1.1 How has the public commitment been developed? Promise to Respect Human Rights A1.2 Whose human rights does the public commitment address? A1.3 How is the public commitment disseminated? EMBEDDING RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS A2 How does the company demonstrate the importance it attaches to the implementation of its human rights commitment? A2.1 How is day-to-day responsibility for human rights performance organized within the company, and why? CSR Governance A2.2 What kinds of human rights issues are discussed by senior management and by the Board, and why? A2.3 How are employees and contract workers made aware of the ways in which respect for human rights should inform their decisions and actions? Promise to Respect Human Rights A2.4 How does the company make clear in its business relationships the importance it places on respect for human rights? Human Rights Risk Assessment A2.5 What lessons has the company learned during the reporting period about achieving respect for human rights, and what has changed as a result? Results PART B: DEFINING THE FOCUS OF REPORTING Statement of salient issues Human Rights Risk Assessment B1 State the salient human rights issues associated with the company’s activities and business relationships during the reporting period. Results Determination of salient issues Human Rights Risk Assessment B2 Describe how the salient human rights issues were determined, including any input from stakeholders. Results 88 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Report Framework Report Area Additional severe impacts Identify any severe impacts on human rights that occurred or were still being addressed during the reporting period, but which fall outside of the salient Human Rights Risk Assessment B4 human rights issues, and explain how they have been addressed. Results PART C: MANAGEMENT OF SALIENT HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES SPECIFIC POLICIES Areas of Concern relating to C1 Does the company have any specific policies that address its salient human rights issues and, if so, what are they? Human Rights Issues C1.1 How does the company make clear the relevance and significance of such policies to those who need to implement them? CSR Governance STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT C2 What is the company’s approach to engagement with stakeholders in relation to each salient human rights issue? C2.1 How does the company identify which stakeholders to engage with in relation to each salient issue, and when and how to do so? Process of Managing Human Rights Impacts C2.2 During the reporting period, which stakeholders has the company engaged with regarding each salient issue, and why? During the reporting period, how have the views of stakeholders influenced the company’s understanding of each salient issue and/or its approach to C2.3 addressing it? ASSESSING IMPACTS Human Rights Risk Assessment C3 How does the company identify any changes in the nature of each salient human rights issue over time? Results 89 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Report Framework Report Area INTEGRATING FINDINGS AND TAKING ACTION C4 How does the company integrate its findings about each salient human rights issue into its decision-making processes and actions? CSR Governance How are those parts of the company whose decisions and actions can affect the management of salient issues, involved in finding and implementing C4.1 CSR Governance solutions? Human Rights Risk Assessment C4.3 During the reporting period, what action has the company taken to prevent or mitigate potential impacts related to each salient issue? Results TRACKING PERFORMANCE C5 How does the company know if its efforts to address each salient human rights issue are effective in practice? Human Rights Risk Assessment Results C5.1 What specific examples from the reporting period illustrate whether each salient issue is being managed effectively? REMEDIATION Human Rights Risk Assessment C6 How does the company enable effective remedy if people are harmed by its actions or decisions in relation to a salient human rights issue? Results 90 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook TCFD Index Report Framework Report Area Governance Structure a) Supervision of the Board of Directors on the risks and opportunities relating to climate change CSR Governance Disclosure on Financial Impact of b) The role of the management to evaluate and manage the risks and opportunities relating to climate change Climate Change (TCFD) Strategies a) The risks and opportunities concerning climate change identified by the organization for short, mid and long-term investigations. Disclosure on Financial Impact of Climate Change (TCFD) b) Impacts of the risks and opportunities regarding climate change on the organization’s business, strategic and financial plans Sustainable finance and ESG investment products c) Resilience recovery of the organization’s strategies in consideration of a range of scenarios on various climate changes including one with below 2˚C Risk Management a) Organization’s process to identify and evaluate the risks related to climate change Disclosure on Financial Impact of b) Organization’s process to manage and control the risks related to climate change Climate Change (TCFD) Integrated ESG risk management c) The ways in which the process to identify, evaluate, and manage the risks related to climate change is integrated into the organization’s overall risk management Indices and Reduction Targets a) Indices adopted by the organization to assess the risks and opportunities concerning climate change in accordance with its strategy or risk management process Disclosure on Financial Impact of Climate Change (TCFD) b) Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions and related risks Advancing the Environmental Management System c) Methodology used by the organization to manage the risks and opportunities and performance against targets in terms of climate change ESG Data 91 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 2018 GRI Standards Index Universal Standards (GRI 100) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 1 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 1 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover 102-4 Location of operations Annual report 9 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual report 105 102-6 Markets served Annual report 106~107 102-7 Scale of the organization Annual report 9 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 79 102-9 Supply chain 63 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 52~55 102-12 External initiatives 3 102-13 Membership of associations 70 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5~6 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 10 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 11 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 35~39 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 57~60 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 10 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 10 92 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook 102-35 Remuneration policies 59~60 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 59~60 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 59~60 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 66~67 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 81 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 66~67 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 66~67 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 66~67 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual report 105 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 64~65 102-47 List of material topics 64~65 102-48 Restatements of information 102-49 Changes in reporting 102-50 Reporting period 98 102-51 Date of most recent report 98 102-52 Reporting cycle 98 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 3 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 98 102-55 GRI content index 92~95 102-56 External assurance 96~97 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 64~65 103-2 The management approach and its components 11~14 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31, 35, 40, 43, 46, 52 93 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Topic-specific Standards Economic Performance (GRI 200) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 68 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 22~26 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 69 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 16~18 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 16~18 Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 70 Environmental Performance (GRI 300) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 85 Water 303-3 Water withdrawal 85 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 83 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 83 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 83~84 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 83 94 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook Social Performance (GRI 400) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 79 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 44~45 401-3 Parental leave 81 Occupational Health and Safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health 44~45 403-9 Work-related injuries 80 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 82* Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 27~29 Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 61~63 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 82 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent 412-3 61~63 human rights screening Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 77 Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions 70 Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 78 * Gender and position breakdown will be applied afterward. 95 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE We performed our work using AA1000AS (2008) and DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM2 which is based on our professional experience and international assurance best practices. DNV GL provides Type 1 and the moderate level of assurance, and we applied the Type 2 for the STATEMENT selected data. The assurance was carried out from May till June 2019. The site visits were made to Shinhan Financial Group’s head office in Seoul, Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: • challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed Introduction | Shinhan Financial Group commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of ‘Shinhan Financial • interviewed representatives from the various departments; Group CSR Report 2018’ (the “Report”). The directors of Shinhan Financial Group have sole re• conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and sponsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the associated reporting system as they relate to selected content and performance data; assurance work is to the management of Shinhan Financial Group in accordance with the terms • reviewed the materiality assessment report. of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Limitations | The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Shinhan Financial Holding company’s other subsidiaries, associated companies, Scope and Basis of assurance | Based on non-financial data, sustainability activities and perforsuppliers, contractors and any third-parties except Shinhan Financial Holding Company and its mance data of 2018 generated from Shinhan Financial Group, we have evaluated the adherence 7 subsidiaries (Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Card, Shinhan Investment Corp., Shinhan Life Insurance, to AA1000 Accountability Principles (AP) 2018. We have reviewed the Topic-specific disclosures Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management, Shinhan Capital, and Jeju Bank). We did not interview of GRI Standards which were identified in the process of defining reported content; external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as data on the website of Shinhan Financial Holding Company Material Topic GRI Disclosure and its 7 subsidiaries. These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and 1 Providing Solutions to Enhance Customer Value analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for environmental and social performance are not verified, while the aggregated 2 Fair and Ethical Business Practices 206-1 data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability 3 Increasing Financial Inclusiveness FS1 14 or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. 4 Establishing a Creative and Open Corporate Culture 404-1 Conclusion | On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest 5 Carrying Out Corporate Social Responsibility FS7, FS8 that the reported data and information disclosed in the Report do not give a fair representation 6 Managing Environmental and Societal Risks 201-2 of Shinhan Financial Group’s related sustainability performance nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI Standards Core option. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the Principles 1 FS: GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures are made below; 2 The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com) 96 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook The Principle of Inclusivity Shinhan Financial Group has identified internal and external stakeliable manner. Shinhan Financial Group could report the information through consistent source that holder groups such as Customers, Shareholders & Investors, Employees, Suppliers, local communities support comparability of data in the future reporting. and Regulators. Shinhan Financial Group engages with the stakeholders through various channels. Since 2017, Shinhan Financial Group has established their business strategies “2020 CSR strateCompetence and Independence | DNV GL applies its own management standards and compligies”reflecting stakeholder’s opinion and the Report described major interests and concerns from ance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 Conformity Assesseach stakeholders group as well as Group’s corresponding responses during the reporting period. ment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies The Principle of Materiality Shinhan Financial Group identified sustainability issues through and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and apanalysis of reporting practice of domestic industry peers and overseas advance companies, variplicable legal and regulatory requirements. ous global guidelines and media research. Shinhan Financial Group selected 15 issues based on the We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct3 during the assurance engagement and group’s strategy and stakeholder’s expectation, and 7 material topics are prioritized by assessing on maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. DNV GL was not instakeholders’ interest and business relevance. Shinhan Financial Group reports its sustainability target volved in the preparation of statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance and performance by linking the material topics with the business strategies “2020 CSR Strategies”. Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. During 2018~2019, DNV GL has verified the greenhouse gas emissions and has certified ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 50001:2011 in Shinhan Bank. Verification and CertificaThe Principle of Responsiveness Shinhan Financial Group reports their sustainability perfortion services which DNV GL provided to Shinhan Bank are not considered as conflict of indepenmance result on material topics in conjunction with the “2020 CSR Strategies”. Shinhan Financial dence or impartiality of our work. Group operates a CSR Committee to respond to key issues related to sustainability management and June 2019 fulfil social responsibilities. In addition, Shinhan Financial Group includes their commitment on comSeoul, Korea pliance of ‘the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI)’ and participation on ‘Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)’ in the Report. Jang Sup Lee Country Representative The Principle of Impact The Report presents the direct and indirect impacts of material topics DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. identified during the materiality assessment. We have reviewed that Shinhan Financial Group identifies and monitors the impacts of material topics to stakeholders and tries to quantify these as possible. Reliability of specific sustainability performance information DNV GL have tested data and information on a sampling basis. Further, we verified the reliability of selected data (Greenhouse gas emission, water consumption, waste generation, occupational accident rate, monetary value and number of transactions of Microfinance and Microinsurance) in the Report through sampling. DNV GL has interviewed the data owners in order to figure out the data control process and verified the selected data against the relevant documents and records. The intentional error or misstatement is not noted from the data and information disclosed in the Report. The data provided in the report was gathered from subsidiaries of Shinhan Financial Group and processed by headquarters to meet 3 DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from the purpose. Data owners were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data in a reDNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) 97 Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2018 Theme Report Business Impact Factbook ABOUT THIS REPORT Reporting Principles | This report complies with Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and fulfills the conditions in accordance with the Core Option. The financial information included in this report follows the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS), which use the unit of the Korean Won (KRW and \). Reference Standards | This report complies with the TCFD Recommendations and Principles for Responsible Banking. Also, the performance and progress on human rights activities according to UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP) is reported. Reporting Period and Scope | The reporting period of this report is from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018. Some qualitative activities and results from 2019 have also been included. For identifying trends, data for the previous 3 to 4 years have been reported. The scope of report includes 8 group affiliates of Shinhan Financial Holding Company, Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Card, Shinhan Investment Corp., Shinhan Life Insurance, Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management, Shinhan Capital, and Jeju Bank, which amount to 99.18% of all group affiliates in terms of sales volume. In order to minimize the confusion of readers, separate explanations are given for issues requiring attention on the scope of reporting, and abbreviations of the company names are used for reader’s convenience. Reliability of the Report | To improve the reliability of the report, it went through a verification process in accordance with the AA1000AS (2018) assurance standard based on its principles of inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness, and impact by a global verification institute DNV GL. The format of the engagement was structured to meet the AA1000AS Type I and certain performance related information was verified according to the Type 2 of the same assurance standard. The result of verification can be found in page 96 to 97 of the report. 98 20, Sejong-daero 9-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul 04513, Korea www.shinhangroup.com
