C O R P O R AT E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A N D 2 019 E S G S U P P L E M E N TA RY R E P O R T Cross reference tools ASSURED INFORMATION Denotes information that has been externally verified, refer to page 75 for the scope of the external assurance PAGE REFERENCES Refers readers to information elsewhere in this report or to the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report WEBSITE Indicates that additional information is available on our website: www.investec.com REPORTING STANDARD Denotes our consideration of a reporting standard Feedback We value feedback and invite questions and comments on our reporting. To give feedback on this report, please contact our corporate sustainability division. For queries regarding information in this document Corporate Sustainability Telephone: (27) 11 286 7000 E-mail: group.sustainability@investec.co.za www.investec.com/en_za/welcome-to-investec/corporateresponsibility.html CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report CONTENTS About this supplementary report 2 About the Investec group 3 01 Corporate sustainability at Investec 7 Message from our joint chief executive officers Communication and stakeholder engagement 8 Creating value for stakeholders 11 02 Commitment to our people Our people strategy 17 Working at Investec 19 Equity and inclusion 22 Learning and development 25 Commitment to transformation 26 03 Commitment to our communities Our approach 28 Staff volunteering 29 Communities in Southern Africa 30 Communities in UK and Other 37 04 Commitment to the environment and climate change Indirect impact through our business activities 41 Direct operational impact 42 05 Our business impact Our business impact through the SDGs 49 Commitment to our clients 62 06 Governance, risk and compliance Governance, risk and compliance 65 Information technology 71 Procurement 73 07 Appendix Independent assurance statement 75 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 77 (GRI Standards: core option) Policies and practices 89 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 1 ABOUT THIS SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT About this supplementary report Reporting scope, boundary and framework Oversight This corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report Investec operates under a dual listed companies (DLC) structure. highlights Investec’s corporate sustainability performance over the The Social and Ethics Committee (DLC SEC), a sub-committee of period 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019. We incorporate material the board, is responsible for monitoring the non-financial elements information from the main geographies in which we operate. of corporate sustainability. The DLC SEC consists of the following board members: This report is intended to serve the information needs of the stakeholder groups most affected by our business – clients, Lord Malloch-Brown KCMP – chairman* employees, investors, shareholders, sustainability rating agencies, S Koseff – executive government, regulatory bodies and ESG analysts who will use B Kantor – executive the content for an analysis of our sustainability performance. This F Titi – joint chief executive officer** report also focuses on the most material aspects of our business in HJ du Toit – joint chief executive officer** relation to our sustainability strategy. CA Carolus – non-executive director PRS Thomas – non-executive director*** Our approach to reporting has followed guidance from the King Code of Governance Principles for South Africa (King IV) and in We also have employees in each of the major geographies in which accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI Standards: we operate who drive our corporate sustainability objectives as core option) sustainability reporting guidelines. well as various forums discussing these considerations. Feedback on relevant corporate sustainability issues is provided to board An index of the GRI Standards’ indicators, together with members at board meetings. Four meetings were held during the our response to each of them, can be found on pages reporting period. 77 and 88 in this report. * Lord Malloch-Brown KCMP was appointed as chairman of the DLC SEC on 1 April 2018. Assurance ** HJ du Toit and F Titi were appointed to the DLC SEC on 12 March 2019. Investec Internal Audit performed a limited assurance review *** PRS Thomas is a representative of Investec Bank Limited. of the quantitative and qualitative information contained in this report. KPMG has provided limited assurance over selected environmental, human resources and community spend key performance indicators. The assurance statement can be found on pages 75 and 76 in this report. All references in this report to Investec, the Investec group, or the group relate to the combined Investec DLC group comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited. INVESTEC GROUP KEY DIVISIONS OUTSIDE THE INVESTEC GROUP BOUNDARY Asset Management Listed and Unlisted Investments Wealth & Investment IEP Group Proprietary Limited (IEP) Specialist Bank Investec Property Fund Limited (IPF) Investec Australia Property Fund Limited (IAPF) As part of our commitment to integrated reporting, we no longer compile a standalone corporate sustainability report. We include specific stakeholder interests on non-financial matters, including environmental and social impacts, in the group’s integrated annual report. We will continue to prepare an environmental, social and governance (ESG) supplementary report, which consolidated our material ESG performance and provides additional disclosures that are required by our numerous stakeholders, acting as a guide to support the information included in the group’s integrated annual report. 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report ABOUT THE INVESTEC GROUP Our purpose Our purpose is to create and manage wealth for all stakeholders. Guided by our vision to create and preserve sustained long-term wealth, we seek to build resilient profitable businesses that support our clients to grow their businesses while contributing in a positive and responsible way to the health of our economy, our people, our communities and the environment to ensure a prosperous future for all. Our mission We strive to be a distinctive specialist bank and asset manager, driven by commitment to our core philosophies and values. Investec (comprising Investec Limited and Investec plc) is an international specialist bank and asset manager that provides a diverse range of financial products and services to a select client base in three principal markets, the UK and Europe, South Africa and Asia/Australia as well as certain other countries. We focus on delivering distinctive profitable solutions to our clients in three core areas of activity namely, Asset Management, Wealth & Investment and Specialist Banking. Investec’s purpose is to create and manage wealth Professionals and entrepreneurs Creating wealth become our clients requires a thriving or staff and partner economy with active with us to economic create wealth participants Shared value for all stakeholders Educated and skilled people are able to get To become employment or create economically active, their own businesses people need to be employing others educated and skilled (entrepreneurship) ABOUT THE INVESTEC GROUP 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 3 ABOUT THE INVESTEC GROUP (continued) Our journey Today, we have an efficient integrated In July 2002, we international business implemented a dual platform, offering all our listed companies core activities in the UK (DLC) structure with and South Africa linked companies listed in London and Johannesburg We acquired a 2019 banking licence in 1980 and were listed on the JSE Limited South Africa in 1986 Since inception, we have expanded through a combination Founded as a of substantial organic growth and leasing company a series of strategic acquisitions in Johannesburg in 1974 A year later, we concluded a significant empowerment transaction in which our empowerment partners 1974 collectively acquired a 25.1% stake in the issued share capital of Investec Limited Our values and philosophies Distinctive performance Cast-iron integrity –– We employ talented people with passion, energy and –– We demand cast-iron integrity in all internal and external stamina, who exercise common sense in achieving effective dealings, consistently and uncompromisingly displaying moral performance in a high pressure, multi-task environment strength and behaviour which promotes trust. –– We promote innovation and entrepreneurial freedom to operate within the context of risk consciousness, sound judgement and an obligation to do things properly Dedicated partnership –– We show concern for people, support our colleagues and –– We believe that open and honest dialogue is the appropriate encourage growth and development. process to test decisions, seek consensus and accept responsibility –– We are creative individuals who co-operate and collaborate Client focus unselfishly in pursuit of group performance –– We strive to provide clients with the highest quality of service, –– We respect the dignity and worth of the individual through having the tenacity and confidence to challenge convention encouraging openness and embracing difference and by –– We thrive on change, continually challenging the status quo and the sincere, consistent and considerate manner in which we recognising that success depends on flexibility, innovation and interact. enthusiasm in meeting the needs of our changing environment. 4 ABOUT THE INVESTEC GROUP 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 1 ABOUT THE INVESTEC GROUP (continued) Our strategy The Investec distinction Our strategic goals CLIENT FOCUSED APPROACH and objectives • Clients are at the core of our business are based on the • We strive to build business depth by deepening existing and creating new client relationships aspiration to be • High-tech, high-touch approach • High level of service by being nimble, flexible and innovative. recognised as a distinctive specialist SPECIALISED STRATEGY • Serving select market niches as a focused provider of bank and asset tailored structured solutions • Enhancing our existing position in principal businesses manager. and geographies through organic growth and select bolt-on acquisitions. This distinction is embodied in our entrepreneurial culture, which SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS is balanced by a strong risk management discipline, client-centric approach and an ability to be nimble, flexible and innovative. We do • Contributing to society, macro-economic stability and the not seek to be all things to all people, however we aim to build environment well-defined, value-added businesses focused on serving the • Well-established brand needs of select market niches where we can compete effectively. • Managing and positioning the group for the long term Our long-term strategy is to build a diversified portfolio of • Balancing revenue earned from capital light activities and businesses and geographies to support clients through varying capital intensive activities markets and economic cycles. Since inception we have expanded through a combination of organic growth and strategic • Cost and risk conscious. acquisitions. In order to create a meaningful and balanced portfolio we need proper foundations in place which gain traction over time. STRONG CULTURE • Strong entrepreneurial culture that stimulates extraordinary performance Group strategic focus • Passionate and talented people who are empowered and • Simplify, focus and grow with discipline committed • Leverage our unique client profile and provide our clients with • Depth of leadership an integrated holistic offering • Strong risk awareness • Support our high-touch client approach with a comprehensive • Material employee ownership. digital offering • Ensure domestic relevance and critical mass in our chosen geographies • Facilitate our clients with cross-border transactions and flow across our chosen geographies. ABOUT THE INVESTEC GROUP 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 5 1 CO R P O R ATE SU S TA IN A B I L I TY AT I N V E S TE C 1 MESSAGE FROM OUR JOINT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Our role in society IAM and the group signed up to the United for Wildlife Financial Taskforce to leverage existing global financial crime architecture Our vision to create and preserve sustained long-term wealth and combat illegal wildlife trade. cannot be done in isolation of our responsibility to the world around us. Our commitment to sustainability recognises the interconnected Our sustainability recognition nature of our business, the economy, the environment and society. As part of our commitment to transparency and reporting, Over the past year, we continued to integrate environmental, social we participate in a number of sustainability indices and were and governance (ESG) considerations into our daily operations to recognised as one of 15 industry leaders on the Dow Jones ensure sustainable management with a long-term vision. Sustainability Investment World indices and one of nine on the This extends to our business activities where we play a critical role DJSI Europe indices. We were also a finalist in the 2018 Refinitiv in funding a sustainable economy that is cognisant of the world’s (formerly Thomson Reuters) Southern Africa Excellence Awards limited natural resources. We believe that the group can make in the Most Impactful Business: Doing Good and Doing Well the greatest socio-economic and environmental contribution by category. While it makes us proud to receive this recognition, we partnering with our clients and stakeholders to have a tangible are mindful that this is a journey and we continually need to strive impact on reducing inequality. for more when it comes to our ESG performance and socioeconomic impact. In this regard, we are committed to playing our role in terms of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and to finding Our culture opportunities within our businesses to build a more resilient and inclusive world. After extensive stakeholder engagement over the With the transformation from founder-led to the next generation past 18 months, we prioritised our goals to ensure that they are of management, of paramount importance has been preserving globally aligned, yet locally relevant, to our core geographies and the culture of the organisation. Our culture is a reflection of who reflect our current business model and growth strategy. The aim we are and what we care about and it guides how we conduct for the year ahead is to raise awareness and maximise impact by ourselves as a responsible corporate. Investec’s founders instilled coordinating activities and opportunities across our operations, a strongly embedded culture of uncompromising integrity, moral businesses and communities. strength and behaviour which promotes trust. At the heart of our values, is the belief that our sustainability as an organisation is At the beginning of 2018, the group became a full participant dependent on our ability to have a positive impact on the success (previously only a signatory) to the United Nations (UN) Global and well-being of communities, the environment and on overall Compact, increasing our commitment to the 10 principles with macro-economic stability. A strong culture provides a competitive respect to business and human rights, labour, environment and advantage in a business environment where products, technology anti-corruption. The Social and Ethics Committee (DLC SEC), a and communications are increasingly replicable. The core tenets sub-committee of the board, monitors our progress in advancing of our culture are embedded in our DNA and we will continue to the ten principles and entrenching them into our strategy, culture encourage an energetic, relationship-focused environment that and daily operations. attracts driven individuals who consistently seek to go the extra mile for the client. The shift from founder-led to next generation Diversity and inclusion leadership has been a journey over a period of time. We are Other areas that received board attention this year included our comfortable that we have a strong and diverse leadership team progress regarding our diversity targets and post year-end, we who embed the group’s culture and values, and are well equipped were proud to announce the appointment of Ruth Leas as CEO to take the group from strength to strength. of Investec Bank plc and head of the UK Specialist Bank (subject The material information relating to our sustainability efforts is to regulatory approval). We also signed the CEO statement of included throughout volume one of the Investec group’s 2019 support for the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles integrated annual report. This supplementary report expands demonstrating the commitment from our leadership teams to on the integrated report and provides additional information as improving representation across the organisation. Our investment required by our many ESG stakeholders regarding our performance in communities continued to focus on the core areas of education, and progress in terms of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles, external learnerships, entrepreneurship and job creation with how we are integrating ESG into our activities and the opportunities community spend comprising 1.5% of operating profit (2018: 1.4%). we are finding in terms of the SDGs. Our commitment to the environment From an environmental perspective, there were a number of substantive achievements in our ambition to transition to a Fani Titi low-carbon global economy. The group strengthened its climate Joint chief executive officer change statement and policy on funding coal projects. Investec Asset Management (IAM) held their third internal Investment Sustainability Forum on climate change and launched a number of dedicated investment funds for investors who want to support and Hendrik du Toit benefit from the transition to a more sustainable economic model. Joint chief executive officer The power and infrastructure finance team launched a renewable energy investment vehicle called Revego Africa Energy. Lastly, both 28 June 2019 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 7 COMMUNICATION AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Building trust and credibility among our stakeholders is vital to good business The board recognises that effective communication is integral (JSE) and other exchanges on which our shares are listed, and with in building stakeholder value and is committed to providing any public disclosure obligations as required by the UK regulators meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and nonand the South African Prudential Authority. financial information to primary stakeholders as highlighted below. We also recognise that from time to time we may be required to The purpose is to help these stakeholders make meaningful adhere to public disclosure obligations in other countries where we assessments and informed investment decisions about the group. have operations. We endeavour to present a balanced and understandable The investor relations division has a day-to-day responsibility assessment of our position by addressing material matters for ensuring appropriate communication with stakeholders and, of significant interest and concern. together with the group finance and company secretarial divisions, We seek to highlight the key risks to which we consider ourselves ensures that we meet our public disclosure obligations. exposed and our responses to minimise the impact of these risks. We have a board-approved policy statement in place to ensure Another objective is to show a balance between the positive that we comply with all relevant public disclosure obligations and and negative aspects of our activities in order to achieve a uphold the board’s communication and disclosure philosophy. comprehensive and fair account of our performance. The board appreciates the importance of ensuring an appropriate As a requirement of our DLC structure, we comply with the balance in meeting the diverse needs and expectations of all the disclosure obligations contained in the applicable listing rules of the group’s stakeholders and building lasting relationships with them. UK Listing Authority (UKLA), the Johannesburg Stock Exchange We engage regularly with our stakeholders: Employees Investors and shareholders Clients Rating agencies • Quarterly magazine • Annual general meeting • Client relationship managers • Meetings with investor • Staff updates hosted by • Four investor presentations in each business relations team, group risk executive management • Stock exchange • Regular face-to-face, management and executive • Group and subsidiary announcements telephone and email management fact sheets • Comprehensive investor communications • Tailored rating agency • Tailored internal investor relations website • Meetings with senior booklet relations presentations • Shareholder roadshows and management • Tailored presentations • Induction training for new presentations • Comprehensive website • Regular email and employees • Regular meetings with investor and app telephone communications • Regular staff relations team and executive • Industry relevant events • Annual and interim reports communications management • Client marketing events • Four investor presentations • Dedicated • Annual meeting with investor • Comprehensive investor comprehensive intranet relations, group company relations website • Senior management secretarial, the chairman of engagement breakfasts the board, senior independent director and chairman of the remuneration committee • Regular email and telephone communication • Annual and interim reports Government and regulatory bodies Equity and debt analysts Media Suppliers • Active participation in a • Four investor presentations • Regular email and telephone • Centralised negotiation number of policy forums • Stock exchange communications process • Response and announcements • Stock exchange • Ad hoc procurement engagement with all • Comprehensive investor announcements questionnaires requesting relevant bodies on relations website • Comprehensive website information on suppliers’ regulatory matters • Regular meetings with investor • Meetings with executive environmental, social and • Consulted with industry relations and executive management, economists ethical policies bodies management and industry spokespersons • Regular email and telephone • Dedicated third party public communications relations teams • Annual and interim reports 8 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 1 COMMUNICATION AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (continued) Topical discussions with our stakeholders Impact of the political and economic environment Shareholder dilution It’s been a challenging operating environment in both South The resolutions granting directors authority to allot shares was Africa and the UK with some volatility expected to continue. Key passed with a majority of less than 80% at our annual general for stakeholders is the resilience of our business model through meeting in August 2018. The board has taken shareholder varied economic cycles. concerns into account in relation to the dilutive effect of the issuance of ordinary shares, therefore these resolutions will not Notwithstanding the challenging backdrop, the group delivered a be proposed at the group’s 2019 AGM. sound operational performance and was able to maintain healthy asset quality and risk metrics. Our risk appetite framework, as Executive remuneration set out on page 11 in volume two of the Investec group’s 2019 The resolution to approve the updated executive remuneration integrated annual report, is assessed regularly in light of market policy was passed with a majority of less than 80% at our annual conditions and group strategy. Our stress testing framework general meeting in August 2018. The revised remuneration regularly tests our key vulnerabilities under stress and we are policy incorporated feedback from extensive engagement comfortable that we have robust risk management processes and with shareholders addressing a number of matters, notably; systems in place. The group has always had a long-term strategy a reduction in total executive director compensation, better of building a diversified portfolio of businesses and geographies alignment between pay awards and performance, simplification to support clients through varying markets and economic cycles in pay structures and the assessment of executive director and we remain confident with the resilience of our businesses. performance, pro-rating of unvested long-term incentive plan The group’s viability statement can be found on page 149 to 151 in awards for departing executive directors and the introduction of a volume one of the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report. minimum shareholding requirement for executive directors. Succession Overall, shareholders provided positive feedback on the Succession of the group’s long-serving executive management changes made and on the level of detail and clarity of the has been an ongoing focus area for stakeholders over the disclosure. However, some of the group’s shareholders, whilst past few years. The announcement of our succession plan acknowledging these positive aspects, believed that the overall in February 2018 was well received. Since then a number of quantum of pay is too high relative to South African peers. additional management changes have been announced as The Investec group is an international business, and as such outlined on page 70 in volume one of the Investec group’s 2019 the Remuneration Committee believes it is appropriate to integrated annual report. As we transition from a founder-led benchmark executive remuneration against a set of international business, we are confident that we have strong and diverse peers, including South African competitors. Despite the group’s leadership teams in place, who embed the group’s culture and active engagement on these matters, certain of the group’s values, and well-equipped to steer the businesses to achieve their shareholders decided to vote against the remuneration policy. long-term strategic objectives. With the announcement of the proposed demerger of IAM, Strategic review and proposed demerger the group used the opportunity to re-engage with its largest Following the group’s management succession announcement, shareholders on the current policy as well as on technical a comprehensive strategic review was conducted to ensure that amendments to the policy which will be implemented following the group remains well positioned to serve the long-term interests the proposed demerger. Based on the discussions held to date, of all stakeholders. After considering a full range of options, the the board believes that a new remuneration policy is not required group announced in September 2018 its intention to simplify and at this time. Further information on our remuneration policy can focus the business, in pursuit of disciplined growth over the long be found in our remuneration report on pages 168 to 218 in term. In this regard, the board concluded that a demerger and volume one of the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report. separate listing of Investec Asset Management would achieve Auditor independence this and allow both businesses to have a sharper focus on their respective growth trajectories. This should result in improved In light of increased corporate and audit firm scandals, audit resource allocation, better operational performance and higher quality and auditor independence has been under heightened long-term growth. The proposed demerger is still subject to scrutiny by stakeholders. This was particularly pertinent in relation regulatory and shareholder approvals, and is expected to be to challenges experienced by KPMG Inc. in South Africa. The completed during the second half of 2019. Audit Committee spent time during the year on matters pertaining to audit quality and auditor independence and these matters Improving and sustainable returns are explained in detail on pages 132 to 141 in volume one of the The group hosted Capital Markets Days (CMDs) for the Asset Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report. With respect to Management business and the Bank and Wealth business in KPMG Inc. specifically, several processes were initiated to ensure November 2018 and February 2019 respectively. Both CMDs and confirm audit quality as detailed on page 141 in volume one were successful in reaffirming the businesses’ positioning and of the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report. The Audit communicating the respective strategies. The Bank and Wealth Committee chairman engaged extensively with shareholders on CMD also provided an opportunity to highlight some of the key the considerations and processes carried out in this regard. initiatives underway to enhance returns and to set out the new shortto medium-term ROE and cost-to-income targets for the Bank and Wealth businesses. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 9 COMMUNICATION AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (continued) Gender, diversity and transformation Non-financial reporting Stakeholders remain interested in the progress made by Stakeholders are increasingly expecting greater non-financial Investec on a number of diversity issues, including workplace disclosures. This includes disclosure on environmental and social representation, board diversity and transformation in South impacts as well as benchmarking against our peers. Africa. During the year, the board approved a board diversity The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related policy, setting out the targets for board composition in terms of Financial Disclosures (TCFDs) has gained more traction as gender and race. As at 31 March 2019, we are pleased to report the Prudential Regulation Authority has issued an updated that there was a 25% representation of women on the board – supervisory statement clarifying expectations around climategood progress towards our target of 33% by 2020. There was related disclosure requirements. We recognise and support the also an increase in female senior leadership who now represent recommendations of the TCFDs to report clear and consistent 35% of total senior leadership. Additionally, the group signed information and have expanded on our previous disclosure as the CEO statement of support for the United Nations Women’s seen on pages 75 and 76 in volume two of the Investec group’s Empowerment Principles demonstrating a commitment by 2019 integrated annual report. This is the start of a long-term executive management to advancing and empowering women, process to build a better understanding of environmental, social not only in the workplace, but also in the marketplace and our and governance (ESG) reporting and climate-related risks and communities. opportunities and we will enhance our disclosure over time in line In terms of transformation in South Africa, Investec remains with industry guidelines and best practice. committed to black economic empowerment and reporting Interest from stakeholders in advancing the Sustainable in terms of the Financial Sector Code where we were rated a Development Goals (SDGs) has increased. Investec remains level 1 as at the end of the financial year. We were one of the first committed to building a more resilient and inclusive world, and signatories to the Youth Employment Service (YES) initiative to finding opportunities within our businesses to maximise our address the unemployment issue among young people, providing impact. We prioritised six SDGs that are globally aligned, yet fundamental support for the initial launch in March 2018. In the locally relevant to our core geographies and which reflect our past year we placed in excess of 1 200 youth, of which 63% were current business model and growth strategy. We continue to female, with 11 of our partners. The first cohort have completed report on our performance with detail available on our six priority their year of work experience and a significant number were able SDGs and their targets in this report. to secure permanent employment. Materiality Operational and conduct risks In identifying material issues, consideration is given to those We remain focused on conduct, reputational, operational, issues we believe have the potential to significantly influence recovery and resolution risks. Financial crime and cybercrime our ability to have a positive impact on the sustainability of our are priorities, and the group aims to strengthen its systems business and on overall macro-economic stability, as well as and controls in order to manage cyber risk as well as meet its contributing to the success and well-being of our communities regulatory obligations to combat money laundering, fraud and and the environment. Due to the nature of Investec’s business, corruption. the material aspects identified by stakeholders are considered unlikely to change in the short to medium term and we only do a more comprehensive process of engagement with internal and external stakeholders every three years. The issues and concerns identified by our various stakeholders affirms that our core corporate responsibility issues have not materially changed and we continue with our core focus areas as described throughout this report. 10 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 1 CREATING VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Corporate sustainability Corporate sustainability at Investec is about contributing in a positive and responsible way to the health of our economy, the wellbeing of our staff and communities, while safeguarding our natural resources to build a more resilient and inclusive world. Over the past year we have: • prioritised six core Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • continued to integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations into our daily operations and • created value through our commitment to the six capitals. Funding a sustainable economy SDGs We play a critical role in funding a We have committed to support delivery of sustainable economy that is cognisant of the the United Nations SDGs in building a more world’s limited natural resources. resilient and inclusive world. • We signed up as full participants of the United Nations Our business model is best positioned to contribute to Global Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, labour, the SDGs by facilitating strong institutions (SDG 16) and environment and anti-corruption partnering with our clients and stakeholders (SDG 17) to have • We signed the CEO statement of support for the United a tangible impact on reducing inequality (SDG 10). Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles After extensive stakeholder engagement over the past • We have strengthened our climate change statement 18 months, we prioritised our goals to ensure that they are that supports the transition to a low-carbon economy. globally aligned yet locally relevant to our core geographies Together with UK Climate Investments, Investec and reflect our current business model and growth strategy. committed R1 billion to a dedicated renewable energy The aim is to maximise socio-economic and environmental investment vehicle called Revego Africa Energy impact by coordinating and integrating activities across • As one of the first signatories to the Youth Employment our operations, businesses and communities. Financing Service (YES) initiative in South Africa, we placed more innovative solutions that enable access to clean water (SDG 6) than 1 200 youth with 11 partners during the year and affordable energy (SDG 7) as well as providing access to quality education (SDG 4) are all vital for economic growth • We signed up to the United for Wildlife Financial Taskforce and job creation (SDG 8). At the same time, our business has which leverages existing global financial crime architecture established expertise in building and supporting infrastructure to combat illegal wildlife trade. solutions (SDG 9) and funding sustainable cities and stronger We participate and have maintained inclusion in several communities (SDG 11). As a result, we prioritised these six globally recognised sustainability indices. core SDGs which, given the interconnected nature of the goals, will help maximise our contribution to all 17 goals. We • Investec plc ranked in the Dow Jones Sustainability will continue to test these priorities for relevance and impact Investment (DJSI) Index as one of 15 industry leaders on as our SDG journey progresses. the DJSI World and one of nine in the DJSI Europe indices • Investec Limited ranked as one of four industry leaders on the DJSI Emerging Markets Index Refer to page 49 for more information. • Constituent of the FTSE4Good Index • Constituent of the ECPI Index  efer to our website for more details on our impact R • Constituent of the FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment through the SDGs. Index Series • Rated AAA on the MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series • Member of the STOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 11 CREATING VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) Value creation through the six capitals Human capital We depend on the experience and proficiency of our people to perform and deliver superior client services. Purpose and priorities Impact 20% of employees in the UK Bank and Wealth have attended Providing a safe and healthy work environment employee well-being interventions in the first month since the that values physical as well as psychosocial launch in February 2019 well-being 70% of employees in South Africa participated in employee wellbeing initiatives (2018: 72%) Learning and development spend as a % of staff costs is 1.5% (2018: 1.9%) for the group (target of >1.5% for the group) Learning and development spend of £17.8 million Investing in our people and growing talent and (2018: £22.5 million). The decrease is due to the realignment of leadership current programmes to ensure efficiency and relevance 22 CAs graduated from the CA programme in the past year and 17 were retained in our business (2018: 21 of 21 graduates retained) Staff turnover rate is 9.6% in South Africa (2018: 9.2%) and 11.5% Retaining and motivating staff through in the UK (2018: 11.3%) appropriate remuneration and rewards structures 5% of Investec group’s shares are held by staff (excluding nonexecutive directors’ holdings) (2018: 5%) Respecting and upholding human rights by Signed up as a full participant to the United Nations Global entrenching a value-driven culture through the Compact and remain committed to the 10 principles on human organisation that is supported by strong ethics rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and integrity 49% female employees (2018: 49%) and 25% females on the board (target of at least 33% by 2020) (2018: 20%) Senior female managers increased to 35% (2018: 33%) Recognised by Equileap in the UK for best maternity and paternity leave Promoting diversity and equality at all levels of the group We compiled a document which is publicly available called The way we do business Appointed Ruth Leas as CEO of Investec Bank plc and head of the UK Specialist Bank (subject to regulatory approval) Signed the CEO statement of support for the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles Intellectual capital We use our specialist financial skills and expertise to provide efficient solutions for clients and have a robust risk management process in place. Purpose and priorities Impact Our capital light activities contributed 56% to group income Maintaining a diversified portfolio of (target > 50% of our income from capital light activities businesses that supports performance (2018: 56%) through varying economic cycles Annuity income as a percentage of operating income is 76.9% (2018: 76.2%) Leveraging our expertise in risk management Credit loss ratio within long-term average range at 0.31% to protect value (2018: 0.61%) Trained a further 43 frontline consultants on environmental, social Ensuring solid and responsible lending and and governance (ESG) practices in South Africa and the UK investing activities (2018:195) 12 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 1 CREATING VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) Social and relationship capital We leverage key stakeholder relationships to enhance our impact on society and the macro-economy. Purpose and priorities Impact Customer accounts (deposits) up 4.1% (2018: 6.5%) Building deep durable relationships with our clients and creating new client relationships Customer complaints in Private Bank South Africa were down 7.2% to 2 202 complaints (2018: 2 373 complaints) Investing in our distinctive brand and providing Voted South Africa’s eighth most valuable brand in 2019 by a high level of service by being nimble, flexible Brand Finance South Africa and innovative 1.5% community spend as a % of operating profit (2018*: 1.4%) (target of >1% for the group). Community spend of £9.9 million Unselfishly contributing to society through our (2018*: £8.2 million) community programmes * Restated to include external learnerships and job creation (YES initiative) Rated level 1 under the Financial Sector Code. We are one of the first signatories to the Youth Employment Service (YES) initiative in South Africa, and placed more than 1 200 youth with 11 Committed to transformation and youth partners during the year employment in South Africa  or more information on our commitment to F transformation in South Africa refer to page 26. Natural capital We support the transition to a low-carbon economy. We will consider any meaningful activity that reduces the negative impact, or prolongs life, on our planet. Purpose and priorities Impact 86% of our energy lending portfolio relates to clean energy (2018: 88%) Funding and participating in renewable energy Together with UK Climate Investments, we committed R1 billion to a dedicated renewable energy investment vehicle called Revego Africa Energy Carbon emissions reduced by 2.8% (2018: 6.1%) despite headcount increasing by 4.7% In the UK, we have incorporated a number of environmental Limiting our direct operational carbon impact initiatives into the design of our new premises in London to manage and reduce our carbon footprint R  efer to pages 44 and 47 for our emission reduction targets. Signed up to the United for Wildlife Financial Taskforce which leverages existing global financial crime architecture to combat illegal wildlife trade 5 812 increase in number of children reached through our Coaching for Conservation programme in the past year Protecting biodiversity through various (17 373 reached since 2013) conservation activities Investec Rhino Lifeline has supported the rescue of 80 rhino since 2012 (2018: 70 rhino) 11 rural villages in South Africa received access to water as a result of our collaboration with the Entrepreneurship Development Trust and Innovation Africa CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 13 CREATING VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) Technological capital We deliver efficient and effective information technology to support our businesses and facilitate our digital strategy. Purpose and priorities Impact Creating an international platform for We are continually enhancing and evolving our client digital platforms to clients with global access to products ensure a seamless, integrated client service experience, now including a and services which is both high-tech dedicated Investec for Intermediaries, and a business banking experience and high-touch We executed on a number of core platform improvements, and a dedicated We are focused on optimising the digital workplace strategy is underway to support this initiative internal value chain, and improving We closed our Click & Invest Service as the appetite for this type of productivity investment service remains low and the market is growing at a much slower rate than expected Relationships formed through our Investec emerging companies team across the world, and a dedicated fintech partnership team has built a strong pipeline of innovation We partnered with a late-stage technology venture capital fund with a first investment focusing on low-cost 3D imaging sensors enabling tumour Partnering with the growing fintech detection, people-tracking, vehicle automation and radiation level testing ecosystem among others Through a collaboration with Bankserv Africa and uPort, we have revealed a blockchain based identity system We have launched Samsung-pay which facilitates secure and convenient mobile payments (Refer to our digital strategy on page 10 in volume one of the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report). Financial capital We create sustained long-term wealth by growing our core businesses. (Refer to pages 38 to 68 in volume one of the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report). Value added statement 31 March 31 March £’000 2019 2018 Net income generated Interest receivable 2 641 920 2 491 009 Other income 1 587 063 1 607 007 Interest payable (1 826 493) (1 730 611) Other operating expenditure and impairments on loans (374 839) (467 982) 2 027 651 1 899 423 Distributed as follows: Employees: Salaries, wages and other benefits 816 253 795 420 Communities: Spend on community initiatives 9 862 8 238* Government: Corporation, deferred payroll and other taxes 609 927 550 610 Shareholders: 279 389 261 435 Dividends to ordinary shareholders 238 072 227 908 Dividends to perpetual preference and Other Additional Tier 1 security holders 41 317 33 527 Retention for future expansion and growth 312 220 283 720 Depreciation 40 812 28 804 Retained income for the year 271 408 254 916 Total 2 027 651 1 899 423 * Restated to include external learnerships and job creation (YES initiative). 14 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 1 CREATING VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) External recognition and group memberships Although we are not driven by awards and recognition, Investec participates and has maintained its inclusion in the following world-leading indices. These indices have been designed objectively to measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards. • Voted first, second and third in the 2019 Universum awards by law professionals, professionals and students respectively in DANIEL WILD, PhD, Co-CEO RobecoSAM: the business/commerce sector • Ranked 27th in the world and fourth in the UK for progress in gender equality and reporting by Equileap in 2018 “We congratulate Investec for achieving • Recognised by Equileap in the UK for best maternity and a place in The Sustainability Yearbook paternity leave in 2019 2019, a showcase of the world’s best • Signatory to the 30% Club in South Africa and the UK and to performing companies among industry the HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter peers and in terms of financially material • Finalist in the 2018 Refinitiv (formerly Thomson Reuters) ESG metrics. Launched this year under Southern Africa Excellence Awards in the Most Impactful Business: Doing Good and Doing Well category the SAM brand and now with increased • Received gold in the Global Good Awards for Best Education public access to the percentile rankings Project for the partnership with Arrival Education (UK) in 2018 of all companies, the Yearbook remains • Winners of the Charity Investment Team of the Year by the City a highly credible source of corporate of London Wealth Management Awards 2019 sustainability insights.” • UK head office won the Chairman’s Cup for waste management processes in the City of London’s Clean City Awards in 2018 for the third time • Operationally, we have a very low carbon footprint compared to our peers and were awarded a B rating by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Sustainability indices 2019 2018 2017 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) (Investec is a member and Investec Asset Management is a B B Asignatory investor) Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa Signatory Signatory Signatory (CRISA) Dow Jones Sustainability Investment Index* 64 68** 69 (score out of 100) ECPI Index Constituent Constituent n/a FTSE4Good Index Included Included Included FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment Index series Constituent Constituent Constituent MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series (Investec plc) – Intangible value assessment AAA AAA AAA (IVA) rating STOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices Member Member Member United Nations Global Compact Participant Participant Active United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment Signatory Signatory Signatory (UNPRI) * Investec Limited ranked as one of four industry leaders on the DJSI Emerging Markets Index; Investec plc ranked as one of 15 industry leaders on the DJSI World and one of nine in the DJSI Europe indices. ** As of 2018, results reflect a major scoring methodology update. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 15 2 CO MMITME N T TO OU R P E O PL E 2 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE Commitment to our people Investec’s culture is positioned as our strategic differentiator. We have a flat structure and meritocratic approach and uphold an environment that encourages self-starters to drive their careers in line with business objectives. We employ passionate and talented people who are empowered and able to perform extraordinarily. Our people strategy Our people are at the heart of our business and we invest significantly in opportunities for the development of our employees and in leadership programmes to enable current and future leaders of the group. Our strategy is to: Create an organisation in which all our people Attract the right people, and inspire growth feel valued for what they contribute and are and learning celebrated for who they are • We invest significantly in opportunities for the development • Our culture of open and honest dialogue promotes immediate of all our employees and in leadership programmes to enable and direct performance-related feedback between the current and future leaders of the group leader and the team, to deliver on strategic imperatives and • We have a number of graduate programmes operating across development needs our organisation sourcing and developing our talent pipeline • Our performance management methodology focuses on • Internal mobility is a valued mechanism for the development aligning individual and team performance to commercial and retention of our people priorities • We seek to create an environment where difference is • We reward people meaningfully for performance and embraced, and people are given the same opportunity for contribution within their teams. growth and to perform. • Learning and development spend as a % of staff costs is • All staff currently engage in some type of performance 1.5% for the group (target of >1.5%) discussion and we are transitioning to continuous • Total staff turnover rate: performance development –– South Africa: 9.6% (2018: 9.2%) • 5% of Investec group’s shares continue to be held by –– UK: 11.5% (2018: 11.3%) staff (excluding non-executive directors’ holdings) Stable increase in headcount 12 000 10 000 702 689 687 545 8 000 576 601 495 Headcount 495 5 485 4.7% 521 5 103 5 282 6 000 3 748 3 986 4 199 4 720 3 680 3 661 4 000 2 000 3 036 3 625 3 827 3 671 3 560 3 701 3 926 4 162 4 399 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 increase in Year permanent employment UK and Other Southern Africa Temporary employees and contractors (2018: 4.6% increase) COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 17 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE (continued) Talent attraction, development and retention Investec has a national and global footprint with diverse businesses and functions. Internal mobility is a valued mechanism for the development and retention of individuals and enhances competitiveness. Internal We enable internal mobility across teams, divisions, regions and geographies, and where required, recruit laterally to address any identified gaps and capitalise on opportunities to attract outstanding mobility talent. Investec Careers in South Africa and the UK forms an integral part of our broader talent management strategy and enables us to source externally and deploy internally. 8.0% (South Africa) 2.1% (UK) Our graduate recruitment strategy has seen the attraction of exceptional and diverse talent across the business. We focus on employing graduates and working with them to build skilled, strategic thinkers 107 and leaders. We have several graduate, internship and exposure programmes available across our South African and UK businesses including the IT, CA, analytics, investment banking and marketing people graduate programmes. participated We invest significantly in a number of opportunities for developing and upskilling employees in graduate through bursaries, leadership development, skills programmes, personal mastery, coaching and programmes professional skills. across the group Our human resources (HR) and organisation development (OD) teams play a critical role in assisting the business to achieve its strategic objectives, which are matched to learning strategies and market All employees participate in culture trends. They are also involved in group-wide activities such as induction programmes for all new and values dialogues employees, providing learning advice to individuals and facilitating the development of both group-wide and bespoke learning programmes. Our voluntary staff turnover rate for the past financial year remains at 8.8% in South Africa and is 8.5% in the UK (2018: 8.4%). Recognising and rewarding our people 5% Our remuneration practices comply with local regulations and reward people meaningfully for performance and contribution. of Investec group’s shares continue Our reward package supports an innovative and entrepreneurial work environment that encourages and fosters extraordinary performance. In line with our philosophy of employee ownership, all employees to be held by staff across the organisation participate in our staff share awards and have the opportunity to participate in (excluding nonour long-term growth. executive directors’ holdings) Further information is provided on pages 168 to 218 in volume one of the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report. Performance management Our culture of open and honest dialogue promotes immediate and direct performance related feedback between the leader and the team. This also enables teams to identify and address their development All employees needs. engage in some type of performance discussion Investec is transitioning from an annual performance development review process to a performance management methodology that focuses on aligning individual and team performance. This is a continuous process designed to enhance delivery of key strategies of the organisation and create a greater sense of shared accountability, meaning and value-creation. 18 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 2 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE (continued) Working at Investec Investec’s policies and business practices are outlined in our internal documents which are easily accessible to employees in all of Investec’s locations. These are intended to guide conduct and ensure our actions and attitude reflect the group’s values and philosophies at all times. We also have a publicly available document, The way we do business, which highlights our positioning on various elements of how we conduct ourselves as a business. The board, along with senior management, are ultimately responsible for the group’s culture and conduct risk frameworks. The group has continued to focus over the period on managing conduct risk throughout our business. Continued and ongoing investment in, and enhancement of, our conduct risk framework and a sustained focus on maintaining the highest levels of regulatory compliance throughout our businesses, ensures our commitment to SDG 16 (peace, justice and strong institutions). Human rights The Investec group remains committed to the ten principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our culture and values demonstrate our belief that as an organisation we can have a positive impact on the success and well-being of local communities, the environment and on overall macro-economic stability. We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights standards and are not complicit in any human rights abuses. We do not have a formal human rights policy for the group as this would 10 principles of the fall within the ambit of our publicly available document, The way we do business, which expresses our strong culture and values including unselfishly contributing to society, valuing diversity and respecting others. Furthermore, we adhere to the relevant laws in all our jurisdictions and strive to advance the UN Global Compact UN principles within our sphere of influence. The Investec head of sustainability sits on the board of the Global Compact Network South Africa. We support the international agenda to abolish human trafficking, slavery, forced and child labour and continue to support the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the Act). Our philosophy as an organisation is to respect the dignity and worth of the individual. We uphold the constitutional rights of our employees at all times, do not practice forced or compulsory labour and do not employ children. We are committed to addressing the requirements of the Act and ensuring that our supply chain is compliant with the regulations prescribed therein. Freedom of association We fully support employees’ rights to freedom of association. There is no representative trade union Adhere to relevant for Investec and we are not aware of any employees who are part of a trade union. We do, however, ILO conventions uphold the constitutional rights of the individual to freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining and the right to be a member of a union of choice. We adhere to the relevant International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. Whistle-blowing policy and protected disclosures One of Investec’s values requires employees to conduct all internal and external dealings with integrity, consistently and uncompromisingly displaying moral strength and behaviour which promotes trust. Integrity and confidentiality are critical to our reputation and sustainability. 3 Our whistle-blowing policy aims to encourage employees to raise concerns or disclose information about possible fraudulent, unethical, criminal or other improper behaviour or workplace misconduct in reported incidents total confidentiality and anonymity and without fear of retribution. We seek to protect all employees who (2018: 0) disclose unlawful or irregular conduct by the company, its employees or other stakeholders. We have a number of channels that employees may use to raise concerns including the Investec Integrity Line which is an external, independent helpline to ensure confidentiality of the issue reported and anonymity of the individual. Due to improved monitoring there were three reported incidents of whistle-blowing in the past year. COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 19 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE (continued) Retrenchment 0.7% Where it becomes necessary for Investec to terminate employment based on policy/operational requirements, the procedure to be followed is in accordance with Investec’s retrenchment policy of employees retrenched practices which are more favourable than local statutory or regulatory requirements. We conduct (2018: 0.7%) consultation for a period which exceeds the minimum prescribed period, during which we attempt to find a suitable alternative position for the affected employee. 31 occupational injuries Health and safety A group-wide formal health and safety programme identifies and manages all health and safety risks, (2018: 30) and carries out regular safety audits. There is a committee that oversees health and safety that meets 0 quarterly to review any concerns raised. In South Africa, Investec’s HIV/AIDS policy is implemented through its HIV/AIDS Management fatalities Programme that extends to all permanent employees. (2018: 0) Employee well-being Our approach to well-being is all-encompassing and forms part of the greater employee value proposition strategy. We value the physical, financial and psychosocial health, welfare and safety of our people. In both major geographies, employees have access to a comprehensive employee well-being 70% of employees programme, which is an expression of our focus on the care and concern for our employees, and provides personalised interventions including face-to-face counselling and life-coaching sessions. These interventions are provided by a multi-disciplinary team of select health and other professionals who are in South Africa specialists in their fields. We also host wellness days and well-being events to raise awareness and participated in one or entrench a practice of healthy living. more employee wellbeing interventions Investec is committed to providing disabled employees with a supportive and accommodating working environment. Our policies, including leave entitlement, are regularly reviewed and adjusted to take into (2018: 72%) consideration the needs and well-being of our employees, our employment obligations and local market The UK business practice. relaunched its wellThe UK business launched Investec Be in February 2019 off the back of the success of the well-being being intervention in offering in South Africa as well as the global movement towards prioritising wellness. It incorporates February 2019 four pillars namely: Be. Healthy, Be. Present, Be. Connected, Be. You and includes talks, workshops, activities, comprehensive physical and mental healthcare and a dedicated well-being portal. A wellbeing champion’s network has been created across all our regional offices in the UK as well. In the first month that the intervention was launched, 785 employees (20% of staff in the UK Bank and Wealth) attended employee well-being interventions. Flexible and Creating an environment that reflects our culture activityThe UK bank relocated its London offices over the past year and now shares space with the wealth based working business. The move incorporated a new way of working that was successfully piloted and includes a environment in the flexible and activity-based working arrangement. The space was designed as a more agile environment UK head office which has enabled greater collaboration and communication between employees. 20 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 2 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE (continued) Our maternity Family friendly policies scheme provides In line with our commitment to equity in employment and in recognition of the dignity and rights of each enhanced benefits employee, we provide an environment supportive of combining parenthood with a career. Our maternity to parents scheme provides enhanced benefits to parents irrespective of their length of service. Flexible working policies and practices We endeavour to create a working environment which encourages high performance and innovation. In line with our commitment to equity in employment and recognition of the dignity and rights of each employee, we provide an environment that supports work-life balance. Flexibility means different things to different people, often involving adjustments to the timing, scope and/or place of work. We believe that it is important to see flexibility in the context of the work itself, the team’s purpose and performance commitments, the needs of clients, and the lives of every individual in the team. Piloting an outputbased value project Over the past year the South African business has successfully piloted a project that aims to shift in the South African employee and manager focus from time-based value to output-based value as a lever to enable high business performance and enhance the employee value proposition. Teams and leaders have been encouraged to start incorporating more flexible ways of working into their specific areas. The project looks to impact the constructs around working hours and staff leave and is set to be fully implemented in South Africa in the coming year. In line with the adoption of flexible working policies, Investec will be empowering employees to make their own choices about the dress code by Dressing for your day. This is about choosing clothing that maximises performance while still maintaining a professional image, which at all times, appropriately portrays our brand. Discrimination We endeavour to prevent and/or eliminate any form of discrimination based on gender, race, ethnicity, 0 religion, age, disability, nationality, political opinion, sensitive medical conditions and sexual preference. Investec has a formal grievance procedure, and a written policy, to deal appropriately with any incident incidents of which may occur. Furthermore, there are several informal avenues for employees who wish to discuss discrimination concerns, e.g. organisation development, human resources, employee relations and our independent (2018: 0) external consultants in the employee well-being programme. There were no incidents of discrimination for the past financial year. In the UK, there were two allegations of discrimination reported, both which were reviewed through the appropriate internal grievance procedure and were subsequently dismissed by an independent chairperson. Grievance resolution In line with our philosophy of personal empowerment, employees are encouraged to manage their Respecting the relationships with one another in a respectful manner. In accordance with our core value to ‘respect the dignity and worth of the individual’, the group is committed to treating all employees with fairness, dignity and worth of dignity and compassion ensuring that employees are not discriminated against eliminating any form of the individual harassment or intimidation in the workplace. If an issue remains unresolved, we encourage staff to contact HR employee relations or our external employee wellness programme for impartial, confidential counselling and advice. COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 21 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE (continued) Equity and inclusion A diverse and inclusive workforce is essential to our ability to be an innovative organisation that is able to adapt and prosper in a fast-changing world. We strive to foster a workplace that is empowered and representative and through this we are contributing to SDG 10 (reduced inequalities) Our approach The group’s approach is to recruit and develop based on aptitude and attitude, with the deliberate intention to build a diverse workforce and to foster an inclusive workplace, which represents the population of the relevant jurisdiction. Our recruitment 49% 25% strategies actively seek to engage minority groups, female and disabled candidates. female employees women on group board We do not tolerate any form of discrimination based on gender, (2018: 49%) (2018: 20%) race, ethnicity, religion, age, disability, marital status, political opinion, sensitive medical conditions, sexual orientation or gender reassignment. People with different abilities are an essential part of a diverse talent pool and every effort is made to facilitate an accessible environment for all. Diversity principles • We believe in the importance and benefits of diversity Diversity commitment and we strive to foster a culture that is supportive and • Investec is a member of the 30% Club in both the UK and inclusive of different perspectives and experiences South Africa • As a global specialist bank and asset manager, our • We are committed to a goal of 33% women on the board by workforce should reflect the diversity of our global 2020 client base • In the UK, we are making good progress towards closing • We are progressing towards a working environment the gender pay gap and the 33% target for women in senior that is more agile and responsive to the needs of all leadership positions in the FTSE 350 by 2020, in line with the individuals, for example flexible work arrangements are recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Review encouraged where appropriate • Investec Bank plc and Investec Wealth & Investment UK are • We work proactively to rebalance our organisation in signatories to the UK HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter, line with the communities in which we operate through committing to achieving a target of 30% women in senior education and entrepreneurship, and leveraging the leadership roles by 2022 value in our diversity • Investec Asset Management is a signatory to the Diversity • We will continue to measure and track progress annually Project that aims to accelerate progress towards an inclusive and strive to achieve our targets through concrete culture in the investment profession. actions. Group employee age profile 31 March 2019 62% 30 – 50 years 24% < 30 years 14% > 50 years 22 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 2 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE (continued) Employee gender composition – permanent employees Southern Africa UK and Other Total Male Female Total* Male Female Total* Male Female Total* 31 March 2019 Executive directors on Investec DLC board 3 – 3 2 1 3 5 1 6 Senior managers** Asset Management 150 106 256 110 27 137 260 133 393 Wealth & Investment 105 39 144 151 23 174 256 62 318 Specialist Banking 780 609 1 389 358 100 458 1 138 709 1 847 Total senior management 1 035 754 1 789 619 150 769 1 654 904 2 558 Rest of employees Asset Management 270 479 749 221 183 404 491 662 1 153 Wealth & Investment 64 152 216 633 604 1 237 697 756 1 453 Specialist Banking 1 094 1 634 2 728 1 118 868 1 986 2 212 2 502 4 714 Total rest of employees 1 428 2 265 3 693 1 972 1 655 3 627 3 400 3 920 7 320 Total 2 466 3 019 5 485 2 593 1 806 4 399 5 059 4 825 9 884 31 March 2018*** Executive directors on Investec DLC board 2 – 2 2 – 2 4 – 4 Senior managers** Asset Management 165 116 281 89 25 114 254 141 395 Wealth & Investment 101 36 137 145 17 162 246 53 299 Specialist Banking 706 510 1 216 368 83 451 1 074 593 1 667 Total senior managers 972 662 1 634 602 125 727 1 574 787 2 361 Rest of employees Asset Management 270 473 743 223 159 382 493 632 1 125 Wealth & Investment 59 144 203 615 568 1 183 674 712 1 386 Specialist Banking 1 079 1 621 2 700 1 029 839 1 868 2 108 2 460 4 568 Total rest of employees 1 408 2 238 3 646 1 867 1 566 3 433 3 275 3 804 7 079 Total 2 382 2 900 5 282 2 471 1 691 4 162 4 853 4 591 9 444 Note: * Headcount per region, per management level and per service line was externally assured. ** The definition of senior management is different for Southern Africa and the UK and Other due to different regulatory guidelines of the respective geographies. The definition for senior management in the UK was reclassified according to our commitment to the Women in Finance Charter. The 2018 data was restated accordingly. Southern Africa use the definition required by the Department of Labour and the Department of Trade and Industry as per our employment equity reporting. *** 2018 data was restated and reclassified according to our commitment to the Women in Finance Charter. to to to 35% 42% 20% female senior female senior female senior management in the group management in SA management in the UK (2018: 33%) (2018: 41%) (2018: 17%) The official UK gender pay gap results, required under the UK gender pay gap legislation, are available on our website. COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 23 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE (continued) Equity and inclusion programmes We have various processes to encourage dialogue and celebrate the value of equity and inclusion. Emerging and established leaders participate in discussions around all issues related to talent management and inclusion. Our Zebra Crossing initiative in South Africa, aligned to our employment equity plan, aims to raise levels of multi-cultural awareness of staff at Investec and enable them to appreciate and celebrate the 866 richness of our diverse population and to take these insights back into the business. Let’s Talk about Race dialogues have been held with groups of employees in South Africa. These are unstructured discussions, facilitated by an organisation development representative, where participants are employees* encouraged to confront unconscious bias and misconceptions around any aspect of diversity. We also have a number of Women in Leadership initiatives where women and men at Investec have in South Africa the opportunity to participate in the conversation around gender. We invite our clients and external participated in stakeholders to participate in these events. These rich and informative dialogues help us to create an diversity events over appropriate environment for women to thrive as leaders, employees and entrepreneurs and serve as the past year role models for the next generation. Investec Inspire in the UK is the umbrella for Investec’s employee-led diversity and inclusion programme, sponsored by senior executives. The first network that was developed under Inspire was our gender balance network, recognising that attracting, developing and retaining female talent, is very 2employees* 256 important at all levels of the business, and helping to ensure that everyone, regardless of gender, can thrive at Investec. It enables the sharing of knowledge and experience as well as to provide inspiration and support for women at Investec. Our Zebra Crossing programme was adapted for the UK and launched in 2018 to raise levels of multi-cultural awareness. in the UK attended Other diversity initiatives in the UK include the establishment of a Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and diversity events over Transgender (LGBT+) Network and a Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) Network. The UK the past year Investec Inspire framework also includes Inspire YoungMinds, a network aimed at supporting and inspiring future leaders. * Some employees attended more than one event. Although we are not driven by awards and recognition, we are proud to be recognised for our efforts. • Voted first, second and third in the 2019 Universum awards by law professionals, professionals and students respectively in the business/commerce sector • Ranked 27th in the world and fourth in the UK for progress in gender equality and reporting by Equileap in 2018 • Recognised by Equileap in the UK for best maternity and paternity leave in 2019 • Signatory to the 30% Club in South Africa and the UK and to the HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter • Committing to 33% women on the board by 2020. 24 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 2 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE (continued) Learning and development We invest significantly in a number of opportunities for the development and upskilling of our employees as well as leadership programmes to enable current and future leaders of the group. Employees are encouraged to be the driving force behind their own development and should be proactive in identifying and addressing development needs, allowing them to maximise learning opportunities most relevant to their unique requirements. Through our various learning and development initiatives we are contributing to SDG 4 (quality education). Investec HR’s learning team is mandated to develop and retain We target a minimum of 1.5% learning and people who can perform extraordinarily in support of business objectives in a manner consistent with Investec’s culture and values. To achieve this, we employ talented people and then development spend as a % enable their professional and personal growth and development. of staff costs for the group In the past year, our learning and development spend was £17.8 million (2018: £22.5 million). The decrease is due to the realignment of current programmes to ensure efficiency and relevance. Group learning and development spend 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Year ended £ R £ R Southern Africa 12 068 692 217 705 825 16 111 108 277 337 844 UK and Other 5 756 690 103 844 306 6 383 140 109 879 865 Total group learning and development spend 17 825 382 321 550 131 22 494 248 387 217 709 Total group learning and development spend as a % of staff costs 1.5% 1.9% 10.1% External learning Investec’s external learning includes public programmes, conferences, seminars and courses and of employees granted provides employees with development opportunities to enable the acquisition of knowledge and skills bursaries in the last year necessary for career development within Investec. Our educational bursary scheme provides employees in South Africa with focused educational opportunities to enable the acquisition of qualifications. 22 Internal learning qualified CAs Our internal learning programmes include inductions, support for new leaders, personal and interpersonal completed the CA skills, technical and professional skills, leadership programmes, mentoring and coaching as well as programme in the our learnerships and Chartered Accountant (CA) and IT trainee programmes in South Africa. A total of past year and 17 were 264 CAs have graduated from the programme since inception. A total of 105 students have completed retained in the business the IT Graduate Programme since inception in 2013, with 17 students joining the programme in 2019 (2018: 21 CAs qualified; 21 of (2018: 13 students completed the programme). Since inception, 82% of IT graduates have remained 21 graduates retained in with Investec for at least two years after graduating from the programme. the business) COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 25 COMMITMENT TO TRANSFORMATION Commitment to transformation Investec recognises that economic growth and societal transformation is vital to creating a sustainable future for all the communities in which it operates, and that as a financial services provider, it plays a critical role in enabling this. Through our many transformation initiatives we are contributing to SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth) and SDG 10 (reduced inequalities). Our approach involves: Highlights for the year • Using our entrepreneurial expertise to foster the creation of new black entrepreneurial platforms and partnerships • Fani Titi was appointed as our joint group CEO on 1 October 2018 • Serving as a leading source of empowerment financing • Rated level 1 under the Financial Sector Code • Investing significantly in learning and development • Placed > 1 200 youth in jobs with 11 of our partners opportunities for both our employees as well as other through the YES initiative South Africans • Donated R2mn towards the establishment of the first YES • Encouraging internal transformation by bringing about hub in Thembisa, Johannesburg. greater representivity in our workplace • Continually striving to achieve greater representation at all levels of the business through the effective implementation Entrepreneurship Development Trust (EDT) of our employment equity plan. The EDT was one of the original partners in Investec’s BEE ownership transaction concluded in 2003. It is a broad-based We remain committed to black economic empowerment (BEE) charitable trust that focuses on educational and entrepreneurial and the Financial Sector Code which commits its participants to initiatives. The EDT has established itself among the country’s actively promoting a transformed, vibrant and globally competitive leading drivers of transformation and development. By investing in strategic interventions, the EDT provides the necessary bridge financial sector that reflects the demographics of South Africa. We between the business sector and communities that need their are rated level 1 under the Financial Sector Code. support. In order to achieve this goal, the trust administers much Internal initiatives needed funding to a variety of strategically selected beneficiaries. Internally, our transformation initiatives are driven through a number of structures set up to debate and monitor our various Khulasande Capital Partnership activities. These efforts are supported by the board and our Khulasande Capital, a broad-based black owned and controlled group management forum in South Africa through the following private equity and investment vehicle, is a partnership between committees: Investec and the EDT. Khulasande’s aim is to participate in empowerment opportunities that are of benefit to the EDT and • Our Transformation Committee, a sub-committee of the that will create value for its beneficiaries. This partnership provides executive team, that ensures our overall transformation Khulasande with access to an experienced team with an extensive objectives are achieved and that we maintain a reasonable track record ensuring it can add value to its investee companies rating in terms of the Financial Sector Code. The and help them grow and multiply. Khulasande Capital Partnership lll Transformation Committee is chaired by our joint group CEO, will be launched during the course of 2019. Fani Titi • Our DLC Social and Ethics Committee (DLC SEC), chaired by The Izandla Property Fund Lord Malloch-Brown provides oversight of the group’s activities The Izandla Property Fund, launched in 2017 is a majority in the fields of transformation, human capital and sustainability. black-owned property company supported by Investec Property and Investec Property Fund. It aims to create value to fund the Refer to page 33 for detail on our commitment to initiatives of the EDT, the majority shareholder, by accessing quality the Youth Empowerment Service (YES) initiative. real estate assets and providing our property clients with a BEE partner who will own, manage and develop their property assets. Investec Property supports Izandla Property with skills, expertise and knowledge while Investec Property Fund serves as the capital partner of Izandla Property. 26 COMMITMENT TO TRANSFORMATION 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 3 2 CO MMITME N T TO O U R CO MMU N ITI E S COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 27 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Commitment to our communities Our community initiatives are central to the group’s values of making an unselfish contribution to society, nurturing an entrepreneurial spirit, valuing diversity and respecting others, which all underpin Investec’s aim of being a responsible corporate citizen. Our priority SDGs Our approach In line with our vision to create sustained long-term wealth, we need a thriving economy with active economic participants. To become economically active, people need to be educated and skilled in order to be employed or create employment themselves as entrepreneurs. Those professionals and entrepreneurs become our clients and staff, and partner with us to create more wealth. In this way, we are able to address financial inclusion, creating active economic participants and engaging with communities in a meaningful way. Our approach focuses on three categories of impact: • Education and learnerships (aligned to priority SDG 4: quality education) • Entrepreneurship and job creation (aligned to priority SDG 8: decent work and economic growth) • Environment and other philanthropy (aligned to priority SDG 6, SDG 7, SDG 9 and SDG 11). In keeping with our business model of independent, highly autonomous business units, supported by a strong centre, there is no single overriding approach to social investment within the group, although clear commonalities exist. Each of the regions has pursued social investment as deemed appropriate to their circumstances and where they are in the evolution of their business. Wherever possible, we seek to collaborate with partners, so as to leverage resources and expertise and help ensure a lasting impact as well as long-term sustainability for our projects. The active involvement of our people, through volunteering, remains at the core of our community strategy. We have many well-established partnerships and volunteering initiatives to support these partners. Further, we make ad hoc donations to charities in response to requests for assistance across all regions and business areas within the group. This allows us to allocate meaningful grants in areas which might not fall within the main focus of our community initiatives. Spend on community initiatives as a % of operating profit* Percentage 2.5 2.1 2.0 Achieved 1.5% 1.6 1.5 1.5 1.4 0.9 1.0 group community spend 0.6 0.5 as a % of operating profit* (target: >1.0%) 0 Investec Limited Investec plc Investec group * Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and 2018** 2019 after other non-controlling interests. Spend on community initiatives by category (%) 31 MARCH 2019 31 MARCH 2018** £9.9 million £8.2 million 49% Education and learnerships 67% Education and learnerships 30% Entrepreneurship and job creation 10% Entrepreneurship and job creation 21% Environment and other philanthropy 23% Environment and other philanthropy ** 31 March 2018 numbers were restated to include external learnerships and job creation (YES initiative). 28 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 3 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES (continued) Community spend across the group 31 March 2019 31 March 2018** Year ended £ R £ R Southern Africa community spend Education and learnerships 4 405 926 79 478 016 4 872 973 83 883 741 Entrepreneurship and job creation 2 536 044 45 747 426 411 264 7 079 527 Environment and other philanthropy 1 161 564 20 953 317 1 256 219 21 624 645 Total 8 103 534 146 178 759 6 540 456 112 587 913 UK and Other community spend Education and learnerships 408 117 7 361 985 628 925 10 826 365 Entrepreneurship and job creation 397 161 7 164 344 378 470 6 515 015 Environment and other philanthropy 953 448 17 199 137 689 823 11 874 668 Total 1 758 726 31 725 466 1 697 218 29 216 048 Group community spend Education and learnerships 4 814 043 86 840 001 5 501 898 94 710 106 Entrepreneurship and job creation 2 933 205 52 911 770 789 734 13 594 542 Environment and other philanthropy 2 115 012 38 152 454 1 946 042 33 499 313 Total group community spend 9 862 260 177 904 225 8 237 674 141 803 961 Operating profit * 664 527 607 505 Group community spend as a % of operating profit * 1.5% 1.4% UK and Other community spend according to LBG^ 2 110 984 38 079 810 2 109 396 36 311 304 Group community spend according to LBG^ 10 214 518 184 258 569 8 649 852 148 899 217 * Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after other non-controlling interests. ** 31 March 2018 numbers were restated to include external learnerships and job creation (YES initiative). ^ London Benchmarking Group, a global standard for measuring, benchmarking and reporting on corporate community and philanthropy spend. Staff volunteering Through our staff volunteering programme we support and encourage staff participation and engagement as we believe that far more can be achieved through our collective knowledge, expertise and influence than through cash donations alone. Our people play a pivotal role in our staff volunteering programmes funding while small grants are made to local charities within our giving selflessly of their time, money, goods and skills to support focus areas. All staff are also given two days paid leave to volunteer our communities. We foster a culture of participation by offering with our community partners. a number of opportunities for staff to get involved, some of which are outlined below. Highlights for the year We offer staff a payroll giving programme in our South African, UK and other regional offices. • > 7 130 hours spent on volunteering (2018: > 9 000 hours) In South Africa, our Touch by Giving programme allows staff to • South Africa: 674 staff volunteered > 2 930 hours donate money on a monthly basis, or once off, to 12 pre-selected (2018: > 4 700 hours) and vetted charitable organisations, and Investec matches all staff contributions. We also encourage staff to volunteer in their • UK and Other: > 4 200 hours spent on volunteering own communities. Through the Cradle Project, staff have the (2018: > 4 400 hours) opportunity to present charitable donation requests to a forum and • In South Africa, we facilitated 18 general staff possibly receive funding for projects in which they are involved. volunteering events and 11 community events for business units which replaced their traditional For Mandela Day, we ran a book drive over two months teambuilding events (2018: 9 general staff encouraging staff in all our regional offices in South Africa to donate volunteering events; 19 community events). previously loved books. We collected more than 5 000 books that were donated to partner organisations. • In the UK and Other, staff donated > £476 600 to charity through payroll giving (2018: > £544 000) and In the UK, our payroll giving programme, Give-As-You-Earn, a further £210 800 (2018: £156 800) was raised by enables staff to donate money to a charity of their choice. Staff staff, including through Investec sponsored events. fundraising endeavours are supported through employee charity COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 29 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES (continued) Southern Africa Our strategy in Southern Africa focuses on education and learnerships, entrepreneurship and job creation, and the environment. Our objectives are as follows: • To facilitate an increase in the number of entrepreneurially-minded learners who matriculate, as well as those with a decent pass in English, mathematics and science and, who have an aspiration to proceed beyond matric • To facilitate access to quality tertiary education, support and celebrate excellent performance thereafter • To enable on-the-job training, exposure and experience for youth through learnership opportunities • Support the development of young entrepreneurs in an effort to contribute towards job creation • To preserve our communities through conservation education and ensuring a clean, resource-rich natural environment. Southern Africa spend on community initiatives by category (%) Percentage 80 75 70 increase in total 60 55 community spend for 50 Southern Africa 40 30 20 31 19 14 29.8% March 2019: R146.2mn (March 2018**: R112.6mn) 10 6 0 ** 31 March 2018 number were restated to include external learnerships Education Entrepreneurship Environment and and job creation (YES initiative). and learnerships and job creation other philanthropy 2018** 2019 Education and learnerships Our strategy in Southern Africa focuses on creating opportunities, through education and learnerships, that equip and enable young people within our communities to become active economic participants in society. We support and empower talented individuals within a defined continuum of interventions through school and university to the workplace. Through our many education and learnership initiatives within our communities we are contributing to SDG 4 (quality education). Highlights for the year • 54% of Southern Africa’s community spend was allocated to education and external learnerships • Promaths contributed 5.0% of the country’s HIGH SCHOOL TERTIARY WORKPLACE national distinctions in mathematics and science • Promaths • Student bursaries • Work readiness (2017^: 4.8% and 5.0% respectively) • High school • Teacher • Learnerships • > R14.7mn invested in the Umuzi Academy and bursaries development Afrika Tikkun learnerships in 2018^. • Mentorship ^ Academic year: January – December. 30 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 3 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES (continued) Promaths Since inception of our flagship programme Promaths, 13 years ago, Investec has funded over 7 500 Contributed disadvantaged learners through the programme. Promaths is aimed at supporting the education system by providing extra tuition in mathematics and science to learners in grades 10 – 12 at selected schools 5.0% of the country’s across the country. Investec, in partnership with the Entrepreneurship Development Trust (EDT) and the Kutlwanong Centre for Maths, Science and Technology, currently funds 3 960 learners in nine centres. The ninth centre was established in 2018 in Khayelitsha township, Cape Town, supporting 210 learners from national distinctions 11 feeder schools. In 2018, 233 858 learners wrote mathematics and 172 319 wrote science nationally. in mathematics and In the Promaths programme there were 267 distinctions in mathematics from 1 176 learners and 412 distinctions in science from 1 173 learners writing their final examinations, both of which contributed 5.0% science (2017^: 4.8% of the country’s national distinctions in the two subjects. and 5.0% respectively) The programme does not seek to replace the role of mathematics and science educators in schools, but rather to supplement their efforts in order to improve the performance of high-potential learners in these subjects in their schools. Bursaries and alumni programmes 40 high school bursaries High school bursaries In pursuit of affording academically and financially deserving high school learners access to quality awarded education around the country, Investec, in partnership with the EDT, awarded bursaries to 40 high school (2017^: 35) learners in grades 10 – 12 in 2018^. Sixteen learners matriculated in 2018^ producing 53 distinctions (average of 3.5 distinctions per learner). 116 University bursaries Investec, in partnership with the EDT, awards young South Africans, with academic potential and university bursaries in financial need, the opportunity to study towards financial sector-related degrees at various local (2017^: 112) universities. The 116 bursary students in 2018^ varied from first year to honours level. 17 Promaths Promaths bursaries There are currently 17 students receiving bursaries through the Promaths Bursary Fund, that was bursaries launched in 2017^. The fund aims to provide bursaries to Promaths Alumni who are academically and (2017^: 10) financially deserving. 1 724 Promaths Alumni Promaths Alumni Investec supports 13 Promaths Alumni chapters that aim to connect, motivate and empower ex-Promaths at university learners who are now studying at tertiary institutions around the country. A total of 1 724 students were on (2017^: 1 208) the alumni programme in 2018^. 13 Investec Merit Awards at Nelson Mandela University (NMU) NMU merit awards In partnership with NMU, Investec offers merit awards to individuals who do extremely well academically allocated and are in need of financial assistance. The 13 merit award recipients in 2018^ received small once-off (2017^: 15) bursaries to enable them to register and gain access to university. ^ Academic year: January – December. COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 31 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES (continued) Career guidance Investec has made career guidance central to its education offerings to encourage learners to aspire to an excellent pass rate, provide guidance around subject choice and tertiary study opportunities as well as expose learners to the corporate world and opportunities available within the financial sector, specifically at Investec. 4 286 registered users on Career Xplora Investec, in partnership with Brainwave Careers, run an innovative mobile career guidance platform called Career Xplora Career Xplora. This mobile application (app) enables real time chats between facilitators and learners (2017^: > 4 000 users) about subject selection, career guidance and opportunities post matric. JuniorTukkie Programme 359 JuniorTukkie learners supported The JuniorTukkie Programme, run in partnership with the University of Pretoria, is an initiative aimed at identifying top academic achievers at high school level and assisting them to make informed study and career choices. The programme is open to learners from grades 9 – 12 who demonstrate academic (2017^: 403 learners) excellence. Investec supports the grade 11 empowerment programme and the grade 12 preparation conference. 360 A Day @ Investec learners exposed to A This initiative invites grade 11 learners to spend a day at the Investec offices exposing learners to different Day @ Investec careers within the financial sector in a more practical manner. Learners spend the day with a staff member (2017^: 390 learners) in one of the five regional offices, gaining exposure to the working environment at Investec. 60 Work Readiness Programme University students have limited or no exposure to the world of work and often lack the soft skills needed students attended to get a job, stay employed, and advance in employment. In response to this challenge, Investec hosts the Work Readiness an annual Work Readiness Programme aimed at assisting the transition from tertiary education to the Programme working environment. Selected students from Investec programmes attend this week-long programme to (2017^: 57) experience our dynamic environment and acquire the skills required to thrive in the world of work. Mentorship Programme 116 mentees were partnered with To complete the educational support loop, Investec also addresses the need that many university students have for advice and mentorship. The Mentorship Programme pairs Investec staff volunteers with bursary recipients. In this role, staff members become personal mentors, offering students a sounding board for 116 Investec mentors educational and other decisions or difficulties. In many instances, mentors also draw on the skills and (2017^: 148 mentees expertise of other colleagues to assist bursary students with particularly challenging university courses. and 115 mentors) The programme includes the Mentorship Appreciation Day when all mentors and mentees reflect on the programme and acknowledge the successes. Teacher Internship Programme 32 Investec’s partnership with the Independent Schools Association of Southern Africa (ISASA) and the Department of Basic Education, aims to develop quality teachers in mathematics, science and English. student teachers completed the The ISASA programme provides prospective Senior and Further Education and Training teachers with development bursaries to study for a four-year Bachelor of Education (B.Ed) or a one-year postgraduate certificate programme in eduction (PGCE) at UNISA. Interns are placed in ISASA host schools for the duration of their undergraduate or postgraduate education studies. On completion of the internship, qualified teachers are (2017^: 18 student required to take up posts in public state-funded schools to ensure the transfer of skills. In 2018^ there teachers) were 100 student teachers on the programme, of which 32 completed the programme that year. Learnerships Investec supports two external learnership programmes, the Umuzi Academy and Afrika Tikkun. The > R14.7mn Umuzi Academy offers one-year learnerships that produce high calibre, entry-level designers, copywriters, invested in Umuzi digital and multimedia professionals. The learnership includes nine months of on-the-job training at Umuzi, Academy and Afrika and three months working at a partner agency, media or production house. The Afrika Tikkun end-to-end Tikkun learnerships learnership aids the empowerment of young job seekers by providing them with entry to mid-level jobs. Investec currently funds 80 learners on the programme who are placed in both our regional offices as well as with partner hosts. ^ Academic year: January – December. 32 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 3 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES (continued) Entrepreneurship and job creation Our strategy in Southern Africa supports the growth of young entrepreneurs from school-going age to working entrepreneurs, in order to grow the South African economy and create employment opportunities. Through our various initiatives in entrepreneurship and job creation we are contributing to SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth). Global Exposure Programme Investec’s Global Exposure Programme, in partnership with the EDT, takes aspiring entrepreneurs from 43 different sectors on overseas trips to expose them to countries that are sector leaders. The trip itinerary is designed based on the entrepreneurs selected as well as the sector focus, and includes visits to think tanks, universities, start-ups, venture capitalists, angel funders, leading companies, thought leaders as entrepreneurs given well as formal and informal opportunities to network and showcase their businesses. In the last year, our global exposure Global Exposure Programme hosted four international trips with a different sector focus for each trip: through trips abroad social entrepreneurship, textile manufacturing, education and financial services and innovation. (2017^: 54 entrepreneurs) There are 266 entrepreneurs on the Global Exposure Alumni Programme that brings together individuals who have experienced the Global Exposure Programme. The alumni programme exposes entrepreneurs to presentations of interest and networking opportunities. Startup School 157 entrepreneurs Founded by some of South Africa’s most successful entrepreneurs and supported by Investec, Startup School offers a 12-week online entrepreneurial learning programme for startup and scale-up entrepreneurs completed the in South Africa as well as on the African continent. The course aims to capacitate and facilitate support programme in the past to the online learners who are supported by an experienced team of educational, coaching and year entrepreneurial specialists. The Startup School approach combines interactive learning, business coaching and mentorship, to facilitate the development of a set of core behaviours identified by research as critical (2017^: 29 entrepreneurs) for sustained entrepreneurial success and the development of an entrepreneurial mindset. 294 Junior Achievement South Africa (JASA) Investec supports JASA’s Entrepreneurship Academy Programme in furthering its goal of stimulating an learners from entrepreneurial mindset as well as life skills amongst grade 10 and 11 learners. The 24-week programme, disadvantaged hosted in ten disadvantaged schools across the country, providing 294 learners with practical hands-on communities skills to launch and manage their own small businesses. Thirty learners were selected to participate in participated Investec’s Junior Innovators Competition prior to the final competition. (2017^: 327 learners) The Youth Employment Service (YES) initiative YES, a collaboration between government and the private sector, was launched by President Cyril Ramaphosa in March 2018. The key objective is to create one million quality work experiences for Placed South African youth (between the ages of 18-34) over the next three years. Stephen Koseff, former CEO of > 1 200 the Investec group, is a co-convenor of YES, with Investec being one of the first companies to sign up to the programme. In the last financial year, we partnered with 11 organisations across South Africa to host youth in jobs with over 1 200 youth, of which 63% were female. 11 Our initial cohort of interns graduated from the programme on 31 March 2019. Our first 20 interns were employed in Mpumalanga by the Sabi Sands Pfunani Trust. They held a variety of positions ranging from of our partners office administrators, data collectors, eco-monitors and artisans to trainers. Out of the first cohort, 85% during the year received permanent employment post the one-year internship. Investec also supported the YES operations through sponsoring the launch event, providing grants for working capital as well as providing office space. In the past financial year, we donated R2 million towards the establishment of the first YES hub in Tembisa township, Gauteng. ^ Academic year: January – December. COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 33 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES (continued) Environment and other philanthropy Investec recognises that communities require a clean, resource-rich natural environment that supports the growth of business and the economy. Through our environmental initiatives, we are preserving our communities, supporting the economy of wildlife and contributing to SDG 11 (sustainable cities and communities). We also donate to a number of ad hoc philanthropic initiatives which would positively impact across all 17 SDGs. 5 812 children reached Investec Rhino Lifeline Investec Rhino Lifeline was established in 2012 to raise awareness of the rhino crisis in South Africa. It has refined its focus to concentrate on raising awareness through two key areas: youth education through our and rhino rescue. We partner with specialists supporting their efforts by raising awareness, funds conservation and donations and leveraging Investec’s international brand and presence to maximise our impact. programme We recognise that rhino protection is not possible without the buy-in and support of the surrounding (17 373 children reached communities and as a result concentrate on the critical Bushbuckridge community living alongside the since inception in 2013) Kruger National Park. Youth education 4 227 grade 4 students Education plays a pivotal role in the fight to save the rhino and aligns with Investec’s broader approach to community initiatives. Since inception, we have spent R14.8 million (66% of our total investment in Investec Rhino Lifeline) on educating children in local communities and increasing awareness around sponsored through the the importance of caring for wildlife as well as the vital contribution that tourism and conservation GWF Open Leaning present for future employment and career opportunities. We continue to partner with Coaching for Academy Conservation (C4C) on their C4C childrens programme and with Good Work Foundation (GWF) on their Open Learning Academy. Rhino rescue The rescue of rhino calves and poaching survivors is critical to the ultimate survival of the species and provides an important awareness platform and fundraising vehicle. Investec businesses, staff and clients also support our partners, Care for Wild and the Hoedspruit Endangered Species Centre 80 rhino (HESC). rescued and cared for by our partners with our Raise awareness support since 2012 As part of raising awareness in the past year, we took Nicholas Pinnock, the main actor in the Investec brand campaign, to visit HESC and GWF to learn more about conservation and rhino. We subsequently raised further awareness by running social media campaigns in South Africa and the UK. Investec in the UK also participated in the Tusk Trails rhino campaign, raising awareness in the City of London and among staff, as well as funds for Tusk and our joint beneficiary, C4C. Investec Rhino Lifeline spend since 2012 R22.3 million 34% Rhino rescue 66% Youth education 34 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 3 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES (continued) Birdlife South Africa The Power and Infrastructure Finance (PIF) business partners with BirdLife South Africa to help minimise the environmental impact of renewable energy projects on birds and their habitats. PIF ensures that all renewable energy facilities they support comply with international environmental standards and BirdLife > R5.1mn South Africa helps developers and project financiers, such as Investec, gain a better understanding of the potential impact on birds and on improving environmental performance. BirdLife South Africa spent since promotes relevant research, and facilitates the flow of information between academics, environmental inception in 2012 consultants, decision-makers, developers and operators of renewable energy facilities. They provide guidance so that high risk sites can be avoided and impacts adequately assessed, monitored and mitigated during project planning and beyond. In this way, Investec and BirdLife South Africa help refine decision-making for further developments and improve the long-term environmental sustainability of renewable energy. Endangered Wildlife Trust Investec has supported the Endangered Wildlife Trust’s (EWT) Carnivore Conservation Programme since 2013, funding the research and monitoring of the wild dog population in the Kruger National > R1.2mn Park. Wild dogs are South Africa’s most endangered carnivore and the population in the KNP is the largest and most viable in the country, numbering 250 dogs in 22 packs. The conservation of this spent since inception in population of wild dogs is therefore critical. The largest ever monitoring project of wild dogs in KNP 2013 showed that a number of the packs were leaving the western boundary where they are exposed to a number of threats. As a result, the current focus of the project empowers communities along the boundary. We believe that with improved knowledge and understanding of wild dogs, communities can contribute to the ongoing conservation efforts of this important species. Tusk Conservation Awards Grants awarded to Investec Asset Management (IAM) has supported the Tusk Conservation Awards for the past seven 27 years. We developed the Tusk Annual Awards in partnership with the charity, Tusk and HRH The Duke of Cambridge, its royal patron. Tusk is a charity established in response to an urgent need to halt the decline of Africa’s natural heritage and build a sustainable future for the people and wildlife diverse conservation of the continent. The Tusk Awards are recognised as one of the most prestigious awards in African projects across the conservation and acknowledge the contribution made by extraordinary people towards conservation. continent since 2013 The initiative has provided 27 grants to diverse conservation projects across the continent, since inception of the awards in 2013. Philanthropic Initiatives We recognise that there are many other needs and related causes that fall outside of our key focus 99 areas and therefore allocate a small portion of our community initiatives budget to philanthropic initiatives and ad hoc donations. ad hoc donations made Our philanthropic donations include our support of the Investec Soccer League, the Field Band through the South Foundation, enke: Make Your Mark and the Sounds of Celebration programme. Our ad hoc donations African office are to charities across all regions in South Africa in response to requests received. Donations in South Africa are between R5 000 and R20 000 in areas which fall both within and outside our main focus areas. In the past year, we donated R3 million to philanthropic and ad hoc donations. COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 35 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES (continued) Mauritius In Mauritius, our community initiatives focus on projects within the education, environment and sports development sectors. Our projects are directed at communities or beneﬁciaries that are ﬁnancially disadvantaged and we aim to provide long-term sustainability where possible. Our key project within the education sector is our support of TIPA (Terrain for Interactive Pedagogy through Arts), an NGO that runs an educational programme working with pupils, Highlights for the year teachers and parents through arts, interactive pedagogy and life skills. In the environment sector we support the Mauritian • £42 124 spent on community initiatives in Wildlife Foundations’ Learning with Nature Education Project Mauritius (2018: £58 786) that aims to conserve the fauna and flora wildlife welfare of • 412 children impacted through TIPA’s creativity both Mauritius and Rodrigues. We also fund Ecole Pere Henri classes Souchon and Animaterra in their vegetable farming project that teaches pupils basic crop cultivation skills in a sustainable • 6 887 online supporters were reached through manner using the principals of biological farming. This project TIPA’s child abuse campaign is part of the school curriculum and provides pupils with skills • 70% of staff participated in the annual to assist them to find employment in the agricultural sector volunteer drive. once they have finished school. Our support of the sports development sector includes the Tranquebar Black Rangers Volley Ball Club, Tranquebar Boxing Club and Tranquebar Football Club. For more detail, please refer to Investec Bank (Mauritius) Limited’s 2019 annual report on our website. 36 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 3 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES (continued) UK and Other In the UK, we partner with local organisations in all of our projects. Our people form an integral part of our approach and volunteer their time, skills and money in all of our key community initiatives. We champion our community initiatives by: 1 Building dedicated charitable partnerships 2 Harnessing our diverse resources and collective talent 3 Engaging all of our people in making a positive difference. UK and Other spend on community initiatives by category (%) Percentage 60 54 50 41 increase in 40 37 community spend 30 20 23 22 23 3.6% March 2019: £1.8mn (March 2018: £1.7mn) 10 0 Education Entrepreneurship Environment and and learnerships and job creation other philanthropy 2018 2019 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 37 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES (continued) Education and learnerships Through the education projects we support, we aim to empower young people to achieve their goals in life. While we recognise the importance of academics, our community partners also focus on employability, life and interpersonal skills. Arrival Education Investec partners with Arrival Education, a social enterprise that focuses on supporting young people from challenging backgrounds and minority ethnic groups through programmes which encourage social mobility. Arrival Education aims to raise aspirations and develop the mindsets and skills required for students to achieve success in their lives. Investec, a primary partner of Arrival Education, hosts volunteer-led > 1 710 workshops and coaching sessions in our London office, as part of the Access Network, for ambitious 16 – 18 year olds who are interested in pursuing a career in business. Arrival Education In the last year, we increased the number of workshops and coaching sessions which allowed more learners supported by students as well as employees to participate in the programme. Investec supported 113 students in 2018 Investec in the past with 152 Investec employees volunteering on the programme. Twenty-four employees also volunteered to 11 years become coaches to the students, providing mentoring for these students over a nine month period. Investec hosted Invest for Success, in partnership with Arrival Education, an innovative six-month programme designed for students wanting to succeed in the financial industry. Students are taught the principles of trading through a simulated stock portfolio game where they are given fictitious funds to invest in five stocks. Over the duration of the programme, 24 volunteers supported 50 students, contributing 229 volunteering hours. > 340 La Mare De Carteret Primary School volunteering hours Investec partners with La Mare De Carteret Primary School, one of the two social priority primary spent supporting schools in Guernsey, which support learners, some with special educational needs, through funding and learners volunteering. Investec volunteers in our Guernsey office spent over 340 hours in the past year supporting the learners with mathematics, coding, sports, gardening, outdoor learning and breakfast clubs. (2018: > 400 hours) 26 Marino College students mentored The partnership with Marino College in Dublin is in its 11th year, where our employees act as mentors this year to students. The initiative involves mentor meetings with students on a monthly basis over a two-year period, arranging mock interviews, work placements and providing guidance to the students as required. (2018: 21 students) Entrepreneurship and job creation Our roots are based in the spirit of entrepreneurship and we strive to nurture an entrepreneurial spirit in our staff, clients and the communities local to our offices. Bromley by Bow Centre The Bromley by Bow Centre focuses on social economic regeneration in the London Borough of Tower 119 Hamlets. In 2011 we became the sole funder of the centre’s Beyond Business programme, a unique social enterprise incubator which provides seed funding and professional advice to entrepreneurs looking to start their own social enterprise business. The launched enterprises tackle a variety of social issues entrepreneurs were including youth unemployment, social exclusion, vulnerable families, community cohesion, homelessness, given advice mental health, rehabilitation of ex-offenders and food poverty. Many of the entrepreneurs are female and (2018: 139 entrepreneurs) of ethnic minority. Our volunteers sit on the selection panel, offering one-to-one advice to shortlisted aspiring entrepreneurs and grant seed funding to successful applicants. We also run the annual Beyond Business College at Investec providing the successful applicants with specialist support in addition to guidance on an ongoing ad hoc basis. 38 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 3 COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES (continued) Environment and other philanthropy We focus on improving the environment for communities local to our offices through engaging our employees. Other philanthropic donations are made to a variety of worthy recipients. Trees for Cities Trees for Cities is a charity which engages local communities and schools to plant trees and shrubs, and to grow food, reconnecting urban areas with nature. Teams of our people from our London and Leeds offices have rolled up their sleeves to volunteer with the charity, helping to plant over 2 500 trees 14 and with 14 urban community greening projects including planting food gardens in schools and outdoor maintenance. urban community greening projects Philanthropic Initiatives supported In the past financial year, we funded a number of philanthropic initiatives. A portion of our community spend was allocated to the charity, Proms at St Judes to run the Speak It! workshop and competition for young people. The workshop enhances and consolidates skills development, and the exposure to public speaking opportunities helps to build the young students self-confidence. We also support various sporting events such as the London Marathon and the Prudential Ride London where we encourage staff to participate. Australia Our community initiatives focus on a small number of ongoing philanthropic sponsorship and volunteering initiatives through partnership with local, entrepreneurial organisations. We partner with the Australian Business Community Network (ABCN), a not-for-profit organisation on a mentoring programme. ABCN pairs professionals in businesses with Highlights for the year students in high-need schools. The mentoring programme aims to inspire young people to see beyond their community’s • 240 students benefited from the experience expectation of them and to widen students’ awareness of the of professional mentors from Investec range of personal, educational and vocational choices they (2017*: 35 students) have available to them. Investec participates in two of ABCN’s • 93% of students who participated in programmes, namely GOALS and FOCUS. GOALS is oneABCN programmes completed year 12 on-one mentoring in a group environment that aims to widen (2017*: 90% of students). choices of students considered to be at risk of disengaging from school or with limited aspirations. FOCUS is group mentoring for year 11 female students with female mentors in leadership positions, exploring the challenges of leadership through shared experience and personal reflection. In the last financial year Investec provided 240 ABCN students with mentoring services and computer equipment, that was donated when we upgraded our office computers to laptops. * Academic year: January – December. COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 39 4 CO MMI TME N T TO THE EN V I R O N ME N T A N D CL I MATE C H A N G E 4 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change Our climate change responsibility extends to our business activities where we play a critical role in funding a sustainable economy that is cognisant of the world’s limited natural resources. Indirect impact through our business activities Highlights for the year Investec’s environmental policy takes into account the challenges There were a number of substantive achievements in our that climate change presents to the global economy. We believe ambition to transition to a low-carbon global economy: that as a niched specialised financial services organisation, and • The group reviewed and strengthened its climate given our positioning in the developed and emerging worlds, we change statement and policy on funding coal projects can make a meaningful impact in addressing climate change. We recognise the complexity and urgency of climate change and • Investec Asset Management (IAM) held their third welcome the voice of all stakeholders as we make this transition internal Investment Sustainability Forum on climate together to a cleaner low-carbon world in a way that is most change and launched a number of dedicated investment responsible for all participants. funds for investors who want to support and benefit from the transition to a more sustainable economic We also recognise the importance of various industries, including model the energy sector, for the global economy. As a general principle, • The power and infrastructure finance team launched Investec will avoid providing funding to coal-fired power projects a renewable energy investment vehicle called Revego and will only consider funding under very strict acceptance Africa Energy criteria. We need to be cautious and orderly in our approach to this transition and ensure we assess a variety of socio-economic • Both IAM and the group signed up to the United for and environmental factors relevant to a local context (for example Wildlife Financial Taskforce. poverty, growth, unemployment and carbon impact). It cannot be done in isolation from the realities of the communities in which we, Section five of this report outlines the six SDGs that we and our clients, operate. have prioritised where we can maximise the socioOur climate change statement and environmental policy states that: economic and environmental impact by coordinating • We will consider any meaningful activity that reduces the and integrating activities across our businesses. We negative impact, or prolongs life, on our planet believe that our greatest impact on SDG 13 (climate action) and SDG 15 (life on land) will be made by • We will avoid exposures to any transaction that involves undue prioritising the following three SDGs: damage to high conservation and/or protected environmental areas • Internally, we embrace our responsibility to understand and manage our own carbon footprint. Our approach is to limit Refer to and minimise our direct carbon impact and create awareness page 51 to encourage positive sustainable behaviour. We will explore various opportunities as we work towards our ultimate goal of becoming carbon neutral in our operations Refer to • Externally, we believe that the widest and most positive We recognise the risk of pages 53 to 56 influence we can have is for our businesses to use their climate change and are specialist skills in advisory, lending and investing to support our committed to supporting clients and stakeholders to move as quickly and smoothly as the transition to a clean possible towards a low-carbon economy Refer to and energy-efficient global • Where appropriate, we will share resources and intelligence to page 58 economy. support global efforts to combat illegal wildlife trade. We are signatories to the United for Wildlife Financial Taskforce which leverages the existing global financial crime architecture to support efforts to combat illegal wildlife trade. Climate change disclosure Stakeholders are increasingly expecting greater non-financial disclosures. This includes disclosures on environmental and social impacts as well as benchmarking against our peers. The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) has gained more traction as the Prudential Regulation Authority has issued an updated supervisory statement clarifying expectations around climate-related disclosure requirements. We recognise and support the recommendations of the TCFD to report clear and consistent information and have expanded on our previous disclosure. This is the start of a long-term process to build a better understanding of environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting and climate-related risks and opportunities and we will enhance our disclosure over time in line with industry guidelines and best practice. Refer to pages 75 and 76 in volume two of the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 41 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE (continued) Direct operational impact In recognising that we have a responsibility to understand and manage our wider carbon footprint, our approach is focused on limiting our direct operational impact and creating awareness to encourage positive sustainable behaviour. The key focus areas to reduce our operational carbon footprint include: • Reducing energy consumption • Reducing water usage • Reducing overall waste • Reducing single-use plastic • Increasing waste recycling rates • Promoting sustainable travel • Promoting sustainable procurement. Acknowledging that we cannot continue consuming natural resources at the current rate, we focus on ways to ensure the security of natural resources in all our operations. We are therefore exploring various opportunities as we work towards our ultimate goal of becoming carbon neutral. For example: • Ensuring the security of natural resources in all operations • Drawing energy from renewable sources where possible • Offsetting business travel emissions • Sourcing only from responsible suppliers. Emissionsper Emissions peraverage headcountfor averageheadcount forthethegroup group Emissions Emissionsper perm m22office spacefor officespace forthe thegroup group Tonnes TonnesofofCO2e CO2e Tonnes TonnesofofCO2e CO2e 10 10 0.5 0.5 8.44 8.44 0.43 0.43 8.20 8.20 0.41 0.41 88 0.4 0.4 0.39 0.39 7.05 7.05 0.36 0.36 0.35 0.35 6.23 6.23 66 5.74 5.74 0.3 0.3 44 0.2 0.2 22 0.1 0.1 00 00 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 Year Year Year Year Breakdown of group emissions Over the past five years our intensity indicators have steadily declined, largely as a result of electricity and gas reduction initiatives, despite an increase in headcount. to to 2.8% 5.74 tonnes of CO2e 0.35 tonnes of CO2e decrease in decrease in emissions decrease in emissions carbon emissions per average headcount per m2 office space (2018: 6.1%) (2018: 6.23 tCO2e) (2018: 0.36 tCO2e) 42 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 4 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE (continued) Group carbon footprint Our respective carbon footprints have been calculated according to the international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol’s Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition). Our environmental data collection system allows us to track and manage our direct operational impact. This tool imports data from various sources, consolidates the information and calculates our carbon footprint. The implementation of this tool allows us to produce reliable emissions data, accurately build a history of our carbon footprint and assists in setting targets for future emissions. Every year we endeavour to improve the thoroughness of our data collection processes. 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Tonnes of Consumption Tonnes of Consumption Variance in CO2 in unit of CO2 in unit of tonnes of CO2 Units equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent Notes Scope 1 1 901 2 168 (12.3%) Energy Natural gas kWh 296 1 609 702 462 2 508 683 (35.9%) 1 LPG stationary L 26 16 984 24 16 055 8.3% CO2 purchased kg – 306 – 171 – 2 Diesel L 6 2 341 44 17 113 (86.4%) 3 Refrigerant Refrigerant kg 1 361 843 1 433 884 (5%) Employee travel Vehicle fleet km 211 1 153 659 204 1 100 363 3.4% Scope 2 29 598 39 048 367 32 394 42 096 188 (8.6%) Energy Electrical energy consumption kWh 29 598 39 048 367 32 394 42 096 188 (8.6%) 4 Scope 3 27 361 26 018 5.2% Paper Paper consumption t 380 388 404 411 (5.9%) Waste General waste t 19 47 18 53 5.6% 5 Employee travel Rail travel km 79 1 865 186 71 1 624 080 11.3% Road business travel km 227 1 254 882 216 1 184 132 5.1% Taxi km 35 215 981 36 217 033 (2.8%) Commercial airlines km 26 622 86 559 177 25 273 83 234 230 5.3% Total emissions 58 860 60 580 (2.8%) No scope Water Water consumption kl 103 450 108 108 Recycled waste Recycled waste t 960 869 Intensity Emissions per average headcount 5.74* 6.23* Emissions per m² office space 0.35 0.36 Water consumption per average headcount kl 10.09* 11.11* 1 Consumption decreased as our UK head office relocated to more resource efficient premises during the year. 2 2018 data restated due to overstatement during capturing. 3 Decrease in diesel consumption due to fewer power outages experienced in South Africa in the current financial year. Significant increase expected in 2020 as reserves were replenished in April 2019. Diesel consumption also down in the UK as the head office moved to more resource efficient premises during the year. 4 Energy consumption declined as a result of electricity and gas reduction initiatives across all our offices, despite a headcount increase. 5 The reported general waste figure is expected to increase significantly in 2020, as our data collection efforts increase. * Includes permanent and temporary employees. Assessment parameters Consolidation approach: Operational control Emission factor data source: DEFRA (2018), IEA, eGRID (for New York electricity) and Eskom (for South Africa electricity) Emissions per average headcount Intensity ratio: Emissions per office space m2 Independent assurance: Limited assurance provided by KPMG for the years ended: 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2019 Coverage: Coverage of environmental information covers > 95% of our business operations. Materiality set at 5% COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 43 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE (continued) Highlights for Southern Africa In total, our Southern African offices achieved a 13.7% reduction in energy since 2014, despite a 37.6% growth in staff headcount. Our South African head office in Sandton, set an energy reduction target of 10% with 2014 as a base year. We achieved our 2020 13.7% reduction in energy target in 2018 and revised it to 14%. In the past year, we reached a 12.7% reduction in since 2014 for all Southern energy since 2014, as shown in the graph below. African offices Our biggest energy consumption is from air-conditioning systems (heating and cooling), lighting and information technology. During the last year, we spent approximately R1 million on power management equipment, and consolidation and modernisation of electrical and air-conditioning infrastructure in our South African R1mn spent on power management head office. In addition to the efficiencies gained through infrastructure improvements, equipment and consolidating consolidation and decommissioning activities in the data centre have resulted in further and modernisation of electrical energy consumption reductions. As a result of these initiatives, the consumption infrastructure in our South figures for 2019 are 2.9% lower than 2018. Further consolidation and modernisation African head office activities are planned for the 2020 financial year. The Investec environmental sustainability team manages the group’s internal Prevented environmental initiatives in South Africa. In the past year, we installed new recycling bins and launched a campaign to stop single-use plastic in our restaurant in the South African head office. We have also implemented further water-saving measures into 25 920 water bottles going to landfill bathrooms in all the regions following the severe drought experienced in the country. every month Investec staff participate in an initiative called Tops and Tags whereby staff collect plastic bottle tops and bread tags. In the past year, we donated an additional two wheelchairs to worthy recipients, bringing the total of wheelchairs donated to 45. As a 20 250kg of plastic waste prevented result, we prevented 20 250kgs of plastic tags polluting landfills. from going to landfill Participated in Investec offices and Investec staff joined millions of people across the world who switched off their lights for Earth Hour on Saturday, 30 March 2019 at 20:30. Earth Hour As part of our commitment to environmental sustainability, we have embarked on a Phase 1 of Green Star rating process, by the Green Building Council of South Africa (GBCSA), for our South African head office. A Green Star rating confirms that our efforts to reduce GBCSA our impact on the environment have been successful. The rating will be available in the Green Star next financial year. rating completed South African head office electricity reduction target (comprising 46% of group floor space) Percentage 0 -2 -4 -6 -8 -10 -12 electricity reduction of 12.7% -14 -16 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 since our 2014 base Year year Original % target reduction % reduction achieved % forecast reduction Revised % target reduction 44 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 4 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE (continued) Carbon footprint for Southern Africa 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Tonnes of Consumption Tonnes of Consumption Variance in CO2 in unit of CO2 in unit of tonnes of CO2 Units equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent Notes Scope 1 1 604 1 704 (5.9%) Energy LPG stationary L 26 16 984 24 16 055 8.3% CO2 purchased kg – 306 – 171 – 1 Diesel L 5 2 091 43 16 513 (88.4%) 2 Refrigerant Refrigerant kg 1 361 843 1 433 884 (5%) Employee travel Vehicle fleet km 211 1 153 659 204 1 100 363 3.4% Scope 2 25 986 27 415 342 27 027 27 638 508 (3.9%) Energy Electrical energy consumption kWh 25 986 27 415 342 27 027 27 638 508 (3.9%) 3 Scope 3 13 298 12 874 3.3% Paper Paper consumption t 124 132 97 104 27.8% Waste General waste t 13 22 13 23 – 4 Employee travel Road business travel km 30 165 755 33 178 478 (9.1%) Commercial airlines km 13 130 47 313 203 12 731 37 352 459 3.1% Total emissions 40 887 41 605 (1.7%) No scope Water Water consumption kl 82 273 75 840 Recycled waste Recycled waste t 235 268 Intensity Emissions per average headcount 7.19* 7.69* Emissions per m office space 2 0.36 0.37 Water consumption per average headcount kl 14.46* 14.02* 1 2018 data restated due to overstatement during capturing. 2 Decrease in diesel consumption due to fewer power outages experienced in the current financial year. Significant increase expected in 2020 as reserves were replenished in April 2019. 3 Energy consumption declined as a result of electricity reduction initiatives across all our offices, despite a headcount increase. 4 The reported general waste figure is expected to increase significantly in 2020, as our data collection efforts increase. * Includes permanent and temporary employees. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 45 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE (continued) Highlights for the UK and Other The UK head office’s Environment Management System (EMS), which covers the Re-certified to operational aspects of the building, and their Energy Management System (EnMS), which covers 23 of their buildings in the UK, Ireland and Channel Islands, were recertified to the international environmental standard ISO 14001 and the international energy standard ISO 50001 and ISO 14001 standards ISO 50001 in November 2018 respectively. Won our The UK head office won its 13th Platinum Award in the Corporation of London’s Clean City Awards Scheme for our waste management efforts. We have won the top award, 13th the Chairman’s Cup, three times, and the Platinum Award nine times since we joined the Platinum Award for scheme in 2005. best practice in waste management Avoided The UK head office refilled 23 250 bottles of pure drinking water for hospitality purposes avoiding 14 105kgs of glass waste. 14 105kg of glass waste Recertified to the The UK head office was recertified to the Carbon Trust Waste Standard, which is Carbon awarded to organisations that can demonstrate achievement in managing and reducing waste output and improving resource efficiency. We first achieved this certificate in 2014. Trust Waste Standard Sponsored the Investec London sponsored the Sustainable Resource category of the national Sustainable Cities Awards. The awards encourage wide participation from a diverse UK Sustainable audience of over 3 000 sustainability professionals. Cities Awards In conjunction with World Oceans Day in June 2018, Team Green ran a plastic fishing event. The event highlighted the issue of single-use plastic and the devastating effect Received a plastic waste has on our oceans and wildlife. We were invited by the City of London to be one of four launch partners in their Plastic Platinum pledge for achievements in Free City Pledge, and received a Platinum pledge for our achievements in reducing reducing single-use plastics single-use plastic in our office on entry. We continue to encourage active travel among our staff and implement cycle-towork schemes. We also signed the updated City of London’s Air Quality Pledge to Encouraged demonstrate our commitment to reducing poor air quality in London. active travel Switched off for Investec staff joined millions of people across the world who switched off their lights for Earth Hour on Saturday, 30 March 2019 at 20:30. Earth Hour The move of our UK head office in London to newly refurbished premises provided us Printers in new premises with an opportunity to ensure sustainability was central to the design. From a traditional reduced from 102 to office set up, we moved to an agile working environment, where staff use laptops instead of PCs increasing mobility and reducing the need for paper in meetings. 61 units Introduced We installed a new water efficient toilet system, Propelair, in our new UK head office. These toilets use 1.5 litres of water per flush as opposed to traditional toilets that use between 6-9 litres per flush. water efficient toilet system 46 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 4 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE (continued) Carbon footprint for UK and Other 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Tonnes of Consumption Tonnes of Consumption Variance in CO2 in unit of CO2 in unit of tonnes of CO2 Units equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent Notes Scope 1 297 464 (36%) Energy Natural gas kWh 296 1 609 702 462 2 508 683 (35.9%) 1 Diesel L 1 250 2 600 (50%) 1 Scope 2 3 612 11 633 024 5 367 14 457 680 (32.7%) Energy Electrical energy consumption kWh 3 612 11 633 024 5 367 14 457 680 (32.7%) 1 Scope 3 14 064 13 143 7% Paper Paper consumption t 256 256 307 307 (16.6%) Waste General waste t 6 25 4 30 50% Employee travel Rail travel km 79 1 865 186 71 1 624 080 11.3% Road business travel km 197 1 089 127 183 1 005 654 7.7% Taxi km 35 215 981 36 217 033 (2.8%) Commercial airlines km 13 491 39 245 974 12 542 45 881 770 7.6% Total emissions 17 972 18 974 (5.3%) No scope Water Water consumption kl 21 177 32 267 Recycled waste Recycled waste t 725 601 Intensity Emissions per average headcount 3.94* 4.39* Emissions per m² office space 0.33 0.35 Water consumption per average headcount kl 4.64* 7.47* D  ata has been gathered in line with requirements of the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme in the UK. We use the operational control method to determine what is included in our scope of reporting. The UK’s GHG report is the same as our carbon footprint report, and covers our energy usage across our UK and Other offices only. 1 Consumption decreased as our UK head office relocated to more resource efficient premises during the year. * Includes permanent and temporary employees. UK head office gas reduction target UK head office electricity reduction target (comprising 10% of group floor space) (comprising 10% of group floor space) Percentage Percentage 0 0 -10 -5 -20 -10 -30 -15 -40 -20 -50 -25 -60 -30 -70 -35 -80 -40 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Year Year Original % target reduction Revised % target reduction % reduction achieved Original % target reduction Revised % target reduction % reduction achieved Our UK head office, set a gas reduction target of 72% by 2020, Our UK head office, set an electricity reduction target of 35% by with 2008 as a base year. This target was achieved in the previous 2020, with 2008 as a base year. This target was achieved in the financial year and new targets will be set for the new premises. previous financial year and new targets will be set for the new premises. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 47 5 OU R B U SI N E S S IM PAC T 48 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 5 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT Our business impact through the SDGs Our commitment to sustainability recognises the interconnected nature of our business, the economy, the environment and society. We live in society, not off it. Our vision is to create and preserve sustained long-term wealth and help our clients grow their businesses. This cannot be done in isolation of our responsibility to the world around us. Our approach is to contribute in a positive and responsible way After extensive stakeholder engagement over the past 18 months, to the health of our economy, the well-being of our staff and we prioritised our goals to ensure that they are globally aligned communities, while safeguarding our natural resources, to build yet locally relevant to our core geographies and reflect our current a more resilient and inclusive world. We integrate environmental, business model and growth strategy. In selecting these priorities social and governance (ESG) considerations into our day-to-day we looked at where we can maximise the socio-economic and operations to ensure sustainable management with a long-term environmental impact by coordinating and integrating activities vision. This extends to our businesses where we have a critical across our businesses, our operations and our communities. As role to play in funding a sustainable economy that is cognisant of a result, we believe that our most significant contribution to the the world’s limited natural resources. We can make the greatest SDGs will be achieved through financing innovative solutions that socio-economic and environmental contribution by partnering with will address socio-economic issues and investing responsibly for our clients and stakeholders to have a tangible impact on reducing a more sustainable future. We can achieve this through enabling inequality. access to clean water (SDG 6) and affordable energy (SDG 7) as well as providing access to quality education (SDG 4). These We recognise the need to move as quickly and smoothly as are all vital for economic growth and job creation (SDG 8). At the possible towards a low-carbon economy while always being same time, our business has established expertise in building and mindful of the socio-economic consequences of this transition. supporting infrastructure solutions (SDG 9) and funding sustainable As a distinctive financial institution, we are aware of our broader cities and stronger communities (SDG 11). social responsibility and play a critical role in funding a stable and sustainable economy that contributes to our communities and is We are also embedding ESG considerations into our daily business cognisant of our planet’s limited natural resources. operations and processes through the following: We believe that the United Nations Sustainable Development • An established group ESG policy Goals (SDGs) provide a solid framework for us to assess, align • A group climate change statement and prioritise our activities. We recognise the pivotal role that the • ESG considerations incorporated in the credit and investment private sector, and in particular, the financial sector, will have in decision-making process their achievement. Our strategy is to harness the expertise in our • An ESG guidebook to assist consultants various businesses and identify opportunities to maximise impact by partnering with our clients, investors and various stakeholders • ESG training provided for consultants. to support delivery of the SDGs and build a more resilient and inclusive world. Our six priority SDGs are aligned with: • Our purpose • Our business model and growth strategy • Our global operations, to ensure local relevance. Our Our commitment commitment Our business to our to the impact people and environment communities OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 49 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Quality education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all through: SDG 4.3: Equal access to education SDG 4.4: Increasing the number of youth with relevant skills Benefits to society Benefits to our business Education brings significant benefits to society, not only By supporting quality education, we contribute to a greater through higher employment opportunities and income, but pool of talent for our own workforce. Within our business also via enhanced skills, improved social well-being and activities we actively finance and facilitate a number of quality of life, and access to networks. education and vocational businesses and partner with clients to enhance quality eduction and skills development in South Africa. Examples of our impact: Equal access to education (SDG 4.3) The Investec Africa Frontier Private Equity Fund 2, a private-equity fund managed by Investec Asset Management, has acquired a controlling stake in private-college operator Richfield Holdings, allowing growth of their blended model of distance learning and expansion into the rest of Africa. Richfield 96% operates more than 40 campuses in South Africa with more than 20 000 students. It offers a wide range of accredited Higher Education degrees, diplomas, and certificates as well as technical and vocational training of students are courses. Affordable vocational and higher education is a critical driver of development for the continent. black South Ninety-six percent of its students are black South Africans, of whom 85% come from households with Africans an annual household income of less than R120 000. On average, a Richfield graduate increases his/her household income four-fold within five years of graduating, highlighting how transformational the investment is. Refer to pages 59 to 61 for more information on our Investec Asset Management activities. The Investec Wealth & Investment philanthropy offering has become more strategic in nature due to 55% the move towards supporting more long-term sustainable solutions. At 31 March 2019, Investec managed philanthropy foundation investments to the market value of R580 million (2018: R576 million). These funds have derived income for distribution to charities on behalf of our clients to the value of approximately of funds were allocated to R31 million in the past year. This income is distributed by Investec charitable trusts, in accordance with the education decisions made by the respective foundation trustees. Of the funds allocated, 55% went to education, 29% to welfare and humanitarian, 4% to healthcare and 12% to social justice initiatives. Increasing the number of youth with relevant skills (SDG 4.4) Investec is an equity partner in Invictus Education Group and are integrally involved in the business from 93% a strategic perspective. With more than 20 000 learners, Invictus Education Group is continually reinvesting in education systems, processes and utilising technology as a key strategy. The hotel school focusses on practical as well as theoretical training, with emphasis on traditional values of service and hospitality. of students are employed upon Ninety-three percent of hotel school students are employed upon graduation. With more than 1 000 graduation learnerships running each year, the programme is making a significant contribution to skills development in South Africa. 50 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 5 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Clean water and sanitation Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all through: 6.1 Safe and affordable drinking water 6.4 Water use efficiency Benefits to society Benefits to our business Access to clean water and sanitation is a basic human We have established expertise in funding and structuring right and is essential for reducing poverty and improving infrastructure projects. We also partner with our clients to overall well-being. It is vital for agriculture, biodiversity and finance innovative water solutions which help communities economic growth but also keeps children in school and and business growth. In our own operations, we continually increases opportunities for women and girls in rural areas. look for opportunities to reduce our consumption and usage of water. Examples of our impact: Safe and affordable drinking water (SDG 6.1) Through our collaboration with the Entrepreneurship Development Trust (EDT), Innovation Africa have installed solar water pumping systems to 11 communities in rural South Africa. Nine of these villages are in Mpumalanga in the impoverished Bushbuckridge community and two are located in Limpopo. These innovative water infrastructure developments use sophisticated solar technology to extract water via bore holes from below the aquifer. The clean water is then piped to centrally-located taps throughout the community. Once the installation is complete, engineers install specialised remote monitoring technology that enables oversight from a distance. Approximately 20 000 litres of clean water are distributed to at least 8 000 people per village providing clean drinking water as well as supplying drip irrigation systems which in turn offers a source of 20 000 food and income for farmers and their families. The community takes ownership of the project allowing local residents to be employed in the construction and maintenance of the project, supporting skills development litres of clean and enhancing future employment prospects. drinking water Our private capital business is an equity partner in Abeco Tanks. Water is needed for success in agriculture, per day business, industry and mining – the pillars of our continent’s developing economies. Without a cost-effective, convenient and stable supply of water, every economy and community in Africa is at risk. Abeco Tanks aim to satisfy this increasing need for the hygienic storage of water and their cost-effective water tank storage solutions include elements of safety, hygiene, quality and durability. These water tanks have been installed in over 38 countries including Mauritius, Seychelles, Madagascar, Central America, Middle East as well as over the entire African continent. Abeco offers a unique perspective on potable water, waste-water, fire protection and industrial liquid applications. Abeco recognises the merits of each type of construction, which allows them to objectively propose the right type of storage for each application. Water use efficiency (SDG 6.4) Investec has taken an £8 million investment in Propelair, a UK company that uses innovation to reduce water 84% consumption from cistern flushing. Propelair uses 84% less water and 80% less energy than conventional toilets and is more hygienic. Investec also became a client of Propelair by installing only Propelair toilets at the their new premises in London. These energy and water efficient toilets are expected to help save more than water saving 6 500 000 litres of drinkable water per year. OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 51 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Industry, innovation and infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation through: 9.5 Upgrading technological capabilities 9.A Facilitate sustainable and resilient infrastructure development Benefits to society Benefits to our business Building quality infrastructure and sustainable industrial We have a proven track record and partner with the private development boosts productivity, incomes and standards sector and government for the delivery of infrastructure of living, leading to better health and education outcomes. through the provision of expertise to ensure the successful Technology and innovation are vital in addressing funding, implementation and development of projects. We environmental and economic challenges that come with see many opportunities to finance innovative technological industrial development and an increasing world population. or digital solutions to solve various socio-economic challenges. Examples of our impact: Upgrading technological capabilities (SDG 9.5) Investec is the anchor limited partner of an Israeli late-stage technology venture capital fund called Israeli Technology Investments Venture Capital Partners (ITI). The fund closed at the end of January 2019 with commitments of $80 million. One of its first investments was into a company called Vayyar Imaging Ltd which develops safe, mobile, low-cost 3D imaging sensors which enable applications in the fields of tumour detection, people-tracking, vehicle automation, security, radiation-level testing and construction, among others. Dedicated Investec has partnered with Crossfin to fund early-stage African fintech start-ups. Our partnerships aim to identify and fund innovative ideas and driven entrepreneurs who specifically develop solutions that point to the future of fintech financial products and services in Africa. Access to financial services and support are provided to the entrepreneurs. partnership The partnership will focus on entrepreneurs who are building solutions that meet the demands of modern consumers team and businesses and bring the sector closer to a more inclusive, high-growth future. Investec, in collaboration with BankservAfrica and uPort, has demonstrated a digital identity system anchored in the Ethereum blockchain. Through the Ethereum blockchain, the prototype allows individuals to register a universal, reusable and encrypted identity. The user has full ownership of his/her identity and can decide who can access their information. Improved security will minimise the risk of identity fraud significantly. For financial institutions, a blockchainbased identity system could improve efficiency and greatly reduce the friction and costs of client onboarding. Facilitate sustainable and resilient infrastructure development (SDG 9.A) Investec Asset Management launched a number of dedicated investment funds for investors who want to support the transition to a more sustainable economic model. The Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund (EAIF) is managed by Investec Asset Management and is now fully integrated into the African Investment platform. The Dedicated infrastructure investments we make through our Africa Private Markets strategies show how long-term asset owners investment can contribute to sustainable development, while generating investment returns. funds The EAIF is contributing to meeting the UN SDGs by supporting developing countries. The EAIF ensures that all supporting a projects it finances comply with both the relevant national legislation and international best practice, as set out in the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability and sustainable the supporting environmental, health and safety guidelines. The EAIF projects are subject to rigorous due diligence economic processes and assessed against a number of cumulative and annual development targets. Through this infrastructure model fund, we are enabling the long-term development of Africa’s infrastructure, stimulating economic growth and employment and fuelling Africa’s long-term growth. Refer to pages 59 to 61 for more information on our Investec Asset Management activities. 52 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 5 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Affordable and clean energy Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all through: 7.2 Increasing the share of renewable energy Benefits to society Benefits to our business We rely daily on energy to power our economies, drive We recognise the risk of climate change and are committed industry and transport, and provide light and warmth (or to supporting the transition to a clean and energy-efficient cooling) in our homes. Access in rural communities to global economy. We have international expertise in financing affordable energy positively impacts education, health and developing energy generation and transmission. We and learning. The increase of renewable energy reduces deliberately focus on financing infrastructure solutions that greenhouse gas emissions and is vital in the transition to a promote renewable energy. We also help clients to reduce low-carbon economy. their emissions and encourage investment in renewables and divestment from fossil fuels. Examples of our impact: Increasing the share of renewable energy (SDG 7.2) The slowdown in the world economy has potentially had an effect on investment in this sector. In South Africa, the roll-out of additional generation capacity had previously been delayed due to an impasse between the government and the state utility. With this seemingly resolved, the timing of investment in new generation capacity in South Africa under the programmes run by the Department of Energy is more certain and is no doubt a positive sign for investors in the energy market in South Africa going forward. 86% With the recent reccurrence of load shedding in South Africa and its significant impact on business, many large energy users have further committed to investing in self-generation, particularly in environmentally-friendly solar and battery technologies. of our energy lending We require that all power and infrastructure-related projects comply with applicable environmental, planning, portfolio labour and procurement laws and do not fund or invest in projects which do not have acceptable environmental relates to impact assessments, do not comply with procurement and labour laws, and either do or could reasonably be expected to breach acceptable behavioural, ethical or moral standards. We target transactions in countries with clean energy established laws that comply with World Bank standards and that have due processes that are applied reasonably and effectively. If not, sponsors and suppliers are obliged to give undertakings and comply with such standards. During the past year, we participated in £1.6 billion (2018: £1.2 billion) renewable energy projects around the world. We financed a total of 14 projects (2018: 8 projects) with installed capacity of 1 863 MW (2018: 1 450 MW). In the UK, Investec is leading the financing of Energy-from-Waste and biomass plants using environmentally sustainable technologies that generate renewable energy whilst diverting waste from landfill. Renewable energy financed during 2019 (1 863 MW) Energy portfolio split classified by type 31 March 2019 31 March 2019 86% Clean energy 61% Wind 14% Non clean energy 23% Solar 16% Energy-from-Waste OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 53 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Private Equity clean energy fund – Revego Africa Energy Recognising the opportunity to play a role in funding and transforming the energy sector, Investec created an energy fund, Revego Africa Energy (Revego), to invest in and acquire equity instruments in private unlisted companies that are undertaking renewable energy projects in sub-Saharan Africa with an initial focus on operating assets in South Africa. We expect that a significant portion of the future investment in sub-Saharan Africa will be in renewable and clean energy technologies. In January 2019, Investec and UK Climate R1bn Investments, in equal proportions, jointly committed R1 billion to the fund. Revego is targeting a listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in 2019. clean energy The fund manager will have a minimum 51% black shareholding which will see the transfer of skills to black fund employees, thereby facilitating the creation of a new majority black-owned investment manager and contributing to the transformation of the fund management industry. The nature and scope of Revego allows initial project investors, not all of whom are natural long-term investors in infrastructure, to exit their investments earlier than would traditionally be allowed with these types of investments, thereby providing much-needed liquidity in the African renewable energy market. Power generation through waste Melton Renewable Energy, UK – Energy-from-Waste The portfolio has a strong track record and is unique in the UK Power generation capacity in terms of its size and diversity, specifically in terms of scale, technology, fuel mix, sites and network connection points, and of 172 MW using a variety operating history. The portfolio is fully accredited as a renewable energy generator eligible to receive Renewable Obligations of waste streams Certificates (ROCs). Project Date Power Through its biomass business, MRE owns and operates one of the Country Role type closed capacity largest independent biomass-only fuelled power station portfolios in the UK, consisting of five biomass power stations with a net UK Lead arranger Waste 2018 172 MW installed capacity of 112.5 MW (and 59 MW of landfill gas). The plants generate electricity through a conventional thermal process Investec, alongside other lenders, provided a £174 million facility using a range of biomass fuels, which, if not burned, would need to to refinance Melton Renewable Energy (MRE). The MRE portfolio be sent to landfill. boasts a combined capacity of 172 MW, making it the single MRE’s landfill gas business generates renewable electricity biggest independently owned landfill and biomass gas portfolio in using naturally occurring methane produced by the anaerobic the UK. decomposition of waste deposited in landfill sites, which is used to power standard reciprocating engines. Rookery South, UK – Energy-from-Waste The plant is located in a prime key waste catchment area, with Generates power while providing excellent road access, and therefore well-placed to serve the London and home counties market. a disposing solution for The plant will process 525 000 tonnes of waste and generate 525 000 tonnes of waste approximately 62 MW of electricity. The waste is a mixture of untreated commercial, industrial and local authority-collected Project Date Power waste, with Veolia, the large water and waste company, supplying Country Role type closed capacity the majority of waste. UK Lead arranger Waste 2019 62 MW EfW is a process that uses household and commercial waste to generate electricity by burning it in combustion chambers at high Investec, alongside other lenders, provided approximately temperatures. This reduces the waste to 10% of its original volume £310 million to finance the construction and operation of Rookery, and is a better environmental solution than going to landfill. an Energy-from-Waste (EfW) facility. 54 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 5 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Earl’s Gate, UK – Energy-from-Waste Generates power and steam while Investec, together with other banks, has provided approximately £150 million to finance the construction and operation of Earl’s providing a disposing solution for Gate, a 216 000 tonnes EfW plant. The plant has a capacity of 21.5 MW. The project is owned by Brockwell Energy, the Green 216 000 tonnes of waste Investment Group and Covanta. The commissioning of the combined heat and power plant is expected in late 2021. Project Date Power Once operational, the plant will treat 216 000 tonnes of mixed Country Role type closed capacity household, commercial and industrial waste per year, avoiding the use of landfill. The plant will also provide power to local industrial UK Lead arranger Waste 2019 21.5 MW facilities. Kwinana, Western Australia – Energy-from-Waste Reduction of carbon emissions Investec was a joint lead arranger of the AUS $370 million senior debt facilities to the Kwinana Energy-from-Waste project of 400 000 tonnes per year, the in Western Australia. Kwinana is the first large scale waste incineration project in Australia and has been developed by equivalent of taking 85 000 Macquarie Capital and Phoenix Energy. The project can process cars off the road 400 000 tonnes per year of waste and produces 36 MW of electricity, sufficient to power more than 50 000 households. The Project Date Power plant will be a leader in integrating the disposal of waste with the Country Role type closed capacity generation of renewable energy. Once operational, the facility will result in an overall reduction of more than 400 000 tonnes CO2 AUS Lead arranger Waste 2018 36 MW of emissions per year, the equivalent of taking 85 000 cars off the road. Power generation through wind Rockwind, US – Wind energy The portfolio generates Investec, together with other institutions, has provided $134 million to support the refinancing of a portfolio of five wind farms in the approximately 1 500 GWh of United States with a total installed capacity of 538 MW. The portfolio generates approximately 1 500 GWh of renewable energy renewable energy per year per year. Project Date Power The portfolio is owned by Blackrock Real Assets that acquired Country Role type closed capacity it from Everpower in 2018. The portfolio utilises established technology from reputable equipment manufacturers such as US Lead arranger Wind 2018 538 MW Gamesa, Senvion and Nordex. Roggeveld Wind Farm, South Africa – Wind energy Roggeveld Wind will provide energy Investec provided a R65 million facility to Roggeveld Wind to guarantee their equity commitment into the 147 MW Roggerveld to 49 200 households every year Wind Farm project. Roggerveld Wind was awarded preferred bidder status in the Renewable Energy Independent Power Project Date Power Producer Procurement (REIPPP) programme in South Africa. The Country Role type closed capacity project is situated in the Northern Cape and was developed by Building Energy. The wind farm will generate around 613 GWh SA Lead arranger Wind 2018 147 MW per year and the energy generated will provide energy to 49 200 households every year, while avoiding approximately 502 900 tonnes of CO2 emissions. The project is expected to be operational in April 2021. OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 55 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Power generation through solar Mulilo, South Africa – Solar energy Mulilo Solar is a portfolio of rooftop Investec provided senior debt facilities to Mulilo to finance a portfolio of rooftop Solar Photovoltaic (PV) projects. Mulilo was Solar PV projects across 11 sites awarded preferred bidder status by Coca Cola Beverages South Africa for the construction, operation and maintenance of a totaling 10.4 MW portfolio of rooftop Solar PV projects across 11 sites totalling 10.4 MW. Project Date Power Country Role type closed capacity SA Lead arranger Solar 2018 10.4 MW Kathu, South Africa – Solar energy Reduction of six million tonnes of The cutting-edge energy generation and storage technology contributes 100 MW of energy into the national grid providing CO2 emitted over the next 20 years 179 000 households in the Northern Cape with constant power. Project Date Power The project has a large socio-economic impact, providing 1 700 Country Role type closed capacity jobs during construction, of which 42% were employed from the local community. A total of 27 social initiatives were implemented Senior debt with a focus on improving the education levels in the community. SA provider Solar 2018 100 MW More than 16 900 beneficiaries benefit from the various social Investec is the senior debt provider, co-developer and shareholder initiatives. in the Kathu Solar Park, South Africa’s largest concentrated solar It is estimated that the Kathu Solar Park will prevent approximately power greenfield project in operation. six million tonnes of CO2 going into the atmosphere over the next 20 years. Gridserve, UK – Solar energy Innovative combined solar and The project will use large grid-scale batteries and innovative technology to maximise revenues and demonstrate a new battery plant saving 16 000 tonnes commercial model for delivering subsidy-free solar energy in the UK. of carbon a year On completion, the solar park will be acquired by Warrington Project Date Power Borough Council, in a landmark deal which will make it the Country Role type closed capacity first local authority to produce all its own electricity from clean energy and generate millions of pounds each year to support UK Lead arranger Solar 2019 21.5 MW essential services. The solar farm will generate enough green electricity to supply Investec, together with Leapfrog Bridge Finance Ltd (Leapfrog), more than 12 000 average UK homes or power more than 20 000 have financed the construction of a 34.7 MW solar farm plus electric vehicles, saving 16 000 tonnes of carbon a year. 27 MW battery located in York, UK. 56 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 5 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Decent work and economic growth Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all through: 8.5 Full and productive employment and decent work 8.9 Promote sustainable tourism Benefits to society Benefits to our business Inequality and poverty are inextricably linked to having Our business plays a critical role in providing capital to fund a decent work and being an active economic participant. stable and sustainable economy. We use our specialist skills Entrepreneurship and job creation are therefore key to support our clients in growing their businesses. We have to ensuring sustained economic growth, in addition to a strong focus on financing entrepreneurs who are critical in eradicating forced labour, child labour, slavery and human accelerating job creation and supporting sustained economic trafficking. growth. Examples of our impact: Promoting full and productive employment and decent work (SDG 8.5) During the year, the Wealth & Investment business exposed clients to the opportunity of investing into Investing into funds funds to grow qualifying privately-owned SMMEs. These funds aim to improve South Africa’s economic to grow SMMEs growth and contribute towards SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth). The funds have been set up in accordance with Section 12J of the Income Tax Act offering clients tax incentives for their contributions. Investec has acted as joint bookrunner in the £313 million Initial Public Offering (IPO) of ASA International Lending to Group plc (ASAI), one of the world’s leading microfinance providers. It is the first time this kind of lender female microhas listed in Europe. ASAI primarily lends to low-income, financially underserved female micro-entrepreneurs entrepreneurs as well as small business owners across Asia and Africa. Investment strategy Investec Asset Management has launched the Investec UK Sustainable Equity Fund (OEIC) offering focused on UK clients a diversified and differentiated investment strategy focusing on positive impact and engagement and aims to provide investors with long-term capital growth and income. The fund will be managed through positive the Investec Asset Management’s established quality investment process and ESG team. Internal and external sustainability of each company will be evaluated using Investec Asset Management’s proprietary impact framework of investible Sustainable Themes, mapped against the UN SDGs, covering social and economic development issues including factors such as health, education, social justice, global warming and poverty. More than Investec Property Fund (IPF) supports an enterprise and supplier development initiative known as AMP. The purpose is to facilitate collaboration between property entrepreneurs in a space that will nurture and R13mn grow their offerings, services and projects. They are provided with subsidised office space as well as skills, mentorship and assistance in facilitating procurement opportunities. In 2018, IPF identified a further seven of contracts awarded black-owned small, medium and micro enterprises in the property sector to partner and collaborate with, to AMP tenants bringing the total number of businesses participating in the AMP programme to 13. A revamp of the space (since inception in 2016) is planned for 2019 to be able to accommodate up to 20 businesses. Contributing to economic growth through supporting tourism (SDG 8.9) Investec has partnered, through a public/private partnership, with Wesgro, to help secure direct routes into Cape Town International Airport. Wesgro is the official tourism and trade investment promotion agency Creating an aviation for Cape Town and the Western Cape. The initiative has supported tourism, an important growth sector hub in Cape Town for South Africa, by creating direct access to Cape Town which is an important route for the rest of Africa. Non-stop connections to Cape Town increased from three to 13 non-stop connections, allowing 18 airlines to expand, creating an aviation hub in Cape Town. OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 57 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Sustainable cities and communities Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable through: 11.1 Providing access for all to safe and affordable housing 11.2 Providing access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all 11.C Supporting sustainable and resilient buildings Benefits to society Benefits to our business Meaningful sustainable development requires a significant Through our lending and investment activities, we are transformation in the way we deal with rapid urbanisation. able to play a meaningful role in building sustainable cities A more resilient and sustainable approach is required when and communities. Our property business focuses on building cities to reduce vulnerability to various factors, such developments that bring value to surrounding communities as natural disasters, overcrowding and air pollution. This and invest in sustainable and resilient buildings. We also requires investment in safe and affordable housing, efficient finance innovative technologies that can contribute to public transport, green public spaces, and improving urban more sustainable transport systems and safer, robust planning to be more inclusive. infrastructure solutions. Examples of our impact: Providing access for all to safe and affordable housing (SDG 11.1) Investec Australia’s infrastructure finance and investment team funded an affordable housing development in Adelaide which allowed key workers (for example nurses, police, council workers) a discounted rental Discounted rentals rate for up to three years while they saved for a deposit to purchase their home. The team in Australia for key workers continues to look for further opportunities to deliver new mixed communities where social housing blends in with private and affordable housing. Promoting sustainable transport (SDG 11.2) 1 500 Recognising the need for enabling cleaner transport and cleaner cities, we have invested in a UK-based company specialising in electric vehicle (EV) rapid charging. Through our investment 1 500 rapid chargers EV rapid chargers in are being installed across London, thereby contributing to SDG 11 (sustainable cities and communities). London Supporting sustainable and resilient buildings (SDG 11.C) Investec Property Fund (IPF), managed by Investec Property and 26.57% owned by Investec Limited, actively explores sustainable business development. IPF tracks and benchmarks consumption across the portfolio in order to identify energy efficiency opportunities as well as monitoring improvements. Exploring continued In the last financial year, IPF implemented Solar Photovoltaic (PV) projects on six of their building’s rooftops: roll-out of Balfour Mall, Newcastle Mall, Zevenwacht Mall, Kriel Mall, Dihlabeng Mall and 30 Jellicoe, totalling 5.4 MW. This has reduced both the cost of electricity and the demand from the grid. IPF is exploring the continued Solar PV roll-out of Solar PV plants across its retail, office and industrial property portfolios. Through a joint venture, Investec Property launched a second FutureSpace office initiative, allowing entrepreneurs and small businesses to have access to a collaborative and coworking space. This facilitates smarter cities and economic development. 58 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 5 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Investec Asset Management Investec Asset Management is deeply committed to creating a better, sustainable future. We are conscious of our responsibility, both as investors of other people’s money and of our broader responsibility to society. Through our core investing activities, our leadership in the industry, our environmental initiatives and our commitment to our local communities, we seek to make a positive impact in all that we do. We look at a broad set of activities that are aligned with achieving the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) recognising sustainable development as the greatest challenge to humanity. As a result, our sustainability activities are organised into three focus areas: INVEST ENGAGE INHABIT On behalf of our clients, we Through focused engagement We believe that change starts at invest responsibly for a more with our clients and stakeholders, we home and therefore take direct sustainable future. generate and provide insight to shape responsibility for our environmental the global imperative for sustainable and social impact. development. Invest long-term shareholder value. We focus on adding value across our investment teams (spanning equity, fixed income, multiOn behalf of our clients, we invest asset and alternatives) through ESG integration. We have responsibly for a more sustainable future. developed an internal framework which enables us to apply a consistent approach to integration analysis, and allows our How we allocate capital arguably presents the biggest impact investment teams to develop their own unique approach to ESG. for our industry and it is under the Invest umbrella that we aim to tackle this challenge. In our role as a global asset manager Launch of sustainability strategies in the equity space we assume a stewardship role over the assets that we manage. We recently launched our first two sustainability strategies We monitor, evaluate and, if necessary, actively engage or in the equity space. These funds reside within the natural withdraw capital to preserve or add value to our clients’ portfolios. resources and quality investment teams. They were launched Our approach and commitment to this priority is outlined in our off the back of three key components: stewardship policy and is overseen by our internal Investment • Internal maturity around ESG and a deep understanding Governance Committee, which includes senior leaders from of materiality and active ownership around the business. We are a signatory of the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI), the UK Stewardship • Identifying appropriate internal and external portfolio Code and the Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa managers to manage the strategies (CRISA). We are also involved in various advocacy organisations • An investment strategy proposition that we believe is which allow us to better engage on issues of active ownership unique and will deliver investment returns for our clients. on a global scale with other investors. We believe that we are uniquely positioned to benefit from the As a fiduciary of our clients’ money, it is our legal obligation to long-term opportunity in sustainable investing and are fully make sure we consider all material risks and opportunities to committed to it. In addition, we also manage several bespoke our investments. We believe that the consideration of material ESG mandates for clients that involve deeper ESG integration ESG risks and opportunities allows us to better understand such as additional screening or advanced engagement, and risks and identify companies that are better placed to create we expect this to continue to expand and evolve. OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 59 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) ESG integration framework holdings that are significant to Investec Asset Management and our clients. We engage to improve transparency of information, accountability of boards and to preserve and encourage the 1 2 creation of sustainable value. It is important that we measure and Universe Fundamental monitor engagement progress. screening analysis Investec Asset Management votes at shareholder meetings throughout the world as a matter of principle. We believe that once we become investors, that is to say part-owners of a company, we assume a duty of stewardship and therefore take ESG responsibility to support or sanction. We follow the international integration corporate governance best practice principles, as embodied by framework the International Corporate Governance Network. We also take into account regional/country-specific market practice as the underpinning infrastructure for our decision‑making. 5 3 Ultimately the ESG view is in-house. Once we become a holder of the asset we become active owners and engage with the company Reporting Portfolio construction or issuer, as necessary, to make sure the management of the risks are of a high standard and minimise any risks of future events that may destroy value. We recognise that we have a responsibility and opportunity to lead the conversation around sustainable 4 development and encourage our clients on their journey towards Engagement more sustainable long-term investing. Our investment teams largely integrate ESG analysis at the fundamental analysis stage, where they form a qualitative, Case Study: UK Sustainable Equity Fund quantitative or a mix of both account for material ESG issues. We The fund’s Strategy intentionally allocates capital towards obtain company ESG analysis from a number of sources, including those companies that have a positive impact towards key external service providers. These sources allow us to build a view societal or environmental themes and make a significant of how well the companies are identifying, managing and planning contribution towards the transition to a more sustainable for these long-term issues. In addition, Investec Asset Management future. The strategy sets out to understand three pillars of has an exclusion policy for cluster munition manufacturers. This sustainability: applies to all investment products, and complies with Luxembourg legal requirements. • Financial sustainability: through our tried and tested quality research framework To aid the effective integration of ESG analysis, Investec Asset • Internal sustainability: assessing ESG risks and Management’s dedicated ESG team has worked closely with each operational sustainability such as carbon intensity, supply of the investment teams to establish the integration programme. chain policies, training and health and safety records The programme includes a focus on team awareness, training, ensuring effective use of research and data, facilitating research • External sustainability: analysing the products and efforts, and participation in external initiatives and active ownership services against the Investec thematic framework. responsibilities. It is important to note that this is not an add-on Through detailed proprietary fundamental research to assets process but is integrated within the process. Each programme is of measure these three pillars of sustainability, the strategy catered for the nuances and intricacies of each team’s respective is well placed to deliver a sustainable investment return and investment processes. positively contribute to a better future. Active ownership Our Invest approach contributes to the following SDGs: While all investment teams follow the fundamental principles of our stewardship policy, the manner in which they play an active ownership role is determined by an assessment of the costs and benefits to our clients as well as the particular nature of the investment strategy. Any strategy of intervention in terms of active ownership will be subject to portfolio decisions on whether to remain invested in the company, with the protection and enhancement of the value of client portfolios being the central objective. Engagements take place as an integral part of our investment process. The investment teams initiate engagement based on their investment processes and priorities. In addition, a supporting engagement strategy targets material ESG themes and specific 60 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 5 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Through our various • • The UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network The UNPRI. engagements, we aim to Our dialogue with international business, governments, labour and civil society leaders aims to articulate and quantify the case empower our clients with for participation in moving towards sustainable development. This includes the imperative to build new policies and mechanisms to insight and knowledge to build a future where businesses can perform, creating inclusive sustainable growth and widespread job creation, and the support their long-term achievement of the SDGs. These initiatives aim to explore current and future disruptive business models, understanding what they investment objectives. mean for sustainable development and to map out new financing mechanisms the world will need to reach the SDGs, moving beyond traditional corporate social responsibility and voluntary partnerships. Engage Global Commission on Business and Sustainable Through focused engagement with our Development clients and stakeholders, we generate Launched at the 2016 World Economic Forum in Davos, and provide insight to shape the global the Global Commission on Business and Sustainable imperative for sustainable development. Development (BSCD) convened a select group of international business, labour and civil society leaders to We believe it is important to not only manage our clients’ assets in highlight the massive rewards to businesses who take a a responsible manner but also to proactively engage our clients and lead in poverty reduction and sustainable development. stakeholders on the subject of sustainability and encourage our clients As an appointed commissioner, Hendrik du Toit, founding on their journey towards more sustainable long-term investing. CEO of Investec Asset Management and now co-CEO Through the Investec Investment Institute, our strategic insights and of the Investec Group, joined founders Paul Polman and engagement platform, we provide in-depth analysis and research Lord Malloch-Brown in working to articulate and quantify to global financial institutions on key geopolitical, economic and the compelling economic case for businesses to engage in investment trends that shape portfolio strategy and asset allocation achieving the SDGs. The Commission’s Finance Working decisions. Our work draws on our investment capabilities and Group findings outlined a series of recommendations for partnerships with leading academics and practitioners. Our goal is regulators and business leaders in building a system which to empower our clients with insight and knowledge to support their is aligned with sustainable development to finance the long-term investment objectives. Portfolio resilience, sustainability, US$2-3 trillion of additional investment per year required to and ESG applied to investing have been central themes of the achieve the SDGs. Institutes’s work that we continue to share with our clients. Our leadership is fully engaged with a series of global organisations Our Engage approach contributes to the following SDGs: committed to the advancement and implementation of sustainable development: • The Business and Sustainable Development Commission • The Coalition for Inclusive Capitalism • The SDG Centre for Africa Inhabit aligning with our corporate culture and our mission to exceed clients’ expectations in all aspects of what we do. We believe that change starts at home and * Further detail on our Inhabit activities is included in the relevant sections therefore take direct responsibility for our throughout this report. environmental and social impact. We take responsibility for inhabiting our ecosystem in a manner Managing our energy consumption that ensures a sustainable future for all. From our internal green We mitigate our carbon footprint from our business travel team through to our work in conservation and communities both through our strategic partnerships with Trees for Cities and in South Africa and globally, we support the preservation of our Woodland Trust in the UK and Greenpops in South Africa. natural world, supporting a better tomorrow for future generations.* In the UK office we have implemented a comprehensive Our corporate sustainability strategy is focused on five areas: behaviour change programme that has increased our energy, waste, water, sustainable travel and responsible recycling by 209%. Furthermore, we collected 1 435 kg of procurement, that all drive towards the reduction and mitigation food waste in our first year of collecting it, thereby reducing of our carbon footprint. Investec Asset Management Green, our our landfill gas emissions into the atmosphere. internal team of champions, is supported by the senior team, OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 61 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Commitment to our clients Clients are at the core of our business and we strive to provide them with a high quality of service by being nimble, flexible and innovative. We strive to create business depth by building deep durable relationships with our clients and creating new client relationships. In the past year, customer deposits increased 4.1% (2018: 6.5%). We successfully launched Investec for Business (an integration of our import solutions, trade finance and specialised lending services) to provide a more cohesive offering to smaller to mid-tier companies in South Africa. This will be complemented by a corporate and business transactional banking offering, which will be rolled out over the coming year. In the UK, we are deepening and growing our corporate client base and the Private Banking business is focusing on retention and acquisition of target market clients, and further collaboration across businesses. 4.1% 7.2% 22% Increase in Decrease in Increase in our customer deposits* customer complaints in Private customer logins* Banking in South Africa* Our integrated client centric strategy leverages off the natural linkages within the private client businesses and the corporate banking businesses. Links between Southern Africa Links between Specialist Bank and and the UK Wealth & Investment • Seamlessly serving South African high • Private Bank/Wealth offering: One Place net worth and corporate clients who have • Wealth & Investment: access to products international financial needs (where suitable) originated/sourced/ • Leveraging expertise in specialist client developed in the Bank Existing franchises • Client journeys: interconnections across connectivity • Share use operations (e.g South African corporate bank, investment bank, private customer service centre) bank and wealth • Single global investment process for • Global digital platforms for private clients of Wealth & Investment independent financial advisors • Greater cross collaboration between the • Create cross referrals between the various banking businesses Specialist Bank and Wealth & Investment • Cross boarder mergers and acquisitions business particularly in the UK Opportunity transactions products • Further digital platform integration around for greater client type • Providing international investment products to connectivity our intermediary clients • Potential for further shared operational • Leverage the transaction banking platform linkages between South Africa and UK • Alternative investment products * As at 31 March 2019. 62 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 5 OUR BUSINESS IMPACT (continued) Technology is both a Highlights for the year business enabler and a • Refreshed private client web and app experience catalyst for continuous • globally Launch of Investec for Intermediaries (unified digital improvement in executing our • interface) in South Africa Launch of business banking platforms in both the strategies in a digital era. • UK and South Africa Launch of Investec Open API which brings Investec into the open banking arena and provides Investec with a new channel to distribute and service our products in the UK • Launch of a high net worth mortgage lending platform in the UK • Launch of a dedicated advisor platform for intermediaries to our UK financial products business. Digital strategy Our digital strategy is centred on optimisation and transformation of our existing businesses, while ensuring we maintain a strong client centric focus. We aim to provide: • A visible client facing digital capability • End-to-end internal digitalisation • A strong connectivity into the external business ecosystem. In the past few years, we have created an international high-tech, high-touch digital platform for clients. Through this, we give our clients access to our full suite of international banking and investment services, enabling them to create, grow, preserve and protect their wealth. We are continually enhancing and evolving our client digital platforms to ensure a seamless, integrated client service experience, which now includes a dedicated Investec for Intermediaries, and a business banking experience. Fintech and external Digital transformation New digital ventures OBJECTIVES AND FOCUS AREAS ecosystem engagement • Channel engagement • Partnerships: • New ventures aligned • Digitising products and –– Open banking with Investec strategy: services through the value • Investment: –– Banking for Business chain –– Investec Life –– Emerging companies • Integration around client • Acquisitions groupings • Outsourced capability • Learning initiatives • Productivity optimisation Exploiting existing business capability KEY RESULTS Exploring new business models A high-touch, high-tech experience for our clients Continuous improvement in our ability to execute strategy in a digital era OUR BUSINESS IMPACT 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 63 6 GO V E R N AN C E , R IS K AN D C O MPL I A N C E 6 GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE (continued) Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure. Our values require that directors and employees behave with integrity, displaying consistent and uncompromised moral strength in order to promote and maintain trust. Ethics and integrity Investec has a strong culture of entrenched values, which form Highlights for the year the cornerstone of our behaviour towards stakeholders and against which we measure practices and activities to assess the In line with discussions with our regulators, work was characteristics of good governance. Directors and employees are done to further develop the governance processes of required to conduct themselves with integrity, consistently and the group, with the enhancement of the independent uncompromisingly displaying moral strength and behaviour that governance structures for Investec Bank Limited promotes trust. Sound corporate governance is implicit in our (IBL) and Investec Bank plc (IBP), including the values, culture, processes, functions, organisational structure, and establishment of a standalone Audit Committee and the structures designed to formalise oversight of all businesses and Board Risk and Capital Committee for IBL and the processes. We expect employees to adopt a responsible, open creation of a standalone Board Risk and Capital and trustworthy approach to managing their behaviour within the Committee and Remuneration Committee for IBP. organisation. Employees are encouraged to deal with issues openly and honestly by sharing information directly and at any level that they feel appropriate. Our Board The board oversees and monitors, on an ongoing basis, how the consequences of the group’s activities and outputs affect its standing as a responsible corporate citizen. This oversight and monitoring is performed against measures and targets agreed with management in the workplace, economy, society and environment.  P  lease refer to our publicly available document on ‘The way we do business’ which highlights elements of our code of conduct and positioning in terms of various ESG activities. Our group-wide philosophy seeks to maintain an appropriate In fulfilling this objective, the board is responsible for: balance between the interests of all stakeholders and is closely • Approving the group’s strategy aligned to our culture and values which include risk consciousness, • Acting as a focal point for, and custodian of, corporate meritocracy, material employee ownership and an unselfish governance contribution to colleagues, clients and society. • Providing effective leadership with an ethical foundation The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement • Ensuring the group is a responsible corporate citizen in pursuit of Investec’s strategic goals and objectives to achieve long-term sustainability and growth. The board is accountable for • Being responsible for the governance of risk, including risks the performance and affairs of the group. It provides leadership associated with information technology for the group within a framework of prudent and effective controls • Ensuring the group complies with the applicable laws and which allows risks to be assessed and managed. considers adherence to non-binding rules and standards • Monitoring performance • Ensuring succession planning is in place. Refer to pages 104 to 152 in volume one of the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report for more information. GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 65 GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE (continued) Structure and governance framework Investec operates under a dual listed companies (DLC) structure and considers the corporate governance principles and regulations of both the UK and South Africa before adopting the appropriate standard for the group, which also complies with requirements in both jurisdictions. DLC board of directors DLC Nominations DLC Remuneration DLC Board Risk and DLC Social and DLC Audit and Directors Affairs Committee Capital Committee Ethics Committee Committee Committee (DLC Remco) (DLC BRCC) (DLC SEC) (DLC Nomdac) Policy Executive Asset and Liability DLC Risk Review Forum Committee Capital (Policy ERRF) (ALCO) Committee Global Global Operations Compliance Risk Committees Committees Stakeholders The board comprised of six executive directors and ten non-executive directors including the chairman. The changes to the composition of the board and the boards of the principal subsidiaries of the Investec group, which have occurred during the financial year ended 31 March 2019, are detailed on page 17 in volume one of the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report. Board diversity the board members of Investec Limited and Investec plc who are The board recognises that a balanced board is vital for sustainable ordinarily resident in South Africa (and having been naturalised prior value creation. The board composition is both qualitatively and to 1994) are black women as defined in South African legislation, quantitatively balanced in terms of skills, demographics, gender, and that 50% of the board members of Investec Limited and nationality, experience, tenure and independence. Investec plc who are ordinarily resident in South Africa (and having In accordance with our board diversity policy, the board intends to been naturalised prior to 1994) are black people as defined in the ensure a minimum female representation of 33% on the board by Financial Sector Code or similar legislation that may be in force in 2020. The board also intends to ensure that a minimum of 25% of South Africa from time to time. Board diversity as at 31 March 2019 Age: Board geographical mix Board gender balance 40 – 50 6% 51 – 60 38% 61 and above 56% 43% South Africa 75% Male 50% UK 25% Female 7% Other 66 GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 6 GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE (continued) Board tenure and independence The DLC Nomdac considers tenure when examining As identified, the DLC Nomdac considers the guidance set out in independence, and when considering the composition of the the UK Corporate Governance Code and the King IV Code when board. The board and the DLC Nomdac are mindful that there considering the independence of the non-executive directors, needs to be a balance resulting from the benefits brought on and follows a thorough process of assessing independence on by new independent directors, versus retaining individuals with an annual basis for each director. In accordance with directive valuable skills, knowledge and an understanding of Investec’s 4/2018, as issued by the South African Prudential Authority, any unique culture. director serving for more than nine years will not be deemed to be independent. Board tenure as at 31 March 2019 Average tenure for the non-executive directors Average length of service (years):  6 for non-executive directors 10% 0 – 3 years 50% 3 – 6 years UK Corporate Governance 20% 6 – 9 years recommendation: 20% 9 years plus Recommendation that non-executives should not serve longer than nine years from the time of their appointment. Board effectiveness The board regularly reviews its own effectiveness and therefore board members were found to be satisfied with various aspects undertakes an evaluation of its performance and that of its of board governance and functioning. The board effectiveness committees and individual directors annually. In accordance review identified that there had been an improvement to board with the three-year cycle, the 2018 board effectiveness review governance and functioning, in comparison with the previous was conducted by an external independent facilitator, Professor externally facilitated effectiveness review, which had been Robert Goffee, from the London School of Business. Overall the conducted by Professor Robert Goffee in 2015. Refer to pages 104 to 152 in volume one of the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report for more information. GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 67 GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE (continued) Compliance Investec remains focused on maintaining the highest levels of compliance in relation to regulatory requirements and integrity in each of our jurisdictions. The way we do business Investec has a strong culture of entrenched values, which form Anti-bribery and corruption: Investec seeks to uphold high the cornerstone of our behaviour towards stakeholders and standards of honesty, transparency and ethical behaviour and does against which we measure practices and activities to assess the not tolerate bribery or corruption in any form in any of the countries characteristics of good governance. Directors and employees are in which it operates. Employees must ensure their conduct does required to conduct themselves with integrity, consistently and not contravene any of the local laws in the jurisdiction which uncompromisingly displaying moral strength and behaviour which we operate in, including the UK Bribery Act and the Prevention promotes trust. Sound corporate governance is implicit in our and Combating of Corrupt Activities in South Africa. The same values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure approach to doing business is expected from business partners. and the structures designed to formalise oversight of all businesses Conflicts of interest: The group has a regulatory and fiduciary and processes. Employees are encouraged to deal with issues requirement to manage its conflicts of interest (COI) with clients, openly and honestly, by sharing information directly and at any level between clients and between their employees and clients to ensure which they feel appropriate. the fair treatment of clients. Investec has both regulatory and Our businesses are subject to rigorous external regulation fiduciary obligations to ensure that all potential or actual COI to and supervision. Consequently, all employees have a duty to which it is party are identified timeously, mitigated where possible comply with acceptable standards of corporate governance and and appropriately managed. international best practice which we adopt, having due regard for: Confidentiality of information: Investec’s approach to privacy • The legal requirements of the region in which they operate and confidentiality of information is to ensure we respect and • The code of corporate governance applicable in that jurisdiction protect all personal information which we hold and ensure • The standards of conduct and competence required of a adherence to all local and international legislation for handling financial service provider personal information. • Ethical business practice, which includes fairness, Antitrust and anti-competitive practices: Investec is committed accountability, responsibility and transparency. to compliance with antitrust and anti-competitive laws in all the jurisdictions in which we operate. Investec does not tolerate any In all instances, employees are expected to exercise sound behaviour in contravention of these laws or the applicable internal judgement in accordance with our values and take advice where Investec policies and monitors compliance accordingly. appropriate so that high ethical standards are maintained. Anti-money laundering (AML) and terrorist financing: Risk management: We identify risk management as critical to Investec supports the objectives of global efforts to combat money our operations and in order to deliver value to all stakeholders, laundering and terrorist financing through the Investec AML and we continuously seek to comply with international best practice. combating of terrorist financing policy. In order to comply with acceptable standards of corporate governance and international best practice, we continuously review Fraud: We are committed to protecting both Investec and our practices and all employees are expected to comply with the its clients from becoming victims of fraud, ensuring adequate required standards. resources are provided for staff training and awareness, appropriate client education and implementing a proactive Tax strategy: Investec has a zero tolerance approach to the approach to detecting and preventing fraud. facilitation of tax evasion in any form and, where applicable, is committed to preventing the facilitation of tax evasion by persons Sanctions: Investec is committed to complying with the sanctions acting for or on its behalf, as defined by the relevant legislation. laws and regulations of the United Nations (UN), the UK, the Employees are expected to be vigilant in their interactions with European Union (EU), and the United States (US), as well as all clients and in structuring transactions in order to prevent the relevant international sanctions applicable to Investec’s business facilitation of tax evasion. operations. Whistle-blowing policy and protected disclosures: Our whistle-blowing policy aims to encourage employees to raise concerns or disclose information about possible fraudulent, unethical, criminal or other improper behaviour or workplace misconduct in total confidentiality and anonymity and without fear of retribution. 68 GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 6 GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE (continued) Outside business interests and employee participation: strict approval of the board and in equal amounts to the majority Employees must ensure that they do not engage in any private parties. All political donations are publicly disclosed in our annual pursuit or personal interests in conflict, or potential conflict, with financials. the interests of Investec. The policy details the pre-approval and declaration requirements in terms of outside business interests Compliance training and employee participation. Training has become of paramount importance as the regulatory Gifts and entertainment: Employees must ensure they do not environment within which we operate imposes increasing offer or receive any gifts and entertainment that could give rise obligations on Investec and its employees. The consequence to perceived or actual conflict of interest, or that could amount of non-compliance makes it imperative to ensure that relevant to, or create the impression of, bribery or inducement. The gifts employees are well trained and competent to comply with all and entertainment policy details the pre-approval and declaration of their obligations. Investec will regularly insist that employees requirements for the giving and receiving of gifts and entertainment undertake appropriate training to maintain the threshold of including limits, examples of what would be prohibited and relevant competency and compliance required. We believe that a wellbusiness procedures. trained and empowered employee will ensure that the risk of contravention and non-compliance is minimised. Political donations: Investec does not engage in any political campaigning. We may conduct dialogue with government In South Africa, 99% of employees completed AML training and on issues relevant to our business and ensure this is done passed with over 80%. transparently and with the best intentions for the growth of the Refer to ‘The way we do business’ on our website for economy and our business. On ad hoc occasions, political more detail. donations may be made to progress democracy but only under Environmental and social risk management Investec’s statement on climate change and policy on environmental and social risk take into account the challenges that climate change and limited natural resources present to the global economy.  This section should be read together with the full risk report in volume two of the Investec group’s 2019 integrated annual report. Investec Asset Management Highlights for the year Our approach and commitment to ESG considerations is • Training of a further 43 frontline banking consultants on outlined in our stewardship policy and is overseen by our internal environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices in Investment Governance Committee (IGC), which includes senior South Africa and the UK leaders from across the business. • We strengthened our climate change statement and environmental and social risk policy to include more We are a signatory of the United Nations Principles for Responsible detailed guidance for certain high-risk industries. Investment (UNPRI), the UK Stewardship Code and the Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa (CRISA). We expect our employees and stakeholders to operate and behave in a We are also involved in various advocacy organisations which allow socially and environmentally appropriate and responsible manner. us to better engage on issues of active ownership on a global In particular, the following factors are taken into account when scale with other investors. a transaction is evaluated and approved or declined based on Refer to our stewardship policy available on our website. sustainability considerations: • Environmental considerations (including animal welfare and climate-related impacts) • Social considerations (including human rights) • Macro-economic considerations. Refer to page 19 for considerations regarding human rights and modern slavery. Refer to our climate change statement and environmental policy on our website. GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 69 GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE (continued) Investec Specialist Bank and Wealth Our approach Equator Principles The group supports the precautionary approach to environmental We fully support the key provisions of the Equator Principles (EP) management and strives to minimise and prevent investing but we are not currently a signatory to EP for the following reasons: in projects or dealing with counterparties where potential and • While the principles are adhered to, our current internal unmitigated environmental degradation might result. The group framework is robust and, on a project-by-project basis, recognises that identifying and quantifying environmental risk in accordance with World Bank standards as well as the should be part of the normal process of risk assessment and standards of the legal and environmental frameworks of the management within businesses. For example: countries in which the projects are undertaken. Furthermore, • As part of our client on-boarding process, we would assess, we have enhanced procedures to evaluate and actively avoid, where appropriate, potential clients for various types of risks manage and mitigate the potential social and environmental including whether they are behaving responsibly in their impacts of the projects we support business activities • In the case of a number of large infrastructure and energy • Environmental and social risks are identified and assessed as projects, there is potential conflict between larger, nationwide part of transaction due diligence processes development imperatives (e.g. additional power generation or • Our operational activities are assessed for compliance with road transportation) to enhance the socio-economic welfare relevant environmental, health and safety, and labour rights of the region, and locally affected parties whose quality of life regulations stands to be adversely affected by relocation or job loss • We regularly review sensitive sectors and activities prone to • These trade-offs are a matter for local parties and their bearing environmental and social risks. representatives. While we should remain aware of them, it is not our responsibility to pass judgement on such trade-offs. The group will avoid exposures to any transactions that involve: Key to this, however, is that we target transactions in countries • Undue damage to high conservation and/or protected with established laws that comply with World Bank standards environmental areas and that have due processes that are applied reasonably and • Forced labour or child labour effectively. If not, sponsors and suppliers are obliged to give • The production and trade of controversial or military weapons undertakings and compliance with such standards. or ammunitions  efer to our group environmental policy statement R • The production or trade in any product or activity deemed available on our website. illegal under the country of operation’s laws and regulations. Any transactions with a corporate involved in transactions in the following activities requires stringent escalation to the senior group policy forum namely, Policy Executive Risk Review Forum: • The production and trade in radioactive materials • The production of harmful or addictive substances • Activities that involve early drug testing on humans • Activities that involve any form of testing on animals. We follow the guidelines supplied by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to categorise our general finance and lending activities into high, medium and low risk. 70 GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 6 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information technology (IT), cybersecurity and system availability Our vision is to continuously deliver efficient and effective information technology that enables business and excellent client service, within acceptable risk tolerance. Responsibility and oversight • Migrated from traditional disk storage to solid-state storage to improve performance and reduce footprint, power and cooling The board of directors regularly oversee the information technology requirements and cybersecurity strategies and review processes. The IT Risk • Adopted modern technologies in the new London office, and Governance Committee, who meet on a quarterly basis, has including the introduction of an agile working system where oversight of how technology and security risks are managed and energy efficient laptops are used instead of PCs report back to the board with relevant updates. Lyndon Subroyen, part of Investec’s IT leadership, has recently been appointed to • Significantly reduced our printer and photocopier fleets and the executive as the Global Head of Digital and Technology. In implemented follow-me printing which defaults to double-sided addition, Laurel Bowden, an independent non-executive director, black and white printing to optimise paper and toner usage has relevant enterprise software and fintech expertise. Bi-annual • Continued to expand usage of energy efficient cloud services directors training takes place to educate and enhance awareness and reduced the procurement of hardware in our outsourced around IT and cybersecurity matters. UK datacentres. Strategy Key business application related development Investec recognises that information and technology resources are Our business application related developments are focused on critical business assets which need to be appropriately managed consolidation and automation. During the 2019 financial year we: and secured. We continue to drive innovation in line with defined • Continued to consolidate and merge technology and support business objectives – integrating people, technologies, information teams across divisions and geographies and processes, and leveraging IT to sustain and enhance the • Streamlined the leveraging of the Global Client Support Centre organisation’s intellectual capital. Fundamental to this is monitoring in South Africa and the digital channel and appropriate response to developments in technology, including the capturing of potential opportunities and the management of • Increased the use of single security and service management disruptive effects on the organisation. We strive to make ethical use applications across the group of technology, protect client and employee privacy, and responsibly • Increased the use of online software solutions that require little dispose of obsolete IT infrastructure and data. to no local server resources The key principles underpinning our IT strategy are: • Explored a variety of emerging technologies, including machine learning, artificial intelligence and robotics, to improve • Aligning IT architecture across the group automation and efficiency. • Rationalising and simplifying our application and data footprint • Commoditising common IT functions and processes IT security and risk management • Leveraging our digital offering We continue to build information security and IT risk management • Continuing to improve our security capability. capabilities across the group while promoting the responsible handling of personal data. Our strategy is to enable business R  efer to page 11 in volume two of Investec group’s continuity while protecting information assets by proactively 2019 integrated annual report for more detail on our identifying and mitigating threats to our people, processes, risk appetite statement. technology and data. This approach is underpinned by three core security principles: defence in depth, security by design and roleKey infrastructure related developments based access, with emphasis on group-wide coordination and efficiency. We run training campaigns to maintain staff awareness Infrastructure related developments aim to reduce our of information security risks and reinforce their responsibilities in environmental footprint and at the same time improve IT efficiency. safeguarding information assets. During the 2019 financial year we: Policies and procedures are in place for employees with access • Continued consolidating databases, reducing hardware and to critical information. A suite of IT security policies is available power requirements internally to all staff which includes a detailed Secure and • Implemented on-premise containerisation, reducing our Acceptable Usage Policy. Information security awareness is an virtualisation footprint and resulting in less physical server hosts ongoing activity and as such training is provided to staff to ensure required for business applications high levels of vigilance. In addition to interactive security training, • Accelerated digitalisation initiatives to reduce physical paper ad hoc focused awareness takes place as needed through various requirements channels including face-to-face, email, and the corporate intranet. GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 71 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (continued) Information security training During the year we ran a modular computer based training (CBT) Targeted attack simulations by external specialists are performed information security awareness campaign, aimed to educate staff to measure and improve cyber defences. These are complemented about the threats to our information, give them insight into the by non-technical exercises involving the board and senior potential risks of data compromise, and to arm them with the leadership to evaluate and improve cyber incident response and knowledge they need to safeguard our (and their) data. A total of crisis management. 81% of staff completed the training during the past financial year. The campaign covered a broad range of topics consisting of the • A target attack simulation was performed by an following modules: independent cybersecurity firm to assess the group’s • Module 1 – Data protection: The different classifications defences against potential cyber threats. The aim was of information, the importance of protecting it, and how to to simulate real-world advanced threats to meaningfully securely handle the information you access in your role stress the group’s people, processes and technology. • Module 2 – Cybersecurity: The threats you may face when • The test was conducted without the security response you are online, the dangers of tricks and techniques used by teams being informed and spanned a total of five months, cyber criminals, and how to guard against these covering both outsider and insider threats in separate but • Module 3 – Mobile devices and social media: The risks overlapping phases associated with using mobile devices, the potential dangers • In the test, Investec outperformed peers in five of the of social media, and what you can do to keep your data and seven categories devices safe • In the year ahead, we will strengthen our policies, • Module 4 – Beyond the office: The importance of being procedures and identity management to enhance our vigilant and how to protect information when out of the office – resilience as a business. be it at home, in public places, or while travelling • Module 5 – Security essentials: The fundamentals of information security, social engineering, and secure use of IT System availability resources to safeguard both corporate and personal data. Continuity capabilities are in place to maintain business operations Cybersecurity during adverse events, and to minimise impact to clients and the broader financial system. Fit-for-purpose resilience strategies Cyber remains a board-level agenda item. Periodic updates to the include relocation to alternate processing sites, implementation board keep them abreast of industry developments and informed of high availability technology solutions, and ensuring physical on the group’s security posture. redundancy for critical infrastructure components. Our recovery We maintain a risk-based strategy incorporating prediction, strategies are validated at least bi-annually to ensure they remain prevention, detection and response capabilities, to ensure the effective and appropriate. Our continuity plans are defined and group is adequately protected against advanced attacks. Continual tested per critical service and application. Resilience has been monitoring provides visibility and enables proactive response to further enhanced by aligning security incident response with crisis evolving cyber threats. We maintain active participation in the management and business continuity processes. global cybersecurity industry to stay current and relevant. 72 GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 6 PROCUREMENT Procurement We recognise the potential for our procurement and supply chain practices to be agents for change in respect of the different aspects of sustainability. We continue to engineer, within select industries, and change outcomes across economic, social and environmental fronts. In the UK, we work together with our suppliers to source goods and services in a way that achieves value for money on a whole Our supply chain statement incorporates standards on life basis. This means that whatever we procure must benefit human rights, labour rights, environmental and antiInvestec, society and the economy, whilst minimising damage to corruption principles as set out in the UN Global Compact. the environment. For example, we are committed to ensuring that 100% of our beverage offering has an ethical label. In our UK head We aim to only engage with suppliers who: office, 100% of our hot beverages are ethically sourced, 90% of • Operate in compliance with all applicable which have the Fairtrade label, while 10% carry the Ethical Tea environmental, labour and anti-corruption laws and Partnership label. regulations of the countries in which they operate, manufacture or conduct business In South Africa, our procurement practices seek to meet the B-BBEE requirements of the Department of Trade and Industry’s • Maintain an effective environmental policy and/or Codes of Good Practice and we have an established process for environmental management system that supports monitoring and measuring our procurement efforts. Environmentally environmental protection responsible partners are key in the procurement process and we • Do not use any form of forced or involuntary labour focus on sustainability criteria when contracting with potential and • Do not employ children existing vendors. Our largest suppliers of personal computers and server equipment subscribe to an electronic code of conduct, • Provide equal opportunity for all employees regardless which assists in monitoring compliance across several areas such of race, ethnicity, gender, nationality, age, disability, as environmental impact, labour, health and safety. sexual orientation or religion • Respect the rights of their employees to freely We always consider the Energy Star rating system before associate and collectively bargain within the purchasing equipment to assess its energy efficiency. Our boundaries of the applicable law banqueting team sources products bearing the Rainforest Alliance Certification seal which assures rigorous environmental, social and • Treat their employees with respect and dignity and economic criteria are considered in order to achieve long-term provide a work environment free of harassment, sustainability. intimidation and bullying • Provide a safe and healthy working environment in order to prevent workplace accidents and injuries • Do not engage in bribery, collusive practices or any other form of corruption to obtain or retain business. GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 73 7 AP PE N D I X 7 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Independent assurance practitioner’s limited assurance report To the Directors of Investec Limited and Investec plc Subject matter We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement on We have been engaged to provide a limited assurance selected key performance indicators (KPIs), as described below, conclusion in our report on the following selected KPIs prepared and presented in the 2019 annual corporate sustainability and in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability ESG supplementary report of Investec for the year ending Reporting Standards (“GRI Standards”) and the Greenhouse Gas 31 March 2019 (the Report). This engagement was conducted by Protocol Corporate Standard, supported by Investec’s internally a multidisciplinary team including social, environmental, carbon developed guidelines, and collectively referred to as “Investec’s and assurance specialists with relevant experience in sustainability reporting criteria”. reporting. TABLE 1: SCOPE OF THE 2019 LIMITED ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT Scope of Coverage / Category Selected KPIs reporting boundary Environmental Total gas consumption (Natural Gas (KWh), CO2 (kg) and LPG (I) Group, UK and Other and Southern (refer to pages 43, 45 Total water consumption (kilolitres) African operations and 47) Total paper consumption (tonnes) Total emissions (tonnes CO2 eq ) relating to: • Direct emissions (scope 1) – gas, refrigerants, generators and firm-owned vehicles • Indirect emissions (scope 2) – purchased electricity • Other emissions (scope 3) – business travel (including cars, taxis, rail and air) and waste Emissions per m² of office space Human Resources Spend per region on employee learning and development (Rands and Group, UK and Other and Southern (refer to pages 17, 21, 23 Pounds Sterling) African operations and 25) Employee headcount per region, per management level (Executive directors on Investec DLC board, Senior managers, rest of employees) per service line (number) Permanent employee headcount per region and temporary employee and contractor headcount (number) Incidents of discrimination recorded (number) Community spend Group community spend per region (Rands and Pounds Sterling) Group, UK and Other and Southern (refer to page 29) UK and Other community spend per category of spend (Pounds Sterling) African operations Southern Africa community spend per category of spend (Rands) UK and Other operations Southern African operations Directors’ responsibilities Inherent limitations The directors are responsible for the selection, preparation and GHG emission quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty presentation of the selected KPIs in accordance with Investec’s because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine reporting criteria. This responsibility includes the identification emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of of stakeholders and stakeholder requirements, material issues, different gases and sources. commitments with respect to sustainability performance and design, implementation and maintenance of internal control Our Independence and Quality Control relevant to the preparation of the Report that is free from material We have complied with the independence and all other misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Directors are ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional also responsible for determining the appropriateness of the Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board measurement and reporting criteria in view of the intended users of for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles the selected KPIs and for ensuring that those criteria are publicly of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, available to the Report users. APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 75 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT (continued) confidentiality and professional behavior. KPMG applies the • Evaluated whether the selected KPIs presented in the Report International Standard on Quality Control 1, and accordingly is consistent with our overall knowledge and experience of maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including sustainability management and performance at Investec. documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal in nature and timing, and are less in extent than for a reasonable and regulatory requirements. assurance engagement. As a result the level of assurance obtained Practitioner’s responsibility in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not on the selected KPIs based on the procedures we have express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether Investec’s performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted selected KPIs have been prepared, in all material respects, in our engagement in accordance with the International Standard accordance with Investec’s reporting criteria. on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements other than the Audits or Reviews of Historical Limited assurance conclusion Financial Information and ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the International Auditing we have obtained and subject to the inherent limitations outlined and Assurance Standards Board. These Standards requires elsewhere in this report, nothing has come to our attention that that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited causes us to believe that the selected KPIs, as set out in the table assurance about whether the selected KPIs are free from material included in the Subject Matter paragraph above for the year misstatement. ended 31 March 2019 are not prepared, in all material respects, in A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance accordance with the Investec’s reporting criteria. with ISAE 3000 (Revised) involves assessing the suitability in the circumstances of Investec’s use of its reporting criteria as the Other matters basis of preparation for the selected KPIs, assessing the risks The maintenance and integrity of the Investec website is the of material misstatement of the selected KPIs whether due to responsibility of Investec’s management. Our procedures did not fraud or error, responding to the assessed risks as necessary in involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept the circumstances, and evaluating the overall presentation of the no responsibility for any changes to either the information in the selected KPIs. A limited assurance engagement undertaken in Report or our independent limited assurance report that may have accordance with ISAE 3410 involves assessing the suitability in occurred since the initial date of its presentation on Investec’s the circumstances of Investec’s use of the GHG Protocol as the website. basis of preparation for the GHG emissions data, assessing the risks of material misstatement of the GHG emissions information Restriction of liability whether due to fraud or error, responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the overall Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express a limited presentation of the GHG emissions data. assurance conclusion on the selected KPIs to the Directors of Investec in accordance with the terms of our engagement, and A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope for no other purpose. We do not accept or assume liability to any than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both risk party other than Investec, for our work, for this report, or for the assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal conclusion we have reached. control, and the procedures that will be performed in response to the assessed risks. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, observation of processes followed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing and reconciling information with underlying records. Given the circumstances of the engagement, the procedures performed included the following: KPMG Services Proprietary Limited • Conducted a series of planning meetings with various parties Per NG Morris involved in Investec’s reporting and management processes in Chartered Accountant (SA) order to gain a general understanding of the processes. Director 28 June 2019 • Tested the processes and systems at group level which generate, collate, aggregate, monitor and report selected KPIs. KPMG Crescent • Inspected supporting documentation and performed analytical 85 Empire Road procedures on a sample basis to evaluate the data generation Parktown Johannesburg and reporting processes against the reporting criteria. 2193 76 APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 7 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX THIS REPORT, INSIDE COVER: GRI 101: FOUNDATION SCOPE AND REPORTING FRAMEWORK GRI 102: General disclosures Organisational profile 102-1 Core Name of the organisation Investec. 102-2 Core Activities, brands, products, and services Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 6 to 11. This report: Pages 3 to 5. About the Investec group. 102-3 Core Location of headquarters Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 222. Our headquarters are in Johannesburg for our Southern African operations and in London for our UK and Other operations. 102-4 Core Location of operations Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 12 to 15. Operational footprint. 102-5 Core Ownership and legal form Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 11. Operating structure. Volume one, pages 153 to 157. Shareholder analysis. 102-6 Core Markets served (including geographical Integrated annual report: Volume one, breakdown, sectors and type of customers) pages 12 and 13. Operational footprint. 102-7 Core Scale of the organisation Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 12 to 15. Operational footprint. 102-8 Core Information on employees and other workers This report: Pages 17 and 23. Number of employees is shown by division, geography, seniority, gender and permanent versus temporary employees and contractors. 102-9 Core Supply chain Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 12 to 15. 102-10 Core Significant changes to the organisation and its Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 17 to 20. supply chain CEO and Chairman’s Report. 102-11 Core Precautionary principle or approach Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 16 to 19. Risk management, credit and counterparty risk management. 102-12 Core External initiatives This report: Page 15. Sustainability memberships. 102-13 Core Membership of associations This report: Page 15. Sustainability memberships. Strategy 102-14 Core Statement from senior decision-maker (CEO) Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 17 to 20. CEO and Chairman’s Report. This report: Page 7. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 29 to 36. Our principal risks. Intergrated annual report: Volume one pages 78, 87, 88, and 99 to 102. Divisional questions and answers. This report: Pages 7 to 15. Corporate Sustainability at Investec. APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 77 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) Ethics and integrity 102-16 Core Values, principles, standards, and norms Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 6 and 7. of behaviour Who are we. This report: Pages 3 to 5. About the Investec group. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 159. about ethics This report: Page 19. Whistle-blowing policy and protective disclosure. Governance 102-18 Core Governance structure Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 104 to 152. Corporate governance. 102-19 Delegating authority Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 129 to 131. DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 102-20 Executive level responsibility for economic, Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 129 to 131. environmental, and social topics DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Integrated annual report: Volume one, environmental, and social topics pages 21 to 23. Stakeholder engagement and value creation. This report: Pages 8 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body Integrated annual report: Volume one, and its committees pages 104 to 157. Corporate governance. 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 148 to 152. Statement of compliance. 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 125 to 128. governance body DLC Nominations and Directors’ Affairs Committee (Nomdac). 102-25 Conflicts of interest Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 151. Conflicts of interest. 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 120 to 124. purpose, values, and strategy Corporate governane. What we did. 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 125 to 128. governance body DLC Nominations and Directors’ Affairs Committee (Nomdac). 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 120. performance Corporate governance. What we did. Page 122. Effectiveness. 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 129 to 131. environmental and social impacts DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 129 to 131. DLC Social and Ethics Committee. Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 17. Sustainability considerations. 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 129 to 131. social topics DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 129 to 131. sustainability reporting DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 78 APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 7 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 21 to 23. Stakeholder engagement and value creation. This report: Pages 8 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns No critical concerns were raised during the reporting year ending 31 March 2019. Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 129 to 131. DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 102-35 Remuneration policies Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 168 to 218. Remuneration report. 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 168 to 218. Remuneration report. 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 21 to 23. Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 172. Remuneration outcomes for 2018. This report: Pages 8 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 168 to 218. Remuneration report. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 168 to 218. compensation ratio Remuneration report. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 Core List of stakeholder groups Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 21. This report: Page 8. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-41 Core Collective bargaining agreements This report: Page 19. Freedom of association. 102-42 Core Identifying and selecting stakeholders Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 21. This report: Page 8. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-43 Core Approach to stakeholder engagement Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 21. This report: Pages 8 to 15. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-44 Core Key topics and concerns raised Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 21 to 23. Integrated annual report: Volume one page 131. Feedback from board on good corporate citizenship. This report: Pages 9 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement and materiality. Reporting practice 102-45 Core Entities included in the consolidated Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 11. financial statements Operational structure. 102-46 Core Defining report content and topic boundaries This report: Page 1. Contents. This report: Page 2. Reporting scope, boundary and framework. 102-47 Core List of material topics Integrated annual report. Volume one, pages 22 and 23. This report: Pages 9 and 10. 102-48 Core Restatements of information We restated our 2018 employee gender composition data and reclassified it according to the Women in Finance Charter. We restated our 2018 community spend data to include external learnerships and job creation (YES initiative). We have not restated information presented in our carbon footprint. APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 79 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) 102-49 Core Changes in reporting In the 2019 financial year only statutory information has been reported as the legacy book has closed. 102-50 Core Reporting period 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019. 102-51 Core Date of most recent previous report 31 March 2019. 102-52 Core Reporting cycle Annually. 102-53 Core Contact point for questions regarding the report This report: Inside cover page. Contact details. 102-54 Core Claims of reporting in accordance with the This report: Page 2. GRI Standards 102-55 Core GRI content index This table. 102-56 Core External assurance This report: Page 2 and pages 75 and 76. GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 22 and 23. boundary This report: Pages 2, 8 to 10. Materiality. 103-2 The management approach and its This report: Page 8. Community and stakeholder components engagement. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach This report: Pages 12 to 15. Creating value for stakeholders. GRI 200: Economic standards GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 27. distributed This report: Page 14. Value added statement. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 17, 75 opportunities due to climate change and 76. This report: Pages 41 to 47. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Investec follows the defined contribution pension retirement plans schemes. We have two small defined benefit plans which were inherited as part of legacy acquisitions and which have been closed to new contributions. 201-4 Financial assistance received from government No financial assistance was received from the government. Investec has never received financial assistance from the government, even during the financial crisis. GRI 202: Market presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Standard entry level wage exceeds the local minimum compared to local minimum wage wage in all geographies. Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 214. 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from We do not disclose this level of information. the local community GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and This report: Pages 52 to 56. Our business impact. services supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 25 to 27. This report: Pages 12 to 14. Creating value for stakeholders. GRI 204: Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers This report: Page 73. Procurement. 80 APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 7 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 200: Economic standards (continued) GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related Integrated annual report: Volume two, Pages 69 to 72. to corruption Operational risk. This report: Pages 68 and 69. Compliance 205-2 Communication and training about antiIntegrated annual report: Volume two, Pages 69 corruption policies and procedures to 72. Operational risk. This report: Page 65. Governance, risk and compliance. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 69 actions taken to 72. Operational risk. Investec has an anti-money laundering (AML) policy as well as a compliance manual and handbook that explains the procedures to follow should there be incidents of corruption. Investec has established and maintains policies, procedures and controls to ensure that, in accordance with regulatory requirements, all staff report information or other matters which come to their attention in the course of their employment and which give reasonable grounds for knowledge or suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing activity. GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, No legal actions have been taken against Investec anti‑trust, and monopoly practices for anti-competitive behaviour, however, Investec Limited continues to cooperate with the Competition Commission Authorities in South Africa with respect to their ongoing investigation into alleged collusion in relation to foreign exchange. As at the date of this report, the Competition Tribunal is yet to provide its decision in this regard. APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 81 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 300: Environmental standards GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume This report: Pages 41 to 47. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 301-2 Recycled input materials used This report: Pages 41 to 47. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 301-3 Reclaimed products and their Not relevant. As a niche specialist financial services packaging materials organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not relevant for Investec. GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation This report: Pages 41 to 47. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the Not applicable. As a niched specialist financial services organisation organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 302-3 Energy intensity This report: Pages 41 to 47. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption This report: Pages 41 to 47. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products This report: Pages 41 to 47. Environment section: Direct and services operational impact. GRI 303: Water and effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource This report: Pages 41 to 47. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 303-2 Management of water discharge-related Not applicable. As a niched specialist financial services impacts organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 303-3 Water withdrawal This report: Pages 41 to 47. Environment section: Direct operational impact for details on initiatives to reduce water usage. Investec does not recycle water. 303-4 Water discharge Not applicable. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 303-5 Water consumption This report: Pages 41 to 47. Environment section: Direct operational impact. GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, Not applicable for Investec which operates within urban or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of locations where biodiversity impacts are minimal. high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, As a financial services provider we do not have a direct and services on biodiversity impact. However, though our project finance and property business we ensure that environment impact assessments are completed for transactions. This report: Pages 69 and 70. 304-3 Habitats protected or restored This report: Pages 34, 35, 36, and 39. Environment and other philanthropy. 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national There are no material impacts on biodiversity, therefore conservation list species with habitats in this is not relevant. areas affected by operations 82 APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 7 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 300: Environmental standards (continued) GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 165. This report: Page 43. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 165. This report: Page 43. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 165. This report: Page 43. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 165. This report: Page 43. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 165. This report: Page 43. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services (ODS) organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services and other significant air emissions organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-3 Significant spills Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services and/or runoff organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. GRI 307: Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services and regulations organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using This report: Page 73. Procurement. Only screened in our environmental criteria South African operations and we will look to extend this screening to the UK in the next financial year. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply This report: Page 73. Procurement. Only screened in our chain and actions taken South African operations and we will look to extend this screening to the UK in the next financial year. APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 83 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 400: Social standards GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 159. This report: Page 17. Commitment to our people. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 168 to 218. are not provided to temporary or part-time Remuneration report. Benefits are broken down by gross employees remuneration, variable short-term incentives by division and variable long-term incentive plans. 401-3 Parental leave Investec is committed to principles of equality and has relevant employment policies and practices in place. This report: Page 21. GRI 402: Labour/management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Not applicable as there is no representative trade union for changes Investec and all operational changes will be in accordance to the Labour Relations Act. GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management This report: Page 20. Health and safety. systems Refer to The way we do business document on our website. 403-2 Hazards identification, risk assessment, and This report: Page 20. Health and safety. incident investigation Refer to The way we do business document on our website. 403-3 Occupational health services This report: Page 20. Employee well-being. 403-4 Worker participation, consultation and This report: Page 20. Employee well-being. communication on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety This report: Page 20. Health and Safety. Training on first aid, fire marshalling and evacuation marshalling is offered to employees. 403-6 Promotion and worker health This report: Page 20. Employee well-being. 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational This report: Page 20. Employee well-being. health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health This report: Page 20. Employee well-being. and safety management system 403-9 Work related injuries This report: Page 20. Health and Safety. While we recorded 31 occupational injuries in the past year these would be minor and unlikely to result in a significant loss of working days. 403-10 Work related ill health This report: Page 20. Employee well-being. 84 APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 7 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 400: Social standards (continued GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year We do not show average hours of training per year per per employee employee and by employee category. Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 25 and 159. This report: Page 25. Group training spend split by geography. 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 159. and transition assistance programmes This report: Page 25. Learning and development section 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular This report: Page 18. Performance management process. performance and career development reviews 100% – this is part of the remuneration and performance evaluation procedure for annual increases and bonuses. GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 160. This report: Pages 12, 22, 23 and 66. Employee gender composition. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 214. to men GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions There were no confirmed incidents of discrimination for taken the reporting year ending 31 March 2019, however there were two allegations in the UK which were reviewed and dismissed. This report: Page 21. Discrimination. GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to This report: Page 19. Working at Investec. Investec is not freedom of association and collective bargaining aware of any operations or suppliers in which the right to may be at risk exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may have been violated. GRI 408: Child labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for This report: Page 73. Procurement. Investec has a group incidents of child labour procurement statement. GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for This report: Page 73. Procurement. Investec has a group incidents of forced or compulsory labour procurement statement. GRI 410: Security practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights Security personnel are trained on risk and interpersonal policies or procedures and communication skills as well as how to approach a situation when an incident takes place. Specific human rights training does not take place. GRI 411: Rights of indigenous peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of No incidents relating to indigenous rights occurred during indigenous peoples the reporting year. APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 85 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 400: Social standards (continued GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human This report: Page 19. Human rights which covers 100% of rights reviews or impact assessments our operations. 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies This report: Page 25. Learning and development. or procedures 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts This report: Pages 59 to 61. Responsible asset that include human rights clauses or that management. underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 161 to 164. engagement, impact assessments, and This report: Pages 28 to 39. Commitment to our development programmes communities. 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential Not relevant. As a financial services company with a limited negative impacts on local communities physical presence, our operations have a very limited direct impact on local communities. However, we may indirectly have an impact through, for example, our property developments or project finance type transactions. In these instances, all required community impact assessments are done and community engagements are performed. GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using This report: Page 73. Procurement. Investec has a group social criteria procurement statement. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain This report: Page 73. Procurement. Investec has a group and actions taken procurement statement. GRI 415: Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Neither Investec Limited, nor its subsidiaries, made political donations during 2019 financial year (2018: R0 million) Investec Limited annual report: Page 157. GRI 416: Customer health and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of Not relevant given the services based nature of product and service categories Investec’s offerings. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Not relevant given the services based nature of the health and safety impacts of products Investec’s offerings. and services GRI 417: Marketing and labelling 417-1 Requirements for product and service This report: Pages 68 and 69. Compliance. information and labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning This report: Pages 68 and 69. Compliance. product and service information and labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning There were no incidents of non-compliance with marketing communications regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. GRI 418: Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning No complaints were received from regulatory bodies breaches of customer privacy and losses of concerning breaches of customer privacy. customer data GRI 419: Socio-economic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 93 and 94. the social and economic area There have been no incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. This report: Pages 68 and 69 Compliance. No significant fines. 86 APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 7 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) Financial services sector specific disclosures Specific disclosure on management approach FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social This report: Page 89. Policies and practices. components applied to business lines FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 17. environmental and social risks in business lines Sustainability considerations. This report: Pages 69 and 70. Environmental and social risk management. FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 18. implementation of and compliance with Sustainability considerations. environmental and social requirements included This report: Pages 69 and 70. Environmental and social in agreements and transactions risk management. FS4 Process(es) for improving employee This report: Pages 49, 69 and 70. competency to implement the environmental In South Africa, the local banking industry has developed and social policies and procedures as training material to train staff on environmental and applied to business lines social risks relating to the different business areas. Staff are encouraged to attend any training or development that is relevant for their area of business. We have also developed ESG guidelines for consultants to use to identify potential ESG issues and trained a further 43 frontline consultants in ESG practices in South Africa and the UK. FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business This report: Pages 49, 69 and 70. partners, regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities Sector specific performance indicators FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 12 to 15. specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/ large) and Our operational footprint. by sector FS7 Monetary value of products and services Not calculated. designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and services Not calculated. designed to deliver specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess Internal Audit would monitor this in the ordinary course implementation of environmental and social of business. policies and risk assessment procedures FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in Investec Asset Management webpage on stewardship the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting http://www.investecassetmanagement.com/southafrica/ organisation has interacted on environmental or individual-investor/en/investment-expertise/stewardship/ social issues This report: Page 70. FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and Not calculated. However, we have an ESG system in negative environmental or social screening place in our asset management business. This report: Pages 59 to 61. Investec Asset Management. FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental This report: Pages 59 to 61. Investec Asset Management. or social issues for shares over which the Investec Asset Management webpage on stewardship reporting organisation holds the right to vote http://www.investecassetmanagement.com/southafrica/ shares or advises on voting individual-investor/en/investment-expertise/stewardship. Product responsibility society performance indicators. APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 87 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) Financial services sector specific disclosures (continued) Product responsibility society performance indicators FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically Investec is not a retail bank and does not bank to the disadvantaged areas by type mass market. Our target market is very niched: high income, high net worth, corporate, government and institutions. This indicator is therefore not relevant. FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial Investec is not a retail bank and does not bank to the services for disadvantaged people mass market. Our target market is very niched: high income, high net worth, corporate, government and institutions. This indicator is therefore not relevant. However, as a result of our commitment to transformation in South Africa we partnered with GIBS on the Investec GIBS Savings Index as well as Junior Achievement South Africa (JASA) to improve consumer’s knowledge and understanding of the financial sector and its products thereby enabling them to make more informed decisions about their finances and lifestyle. This report: Page 33. Disclosure on management approach FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial All products and policies undergo significant reviews and products and services authorisation by the Liability Product and Pricing forum which incorporates ethical requirements. Product responsibility performance indicators FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type This report: Pages 28 to 39. Commitment to our of beneficiary communities. Investec has partnered with GIBS on the Investec GIBS Savings Index as well as Junior Achievement South Africa (JASA) to improve consumer’s knowledge and understanding of the financial sector and its products thereby enabling them to make more informed decisions about their finances and lifestyle. 88 APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 7 POLICIES AND PRACTICES HR policies and practices • Compliance monitoring standard At Investec we believe in cast iron integrity in all internal and • Compliance/dispute policy external dealings, consistently and uncompromisingly displaying • Conduct risk policy moral strength and behaviour which promotes trust. • Conflicts of interest and market abuse policy The policies and business practices of Investec are outlined in • Data protection BAWI (Becoming Acquainted with Investec) and in the compliance • Employee participation policy handbook. They are intended to guide employee conduct and • Fraud policy ensure that at all times employees actions and attitudes reflect the group’s values and philosophies. We have also published a public • Gifts and entertainment (SA) policy document that is called The way we do business that highlights • Gift, hospitality and charitable spend policy (UK) elements of our code of conduct. • Guidelines to Investec policies Below is a list of some of the policies in this regard: • Inducements policy • AIDS policy • Investment recommendation policy • Disability procedure • Market abuse policy • Employee assistance programme • Market rumours policy • Employee integrity policy • Market sounding policy • Equal opportunities policy • Media queries policy • FAIS – Rendering financial advisory and intermediary services • Operational resilience statement to clients • Order and best execution policy • Flexible work practice policy • Outside business interests policy • Grievance resolution policy • Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA) manual • International travel scheme • Personal account dealing policy • IT acceptable usage policy • Records retention policy • Learning and development policy • Sanctions policy • Leave policy • Senior managers handover policy • Local travel and transfer practice • Remote trading policy • Maternity scheme • Terms of reference policy (compliance function) • Motor accident claims practice • Training and competency policy • Motor vehicle scheme • Vulnerable clients policy. • Retrenchment policy • Retirement policy Environmental policies • Security and access control policy We recognise that effective environmental management is an essential part of embedding this philosophy into the • Sexual harassment policy organisation and are therefore committed to operating an effective • Substance abuse policy environmental management system compliant with King IV in • Whistle blowing and protected disclosure policy. South Africa and ISO 14001 in the UK head office. The management system is initially focused on the activities Compliance policies and operations of supporting functions which have a direct We have the following compliance policies in place: environmental impact. • Allocations policy We have the following policies and statements in place: • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy • Climate change statement and group environment policy • Anti-money laundering and counter of terrorist ﬁnancing policy • Group procurement policy and standard • Policy on environmental and social risk practices in lending and • Breaches policy financing activities • Business introducer policy • Policy on environmental and social risk practices in investment • CASS breaches and policy activities • Chinese walls confidential information and wall crossing policy • Policy on financing coal projects. • Client communications and financial promotions policy • Compliance framework • Compliance handbook • Complaints manual APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 89 NOTES 90 NOTES 2019 Corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report NOTES NOTES 2019 Corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report 91 NOTES 92 NOTES 2019 Corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report Specialist Banking | Asset Management | Wealth & Investment 94 APPENDIX 2019 corporate sustainability and ESG supplementary report
