Sustainability report 2018 100 y susta ears o inabl f e thin king CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE CEO statement Materiality assessment Hartmann has delivered sustainable moulded-fibre packaging We maintain our focus on delivering sustainable packaging As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Hartmann continuoussolutions for decades, offering customers and consumers a across our attractive markets and have launched our ‘Think ly strives to improve within all four areas of the Global Compact superior, well-proven and environmentally-friendly alternaahead’ strategy, aiming to ensure sufficient capacity to ac– Environment, Anti-corruption, Human Rights and Labour Rights. tive to oil-based plastic and polystyrene foam packaging. As commodate the rising demand in the coming years. We have And we require our suppliers to respect and support our comconsumers, politicians, organisations and retailers become expanded our geographical presence and production capacity mitment to the ten UN Global Compact principles. increasingly aware of the negative impacts of the widespread in recent years and will continue to build our business while use of single-use plastics, demand for sustainable solutions will remaining committed to safeguarding the climate, our emploAs a consequence of the group’s primary activities within producincrease. yees and other stakeholders. tion of moulded-fibre packaging across Europe and the Americas, we focus on Hartmann’s environmental and climate impact to We are building our business to accommodate this long-term In the coming years, we will intensify the promotion of the ensure the greatest possible effect of our sustainability efforts. Life trend, which was further fueled in October 2018 as the EU unique features of our moulded-fibre packaging while investing Cycle Assessments have shown that our products’ climate footParliament banned a range of single-use plastic items from the in our technology and maintaining a strict focus on efficient print constitutes the group’s most significant environmental impact. EU market by 2021 and introduced strict national reductiresource consumption. For Hartmann, we are certain that We therefore remain committed to accommodating this impact. on targets for several other products by 2025. We are not sustainability and business will continue to go hand in hand, and waiting for these regulatory steps to come into force as the we are pleased to reaffirm our commitment and endorsement We operate our business in adherence with European and movement has already been augmented by innovative retail of the UN Global Compact and its principles. international regulation and frameworks as well as expectations chains such as UK-based Iceland, which introduced plastic free to companies such as Hartmann within the fields of Anti-corcategories during the year and launched a dedicated ‘Plastic Torben Rosenkrantz-Theil ruption, Labour Rights and Human Rights, and we consider our free’ logo that makes a clear statement. Other large retailers CEO responsibility to reach throughout our sphere of influence and in are setting targets for phasing out plastic packaging as well, and accordance with it. the immediate availability and superior characteristics of moulded-fibre egg and fruit packaging make Hartmann’s products part of the solution. Materiality – Global Compact themes Highlights Environment and climate 4/4 Anti-corruption 31% reduction in workInstallation of new oven initiated 100% of paper raw mateRisk review conducted with 3/4 related accidents per million at factory in European business rials from FSC or recycled external insurance broker working hours from 2017 to reduce energy consumption source Human Rights 2/4 This Communication On Progress report is part of the management report in Brødrene Hartmann A/S’ annual report 2018 covering the period 1 January to 31 December 2018. This report ensures compliance with section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Labour Rights 2/4 H A RT M A N N 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 8 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Environment and climate Policy Risks Results We systematically and proactively protect, respect and safeguard The main environmental risks related to our activities include uninBased on the efforts to improve Hartmann’s logistics in the Americas, the environment and climate in daily business activities by developtended wastewater spill as well as excessive energy consumption we improved production allocation at the North and South Amement of production methods and products, training of employees and CO2 emissions. rican factories in 2018, and further improvement of the production and influencing suppliers and stakeholders. and distribution setup is expected in 2019 and beyond. Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations We support a precautionary approach to environmental and governing, among other things, noise reductions, wastewater Following the formation of Hartmann’s risk management work climate challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater treatment and waste disposal as well as CO2 emissions. Risks are group and the nomination of a group CSR responsible reporting responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of monitored locally and from the head office to prevent, remedy or to the executive board in 2017, we strengthened coordination of environmental and climate-friendly technologies in accordance minimise any adverse effect on the external environment. CSR efforts across the group in 2018. The work group is composed with principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. of representatives from all factories, participating in a number of meetings during the year where participants exchange knowledge and experience within areas such as climate and environment, safety KPI and anti-corruption. With the group finance function’s support, the Action work group revised Hartmann’s processes for gathering, treating and We measure and monitor electricity and heat-related energy reporting data concerning energy consumption, work accidents and Hartmann’s efforts to reduce the group’s environmental and climate consumption at our factories to keep track of Hartmann’s overall audits of the group’s factories and selected suppliers. footprint continued in 2018 with a particular emphasis on energy energy efficiency and identify potential areas of improvement. reduction and improved logistics. In the American business, we took Hartmann’s operational and strategic objectives under the ‘Think Existing ISO 14001 certificates for environmental management and steps to actively reduce delivery time, transport costs and environahead’ strategy include automatisation efforts and expansion of ISO 50001 certificates for energy management as well as Hartmann’s mental impact by placing our production closer to Hartmann’s the existing production network, which may impact the group’s Climate Partner certification were renewed in 2018. The certificustomers. energy efficiency and CO2 emissions due to fluctuating national cates contribute to ensuring a structured and efficient approach conversion factors, among other things, and we have therefore to environmental management and energy consumption, while In the European business, we prepared the installation of a new decided to entirely abandon Hartmann’s former CO2 equivasimultaneously serving to provide evidence of our efforts to external oven, which consumes 40% less energy and will be operational lent-based KPI and targets. stakeholders. during 2019. The drying process is the most energy intensive part of the production process, and Hartmann thus continues to invest in ensuring the most efficient resource consumption in this area. In 2018, we maintained our overall focus on: •• Investments in new process technology •• Improvement and optimisation of existing equipment •• Product and production process development •• Waste reduction. H A RT M A N N 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 8 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Anti-corruption Policy Risks We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Hartmann’s moulded-fibre manufacturing is located in both lowbribery. and relatively high-risk countries1 in terms of corruption, and Hartmann sells technology and related services globally. We enter into open dialogue with relevant business partners, and we have set up guidelines specifying how to avoid bribery and The main risks related to our activities include employees’ and supcorruption, in accordance with principle 10 of the Global Compact. pliers’ violation of Hartmann’s anti-corruption policy and potential We contribute to minimizing bribery and corruption in companies legal and financial consequences hereof. forming part of the value chain to which Hartmann belongs. Our business activities are subject to various national laws and Our commitment is furthermore expressed in Hartmann’s antiregulations as well as legislation with an international reach. corruption policy. Action KPI In 2018, we launched a group-wide whistleblower system, which We register any instances of whistleblowing by employees in is a voluntary alternative to the ordinary routes of communication accordance with applicable regulation. and may be used if serious offences – including corruption – are observed or suspected by any employee. In addition, efforts were made to promote the group anticorruption policy across Hartmann’s South American locations in 2018. Results Enforcement of the anti-corruption principle remains an integraDuring the year, we conducted supplier audits, which did not lead ted part of our supplier handling process, and we maintained our to termination of contracts. focus on ensuring that suppliers acknowledge and respect their responsibility when doing business with Hartmann. We also inaugurated Hartmann’s whistleblower system and noted that no employees reported cases of attempted bribery, facilitation payments or similar during the year. 1 Transparency International, Corruption Perceptions Index 2018, www.transparency.org H A RT M A N N 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 8 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Human Rights procedures, among other things. In addition, we conducted training Policy sessions and followed up on compliance with safety rules and the KPI use of mandatory personal protective equipment at Hartmann’s We promote the conditions outlined in the UN Global Compact’s manufacturing sites. We measure and monitor the number of work-related accidents human rights principles at Hartmann and in companies that are per million working hours (LTI-FR). The KPI reflects overall develpart of the value chain to which the Hartmann group belongs. Despite the positive development in the group’s safety performanopments in safety performance at our factories. ce, we experienced an unintended chemical emission at HartIn accordance with principles 1 and 2 of the Global Compact, mann’s factory in Denmark in 2018. Following containment, the Hartmann supports and respects the protection of internationally incident was analysed, and procedures were revised to avoid any proclaimed human rights and ensures that the group is not complireoccurrence. Affected employees were admitted for observation Results cit in human rights abuses. We endeavour to secure: at a local hospital and subsequently discharged and reported fit for duty. We made progress in 2018 and reduced the number of work-re•• Health and safety in the workplace by means of cleaner lated accidents per million working hours (LTI-FR) by 31% comtechnologies and improved procedures and practices as well as In collaboration with external insurance broker Willis, we conducpared to 2017 and 49% from the 2015 base year. We maintain competency development. ted a group-wide risk review including visits at all factories to idenour focus on improving safety at the workplace with a view to tify a number of insurance-related risks – including fire safety and further reducing the number of work-related accidents per million •• Fair wages by means of a wages policy and alignment with the evacuation routes etc. – and assess potential improvement areas. working hours in 2019 and beyond. level at local industrial companies. The focus on safeguarding food safety at our facilities was mainAll existing OHSAS 18001 certificates for working environment •• The well-being of employees and their families by means of tained as we monitored and controlled production processes and and ISO 22000 certificates for food safety management were local initiatives, practices and procedures in keeping with local the materials used as well as tested end-products in accordance renewed in 2018. traditions, conditions and needs. with applicable requirements. Accident statistics •• Good relations with the local community by means of active 125 participation in social and business-related activities at local level. 100 Risks 75 The main risks related to our activities include unintended inci50 Action dents at factories potentially leading to severe injuries or fatalities 25 as well as non-compliance with the Global Compact’s principles We maintained our sharp focus on safety in 2018 and drove internally or in the value chain to which the Hartmann group 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 improvements in South America in particular where management belongs. worked diligently to strengthen the safety culture and ensure efficient knowledge sharing. Safety representatives from the Argentinian and Brazilian factories participated in joint monthly meetings and shared standardised and proven safety and fire protection H A RT M A N N 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 8 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Labour Rights Policy Action KPI We promote the conditions outlined in the UN Global Compact’s A number of internal audits and audits of selected suppliers were We monitor results of conducted audits on an ongoing basis, and labour rights principles at Hartmann and in companies that are conducted during the year, and we furthermore established the any potential instances of whistleblowing by employees are registepart of the value chain to which the Hartmann group belongs. group’s whistleblower system to provide an alternative channel for red in accordance with applicable regulation. reporting of any wrongdoings. In addition, we continuously measure developments in the gender In accordance with principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Global Compact, composition at our other managerial levels and on the board of Hartmann: Hartmann continued to pursue a balanced gender distribution at directors. its other managerial levels in connection with recruitment as well •• Recognises the right of employees to be members of a trade as evaluation and development of current employees. In line with union and negotiate pay and working conditions. the policy on gender equality, Hartmann required that internal Results and external recruiters selected qualified representatives of both •• Supports elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory genders as candidates for vacancies during the year. We conducted supplier audits in 2018 without de-selecting any labour, and does not accept use of forced labour. suppliers on that background. No wrongdoings were reported through the group’s whistleblower system. •• Applies preventive procedures and practices to ensure that persons below the minimum age are not employed. Risks The representation of women on Hartmann’s other managerial levels decreased to 17% from 22% in 2017. We did not reach the •• Endeavours to prevent discriminatory practices and secure equThe main risks related to our activities include non-adherence target of raising the share of the underrepresented gender to a mial opportunities by means of the application of procedures and to Hartmann’s principle of preventing discriminatory practices nimum of 40% of the shareholder-elected board members as one practices to prevent discrimination in connection with recruitand securing equal opportunities and potential legal, financial and male board member was replaced by another male board member ment or dismissal, career development, training and education, HR-related consequences hereof. in 2018. We expect to increase the share of the underrepresented or the granting of staff benefits. gender in 2019 and maintain our ambition of reaching the target Our business activities are subject to various national laws and by 2021. Our commitment is furthermore expressed in our policy on regulations. ­gender equality in other management2, which serves to increase Representation of women Target the number of the underrepresented gender in Hartmann's 2017 2018 2021 day-to-day management. Board of directors3 25% 25% 40% The policy defines and describes focus areas within recruitment, Other managerial levels2 22% 17% performance evaluation and development as well as networking. 3 Shareholder-elected members. The policy is available at our website, www.investor.hartmannpackaging.com under 'Governance'. 2 Members of the executive board and managers reporting to the executive board including plant managers at the group’s factories H A RT M A N N 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 8 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Hartmann at a glance Hartmann is the world’s leading Denmark manufacturer of moulded-fibre egg packaging, a market-leading manufacturer Germany Canada Hungary of fruit packaging in South America and Croatia one of the world’s largest manufacturers USA of technology for the production of Israel moulded-fibre packaging. Founded in 1917, Hartmann’s market position builds on its strong technology know-how and extensive experience of sustainable moulded-fibre production dating back to 1936. Brazil Products and customers Markets Hartmann sells egg and fruit packaging to manufacturers, distriHartmann’s key markets are Europe, South America and North butors and retail chains, which are increasingly demanding susAmerica, where the group has strong market positions. Harttainable packaging solutions and specialised marketing expertise. Argentina mann is a market leader in Europe and in South America, where Our versatile product portfolio is customised to accommodate our product portfolio also includes fruit packaging. Hartmann customer and consumer needs in each individual market. claims a growing share of the North American market and also sells machinery and technology in selected markets. Hartmann sells machinery and technology to manufacturers of moulded-fibre packaging in selected markets. Factory Machine factory Office H A RT M A N N 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 8 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Hartmann at a glance le Mo cy clab uld ed re fib is r ing le t h e is g b cka rada at ca m a eg Production lde dio d n r ec yc fi Hartmann’s production platform consists of an b r e rom ed d p e f ink 12 factories in Europe, Israel and North and b ad e de South America. Our deep technology knowMo Pulp b u how and extensive experience in manufacled turing moulded-fibre packaging empower Consumer Deinking pap us to develop and maintain our production er platform. Each year, the group’s 2,000 employees manufacture billions of moulded-fibre packaging units and machinery and technology for the manufacturing of packaging. Delivery pr Moulding od Sustainability e s uce d pe d i en e cif n s he Sustainability and protection of the environd ic e ft to cu veral ment are integral components of Hartmann’s n o ior sto s business model and strategy. All Hartmann’s products are based on recycled paper, which sig r mer hapes and c de ised p requi aphi is a renewable and biodegradable resourPrint/labelling rements The gr ce. Working closely with our customers stom to accommodate demand for sustainable Drying is e cu at g ca n b products in the retail industry, Hartmann was n od the first manufacturer to offer both FSC-cerp After-pressing a gi m liv rod ck o m tified and CO2-neutral retail packaging. ery uct r pa acc Ou rs to ou col H A RT M A N N 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 8 Corporate memberships Design and production: Noted •• UN Global Compact •• UN Global Compact – Caring for Climate •• European Moulded Fibre Association (EMFA) •• Green Industry Platform Brødrene Hartmann A/S Ørnegårdsvej 18 DK-2820 Gentofte Tel: (+45) 45 97 00 00 e-mail: investor@hartmann-packaging.com Web: hartmann-packaging.com Company reg. (CVR) no. 63 04 96 11
