Progress report UN Global Compact Ahlsell is a signatory to the voluntary initiative United Nations Global Compact. By endorsing the UN Global Compact we undertake to follow the ten principles for human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. In this implementation, the Ahlsell’s Code of Conduct is an important tool. It describes how we should act and the requirements we have on ourselves and our suppliers. The Code of Conduct is published on our website, and is based on the UN Global Compact, the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related UN conventions, the ILO’s core conventions and the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Ahlsell has been a distributor within technical installation for more than 140 years. Today, we are proud to be the Nordic market leader within our industry. We did ”We are continuously not achieve this position by being just good enough, we always have focused on improvements to offer our customers an even better value proposition. For us, striving to improve sustainability is to safeguard that we will continue to exist for our customers, ourselves and the employees and owners also in the future. We have a vision to be the industry industry.” leader within sustainability and to take a clear economic, social and environmental responsibility Already in 2008, we took the first steps towards a more environmental approach in our business. Since then, the focus on sustainability has continuously increased. Today it is a central part in our strategy and we see sustainability as an important element for value creation. Ahlsell is present where people live and work Our products enable the construction and maintenance of school’s , hospitals and housing. We help to ensure that millions of northerners receive water, fibre and power, and support installers and industries in their mission to build a sustainable society. In March 2019, Ahlsell was delisted from Nasdaq Stockholm after the principal owner CVC acquired more than 90% of the shares outstanding. CVC fully embrace Ahlsell´s ambition and transparency when it comes to UN Global Compacts 10 principles. Our sustainability strategy and objectives are linked to the UN´s Sustainable Global Goals and reflect risks, opportunities and dialogue with our stakeholders. We address our main challenges within four focus areas; Responsible Sourcing, Innovation & Collaboration, Tackle Climate change and Health & Safety. The focus areas cover the entire Group and are broken down into subgoals, internally and externally, Group-wide and local. I believe that what gets measured, also gets done. I’m proud to represent Ahlsell and our achievements . Together with competent and committed employees and engaged investors we have created a longterm vision of a sustainable business. Johan Nilsson CEO, Ahlsell AB Link to Ahlsell Annual report 2018 Area Principle Definition Management systems Page/Section Principle 1 Businesses should • Code of conduct and sustatainable business • Sustainability in everything we do support and respect the p 22, 23, 26, 31 • Ahlsells sustainability work protection of internatio• Strategy and guidelines p 22, 23 nally proclaimed human • Responsible sourcing rights; and... • Responsible supply chain p 26, 27 • Our private labels Human rights • Safe and sustainable workplace p 28 Principle 2 ...make sure that they • Our employees at the centre are not complicit in • Diveristy and equality p 30, 31 • The employee year 2018 human rights abuses. • Environmental management p 24 • The environment is always on the agenda • Risk management p 48, 49 • Directors’ reportRisks and opportunities Principle 3 Businesses should • ode of conduct and values p 22, 23, 26, 29, 31 • Sustainability in everything we do uphold the freedom of • Responsible supply chain p 23, 26, 27 • Responsible sourcing association and the effective recognition of • Employee commitment and engagement p 28 • Our private labels the right to collective • Diveristy and equality p 28, 30 • Our employees at the centre bargaining; • Risk management p 48, 49 • The employee year 2018 Principle 4 ...the elimination of all • Directors’ report forms of forced and Labour compulsory labour • Risks and opportunities Principle 5 ...the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 ...the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7 Businesses should • Code of conduct and sustatainable business • Sustainability in everything we do support a precautionary p 22, 23, 26 • Effective, sustainable and safe products approach to environ• Strategy and guidelines p 22, 23 mental challenges; • Responsible sourcing • Environmentally-assessed products and services Principle 8 ...undertake initiatives • The employee year 2018 p 24, 25 to promote greater • The environment is always on the agenda Environment • Environmental management p 23, 24 environmental responsibility; and • Envrionmental targets and results for climate protection p 24 Principle 9 ...encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work • Code of conduct and ethical business p 22, 23, 26 • Sustainability in everything we do against corruption in • Risk management p (ej HR) 48, 49 • Responsible sourcing all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • The employee year 2018 Anti-corruption • Directors’ report • Risks and opportunities
