Integrated report 2018: www.dtek.com financial and non–financial results Table of Contents Introduction 2 Oleg Popov, Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK Energy B.V., DTEK Renewables B.V., and DTEK Oil & Gas B.V., CEO of SCM 2 Maxim Timchenko, CEO of DTEK 4 DTEK Group at a glance 8 DTEK Group at a glance 10 Key events of 2018 18 Mission, vision and values 20 DTEK Group’s 2030 Development Strategy 21 DTEK Group’s top management 24 Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 28 Electricity Market 30 Coal Market 42 Natural Gas Market 46 Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 50 Operating Performance 54 Production activity 56 Investment projects 66 Analysis of Financial Performance 82 Corporate governance 86 Corporate governance structure 88 Corporate governance bodies 89 Risk management system 94 Compliance and corporate ethics 95 Dividend policy 97 Sustainability 98 Sustainability 100 Environmental protection 106 Society 116 Employees 124 Annexes 136 2 Integrated report 2018 Introduction 3 Introduction pleased with our line of projects relating to the “new companies focus on improving existing services and energy industry”, including the network of high-speed introducing new ones. charging stations for electric vehicles, DTEK’s innovation management function, and our Energy Accelerator, There’s one more thing I would like to say: in addition responsible for harnessing the value of new ideas and to developing our production and exploring new areas, technology. These projects are changing the face of DTEK has always been and remains focused on corporate the Ukrainian energy industry, ensuring it becomes more social responsibility. The principles of sustainable customer-centric and develops in a sustainable way. development underlie our business — we understand that we can only be successful over a long period if We all understand that continuous production from the interests and needs of all stakeholders are met. renewable energy sources cannot be guaranteed using That includes local communities, part of which are made Oleg Popov current technologies, especially given the rapid rise in up of DTEK Group enterprises, as well as our employees Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., demand for electricity. In addition, in Ukraine, thermal and partners, whose daily work contributes to the overall DTEK OIL & GAS B.V., CEO of SCM generation remains a significant element of energy success. security. In the foreseeable future, we should replace imported coal with domestic coal. The DTEK Group In 2018, we allocated UAH 2.2 bln towards sustainable Dear colleagues and partners, has invested UAH 5.4 bln in increasing G-grade coal development projects. We purposefully invest in production and re-equipping power units to run on improving working conditions and employee training. I am pleased to present the DTEK Group’s 2018 Annual Report. domestic coal rather than imported anthracite. In 2018, And we have brought our social partnership projects to we carried out that work at the two power units of a new level. For example, our project “Your Hometown 2018 was an exciting year full of investment and other In 2018, the DTEK Group invested almost UAH 10 bln DTEK Prydniprovsʼka TPP. The share of electricity Begins with You” has led to some amazing ideas on notable milestones, including reform of the electricity in green energy. We built Nikopol Solar Power Plant generation from anthracite decreased to 12% of the arrangement of city-wide space, and to explore these market and a renewed focus on the cities where we work and completed construction on phase I of Prymorsʼk the DTEK Group’s total production. ideas, we have introduced a competition for large grants. and the people who live there. I’d like to recap the year’s Wind Farm. But we are not stopping there: phase II of Another project we are proud of is “Energy Efficient highlights in order. Prymorsʼk Wind Park and Pokrovs’k Solar Power Plant Energy sector reform is aimed at accelerating Schools: New Generation”, which has grown from are both under construction. We plan to have 1 GW of the positive transformations enabled by liberalization. regional project to a national one, covering every region It is extremely important that we do not let external installed capacity in green energy by 2020. That means In the initial stage of the reform, companies have been of Ukraine. I hope, the TREND and “Come on, Let’s Play!” challenges hinder the development of our industry by we will produce 2,500 mln kWh of green electricity required to separate distribution system operators projects, which we started this year, will have the same continuing to invest. Thus, in 2018 the DTEK Group annually, which is the amount Ukraine consumes in from the production and supply of electricity. In 2018, promising future. invested UAH 20 bln into production, doubling the seven days. In other words, we can provide Ukraine with DTEK Group was the first among the companies in amount invested in 2017. Systematically, we have been the industry to complete this unbundling procedure, However, all of the above was only made possible thanks a whole week of green electricity! This is just one of the implementing our strategy for the radical modernization outlining the network and client businesses. This to the professionalism and support of each DTEK Group ways we’re helping the Ukrainian energy sector become of existing production facilities and the creation of new once again underlines our commitment to create an employee. I am confident that, together, we will build environmentally-friendly. ones. We know Ukraine’s energy sector is badly in need electricity market in line with the European model. the most modern, technologically-advanced and peopleof a comprehensive transformation, so the DTEK Group And this is not the only thing we’re proud of: in 2018, Since its establishment, DTEK has been pushing for oriented energy company in Ukraine. You, our employees, is doing everything it can to help it become more the DTEK Group allocated UAH 1.7 bln to developing reform, because we think competition should rule are the guarantee of DTEK’s ongoing business success. technologically-advanced and environmentally-friendly. gas production. We continued drilling ultra-deep wells the market. The transition to a liberalized model opens and introduced production facilities that use a unique up opportunities for structural change, while making Here are just some of the projects implemented by combination of equipment and technological solutions. the DTEK Group in 2018 — projects that are important the industry more investable, more technologicallyWhen it comes to the distribution of energy, DTEK was advanced, more environmentally-friendly, and able to not only for our business, but also for the entire Ukrainian one of the first companies in Ukraine to provide access energy industry. support Ukraine’s energy resilience. Consumers will to online maps of power grids. And I am particularly become full-fledged market participants, ensuring that 4 Integrated report 2018 Introduction 5 The Energy Industry unsuitable for agriculture. In wind power engineering we built the Prymorsʼk and Orlivsʼka wind farms with In 2018, we hit a record high in the production of a total capacity of 300 MW. The first seven turbines G-grade coal — 24.1 mln tonnes. For the second year of the Prymorsʼk Wind Farm are already a source of in a row, we established the highest annual output in green electricity for Ukrainians. Overall, we are set the companyʼs history. These records primarily ensure produce 2.5 bln green kilowatt-hours per year, roughly the sustainable operations of United Energy System the consumption of 700,000 households. of Ukraine (UES): power plants experienced no fuel shortages, and electricity production remained stable, It's equally important that we partnered with world leaders covering all of Ukraine’s requirements. Ultimately, they in equipment and financial markets: GE Renewable Energy and Vestas, CMEC and a consortium of German Maxim Timchenko help create energy independence of Ukraine. Thermal generation has been boosted by conversion projects, banks Bayerische Landesbank, and Bremer Kreditbank, CEO of DTEK switching power units from anthracite to domestic coal. KfW IPEX-Bank. This suggests the Ukrainian energy In 2018, we continued the implementation of these sector is regaining the trust of international partners and beginning to emerge from its investment isolation. Dear colleagues and partners! projects — four power units at DTEK Prydniprovs’ka TPP The reform of the energy sector — undoubtedly the most were converted from anthracite to G-grade coal and important event in the industry — will accelerate this I’d like to share some of DTEK Group’s major achievements from last year. DTEK Myronivs’ka TPP was completely re-equipped. process and ensure changes are carried out at a faster This allowed producing 28.3 bln kWh from G-grade 2018 was a year of major transformation: we brought new resources online, coal — 88% of the total output of DTEK’s thermal power pace. However, the gap in development levels between Ukrainian and European energy generation is still made structural changes, and set new directions for the organization. plants. This share will only increase in future, with our obvious. We need to mobilize resources to overcome this strategy of reducing the volume of imported resources in I’d like to tell you about our achievements in the context of our Corporate the fuel balance of our power plants. We should be able gap as fast as possible. Ukraine needs modern energy production which is competitive, environmentally-friendly, Development Strategy to 2030. to forego all import requirements in Ukraineʼs thermal and self-sufficient. Only then will it help advance the generation in the foreseeable future — DTEK Group is ready to support the countryʼs strategic objectives. Ukrainian population’s quality of life. Renewable energy is another factor helping secure We remain leaders in natural gas production, introducing Ukraine’s energy independence. According to innovative technologies and solutions that allow us to drill the calculations of the Institute of Renewable Energy to great depths. A stable increase in production has been of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, solar made possible thanks to intensive development at depths and wind energy has the potential to produce up to over 5-6 km. I'm sure our experience has showcased 100 bln kWh per year. An amount that would cover the sort of technological developments our industry Ukraine’s electricity demand for almost a year. needs. But we are already making plans to go deeper by considering a transition to drilling wells with a depth of We implemented an ambitious project in solar power more than 7 km. In addition, we are preparing to develop engineering by building the Nikopol SPP which has an a new licensed site: Svitankovo-Logivs’ka. We won inverter capacity of 200 MW, thus putting it in the top the right to develop this site in March 2019 at the first three largest solar power plants in Europe. Our next electronic auction for subsoil use, which was conducted project will establish a new record: the inverter capacity by the State Service of Geology and Subsoil using of the Pokrovs’k SPP is 240 MW. Construction is the platform of the Unified Electronic Public Procurement underway on the territory of a derelict manganese mine, System in Ukraine. chosen as the location of the plant because the land is 6 Integrated report 2018 Introduction 7 Customers Society People management function. The function will focus on three areas. Firstly, creating a culture of open innovation by 2018 has become a year of structural change for We are focused on improving people’s quality of life We need a network of astute professionals to achieve our focusing on the interplay between the company's internal DTEK Group. We completed the unbundling procedure in the cities where our manufacturing plants operate, ambi­tious task of creating a modern energy industry in potential and external innovation ecosystems. Secondly, of separating the electricity distribution and supply something we’ve worked towards throughout our Ukraine. The ongoing technological developments and rapidpartnerships and the search for innovative solutions functions. We’ve established operating companies in history. We have achieved a very important goal with ly changing business environment require those involved to which create effective communities. This helps facilitate each sphere of business, thereby ensuring independence the general population becoming our partners in our constantly update their knowledge and acquire new skills. quick adoption of new solutions which suit the needs within the existing structure of DTEK Group. sustainable development projects. We have engaged in of enterprises. Thirdly, the cultivation of startups in the dialogue with local communities, in identifying five key DTEK Group continues to support employees in their search for new technologies which we can integrate into This is the first stage of Ukraine’s energy reforms, which areas for our social partnership: energy efficiency in efforts to develop their own potential, giving everyone our business operations and in search of new products. will ultimately result in the transition to a European market the public sector; healthcare; development of socially the opportunity to undergo training as necessary. model. From the consumer's point of view, the main significant infrastructure; increasing community We continue to share our accumulated experience openly, In 2018, we implemented a pilot project, the Energy advantage of these reforms is gaining freedom of choice activity; and development of the business environment. holding specialized conferences for industry professionals Accelerator, which was aimed at finding innovative of their electricity supplier, which creates the basis for We are building a business strategy based on these and sharing corporate standards to help develop state solutions for our business needs. We selected three more competitive rates. For companies, it involves a lot of priority areas. standards for vocational education. startups and we plan to develop them until they’re ready work improving the quality and range of services, things for commercial implementation in 2019. which the energy sector has not previously focused on In general, our social investments — which are part of Our next major step towards creating a culture of open systematically. It creates conditions which need innovation our responsible financing practice — are focused on innovation was witnessed in the transformation of DTEK’s The Digital Transformation Center will focus on digital and the integration of modern technologies. an integrated and balanced approach to sustainable corporate university, Academy DTEK, into an innovative business transformation in all areas of DTEK activity, development. We work on the principle that our efforts educational business platform, open to representatives employing 70 IT and digital specialists. In the next three In 2018, we posted the geoinformation systems of power only make sense if they are of benefit to people. of business, the public sector and the wider community. years, our digital transformation program will focus on grids on the Internet, an important step in creating simple Academy DTEK opened its doors in its new location in nine key areas: Digital Mine; Digital TPP; Digital Grids; conditions for connecting new facilities to power grids. Each of our production projects incorporates UNIT.City — a space that is equipped with the latest Digital Field; Digital Logistics; Digital Analytics, Digital Our next step in the development of electricity grid maps environmental considerations. Since 2012, for example, technical means, supporting the development and Purchases; Digital HR and Digital Office. In 2019, we plan will be the introduction of an online service detailing when modernizing and reconstructing power units, we generation of new ideas. The campus also complies to launch 23 projects across these areas. available capacity. Our goal is to give customers a service have built electrostatic precipitators so that dust emission with the 'green building' standard of the American LEED that allows them to go through the whole procedure and levels meet European requirements — no more than 50 system. This new stage in the development of Academy Ukraine “plus” connect their facility to the grid in just two clicks. mg per cubic meter. The Pavlohrads’ka and Dobropil's'ka DTEK is aimed at one main goal: to promote innovation. plants — our largest concentrating plants — have Speaking of innovation, we have identified three main Alongside reforms, our key task in energy production is In the field of electricity supply, we are developing switched to a closed-loop water-slurry scheme and use areas to focus on: innovations in technology; innovations the synchronization of the United Energy System of Ukraine energy-saving and energy-efficient services for our green dump technology. This involves abandoning in customer service; and innovations in education. with the European energy system ENTSO-E. This project customers. By the end of 2018, our project portfolio the use of sludge ponds and preventing contact People are the drivers of change, so we must create an is important for Ukraine’s energy sustainability, since the exceeded 0.7 bln UAH, and reached the 1 bln UAH mark between coal concentration waste and the environment, environment that facilitates personal development. UES of Ukraine is currently connected and works in parallel at the beginning of 2019. Today this market segment thus significantly reducing our impact on the local with the energy systems of the Russian Federation and is emerging, but I am sure that in a few years energyefficient services will become a new fuel in Ukraine. environment. Our renewable energy projects will reduce Efficiency Belarus. Integration with the European energy system also greenhouse gas emissions by 2.6 mln tonnes per year, entails opening the Ukrainian market to European energy Just as electricity will become the standard fuel source for which is especially important for the industrial regions Digital business transformation and the adoption of companies, which will increase competition and improve cars. To that end, we started building a network of highwhere they are located. more innovative technologies will help us dramatically the quality of services. speed STRUM charging stations, which will help move improve our efficiency. In 2018, we created our innovation away from vehicles with internal combustion engines. DTEK has implemented and continues to implement a series of ambitious projects. The true value of each one lies in the fact that we produce energy which brings people light and heat. That is the mission we defined when the company was established and we have followed it steadfastly. We have created a company in which people work for people — a company to be proud of. DTEK Group at a glance 01 DTEK Group at a glance 02 Key events of 2018 03 Mission, vision and values 04 DTEK Group’s 2030 Development Strategy 05 DTEK Group’s top management 10 01 Integrated report 2018 | DTEK Group at a glance 01 | DTEK Group at a glance 11 DTEK Group at a glance Key Production and Financial Indicators of 2018 Revenue Assets DTEK Group develops business in the energy sector. Our enterprises mine coal UAH 157,619 mln UAH 147,971 mln and extract natural gas, generate electricity at thermal and RES power plants, distribute and supply electricity to end consumers, develop a network of fastEBITDA Capital investments charging stations, and provide energy services. Production enterprises are UAH 42,897 mln UAH 19,878 mln integrated into operating holdings with separate companies managing day-today activities in each of DTEK Group’s business streams. Net Profit Taxes DTEK Group is the largest domestic investor in Ukraine. lies at the foundation of all DTEK Group activities. UAH 12,373 mln UAH 26,724 mln DTEK’s Eurobonds are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange. This objective is achieved by forming sustainable social partnerships with local government bodies DTEK Group employs 70,000 people. DTEK’s enterprises and communities. Our contribution to the development are rated among the best employers in Ukraine of corporate social responsibility in Ukraine has been by international audit firm EY and Ukrainian business assessed highly by experts: DTEK has held top positions publications. in the Transparency and CSR Index since 2012. 34.1 DTEK adheres to principles of sustainable social DTEK is part of SCM, whose shareholder development and is a part to the United Nations Global is Rinat Akhmetov. Compact. Building a relationship of trust with society 677.0 bln kWh generated by TPPs and CHPPs 70,000 mln kWh generated by WPP and SPP employees 43.7 bln kWh 27.2 1,648.5 of electricity distributed mln cubic mln tonnes meters of coal produced of gas produced 12 Integrated report 2018 | DTEK Group at a glance 01 | DTEK Group at a glance 13 Where DTEK Group enterprises operate Coal production Solar power and processing Mining machinery Electricity manufacturing distribution Electricity Gas production Kyiv and region: supply Electricity distribution Under Thermal power DTEK Kyiv Grids construction Kyivoblenergo Wind power Electricity supply Kyiv Energy Services Mining machinery manufacturing CORUM Group Vinnytsia region: Electricity generation DTEK Westenergy: Ladyzhyns'ka TPP, Ladyzhyns'ka HPP, Ladyzhyns'ka SPP Dnipropetrovs'k region: Coal production and processing DTEK Pavlohradcoal: Pershotravens'ke Mine Office, Pavlohrads'ke Mine Office, Dniprovs'ke Mine Office, Ternivs'ke Mine Office, Geroiv Kosmosu Mine Office CCM Pavlohrads’ka Electricity generation DTEK Dniproenergo: Kryvoriz'ka TPP, Prydniprovs'ka TPP Nikopol SPP Pokrovs`k SPP (under construction) Electricity distribution DTEK Dnipro Grids Electricity supply Dnipro Energy Services Donets'k region: Coal production and processing Odesa region: Zaporizhzhia region: Electricity distribution DTEK Dobropolyeugol: Bilozers’ke Electricity generation Odesaoblenergo Mine Office, Dobropil's'ke Mine Office DTEK Dobropil's'ka CEP DTEK Dniproenergo: Zaporiz'ka TPP Botievo WPP Poltava region: CCM Kurahivs’ka DTEK Oktyabrs’ka CEP Prymors`k WPP Gas production Prymors`k WPP-2 (under construction) Naftogazvydobuvannya Electricity generation Orlivs`ka WPP (under construction) DTEK Skhidenergo: Kurakhovs'ka TPP Kharkiv region: DTEK Myronivka CHPP Ivano-Frankivs'k region: Mining machinery manufacturing Electricity distribution Electricity generation Svet Shakhtyora DTEK Donetsk Grids* DTEK Westenergy: Burshtyns'ka TPP Gas production DTEK Energougol ENE* Luhans'k region: Naftogazrozrobka DTEK Power Grid* Electricity generation Electricity supply Kherson region: Russian Federation: DTEK Skhidenergo: Luhans'ka TPP Donetsk Energy Services Electricity generation Coal production and processing Mining machinery manufacturing Lviv region: Tryfonivs`ka SPP Enterprises out of DTEK’s operational Mine Office Obukhovskaya; Electricity generation management are not shown on the map. Corum Druzhkovka Machine * In the part of grids located in the controlled Donskoy Anthracite; Building Plant DTEK Westenergy: Dobrotvirs'ka TPP territory of the Donets'k region. Sulinanthracite As of May 30, 2019. 14 Integrated report 2018 | DTEK Group at a glance 01 | DTEK Group at a glance 15 DTEK Group Structure and Business Areas DTEK Energy: coal production, The 200 MW Botievo Wind Farm is one of DTEK Renewables’ projects in the wind energy electricity generation and mining sector, with another two wind facilities currently under construction: the 200 MW Prymors`k WPP and the 100 MW machinery manufacturing Orlivs`ka WPP are expected to be commissioned in 2019. A pilot solar project was implemented back in 2017. The DTEK Energy has created a full cycle of electricity DTEK B.V. production from coal — it mines coal and generates electricity. The company has increased the share of construction of 10 MW Tryfonivs`ka SPP demonstrated the considerable potential of the sector. In January 2019, Nikopol SPP was commissioned, and the Pokrovs`k Strategic Holding Company domestic coal used in the fuel mix of its power plants by SPP construction project was launched. Together, their converting energy generating units to run on G-grade coal aggregate inverter capacity will reach 440 MW. instead of anthracite. These efforts promote Ukraine’s energy resilience and independence. The environmental impact will be significant when they’re in operation, with the reduction of CO2 emissions set to be 780,253.000 tonnes 2.6 mln tonnes per year. Operating holdings and areas of G-grade coal industrial reserves of operation 13.5 GW DTEK Oil & Gas: gas production installed capacity of TPPs and CHPP Significant gas production in Ukraine is only possible DTEK Energy operates mines that mainly produce G-grade through intensive development at depths of 5-6 km. DTEK DTEK DTEK DTEK coal. The company processes coal at its own and third-party DTEK Oil & Gas drills very deep wells efficiently, thanks to D.TRADING B.V D.SOLUTIONS B.V. ENERGY B.V. RENEWABLES B.V. OIL & GAS B.V. GRIDS B.V. CCMs. The production cycle includes close integration with investments made in the latest equipment and innovative manufacturers of mining machinery, which ensures efficient technologies. Our expertise even gives the opportunity to and immediate response to production demands ranging consider drilling at the depth exceeding 7 km. from the design of new machinery to the supply of spare No.1 in natural gas production among private parts. companies Coal production Electricity supply The company generates electricity at its eight thermal and processing 39 bln cubic meters of gas reserves by category 2P Wind power Energy efficiency power plants and one combined heat and power plant. (SPE-PRMS classification) Electricity generation Electricity Trading in coal, TPPs and one CHPP supply heat to the cities in which and energy saving generation at TPPs Gas production distribution and electricity, gas they’re located. The main operating asset is Naftogazvydobuvannya. and CHPP Solar power grid operation and oil products STRUM The company produces gas and gas condensate Mining machinery generationr fast-charging stations network DTEK Renewables: renewable at the licensed sites of Semyrenkivs'ke and Machukhs'ke fields, both at a depth exceeding 5 km. The extracted gas manufacturing energy is processed and brought in line with the standard requirements at the Olefirivka PGTU, the Semyrenky CGTU DTEK Renewables is the largest investor in the Ukrainian and the Machukhy GTU. Key tasks of the corporate centre: Key tasks of the operating companies: renewable energy sector. The company invested 287.1 mln euros in the construction of wind farms and Naftogazrozrobka was established to explore and zz long-term planning zz management of current operations develop new sites. The company specialises in geological solar power plants in 2018, which accounted for a third of zz development of new businesses zz improvement of operating efficiency the total financial investment in the sector. The company exploration and is developing the Khoroshivs'ka site in the will continue its development in the green energy sector, Kharkiv region. zz investment portfolio management and long-term zz implementation of investment projects with expectations of commissioning new wind and DTEK Oil & Gas also explores other opportunities for borrowing photovoltaic capacities in 2019. zz professional development of employees business expansion. Its development strategy envisages zz development of the managerial talent pool both increased participation in sub-soil use auctions and zz development of industry-related expertise. No.1 in investments in green energy the acquisition of assets already in operation. DTEK Oil & zz reputation management Gas is also ready to extend its experience and expertise to Installed capacity*: zz interaction with central government bodies. 510 MW — commissioned, manage projects undertaken by other companies. 440 MW — under construction * As of May 30, 2019. Mine Office Obukhovskaya DTEK Renewables develops two energy sources: wind and Mine Office Obukhovskaya is engaged in high-quality solar. According to the calculations made by the Institute anthracite production and processing. The products of Renewable Energy of the NAS of Ukraine, these are supplied to Russian Federation, Ukraine, Europe, segments have the potential to generate up to Asia, North America and Africa. 100 bln kWh of electricity every year, nearly the equivalent Corporate rights to the company belong to DTEK B.V. of Ukraine’s annual electricity consumption. (the Netherlands). 16 Integrated report 2018 | DTEK Group at a glance 01 | DTEK Group at a glance 17 Ukraine is reforming its energy sector to create an electricity market in line with the European model. Transition to new rules will give state, businesses, and consumers an incentive to implement structural changes. It’s all about creating a new clean, efficient, and competitive industry which makes the consumer an equal market player. During the first phase of the reform, companies were required to unbundle distribution system operators from electricity generation and supply. DTEK Group was among the first to implement the changes across its operations by unbundling electricity distribution and supply functions. New operating companies were established to manage each area of the business, thereby ensuring the independence of operations within DTEK Group. DTEK Grids: electricity will be an active player on the balancing and day-ahead markets. distribution and grid operation D.Trading will be in charge of SCM’s energy portfolio, within the markets of natural gas and coal, ensuring a In the new electricity market model, distribution system balance between production and consumption. operators have been converted into independent companies. As a result, all electricity suppliers receive Therefore, the main tasks assigned to D.Trading include equal access to power grids, which ensures all clients can the sale of electricity with a focus on boosting sales on choose their own suppliers. Distribution system operators the market of bilateral contracts, the sale of natural gas are also responsible for the operation of power grids, produced by the undertakings of DTEK Oil & Gas with ensuring reliable electricity supply and infrastructure a focus on increasing the amount supplied to industrial development. consumers. DTEK Grids focuses on electricity distribution. Distribution system operators serve 5.6* mln clients: companies, D.Solutions: electricity supply steelworks and machine-building plants, mines and factories, as well as social facilities and households. and energy efficiency services DTEK Grids provide service to 5.6 mln clients in the In the new market model, electricity suppliers carry out Kyiv, Dnipropetrovs`k, Donets’k, and Odesa regions the function of universal service supplier for two years. and in the city of Kyiv A universal service includes guaranteed electricity supply to state-financed organizations, residential and * As of May 30, 2019. small non-residential consumers with agreed capacity No operations are conducted in the temporarily occupied territories. below 150 kW. These consumers are charged at a tariff established by the Regulator. D.Trading: trading in coal, electricity, gas and oil products D.Solutions’ main role is to provide all-embracing solutions for the electricity retail market The new market model includes segments of organized and non-organized electricity trade. A market of bilateral Consumers in Kyiv, Dnipropetrovs'k and Donets'k regions agreements made directly between market participants are supplied with electricity by Kyiv Energy Services, falls within the non-organized segment. On the other Dnipro Energy Services, and Donetsk Energy Services, hand, the organized segment is comprised of day-ahead, respectively. intra-day, and balancing markets, all governed by rules established by the Regulator. DTEK ESCO focuses on the provision of integrated energy efficiency and energy saving services. The company D.Trading will be responsible for wholesale trade implements projects at industrial, residential, administrative, in coal, electricity, gas and oil products on the and social facilities. The company also offers a set of energy domestic and foreign markets for energy resources efficient products and services under the Smart WATT brand to residential consumers. On the bilateral contracts market, D.Trading will specialize in the supply of electricity to big industrial consumers In 2018, the company extended its operations by and universal service suppliers. The company will also be establishing a STRUM fast-charging stations network for responsible for export operations. In addition, D.Trading electric vehicles, and pilot stations were opened in Kyiv. 18 02 Integrated report 2018 | DTEK Group at a glance 02 | Key events of 2018 19 Key events of 2018 DTEK and Radar Tech technology cluster complete Energy Accelerator. This program is aimed at ensured by increased interaction between the company’s internal potential and external innovative ecosystems. The second is about searching for innovative solutions HR practices in Ukraine together with its international partners, top business schools and organisations such as discovering, developing and supporting innovative INSEAD, IE Business School, Thunderbird, HRCI, and Kyiv projects. It will help the company build up its adaptability through creating communities. This will help the company Mohyla Business School. The revitalised institution will be internal space and make the transition towards more adapt new solutions as fast as possible. The third focus based at UNIT.City. January thorough implementation of innovations which transform area covers startups — identifying and nurturing new technologies so they can be integrated into the business The Energy Efficient Schools project won in the DTEK and GE made an agreement for the its technological processes. Planet nomination category at the United Nations as fast as possible. DTEK appointed Emanuele Volpe as procurement, construction and maintenance of wind The choice was made in 11 segments: coal, oil and gas, Global Compact competition in Ukraine. The nominees Chief Innovation Officer. Before joining DTEK, he was turbines within the framework of the Prymors`k WPP logistics, generation, renewable energy sources, distribution, were assessed on the basis of innovation, contribution Head of Innovation at Enel. construction project. In 2018, two agreements were clients, personnel, corporate responsibility, environmental to social development, and number of people involved. made, both covering 26 wind turbines. GE is supplying a protection, and occupational health and safety. The project September The Energy Efficient Schools education project has been model that is highly efficient, even at low wind speed. finalists received an opportunity to launch their projects A propane cooling facility was commissioned running since 2012 and has engaged students from more The Prymors`k wind farm with an aggregate capacity of commercially in partnership with DTEK. at the Semyrenkivs'ke Field. A completely automated than 2,000 schools. The project’s objective is to instill 200 MW is being constructed in the Zaporizhzhia region. infrastructure facility was constructed to maintain environmental values in children, foster a responsible DTEK Kyiv Grids uploaded a geoinformation map It is expected that the project will generate 650–700 mln natural gas production volumes despite decreasing attitude towards the use of resources, and teach them of the power grids. The project was implemented in kWh of green energy every year, at full capacity. CO2 reservoir pressure and to ensure gas quality matches skills of rational energy use. The education program cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Development emissions will be reduced by 700,000–750,000 tonnes the requirements set out in the Gas Transportation includes “The basics of energy supply and energy saving”, and Trade of Ukraine and the Better Regulation Delivery per year, an extremely important factor for this industrial System Code. An array of advanced solutions was and “The ABC of Housing and Utility Management”, and Office (BRDO). The disclosure of information about implemented and equipment supplied by both Ukrainian region. the Smart House online game. electricity grids makes the company more transparent and and international manufacturers was installed on the main We attracted debt financing for the first stage of the allows businesses to figure out the optimum investment technological units of the cooling facility. The project is in line with the SDGs No.4 (Quality 100 MW project, with the first wind turbines commissioned project. Similar projects were implemented by DTEK Education) and No.12 (Responsible Consumption) of the at the beginning of 2019. A German banking consortium Dnipro Grids, DTEK Donetsk Grids, and DTEK Power Grid DTEK Grids became Ukraine’s first representative UN Global Compact. consisting of Bayerische Landesbank, Bremer Kreditbank, in 2018. in the E.DSO (European Distribution System Operators). The Association brings together more than Academy DTEK`s project won at the HR-Brand and KfW IPEX-Bank provided 10-year loans with ECADTEK Oil & Gas drilled a 5.6 km-deep well. The design Ukraine Awards. The Awards were established back in 36 members from 20 states with a view to harnessing coverage by Euler Hermes. and drilling of well No.25 of the Semyrenkivs'ke Field was 2011 by HeadHunter Ukraine, a recruiting company which innovation and technology to transform European grids made in compliance with the requirements and standards into Smart Grids. By participating in the Association, the popularizes modern personnel management methods. February set by the International Association of Drilling Contractors. company will get an opportunity to study and apply best Projects were assessed in terms of their relevance, Drilling was performed by a sumpless drilling method using European practices in Ukraine. modern implementation methods, efficiency and Reconstruction of Unit No.10 at Burshtyns'ka TPP effectiveness. dewatering technology and sludge disposal that meets was completed. The reconstruction included assembly international environmental standards. November replacement and upgrades to the energy unit systems, Academy DTEK’s project “Calculations or guesses: which which considerably improve performance and environmental The same work was completed at well No.61 in December, DTEK Energy switched energy unit No.9 is impossible? How HR-analytics protects human life and indicators. A new electrostatic precipitator decreased of DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP from anthracite to health” won first place in the Region nomination category. one month ahead of schedule. Such success was made G-grade coal, making it the third energy unit of the power HR-analytics is one on the instruments used by DTEK to emissions of solid particles into an atmospheric air down possible by the use of innovative technologies. A set plant that has been converted to use domestic fuel. A attain its objective of zero workplace injuries. to 50 mg/m3, which is in line with European standards.The of hi-technology surveys and efforts was completed plan for the gradual conversion of anthracite-fired energy improved technical and economic indicators — including the energy unit capacity which increased to 210 MW, the fact at the well to ensure efficient reservoir management. units operated by DTEK Energy’s TPP has been in motion Key events after the end since 2017, and its objective is to minimize the share of the equipment service life was extended by 15 years, and July anthracite in the fuel mix. of the reporting period the new ACS — will all serve as the foundation for operating within the parameters of ENTSO-E. The World Bank and DTEK verified a greenhouse The same efforts were completed at energy unit No.10 in DTEK Oil & Gas won an auction for the Svitankovogas monitoring plan. DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP competed March 2019. Moreover, a new electric precipitator was Logivs`ka oil-and-gas area. On 6 March 2019, the State Service of Geology and Subsoil of Ukraine held the first April a pilot project for the development of a greenhouse gas monitoring, reporting, and verification plan for thermal built at the energy unit, which will reduce the emission of solid pollutants into the air so that they’re in line with ever auction for subsoil use on the Prozorro.Sale platform, DTEK launched the Nikopol SPP construction project. generation undertakings. This is a preparatory stage for European standards. which is part of Ukraine's public e-procurement system. DTEK Oil & Gas' subsidiary won an auction for a special An agreement for design and construction was made with China Machinery Engineering Corporation, which became the introduction of a national greenhouse gas emission trading scheme in Ukraine. December subsoil use permit for the Svitankovo-Logivs`ka area in an investor and general contractor for the project. At its DTEK and Vestas started construction of the Orlivs`ka Kharkiv region. Type of minerals: oil, natural gas, and commissioning, the solar power plant was set to become The project was implemented with support from the World WPP. A new wind farm which is situated on the shore of condensate. Type of subsoil use: geological exploration one of the largest solar facilities in Europe with an installed Bank within the Partnership for Market Readiness program the Azov Sea in the Zaporizhzhia region, with a capacity followed by oil and gas extraction. The permit is valid for inverter capacity totalling 200 MW. The power plant is launched to counteract climate change and support states in set to reach 100 MW. The wind farm will comprise 26 20 years. located in a depleted quarry that was not being used for the development and implementation of their policies. Vestas wind turbines. The wind turbines will be installed DTEK Group completed the acquisition of the any other commercial activity. Fitch Ratings assigns a long-term rating to on a platform that demonstrated excellent performance in majority shareholding in Odesaoblenergo and DTEK Renewables B.V. The rating stands at Blevel, Ukraine in terms of wind dynamics and electricity output to The power plant has been generating green electricity the power grid. It is expected that the project will generate Kyivoblenergo. Odesaoblenergo and Kyivoblenergo are since March 1, 2019. The resulting reduction of CO2 which corresponds to Ukraine’s sovereign credit rating, electricity distribution system operators in the Odesa and 380 mln kWh of electricity a year and reduce greenhouse emissions is expected to reach 300,000 tonnes a year with a stable outlook. The agency noted the company’s Kyiv regions and do not carry out any electricity supply gas emissions by 400,000 tonnes. while electricity generation will reach 280 mln kWh. stable financial position as well the regulatory base for the activities. Currently, the company is developing a program for development of renewable generation as positive factors. DTEK has started the transformation of its corporate its assets with a focus on systematic digital transformation university into Academy DTEK, an innovative June August educational business platform. It will implement global of infrastructure management, as well as improvement of electricity supply reliability and customer service. The STRUM fast-charging stations network started operating in Kyiv. This innovation will promote the phase DTEK set up an innovation management function out of internal combustion-engine cars in favour of electric as a stepping-stone to broader organizational changes vehicles. We have plans to install fast-charging stations and in preparation for DTEK Group operating on the along the motorways connecting Kyiv with other major new electricity market. The function will focus on the Ukrainian cities. three areas. The first is a culture of open innovation, 20 03 Integrated report 2018 | DTEK Group at a glance 04 04 | DTEK Group’s 2030 Development Strategy 21 Mission, vision and values DTEK Group’s 2030 Development Strategy Mission Development Concept We are working in the name of progress and social prosperity. Our energy brings light and warmth to people. DTEK will actively develop in Ukraine and enter DTEK will support and develop key success factors: the markets of neighbouring countries as a diversified the talents and potential of its employees and the Vision energy company with secured fuel resources. efficiency of production, investments and management. DTEK will focus on the sale of electricity to all categories DTEK will participate in the reform and modernization We are a dynamically developing Ukrainian company that strives for leadership in the European energy markets. Our success of consumers while maintaining high standards of service of Ukraine’s economy, social development of regions is based on people, efficiency and advanced technologies. and building a strong retail brand. where it operates, and the promotion of best standards in industrial and environmental safety. Values Stages and priorities of DTEK Group’s Development Strategy Professionalism The long-term corporate strategy determines key areas of business development, Our employees have extensive professional knowledge, carry out their duties responsibly and diligently, and accomplish their tasks in a timely and workmanlike manner. management projects and technologies. We strive to achieve the best results while making the best possible use of human, natural and financial resources. Responsibility Stage Stage Stage 1 2 3 We are building our business on the understanding that all of our efforts should serve the interests of society. We bear responsibility for the quality of our work and the observance of corporate standards, for meeting our obligations, for using resources prudently, and for protecting the environment. We are responsible for the people who make the success of our company possible — our employees. Pursuit of excellence 2013—2015 2015—2020 2020—2030 We create the right conditions for the development of talents and abilities of our employees, implement the latest technologies, and improve production and management processes. As we expand our business, we strive to instill confidence in our employees and contribute to the successful development of Ukraine. Unity Integration, Efficiency Innovations infrastructure, reform We value team spirit, unity and solidarity. We can only achieve strong results as a team. We enjoy both working and leisure time together. Our common potential comes from the diverse experience and knowledge of each employee. Our unity comes Minimizing human intervention Management model Scaling of LEAN projects from the common pursuit of the same ideas and goals while understanding and supporting each other. in production Traditional business Pilot projects for new construction Openness Asset integration of power units Business process automation We are open and keep our employees, partners, shareholders and other external stakeholders informed about important Expansion of the list of products Reconstruction of facilities Introduction of innovations issues regarding our development, creating a foundation for working together in a spirit of trust. We conduct our business and services based on principles that are clear to our employees and partners. Formation of trading, sales Creation of sales infrastructure Large-scale new construction and marketing functions Pilot LEAN projects Pilot innovation projects SMART technologies Formation Growth Stabilization Team building Business self-sufficiency Leadership in Ukraine New business Implementation of base projects Progressive growth Access to new markets Participation in strategic Entering into adjacent Expansion of asset portfolio partnerships businesses — horizontal integration Acquisition of assets Leadership on target markets Strategic partnership/acquisition Expansion of asset portfolio on target markets: M&A of energy-generating assets operating taking leadership positions on DTEK’s coal base 22 Integrated report 2018 | DTEK Group at a glance 04 | DTEK Group’s 2030 Development Strategy 23 Six strategic vectors of development People Energy sector People are the backbone of the company and the driving force behind its competitive advantage. DTEK will continue to invest in the development of its The basis of DTEK’s energy business is coal mining and gas production, personnel and promote a culture of open innovation. electricity production at thermal and renewable generation plants, and People are the company’s intellectual capital, so a system its HR activities, focusing on benefits, incentives, and the distribution and supply of electricity. supporting ongoing personal development for employees management to help organize personnel management has been created — all managers are trained in personnel processes efficiently while cultivating and attracting new The company intends to maintain at least a 25% share RAB-regulation is expected to be introduced after 2019, talents to the company. management processes. The focus is on creating a of the electricity market until 2020. The company plans which will increase the investment attractiveness of to continue developing its renewable assets in wind electricity distribution business and create favourable corporate culture which supports the timely achievement DTEK will continue to make large-scale investments in energy initially by implementing the Priazovs`ky wind park conditions for further development. of business goals and employee engagement, while the development of its personnel and will promote an building loyalty to the company and spreading the innovation culture in production and management. The construction project, and by creating new facilities for In gas production, the company will focus on drilling of company’s values. company’s goal is to use the Human Capital instead solar generation. wells at the Semyrenkivs`ke and Machukhs`ke fields under of Managing People philosophy, according to which The main coal mining priorities are meeting the company’s a long-term development program, and will carry out an DTEK plans to use state-of-the-art IT technologies for employees act as business partners. thermal power plants’ fuel needs and creating safe exploration survey in the Khoroshivs'ka area. The company also will participate in auctions for licensed sites from the working conditions. unallocated site list and tenders for production sharing Efficiency agreements (PSA). Society DTEK strives not only to reduce costs, but to explore new opportunities to obtain maximum return from existing resources. DTEK’s competitive DTEK has a zero-tolerance policy to industrial injuries, so creating a culture of ability and industry leadership are based on the three pillars: efficiency of self-preservation is a critical task. DTEK plans to reduce workplace injury rates by management, efficiency of production, and efficiency of investments. introducing safety control parameters and building modern production facilities Efficiency of production is impossible without timely employee has the right to make a suggestion on how with more automation. modernizing DTEK’s production companies which, things could be more efficient at his/her workplace. in turn, requires investment efficiency. The company The best proposals are implemented and their authors DTEK promotes comprehensive development throughout Today, the Ukrainian energy sector is undergoing large determines investment priorities and chooses the best awarded. This approach is conducive to business Ukraine, with a particular focus on regions where the scale reforms that will result in the liberalization of engineering solutions to minimize human involvement in development and improved efficiency has advantages Group’s companies operate. One of the company’s the market, and the establishment of coal market and the coal production process, as well as upgrading and for consumers and the economy in general. From a primary goals is to establish long-standing partnerships electricity pricing mechanisms. DTEK is actively engaged constructing power units and creating modern grids. consumer point of view, DTEK’s efficiency means lower with wider society, promoting joint initiatives with in supporting the reforms by participating in working DTEK’s innovation management function was set up electricity consumption. For partners, it means a lower local residents for urban development and a better groups on the development of draft laws. The company and its main task is to identify and implement innovative energy component in product cost. For Ukraine, it leads understanding among local communities of the challenges promotes engaging best European practices in the reform technologies and digital solutions. to greater energy security, a better use of innovation, a the business faces. process of the energy industry and creation of efficient more favourable investment climate, and improvements competitive environment. It is ready to adapt all of its For production efficiency, the company is implementing to the entire economy. DTEK carries out a series of programs aiming to activities in support of these goals. the “Novator” continuous improvement system and improve people’s quality of life in the cities and towns developing a culture of lean production. “Novator” has Business efficiency is a prerequisite for sustainable longin its operating footprint. The programs span five main The company is putting particular focus on preserving and become the go-to model for employee behaviour: each term development. areas: energy efficiency in the utilities sector; health improving its reputation. DTEK has always demonstrated care; development of socially important infrastructure; a high level of business transparency and social development of business environment; and increasing responsibility, and will continue to do so in the future. Ukraine “plus” local communities’ activity. There is a special focus on environmental protection. With this goal in mind, DTEK has Ukraine is the key priority for DTEK’s development. The company’s largest designed its own environmental strategy. investments are channelled into the development of Ukraine’s energy sector Customers and economy. New capacities are built, new technologies are introduced and new businesses are set up. Efficient operation on external markets Liberalization of the energy market ensures consumers can choose their is impossible when there is no strong production base at home. suppliers. To operate effectively in a free market, DTEK is focused on DTEK aims to develop commercial relations with external its power units and grids ready for integration into transitioning from an electricity supply company to a customer-oriented markets. One of our main tasks is to expand the number the European energy system. business. of technical and business opportunities to export DTEK has become the face of Ukrainian business for electricity, implement modern and innovative commercial foreign partners. The company strives to showcase the The company is developing uniform customer relations implementation of energy service projects for industrial mechanisms, and reach end consumers in European appeal of the Ukrainian business sector to international standards for all undertakings, replacing its obsolete system and state-financed consumers, as well as the Smart markets. DTEK is ready to support synchronization partners, acting as a transparent, responsible and efficient with European best practice service. The network of CSC has WATT brand which is targeted at the retail sector. In with ENTSO-E, and will do everything necessary to get company focused on long-term sustainable development. already expanded, and its operating principles have been 2018, the company created a network of STRUM faststandardized. Online services are replacing consumer billing charging stations for electric vehicles. books. There are plans to introduce a common centralized billing system in the next few years, thereby establishing the Through further diversification of high-quality products foundations for a large-scale deployment of Smart Grid and and services, we hope to increase customer satisfaction Smart Metering technologies. to 90% by 2030. The company will continue to develop The range of services offered by the company has been DTEK’s retail brand to ensure reliable and innovative complemented by energy efficiency services — including the services are available to everyone. 24 05 Integrated report 2018 | DTEK Group at a glance 05 | DTEK Group’s top management 25 DTEK Group’s top management Maxim Timchenko The construction of Prymors`k and Orlivs`ka Wind Farms with a total capacity of 300 MW, and Pokrovs`k SPP with Dmytro Sakharuk Philipp Leckebusch DTEK CEO a capacity of 240 MW is underway. CEO of DTEK Energy CEO of DTEK Renewables He has been heading the company since 2005. Along with 20 other leaders of the world’s largest He has been heading the company since 2017. He has been heading the company since 2018. Under his leadership, DTEK has become the largest energy companies, Maxim Timchenko was a co-founder In 2000, he graduated with honours from the Kharkiv He started his career in 1989 in the aerospace industry national investor. Since 2005, DTEK’s portfolio has and signatory of Energy for Society, a global initiative National University of Internal Affairs (Ukraine) majoring with MBB Deutsche Aerospace (Germany) and Mitsubishi increased to 31 mines, 10 TPPs, and 6 distribution of the World Economic Forum. in Law. In 2001, he received a Master’s degree in Law Heavy Industries (Japan). During his time with ABB, companies. In 2013, DTEK became a major shareholder Enforcement with honours from the same university. ALSTOM Power and Ferrostaal, his responsibilities of Naftogazvydobuvannya, the largest private gas From 2002 to 2005, Mr. Timchenko worked as a senior He continued his education at the University of Chicago included supervising the project development and producing company in Ukraine. In 2014, DTEK completed manager at SCM, where he was responsible for SCM’s Law School (USA). In 2002, Mr. Sakharuk received engineering of multiple-fossil-fuel and biomass power the construction of 200 MW Botievo Wind Farm, which is energy business until it was separated into DTEK. a Master’s degree in international and comparative law plants in all major regions of the world. one of the five largest wind farms in Central and Eastern Mr. Timchenko began his career as a consultant from this university. During his employment at DTEK, at PricewaterhouseCoopers (1998–2002), where he Dmytro successfully completed the Energy of Leader Even as he acquired his extensive conventional power Europe. In 2015, DTEK successfully implemented a new advanced to a senior auditor position. program, a joint program of the London Business School plant know-how, he spent more than 10 years overseeing corporate governance structure, which provides for (UK) and DTEK Academy. the development and operation of numerous geothermal, effective unbundling of strategic planning and operational He is a member of the Association of Certified Chartered wind, solar and biogas projects, which qualified him for his functions. In 2016, DTEK restructured the loan portfolio Accountants (ACCA). His professional career began in 2004 when he joined most recent position as head of the MVV Energie Group’s of its operating companies. This allowed the company Philip Morris Ukraine. In 2008, he started working generation division. In that post, he successfully managed to balance its financial capabilities with respect to loan He received a degree in Production Management at Squire, Sanders & Dempsey LLP, a global law firm. the transformation of the company’s conventional power servicing and future development. In 2017, a pilot with honours from the Donets’k State Academy of plant portfolio into a continuously growing renewable solar project was implemented, which demonstrated Management (Ukraine) in 1997. He continued his He joined DTEK in March 2010 as the Deputy Legal energy asset base. the potential for further development in this segment. education at Manchester University (UK) and received Director and was promoted to the Legal Director in 2011. The construction of the 200 MW Nikopol Solar Farm a BA degree in Economics and Social Sciences with Since August 2014, Mr. Sakharuk was holding a position Mr. Leckebusch holds a degree in aeronautical started in 2018, the farm has been generating green honours. of DTEK Energy’s executive director, and in October 2016 engineering from the Munich University of Applied electricity since 1 March 2019. he was appointed as acting CEO of DTEK Energy. Sciences (Germany). Subsequently, in September 2017, he became CEO. 26 Integrated report 2018 | DTEK Group at a glance 05 | DTEK Group’s top management 27 Igor Shchurov Ivan Gelyukh Vitaly Butenko Abdullah KÖksal DTEK Oil&Gas General Director CEO of DTEK Grids CEO of D.Trading CEO of D.Solutions He has been working for the company since 2011. He has been heading the company since 2018. He has been heading the company since 2019. He has been working for the company since 2018. Between April 2013 and September 2016, Mr. Shchurov He joined the DTEK team in 2005 as the head of He joined the DTEK team in 2007 as the Strategy and In June 2018, he became the Head of the Sales and headed DTEK Oil & Gas’ main asset — Naftogazvydobuvannya. the investment department of Vostokenergo and held that M&A Director. Mr. Butenko has been in charge of Marketing Division of DTEK Grids. Under his leadership, He led the company to unprecedented operational levels: position until 2008. Then he moved to Kyivenergo as head the company’s commercial operations since 2014: a strategy for the development of electricity sales and annual output of natural gas more than tripled. of the investment department, and headed the Regulatory first, he worked at DTEK, and then at DTEK Energy the energy efficiency services business was designed. Policy and Investments Directorate in 2011, and after the new corporate management structure was In April 2019, he was appointed CEO of D.Solutions. Earlier Mr. Shchurov had run Novatek-Tarkosaleneftegaz, the Strategy Directorate in 2012. Ivan held the position implemented. steering the company to extract over 14 bcm of natural of Deputy Commercial Director of DTEK Energy in Mr. KÖksal has several years’ experience in consulting gas. From 1998 to 2007, he worked at Samaraneftegaz September 2013, and has exercised the functions of Prior to that, he was the investment director at Inter RAO and banking services. Prior to joining DTEK, he worked for (Yukos Oil Company, Russia), where he rose from an oil Electricity Distribution and Sales Director of DTEK Energy since 2005. Mr. Butenko launched his career at banking more than nine years at Enerjisa (Turkey, a venture asset and gas production operator to deputy CEO. since March 2017. business: he worked for a number of London and Toronto of Sabancı Holding and E.ON), where he held various banks, and then was appointed to the position of CSFB management positions in operations management and He has two higher education degrees: in Oil and He began his career in 2001 as an economist at Intron Vice-President (New York, USA). In 2003, he returned marketing. He was responsible for electricity procurement gas fields development and in Finance and credit. сompany. to Kyiv to head Trust IB. and pricing processes, a commercial cycle, built up In 2002, he received a PhD in Engineering. a customer service system, and was also in charge of He received higher education at Donetsʼk National In 2006, he received an MBA degree from the University reorganization during unbundling. University (Ukraine), graduating with a Master’s degree of Manitoba (Canada). Mr. Butenko graduated from in Finance in 2003. the School of Foreign Languages of the Chernivtsi In 1999, he graduated from the Middle East Technical National University (Ukraine). University (Turkey) with a degree in mechanical engineering. In 2003, he received an MBA degree from the City University of New York (USA). Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 01 Electricity Market 02 Coal Market 03 Natural Gas Market 04 Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators Ukraine is reforming the electricity market The most important development of the industry in 2018 is the energy reform. The reform completely changes the model of interaction between the participants. Liberalization of the market opens up opportunities for the industry to move to qualitative transformations and disengage from investment isolation, and for the consumer it gives the right to choose a supplier which stimulates the quality improvement and the emergence of new services. to switch to the European model ´ Participants, interaction model before the implementation of the reform ´ Electricity market as a result of the reform ´ Functioning of the wholesale electricity market Producers: NPS, GenCos' TPPs, HPPs and PSPPs, CHPPs, municipal CHPPs and Year to day of delivery Day to day of delivery Day of delivery After delivery isolated generating plants, A Single buyer; RES No alternatives for sale and purchase of electricity; The Regulator is endowed with tariff approval functions for the majority of the participants After closing the gate, the transmission Allocation of costs Specification of Submission of system operator for balancing among Market participants hedge Purchase and sale of the contractual position schedules, applicabalances production participants that electricity price risks electricity a day ahead on the day of delivery tions and proposals and consumption caused imbalances SE Energorynok No incentives for the Free prices are Bilateral Market is not Wholesale Day-ahead Intraday Balancing Bilateral contracts market Settlements (state-owned emergence of new an incentive for contracts Day-ahead market Intraday market Balance formation Balancing market liberalized market market market market and forward / futures market for imbalances enterprise) market participants new producers market Actions of transmission system operator Procurement of ancillary services Т-year Т-day Т-3rd hour (final closing) Т (delivery) Т-х All suppliers are provided with free access to grids, stimulating ´ Electricity market participants Electricity the emergence of new Distribution system operators distribution Load Combine players in the market OblOblOblelectricity Electricity Electricity Electricity controlled Large and medium SUT* energo energo energo suppliers Producers suppliers Producers suppliers Producers Producers consumers non-domestic consumers distribution and supply services It may be sold in Electricity any region to Suppliers supply any customer Free sale and purchase Single seller for the majority of consumers; Supply Practically no alternative for consumers; All tariffs are set by the Regulator Transmission Electricity Traders Market Market Retail Retail market system suppliers operator operator market is created operator Supply Imbalance Consumers Grid Large and medium Grid Traders Grid Traders Parties responsible Domestic and small Consumers have a very limited choice of electricity Large consumers can buy electricity operators non-domestic operators operators for the balance non-domestic consumers purchase sources directly from producers consumers * SUT — Suppliers of electricity at unregulated tariff (SUT) All consumers choose electricity suppliers freely Wholesale market segments Retail market 32 01 Integrated report 2018 | Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 01 | Electricity Market 33 Electricity Market In the current “single buyer” model, all participants interact through the Wholesale Electricity Market, which is Generation, ICUR* and specific fuel consumption of the thermal generation companies * Installed capacity utilization rate (ICUR) operated by SE Energorynok. Producers sell all electricity ICUR for DTEK Energy is indicated excluding power units under mothballing and oil/gas units. they generate to the Wholesale Market, and then suppliers Electricity balance buy electricity from the Wholesale Market to provide to their end consumers. Companies Electricity generation, bln kWh ICUR, % Specific fuel consumption, g/kWh The United Energy System of Ukraine (UES) comprises Ukraine is switching from this model to a competitive power plants: nuclear, thermal, hydro, pumped-storage electricity market. The Law “On the Electricity Market” 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 hydropower and renewable energy; combined heat and No.2019-VIII dated April 13, 2017 incorporated power plants, as well as the transmission and distribution requirements from the EU Third Energy Package and set DTEK Energy TPPs and CHPPs 37.5 36.0 35.7 35.2 402.3 405.4 of electricity grids. Centralized operational and process a July 1, 2019 deadline for transition to the competitive control the UES of Ukraine is carried out by National market. Markets will be opened for bilateral contracts, Centrenergo 6.3 8.7 9.3 12.9 404.7 405.2 Power Company Ukrenergo. All business entities whose day-ahead, intra-day, as well as balancing and ancillary facilities are connected to the UES of Ukraine must services. adhere to the dispatcher’s operational commands and Donbasenergo 5.3 3.5 50.6 44.8 402.8 407.4 instructions. Thus, electricity producers cannot deviate Liberalization of the market ensures all participants can from the approved schedules by changing the load of buy and sell electricity freely, and consumers will be able to the generating equipment at their own discretion. interact with producers directly and choose their supplier. According to the report of SE Energorynok, the average daily composition of the equipment of GenCosʼ TPPs adopted to the specified load profile increased by one power unit and made at the average 33 power units in 2018. Electricity generation, mln kWh Electricity purchase on the Wholesale Electricity Market, %  Data: The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine.  Data: SE Energorynok. 1,896.3 10,567.2 12,008.4 2,632.4 82.4 9.4 11.3 80.4 RES HPPs and PSPPs HPPs and PSPPs RES At regulated tariff At unregulated tariff At unregulated tariff At regulated tariff 3,6 4.2 Exports Exports 12,414.7 12,519.6 2.7 2.6 CHPPs, CHPPs, municipal CHPPs municipal CHPPs Losses Losses 155,414.6 and isolated and isolated 159,350.5 % % generating plants generating plants 1.6 1.5 Others Others 85,576.2 44,960.2 47,792.0 84,398.1 0.4 ToT NPPs GenCos' TPPs GenCos' TPPs NPPs 2017 2018 2017 2018 At regulated tariff — suppliers operating at the regulated tariff, at unregulated tariff — suppliers operating at an unregulated tariff, ToT — temporarily occupied territories of Donetsʼk and Luhansʼk regions. 40.27% (+4.17% by 2017) — the total installed capacity utilization rate of NPP, HPP and PSPP, GenCosʼ TPPs operating on the Wholesale Electricity Market under price-based bids in 2018. 142.4 bln kWh (+2.9% by 2017) of electricity was purchased on the Wholesale Electricity Market in 2018. 6.2 bln kWh was purchased for foreign consumers (+19.4%) and 134.0 bln kWh for Ukrainian consumers (+2.3%). Ukraine has increased its electricity generation for Zmiyivsʼka TPP and two more of Trypilsʼka TPP At the same time, electricity suppliers using unregulated tariffs increased purchases to 16.5 bln kWh (+24.3%). the third year in a row, with demand growing from both (Centrenergo) with a total capacity of 1,565 MW were In general, 125 suppliers operated at an unregulated tariff on the Wholesale electricity market, compared to 94 in 2017. domestic and foreign markets. converted from anthracite to G-grade coal. This reduces the risk of suspension of production due to fuel shortages The suppliers operating at the regulated tariff were system operators and electricity suppliers. In turn, the Thermal power generation restores production volumes regional power distribution companies (oblenergo), which and thereby increases the resilience of the countryʼs Regulator revoked licenses for electricity transmission by thanks to implementing the strategy of substituting transmitted and supplied electricity according to license energy system operation. In general, thermal generation local grids and licenses for electricity supply at a regulated imported A-grade coal with domestic G-grade coal, conditions exclusively within assigned territory. Only has 10.2 GW of G-grade-coal-fired and 7 GW of tariff from January 1, 2019. The formed distribution system whose reserves are significant in Ukraine. In 2017-2018, suppliers operating at an unregulated tariff could perform the A-grade-coal-fired installed capacities. operators obtained licenses for their relevant business four power units of DTEK Prydniprovsʼka TPP, two of business activities to supply electricity all over Ukraine. activity, which also became effective on January 1, 2019. Prompted by the transfer of Ukraine’s electricity market to Electricity suppliers separate from suppliers operating the European model, regional power distribution companies on a regulated tariff are universal services suppliers for have unbundled their activities to establish a distribution a two-year period within their assigned territory. 34 Integrated report 2018 | Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 01 | Electricity Market 35 Electricity consumption in Ukraine Sector regulation and tariffs According to the “single buyer” model, the commission approved the forecast wholesale market price  Data: The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. The National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission for electricity, tariffs for the electricity supply for (NEURC) is a collective body acting independently individual producers and tariffs for all categories of from any governmental and local government bodies. consumers based on the forecast balance of electricity Consumption, mln kWh Share in total consumption, % Consumer categories Its objective is to carry out governmental regulation, in the UES of Ukraine. Bearing in mind the planned 2017 2018 Change, +/– Change, % 2017 2018 monitoring and supervision of business entities in transition to a competitive electricity market, the energy and public utilities sector, which is exercised the commission approved the forecast wholesale market Consumption (gross) 149,725.9 153,214.5 3,488.6 2.3 – – through the legislative and regulatory framework, licensing price for 2019, while the effect of this resolution is limited operations, and by setting price and tariff policies for to July 1, 2019. producers and consumers. Consumption (net) 118,927.1 122,143.6 3,216.6 2.7 100.0 100.0 Including Wholesale market price structure, % 1. Industry 50,952.0 52,023.1 2.1 1,071.1 42.6 42.8  Data: SE Energorynok. 2. Agricultural consumers 3,642.1 3,867.8 6.2 225.7 3.2 3.1 –0.09 0.75 1.43 The cost of The expenses of The expenses of electricity SE Energorynok SE Energorynok 3. Transportation 7,044.0 6,955.0 –1.3 –89.0 5.7 5.9 purchase at tariffs 71.02 71.35 4. Construction 891.8 964.4 8.1 72.6 0.8 0.7 The price of 4.17 2.36 The price of electricity sold to The expenses of The expenses of electricity sold to SE Energorynok NPC Ukrenergo NPC Ukrenergo SE Energorynok 5. Utilities 15,016.2 15,506.4 3.3 490.2 12.7 12.6 2.43 2.40 Excise tax Excise tax 6. Other non-industrial 1,353.27 1,560.89 6,361.1 6,880.1 8.2 518.9 5.6 5.3 2.71 2.58 consumers UAH/MWh The cost of systemThe cost of systemUAH/MWh wide technological wide technological 7. Households 35,019.9 35,946.8 2.6 926.9 29.4 29.4 expenses expenses The average The average wholesale wholesale Since 2015, the industrial and domestic sectors (public utilities and household consumers), respectively — have market price 19.01 19.88 market price The amount of subsidized The amount of subsidized consumed broadly the same amount of electricity. This reflects structural changes to the Ukrainian economy which certificates and compensation certificates and compensation have changed the pattern of electricity consumption and as a result increased the difference between the maximum and minimum daily consumption. 2017 2018 In 2018, the maximum level of daily electricity consumption in the UES of Ukraine increased by an average of 292 MW compared to 2017, and the minimum level by 331 MW. GenCosʼ TPPs are largely responsible for the flexibility required in The average selling price of electricity on the Wholesale Electricity Market was 111.36 kopecks/kWh (+15.9% from the electricity generation in the UES of Ukraine. 2017) and the average purchase price including exports was 124.24 kopecks/kWh (+13.9%). Suppliers operating at the regulated tariff averaged 119.58 kopecks/kWh (+13.02%), suppliers operating at an unregulated tariff averaged 152.66 kopecks/kWh (+15.43%), and those supplying the export market averaged 151.40 kopecks/kWh (+15.24%). According to the data from the State Fiscal Service of Electricity exports, mln kWh Ukraine, electricity exports amounted to USD 331.9 mln in 2018 (+40.9% from 2017).  Data: The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, as specified in the forecast electricity balance in the UES of Ukraine, expects an increase in exports Countries 2017 2018 in 2019 to 6,420.0 mln kWh. Thereafter, the process of connecting the UES of Ukraine to the Continental Hungary 2,851.6 3,594.4 Synchronous Area within the European energy system, ENTSO-E, will contribute to an increase in the amount Moldova 1,133.9 955.8 of exports. The project is also designed to increase Ukraine’s energy security, as it means the country is Poland 894.8 1,410.2 no longer partially-dependent on the energy systems of the Russian Federation and Belarus, as is the case now. Slovakia 162.0 167.7 Romania 124.1 37.7 Total 5,166.3 6,165.7 36 Integrated report 2018 | Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 01 | Electricity Market 37 There is only one competitive segment in the electricity market in the existing model — thermal generation market. Based on submitted bids and forecasts for the next day’s electricity demand, SE Energorynok prepares an order of Key legislative events of 2018 Each generating unit of TPP submits daily a price-based merit for the generating units for each hour in ascending bid for each hour of the next day. At the same time, order, from the least expensive to the most expensive. Energy reform is the number one priority for the Ukrainian energy industry. there is a mechanism limiting the system marginal price, Generating units that offered to produce electricity at differentiating between daytime hours and nighttime the lowest price are the first to be included in the merit According to Law of Ukraine “On the Electricity Market of Ukraine” No.2019-VIII hours. The marginal price of the system is determined order. The last accepted bid sets the price for electricity for dated April 13, 2017, the liberalized market will come into operation from July 1, 2019. by SE Energorynok taking into account restrictions set all TPP units included in the merit order for this hour. by the Regulator. During the preparatory period of the reform: Main tasks and challenges in 2019 Average producers’ price-based bids, UAH/MWh zz Unbundling of the regional power companies was Continue reforms across the industry, the implementation completed, as a result of which the distribution of which requires the industry to:  Data: SE Energorynok system operators were separated from the electricity supply (pursuant to Directive 2009/72/EC concerning zz create a transmission system operator, conduct common rules for the internal electricity market). certification and obtain a license; Companies 2017 2018 zz The formed distribution system operators and zz create a market operator and a guaranteed buyer, electricity suppliers obtained the appropriate licenses obtain appropriate licenses; Centrenergo 1,504.9 1,876.9 to conduct business activities (the licensing conditions zz purchase and commission the software and technical for business activities on electricity supply to DTEK Dniproenergo 1,414.2 1,647.6 support of the market operator, transmission system consumers, NEURC Decree No.1469 dated December operator, guaranteed buyer, as well as train market 27, 2017, and the licensing conditions for business DTEK Westenergy 1,233.6 1,482.8 participants to work with new software; activities on electricity distribution, NEURC Decree No.1470 dated December 27, 2017 became effective). zz prepare consumers and other market participants Donbasenergo 1,284.0 1,429.8 for work under new conditions; zz The universal service suppliers and the supplier of last DTEK Skhidenergo 965.4 1,357.7 resort were determined. zz eliminate the mechanisms of cross-subsidization and bring prices (tariffs) for end consumers to These preparations enabled the introduction of the retail The average selling price of electricity, GenCos' TPPs 1,595.7 1,777.7 an economically sound level; electricity market from January 1, 2019, as required by the Law “On the Electricity Market of Ukraine”. zz settle issues of arrears arising in the Wholesale Electricity Market; develop secondary legislation. The fuel component of producers operating under price-based bids in 2018 amounted to UAH 1,413.63 per MWh. Regional power distribution companies performed the As part of the transition to a competitive market, electricity transmission and supply to all categories of household consumers, small non-domestic customers, the consumers. There were also independent suppliers budget organizations, and other consumers have switched in the market that distributed electricity at an unregulated to being serviced by the universal services suppliers. tariff, but did not own networks. All large consumers connected to power grids with At the same time, the commission approved the tariffs a contracted capacity of 150 kW had to choose an at which the power supply companies sold electricity electricity supplier by January 1, 2019. If a large consumer to the public at the same level all over Ukraine. did not choose a supplier and draw up a contract by Other electricity consumers are divided into two classes. January 1, they were assigned to the supplier of last on January 1, 2019 The first class is represented by consumers connected to resort. The supplier of last resort is a legal entity that the retail networks with a voltage of 27.5 kV or more, and the second does not have the right to refuse to supply electricity class is made up of consumers connected to networks to the consumer. Supply is made within 90 days, and below 27.5 kV. Since April 2017, the commission has set after expiration the electricity supply is terminated. tariffs for these consumers based on their region and The government assigned SE Ukrinterenergo as consumption class in order to eliminate the region-based cross subsidies and move to market-based retail tariffs. the supplier of last resort for the period from January 1, 2019 to January 1, 2021. NEURC set tariffs for the services of the supplier of last resort as well as for the electricity electricity market distribution services and universal service suppliers. Subsidies to consumers, began to operate UAH bln Incentive-based regulation in tariff setting (RAB regulation) was expected to be introduced as part of 45.3 the ongoing energy reforms, but it never took place 36.6 despite the regulatory document package adopted in 2013. RAB regulation provides that transmission and distribution system operators will impose tariffs and 2017 2018 threshold value of returns for several years in advance, In 2018, preferential electricity tariffs were in effect for the which will make it possible to raise investment for following consumer categories: technical developments and the introduction of modern technologies. zz households; zz consumers paying for electricity at time-of-day based tariff rates; zz Moloda Hvardiia children’s center. 38 Integrated report 2018 | Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 01 | Electricity Market 39 Renewable energy sector Electricity generation by RES, mln kWh  Data: UWEA. The data does not include private households. Installed capacity of facilities operating with a feed-in tariff, MW 2016 2017 2018 2019 (forecast) 2016 2017 2018 2019 (forecast) WPPs 924.5 970.5 1,181.1 1,700.0 SPPs 530.9 756.0 1,427.3 3,000.0 SPPs 492.6 710.7 1,101.2 2,950.0  SPPs of households 16.7 51.0 157.0 250.0 Others 357.9 405.1 509.7 550.0 WPPs 437.7 465.1 532.8 1,300.0 Total 1,775.0 2,086.3 2,792.0 5,200.0 Others 149.5 167.7 202.1 220.0  Data: UWEA. Total 1,134.8 1,439.8 2,319.2 4,770.0 The data does not include private households. Solar generation accounts for 65.6% of installed capacities in the RES sector, while its share in electricity generation  Data: The State Agency on Energy Efficiency and Energy Saving of Ukraine, Ukrainian Wind Energy Association makes 39.4%. On the contrary, 18.6% share of installed wind capacities accounts for 42.3% of electricity generation by (UWEA). Information provided about the facilities located on the onshore territory of Ukraine taking into account the RES sector. private households. Solar energy remains the biggest growth sector by installed capacity thanks to the availability and ease of constructing Largest renewable energy players facilities and high flexibility over the size of new plants. The majority of companies responsible for growing Ukraine’s green energy sector operate with solar energy. Companies MW Companies MW In 2018, the wind energy sector showed the most dynamic growth it’s had in the past four years. The Ukrainian Wind Energy Association believes the active approach on project financing from Ukrainian state-owned banks and international financial Current Advanced project: development and under construction institutions has significantly improved the investment climate. By the end of 2018, 893.3 MW of capacity were under construction, and further 3,330 MW were at the design stage. WPPs WPPs More generally, the green energy sector set a record The commissioning of new capacity did not have a signif DTEK Renewables 300.0  NBT 1,000.0 in 2018 in terms of capacity growth rates with almost icant impact on the share of RES in the aggregate elec900 MW of capacities commissioned, almost three tricity generation in Ukraine since the majority of these  Wind Parks of Ukraine 184.7  DTEK Renewables 765.0 times higher than the 2017 indicators. This shows that facilities were commissioned in the second half of the year. the sector appeals to investors, helped by a favorable By the end of the year, the RES share in the aggregate electricity generation was 1.8%.  Windkraft 74.6  Windkraft 600.0 regulatory environment, an effective mechanism of state support, as well as further development of technologies According to the forecast electricity balance prepared by with the increased productivity. the UES of Ukraine, the sector is expected to generate SPPs SPPs 3,500 mln of green kWh in 2019, which will account for 2.2% By the end of year, the total amount of installed of total energy generation. The Energy Strategy of Ukraine green generation capacity reached 2,319.2 MW, with  CNBM 267.1  DTEK Renewables 460.0 sets out a more ambitious long-term performance target — household SPPs accounting for 157 MW. In Ukraine, 25% of primary energy consumption should be generated there are 7,450 households that have installed solar by RES by 2035. To achieve this, the sector must create  DTEK Renewables 210.0  UDP 300.0 panels and about half of those were commissioned an environment which encourages greater investment in in 2018. the sector, particularly from international investors.  Rengy Development 131.6  Scatec Solar 250.0  Data: DTEK Renewables, UWEA, open sources. The data includes all RES capacities located on the onshore territory of Ukraine as of May 30, 2019. The asset portfolio of DTEK Renewables includes the largest operating facilities: Botievo WPP and Nikopol SPP. DTEK is strengthening its position with the implementation of a number of large-scale projects, with the company’s total capacity in the green energy sector set to reach 1 GW by 2020. 40 Integrated report 2018 | Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 01 | Electricity Market 41 Regulatory environment Experts and specialized associations, investors and banks all favored the earliest possible introduction of the relevant Top 10 regions for placement of renewables by the end of 2018, MW The development of the renewable energy sector is one of changes in the legislation. The changes are designed to  Data: NEURC, UWEA Ukraine’s key priorities in the energy industry. In July 2018, improve the investment climate by creating transparent the government adopted the Low Carbon Development conditions for development and growth of renewable Strategy, highlighting that growth in RES production is vital energy capacity, while reducing the financial burden for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. on consumers. Eight bills proposing the introduction of green auctions were prepared in the first half of the year. The following important regulatory changes were adopted Following expert discussions and hearings held at the in 2018 to promote the development of the sector: Fuel and Energy Committee of the Verkhovna Rada, it zz At the beginning of the year, the National Energy and was decided that one of the bills, No.8449-d, reflecting Utilities Regulatory Commission adopted a resolution the positions of all stakeholders, would be submitted making changes to the PPA agreements (a template to the parliament. This draft law was reviewed at the power purchase agreement). According to the parliamentary hearings, and adopted with a series of resolution, a direct agreement with SE Energorynok for amendments as a Law of Ukraine “On amendments to lenders financing the implementation of a RES project certain legislative acts of Ukraine on ensuring competitive (international financial organizations, funds, export conditions for electricity production from alternative credit agencies, and multilateral development banks) energy sources” No.2712-VIII dated 25 April 2019. was introduced to protect the rights of investors. The main provisions of the bill include: zz Law of Ukraine “On changes and amendments in some laws of Ukraine on investment attractiveness of zz introduction of auctions from January 1, 2020 for construction of renewable energy facilities” No.2517-VIII WPP projects with a capacity exceeding 5 MW dated September 4, 2018 simplified the regulatory and for SPP projects with a capacity exceeding 1 MW; requirements for construction of renewable energy zz conducting pilot auctions within six months of the law plants, particularly wind power plants. According to being adopted but no later than 31 December 2019; this Law, the facilities can be classified as class of consequences CC1 “insignificant consequences” zz simplified procedure for feed-in tariff setting for WPP that simplifies expert assessment and expedites households (up to 50 kW); construction. zz green tariff reduction from 2020. SPP zz Law of Ukraine “On changes and amendments in the Tax Code of Ukraine and some other legislative Tasks and challenges for the acts of Ukraine on improvement of administration SPP and revision of certain taxes and fees” No.2628-VIII renewable energy sector in 2019 of households dated November 23, 2018 simplified the regulatory zz The adoption of changes aimed at amending the requirements for plots on which renewable energy incentive scheme to ensure dynamic development of facilities can be built, while exempting certain the industry after 2020; equipment imported to Ukraine for construction of green power plants from VAT. zz Implementation of the energy reform and adoption of Kherson, Lviv, Zaporizhzhia, Khmel'nyts'kyi and The security of balanced generation in the energy system, secondary legislation relating to RES; At the beginning of the year, a key discussion in the expert Dnipropetrovs`k regions were the standout areas in including by means of thermal generation and electricity community was the significant change in the incentive zz The development of projects for balancing the RES 2018 in relation to capacity growth rates of renewable storage systems is an important component in ensuring scheme following the introduction of auctions instead capacity to secure stability in the United Energy energy sources. The growth was mainly ensured by renewable energy sources are used most efficiently. of fixed tariffs. System of Ukraine. the construction of solar power plants. Regions WPPs SPPs SPP of households Others Total Kherson 77.5 256.6 8.6 3.3 345.9 Zaporizhzhia 199.9 94.4 1.2 0.5 295.9 Odesa 0.0 275.0 5.7 1.2 281.9 Mykolaiv 77.2 105.1 5.0 13.2 200.4 Lviv 33.9 150.7 5.9 3.0 193.4 Vinnytsia 0.0 143.5 4.4 24.1 172.0 Khmel'nyts'kyi 0.0 82.9 8.2 13.5 104.5 Dnipropetrovs`k 0.0 69.6 19.6 13.1 102.3 Kirovohrad 0.0 68.9 12.4 15.8 97.1 Donets`k 88.0 0.0 2.1 4.6 94.8 42 02 Integrated report 2018 | Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 02 | Coal Market 43 Coal Market the Donetsʼk and Luhansʼk regions, where all the country’s anthracite mines are located. Industry regulation and pricing The 2019 budget includes UAH 1.6 bln for the restructuring of the coal industry, UAH 660 mln for the liquidation of The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine is unprofitable coal enterprises and UAH 25 mln to support Overall, Ukraine has seventh largest volume of proven the construction of Novovolynsʼka mine No.10. the main government body that sets policies for the coal coal reserves in the world. Its estimated 34.4 bln tonnes Thermal coal balance of coal constitute 3% of the world’s reserves. Most mining industry. The methodology for calculating the indicative coal price There are 47 mines producing coal in Ukraine, of which of the deposits are thermal coal, while coking coal Coal is sold both under direct contracts between mining is contained in the NEURC Resolution “On Approval of 42 produce G-grade coal, and the rest produce coking accounts for about 30%. The main deposits are in companies and consumers, and through the state-owned the Forecast wholesale electricity market price setting coal (grade K) or greasy (grade Zh), according to the Donetsʼk, Dnipro and Lviv-Volyn coal basins, as well enterprise Derzhvuglepostach, which was created by order No.289 dated March 3, 2016. The indicative price is taken the 2018 coal production report of the Ministry of Energy as in the Dnipro-Donetsʼk and Zakarpattya coal-bearing of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine into account when establishing the thermal generation tariff and Coal Industry of Ukraine. basins. Deposits are characterized by their great depth, and acts as a finished commodity trader for state mines. for electricity generation. At the same time, the wholesale (typically 500 to 1 000 meters) and thin reservoirs The bulk of marketable coal products from state-owned market price is approved for a year with a breakdown by Since March 2017, Ukraine has completely stopped (typically 0.8–1.0 meters). mines are distributed at fixed estimated prices, and each quarter and may be revised throughout the year. mining coal in the temporarily occupied territories of thus there is cross-subsidization of loss-making mines Private companies set price for free volume of their coal at the expense of profitable ones. However, this crossproducts based on the balance of supply and demand, subsidization does not fully cover financial needs, since taking into account general trends in the domestic and a small number of mines operate at a break-even level. international market. Coal mining in Ukraine, mln tonnes In 2018, the average cost of commercial coal products  Data: The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. In 2018, world coal prices strengthened under the influat state-owned mines was UAH 3,135 per ton. According ence of stable demand from consumers in Asia and to the Ministry, the cost of production for 4 mln tonnes the Middle East, against the backdrop of a deficit of run-of-mine coal amounted to UAH 9.4 bln, while 2015 2016 2017 2018 in supply from South Africa and Australia. South Africa the output of commodity coal products was 3 mln tonnes limited the amount of coal it exports due to a growth in amounting to UAH 6.0 bln. Thermal coal demand from its domestic market, alongside difficulties The Ministry predicts that in 2019 the average cost of coal with production. Disruptions of supplies from Australia State-owned enterprises 4.8 4.2 3.9 3.6 production will rise to UAH 4,258 per ton. The highest were caused by logistics relating to repair work in ports indicator is at SE “Myrnohradvuhillya” — UAH 9 730 per ton, and railway lines. The main suppliers of coal to the world Private enterprises 26.6 28.3 24.2 23.9 the lowest — at SE “Pivdennodonbaska No.1 Mine Office — market — Colombia, USA, South Africa, and Australia — UAH 2 546 per ton. It is expected that the difference focused their attention on Asian markets, which impacted Coking coal between the cost of coal production and revenues from its opportunities in European markets. sale will reach UAH 6.7 bln. State-owned enterprises 2.0 1.6 0.9 0.6 World coal prices peaked in the third quarter of 2018, State mines are annually allocated subventions from with Asian countries increasing their demand for Private enterprises 6.3 6.8 5.9 5.2 the budget, which are primarily directed to cover electricity throughout the hot period. Prices sharply the difference between the cost of coal mining and declined in November and December, as China Total 39.7 40.9 34.9 33.3 the selling price, and then to reform the industry. restricted imports of coal through ports, leading to a surplus of supply in the global. Today, coal is used for a third of Ukraine’s electricity production requirements. The energy strategy in the medium term retains coal as a significant contributor in the overall primary energy supply: 22% — by 2020, 16.1% — by 2025 and State mines, the cost of coal mining Price of thermal coal with calorific value 14.3% — by 2030. and indicative prices for commercial of 6000 kcal/kg according to API2 on Thermal generation in 2018 reduced total coal consumption As expected, this trend will continue in 2019 as Ukraine has coal products for energy needs, the CIF terms of Amsterdam, Rotterdam, by 5.6% compared with 2017. The consumption of G-grade plans to completely replace anthracite with domestically-proUAH per ton Antwerp ports, USD per ton coal went up following re-engineering of power units from duced G-grade coal. According to the data from the “Energy using anthracite to G-grade coal. By the end of the year, of Ukraine” directory, an increase in G-grade coal production  Data: The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine,  Data: IHS Markit (McCloskey). there was a reduction in anthracite generation of 11.5%, by 5 mln tonnes would make it possible to completely exclude The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. while G-grade coal increased by 11.2%. anthracite from the thermal generation matrix in 2018. 4,258.0 Coal consumption by TPPs and CHPPs, mln tonnes 2,727.0 3,135.0  Data: The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. November 2,068.0 2,160.0 2,425.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (forecast) 91.67 September August 84.50 2,200.0 G-grade coal 19.2 18.5 18.7 20.8 20.1 1,370.0 56.77 59.77 Antracite coal 9.4 12.8 6.1 5.4 3.5 April April 2,000.0 2,535.0 Total 28.6 31.3 24.8 26.2 23.6 1,038.0 1,200.0 1,730.0 2,425.0 2,800.0 Ukraine has been importing coal for electricity production since the beginning of the Donbas military conflict. In 2018, 5.2 mln tonnes were imported: 0.3 mln tonnes from South Africa, 0.8 mln tonnes from the United States and 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 4.1 mln tonnes from the Russian Federation. In 2019, there are plans to reduce imports by 35.2%. According to the forecast by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, there are plans to import 1.5 mln tonnes. Cost price Indicative price (without VAT and shipping costs) 44 Integrated report 2018 | Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 02 | Coal Market 45 Key legislative events of 2018 The main document of the coal industry remains the government decree On approval of the Concept for reform and development of the coal industry for the period by 2020 No.733-p of May 24, 2017. The document sets out aims to create systematic and Design Institute of the Coal Industry UkrNDIproekt , measures which increase output volumes, increase State Research Institute for the Organization and efficiency, and make the coal industry self-sufficient. Mechanization of Mine Construction, Scientific and At the same time, it outlines measures addressing Technical Center Vugleinnovatsiya , Directorate for environmental and social problems in the mining regions the construction of facilities, Ukrshahtgidrozahyst. and highlights how to create favorable investment conditions for the privatization of mines. In order to expedite reforms in the industry, the government adopted the Resolution “On Approving the Procedure As indicated in the document, coal mining may be shut for Using Funds Provided in the State Budget for down at most state-owned mines within one or two years. the Liquidation of Coal and Peat Mining Enterprises” Over the past 20 years, 96% of state mines have been No.93 of February 21, 2018. operating without reconstruction. The wear and tear among active industrial production assets has reached The budget funds will be allocated to: a significant scale: of the 17 thousand units of main stationary equipment, two-thirds have fully reached zz preparation for the close-down of state-owned the limit of their standard service life and need urgent coal mining and peat-mining enterprises (reduction replacement. A significant number of unprofitable or in the number of employees; payment of outstanding unpromising mines continue to operate due to the slow wages to employees and settlement of wage arrears; restructuring of the industry. social benefits; payment of electricity; ensuring environmental protection and prevention of dangerous As part of the implementation of this document, the circumstances; development of a project for closegovernment adopted a decree on the creation of a state down and conducting state expertise); enterprise “The National Coal Company” No.1019-p of December 6, 2017. The National Coal Company will zz preparation for the close-down of separate operate under the management of the Ministry of Energy subdivisions of state coal-mining and peat-mining and Coal Industry of Ukraine. The Ministry must take enterprises (reduction of the number of employees; measures to reorganize state enterprises by joining payment of outstanding wages to employees and the newly-established company, which is designed to repayment of wage arrears, social payments; optimize organizational structure and resource allocation. development of a project for close-down and state expertise); The new company includes 19 enterprises: Pivdennodonbaska No.1 Mine Administration, M. S. Surhay zz for the close-down of coal-mining and peat-mining Mine, Selydovvuhillya, Torets`kvuhillya, Myrnohradvuhillya, enterprises (close-down of certain enterprises; Pervomaiskvuhillya, Volynvuhillya, Lvivvuhillya, Pre-start environmental protection; ensuring hydro-ecological Directorate of Mine No.10 Novovolyns`ka, United safety of existing enterprises and adjacent territories; Company Ukrvuhlerestructurizatsyia , Novovolynsʼk overcoming the negative socio-economic repairmechanical plant, Dongiprouglemash, consequences of the close-down); Pivdendiproshakht, Dniprodiproshakht, State Research zz maintenance of drainage complexes. 46 03 Integrated report 2018 | Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 03 | Natural Gas Market 47 Natural Gas Market Natural gas production and import Natural gas production in Ukraine, bcm Natural gas consumption  Data: Gas producers association of Ukraine. Natural gas consumption in Ukraine, bcm  Data: NAK Naftogaz of Ukraine Companies 2017 2018 Groups of consumers 2017 2018 Ukrgazvydobuvannya 15.3 15.5 Households (direct use and district heating companies) 15.8 15.4 Private companies 4.1 4.4 Industry 9.1 9.3 Ukrnafta 1.1 1.1 Process losses, liquid gas production 4.4 4.7 Total 20.5 21.0 Unauthorized gas withdrawal, non-documented volumes 1.1 1.3 In 2018, Ukraine increased natural gas production by 2.5% as compared to the previous year. As a result, domestic production covered 65% of the aggregate natural gas consumption in the country. District heating for state-funded organizations and industry 1.0 1.1 Gas production has been growing in Ukraine for three According to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy State-funded organizations 0.5 0.5 years in a row. In 2018, private companies demonstrated 2018, Ukraine has the second largest amount of proven higher growth rates of 7.3% as compared to state-run natural gas reserves in Europe, after Norway. Reserves Total 31.9 32.3 companies. State-run Ukrgazvydobuvannya’s growth rate are estimated at 1.1 trillion cubic meters. The state’s need reached 1.6% while Ukrnafta demonstrated a negative for natural gas will be completely satisfied by domestic trend and reduced its natural gas production by 2.3% as production if further liberalization of the sector continues, Ukraine’s natural gas consumption in 2018 amounted to 32.3 bcm. As compared to 2017 indicators, compared to 2017. helping secure new investments. consumption grew by 1.3% or 0.4 bcm. Average price for imported natural gas in 2018, USD/ths cubic meters Households continue to rate first among all consumer groups the considerable scale of efforts aimed at the stimulation of in relation to gas consumption. That said, gas consumption gas production undertaken by Ukrgazvydobuvannya, a state Data: Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. by residential consumers dropped from 15.8 to 15.4 bcm run company, in 2018. in 2018. Direct household consumption amounted to 10.6 bcm (−5.4% compared to 2017), while utility companies Since 2016, a natural gas uniform tariff was set for 339.2 all residential consumers and heating companies. 309.9 323.4 329.0 consumed 4.8 bcm (+4.3%) for heating houses and 288.8 304.4 During 2018, the tariff for these consumer groups was 272.9 277.0 274.6 286.7 supplying hot water. 260.0 266.4 reviewed only once: a tariff of UAH 6,958/ths cubic meters Gas consumption by industrial consumers increased from was charged from 01.04.2017 to 31.10.2018, and a tariff 9.1 to 9.3 bcm (+2.2%). Process consumption during of UAH 8,549/ths cubic meters applied from 01.11.2018 to production, transportation and distribution of natural 30.04.2019. The price is set for non-domestic consumers. gas as well as production of liquefied gas increased NAK Natfogaz of Ukraine price lists serve as a reference Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec from 4.4 to 4.7 bcm (+6.8%). This increase is attributed to for the market. In 2018, Ukraine’s natural gas imports came exclusively from Europe. Ukraine did not directly import natural gas Natural gas price for non-domestic consumers in 2018, UAH/ths cubic meters from the Russian Federation both in 2016 and 2017.  Data: NAK Naftogaz of Ukraine, all prices include VAT. In 2018, Ukraine reduced the amount of natural gas it purchased 7.0 bcm, and the remaining quantities were imported from 14.1 to 10.6 bcm (−24.8%) with all imports imported by other companies. 65 companies supplied gas 14,586.0 14,586.0 coming from the European market. Naftogaz of Ukraine to Ukraine in 2018 (67 companies in 2017). 11,594.4 12,180.0 10,732.8 10,141.2 10,893.6 10,893.6 11,083.2 9,543.6 10,041.6 8,889.6 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 48 Integrated report 2018 | Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 03 | Natural Gas Market 49 Regulatory environment There were considerable improvements made to the regulatory environment in 2018, and the legal framework for the Ukrainian gas production industry has been upgraded. The launch of oil and gas auctions: preparations Decentralization of royalties: in 2018, gas production to online oil and gas auctions based on the ProZorro companies paid UAH 2 bln of taxex to local communities platform and international tenders for production sharing where gas is extracted. This change provided a strong agreements (PSA) launched in 2018. incentive for a constructive dialogue and active cooperation between the industry and local communities. Transfer to electronic auctions was launched by the government as an experimental project that would GTS tariffs for production companies: the Regulator run from October 24, 2018 until December 01, 2019. set a competitive charge for the entry into a gas There will be a subsequent decision on the further transportation system in line with European practices. development of this project. It is expected that more than 40 fields, with a total area in excess of 20,000 square A single license fee: fees for the extension of a special meters, will be put up for auction in 2019. According to permit to use mineral resources, and for reserve growth the information collected by the State Service of Geology have been cancelled. The requirement for the reevaluation and Mineral Resources of Ukraine, the resource base of of reserves in the absence of valid grounds has also the sites submitted for the first auction was estimated at been annulled. This practice is in line with the European 90 bcm of gas and 16 mln tonnes of oil. The auction took legislation. place on 6 March 2019. DTEK Oil & Gas won the bid for the license to use subsoil of the Svitankovo-Logivsʼka Gas production intensity by countries, field in Kharkiv region. reserves-to-production ratios, % The opening of tenders for conclusion of PSA was  Data: Energy Industry of Ukraine Reference Book 2018. announced in February 2019. 9 promising sites were offered for tender and DTEK Oil & Gas submitted its bids for two of them. Countries % Industry deregulation: More than 15 permit procedures have been cancelled and access to land Romania 10.1 for hydrocarbon exploration and extraction has been simplified. As a result, the Ukrainian legal framework USA 8.4 for the gas extraction industry was brought closer into line with the best international practices. Furthermore, EITI international reporting standards became mandatory Norway 7.2 for gas production companies, which increases the industry's transparency. Kazakhstan 2.4 Introduction of incentive tax schemes for the drilling of new gas wells: conditions have been created for staking Ukraine 1.9 more than 160 new gas wells in 2018, which is 30% higher than in 2017. Access to geological information: access to geological The core problem faced by the gas production sector information was opened in 2018, and the circulation lies in the absence of an efficient market of geological of such data was liberalized. These changes included information and special permits to use mineral resources. the digitalization of state-run databases and creation of The ongoing upgrade of sector-specific legislation an electronic data room, which is common practice in is aimed at dealing with these issues, which will leading oil and gas countries. promote the development of domestic gas production. 50 04 Integrated report 2018 | Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 04 | Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 51 Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators in 2018 Producer price index and consumer price index, %  Data: State Statistics Service of Ukraine. * Forecast of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. GDP trends  2018 values are based on USD/UAH exchange rate of 27.2, 2019 values are based on USD/UAH exchange rate of 28.2. 126.4 117.4 * Forecast of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. 112.5 +2.9 +3.3 114.4 +2.5 110.9 109.0 3,950 3,559 2,983 2017 2018 2019* 131 136 112 Producer Price Index (PPI) Consumer Price Index (CPI) 2017 2018 2019* Based on the results of 2018, headline inflation fell to 10.9% due to the tight monetary policy of the National Bank of Ukraine, improving household expectations against a stable foreign exchange market. GDP, UAH bln GDP, USD bln Actual GDP variance, % The National Bank set the target inflation rate for 2019 at 7.3–7.8%. Further increases in wages and regulated tariffs may promote higher rates of headline inflation. The Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine named three main factors of GDP growth in 2018: high level of investment demand, increase in household income and high grain yields. The average nominal wage of full-time employees in household — UAH 713 per month. December 2018 was UAH 10,573, which is 20.5% higher According to the forecast of the Ministry of Economic sources did not change significantly: funds owned by compared to the same period in 2017. According to the Output from industrial products grew by 1.1% in 2018. Development and Trade, Ukraine’s GDP is set to grow enterprises and organizations remain the main financing State Statistics Service of Ukraine, total household income Slow growth rates were down to unfavorable economic 2.9% in 2019 with increased spending in the domestic source accounting for 71.3%, while budgets accounted reached UAH 3,219.5 bln in 2018. Growth in average situations in foreign markets, the continuation of repair market acting as the main driver of economic growth. for 12.7%, bank loans 6.7%, contributions from the household income — largely due to wage revision and work at metallurgical enterprises and transport and Meanwhile, the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) predicts population towards housing construction 6.4%, and changes in public utilities rates — reduced the number of logistics problems, including a tense situation relating a slightly lower growth rate of 2.5% but it agrees that foreign investments 0.3%. Thus, in 2018, the share of own households who applied for reimbursements for utilities to transportation on the Sea of Azov. A decrease in increased consumption will be the driving factor, thanks funds of the enterprises and bank lending increased by and housing maintenance services. According to the production volumes by the processing industry was to an increase in real income across the country. The a total of 2.8 pp, while reducing the share of the foreign State Statistics Service of Ukraine, 3.9 mln households compensated by growth in output from the mining industry main factors affecting the domestic market will be: tight investments and contributions of the population in housing received subsidies in December 2018. Also in 2018, there and an increase in the volumes supplied by the electricity monetary policies aimed at keeping inflation in line with construction by a total of 2.5 pp. was a decrease in the average amount of subsidies per and gas sectors. target rates and moderate fiscal policies prompted by the repayment of significant government debt. Important In the industrial sector, capital investments were allocated as follows: processing industries accounted for 49.4%, factors outside Ukraine include a slowdown in global mining sector for 29.4%, and energy sector for 19.5%. Industrial production index, % economic growth and reduction in foreign trade volumes, driven in part by a smaller grain yield. Investments were allocated to the acquisition of tangible  Data: State Statistics Service of Ukraine. assets, mainly for the procurement of equipment. The companies and organizations allocated UAH * Forecast of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. Industry, construction, retail trade and agriculture are 526.3 bln for capital investments in 2018, which is 16.4% The net inflow of foreign direct investments was USD 2.9 bln, compared to USD 2.2 bln last year. the core sectors driving national GDP. Based on the more than in 2017. At the same time, the structure of 103.2 2018 results, the scope of completed construction sources of financing has not changed significantly: own USD 1.1 bln was directed to the real sector: industry, trade, transport, and IT. 101.1 work grew by 8.5% and retail sales increased by 3.3%, funds han in 2017. However, the structure of financing agriculture product index increased by 5.7%. 100.4 Structure of capital investments, %  Data: State Statistics Service of Ukraine. 33.1 8.7 8.5 34.1 Industry Transport, Transport, Industry warehouses, warehouses, postal activities postal activities 2017 2018 2019* 12.3 9.9 UAH UAH Construction Construction 412.8 526.3 bln bln 31.9 14.0 12.5 35.0 Others Agriculture Agriculture Others 2017 2018 52 Integrated report 2018 | Review of industries and Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 04 | Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 53 Cross-border trade in commodities in 2018, USD mln Balance of payments, USD mln  Data: National Bank of Ukraine.  Data: National Bank of Ukraine. Export Import 7,350 3,046 8,011 Russia Russia 2,877 37 4,012 2,495 7,292 Italy China 2,566 2,465 5,514 −2,442 −4 Poland Germany 2,332 3,785 Turkey Belarus −4,510 Current account Capital transactions Financial account Balance of payments 2,200 3,184 China Poland 2017 2018 2,164 2,916 In 2018, the current account deficit in the balance of payments increased to USD 4.5 bln (USD 2.4 bln in 2017). India USA Imported goods and services outweighed exports by 3 pp. According to the NBU forecast, in 2019, the current account deficit will decrease to 3.1% of GDP (versus 3.6% of GDP 1,555 1,825 in 2018). Egypt Italy The financial account surplus in 2018 was observed both in The NBU forecasts that at the end of 2019 the volume of the 1,526 1,656 the private sector and in the public sector. Role of external gold and foreign currency reserves will remain at current Germany Turkey financing in the public sector increased by the end of the levels. It is expected that the deficit in the net liquidity balance will be financed by the receipt of funds from IMF. year due to the placement of Eurobonds in the amount of 1,434 1,586 USD 2 bln and obtaining financin from IMF and EU against The NBU discount rate in 2018 was revised from 16.0% The Netherlands Switzerland guarantees of World Bank by a total of USD 2.4 bln. As in January to 18.0% in September and remains at this a result of these loans, the international reserves of the level. Due to a decline in inflation in 2018, the effective 1,362 1,432 rate increased to 9–10% by the fourth quarter of 2018. Spain France National Bank of Ukraine increased by 10.7% and as of A more hardline monetary policy is aimed at preventing January 1, 2019 amounted to USD 20.8 bln. This volume further deterioration of household and business inflation covers 3.4 months of the future imports and is enough to expectations. This is a response to uncertainty about the Total 43,345 Total 55,954 fulfil the Ukraine’s obligations and current transactions. resumption of cooperation with IMF and high external risks. Exports of goods and services in 2018 amounted to USD 43,345 mln, and imports to USD 55,954 mln. Government and government-guaranteed debt, USD bln Exports increased by 9.2% compared to 2017, while imports increased by 13.4%. The negative balance in foreign trade was USD 12,609 mln.  Data: Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. The geographical make up of imported goods did not In 2018, the main Ukrainian exporting segments were 27.3 27.9 change significantly in 2018. The greatest growth was food products with 42.9%, the iron and steel industry with Internal Internal seen in imports from Asian countries which reached 26.3%, mineral products with 9.0%, and engineering USD 12,636 mln, an increase of 27.6% compared products with 6.9%. Sales of grains had a significant to 2017. Imports from EU countries amounted to impact on the growth of Ukrainian exports thanks to a high USD 20,569 mln, 12.1% higher than in 2017. Imports of yield of 2018, while exports in ferrous and non-ferrous Total Total goods from the Russian Federation increased by 11.1% metals were boosted by favorable market conditions. 76.3 78.3 to USD 8,011 mln. According to the NBU forecast, in 2019, growth in exports The most prominent imports were products for the of goods will slow to 2% because of lower prices in the engineering industry (28.6%), mineral products (24.2%), commodity markets and the imposition of additional 48.9 50.5 and products for chemical and related industries (18.6%). restrictions on imports of engineering products to the External External Driven by stable domestic demand, imports of engineering Russian Federation. Imported goods are expected to be products, food and industrial goods increased significantly around 3–4% higher, due to lowering of the global prices by 17.8%, 17.6% and 21.0%, respectively. for energy resources. 2017 2018 The government and government-guaranteed debt of Ukraine in 2018 increased in dollar terms by 2.6%, or USD 2.0 bln. The joint debt/GDP ratio in 2018 decreased to 60.9%, which is close to the optimum value of 60%. Operating Performance 01 Production activity 02 Investment projects 03 Analysis of Financial Performance 56 01 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 01 | Production activity 57 Production activity DTEK Energy Electricity generation 34.1 bln kWh — annual output provided to the United Energy System of Ukraine in 2018 — which is 6.6%, In 2018, DTEK Group produced 27.2 mln tonnes of coal (–1.9% YoY, compared Coal mining and processing or 2,389.3 bln kWh, lower than in 2017. to 2017) and 1,648.5 mln cubic meters of natural gas (–0.4% YoY), generated Total coal production by the company's mines The main factors affecting the performance indicators: 34.8 bln kWh of electricity (–6.3% YoY) and distributed 43.7 bln kWh in Ukraine amounted to 24.1 mln tonnes, which is 2.7%, zz decrease in electricity generation by DTEK Skhidenergo or 662.4 ths tonnes, lower than in 2017. and Kyivenergo by 20.5%, or 2,422.1 mln kWh, due to of electricity by grids (+1.2% YoY). the termination of control over Zuyivs`ka TPP in March The main factors affecting the performance indicators: 2017 and the expiration of the management contract of Key Performance Indicators of the DTEK Group zz cessation of anthracite production. Since March Kyiv's CHPP-5 and CHPP-6 from July 31, 2018; 2017, Ukraine has completely stopped coal mining and electricity generation in the temporarily occupied zz decrease in electricity generation by DTEK Westenergy territories; by 2.3%, or 339.5 mln kWh. DTEK Westenergy plants Indicators unit 2017 2018 Change, (+/–) Change, (%) are designed to burn G-grade coal. In 2017, they carried zz the company's enterprises are increasing G-grade coal increased load in order to compensate for decline in Coal production ths tonnes 27,706.0 27,185.9 –520.1 –1.9 production to minimize the use of anthracite for thermal production by anthracite-powered units, production of generation. The performance of DTEK Pavlohradcoal which was discontinued in Ukraine. In 2018, the load was including: has increased to 114.9 tonnes per person per month. normalized due to re-engineering of power units from  G, DG-grade (Ukraine) ths tonnes 22,914.8 24,131.6 +1,216.8 +5.3 This has ensured production of G-grade coal at a level using anthracite to run on G-grade coal; of 24,131.5 ths tonnes, which is 5.3%, or 1,216.8 ths ths tonnes 1,879.2 0.0 –1,879.2 –100 tonnes, higher than in 2017 and is the highest annual zz increase in electricity generation by DTEK Dniproenergo  А, Т-grade (Ukraine)* figure in the company's history. At the same time, the and DTEK Myronivs'ka CHPP by 3.8%, or 373.4 mln kWh.  А-grade (Obukhovskaya Mine Office)** ths tonnes 2,912.0 3,054.3 +142.3 +4.9 mining and geological conditions are becoming more Three power units of DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP and one complex, the accident rate of tunneling equipment and boiler of DTEK Myronivs'ka CHPP were converted from Concentrate release ths tonnes 13,609.3 12,355.5 –1,253.8 –9.2 mining transport is growing due to the increased load. anthracite to G-grade coal, which enabled load increase. including: Throughput performance of run-of-mine coal DTEK Energy is implementing a program to increase the processing reached 17,201.5 ths tonnes (–9.7%, use of G-grade coal in the energy sector to minimize the  independent CCMs (Ukraine) ths tonnes 1,424.9 1,361.8 –63.1 –4.4 consumption of imported anthracite. In 2018, production or 1 853.5 ths tonnes YoY), of which independent CCMs provided 2,423.9 ths tonnes (–5.8%, or 149.6 ths tonnes of electricity on G-grade coal increased to 28.3 bln kWh,  Obukhovskaya Mine Office ** ths tonnes 1,774.9 1,936.8 +161.9 +9.1 which is 4.4%, or 1,185 mln kWh, higher than last year's YoY). Concentrate output by DTEK Energy concentration plants amounted to 9,056.8 ths tonnes, on independent result. This allowed reducing the share of electricity Electricity generation (output)* mln kWh 37,103.7 34,753.6 –2,350.1 –6.3 CCMs — 1,361.8 ths tonnes. generation of anthracite to 12% in the total production including: volume of the company.  renewables mln kWh 637.8 677.0 +39.2 +6.1 DTEK Energy is increasing production Switching of power units from A-grade Electricity distribution* mln kWh 43,155.1 43,684.8 +529.7 +1.2 of G-grade coal to ensure thermal coal to G-grade coal contributes to an Electricity exports mln kWh 4,999.5 5,825.6 +826.1 +16.5 generation conversion to domestic coal increase in electricity production Coal exports*** ths tonnes 748.2 486.3 –261.9 –35.0  Mining of G, DG-grade coal, mln tonnes  Electricity output to the UES from G-grade coal, bln kWh Coal imports ths tonnes 2,571.7 2,662.6 +90.9 +3.5 Natural gas trading mcm 1,952.0 1,931.5 –20.5 –1.1 28.3 26.1 26.4 27.1 Natural gas production mcm 1,655.3 1,648.5 –6.8 –0.4 22.4 22.9 24 .1 23.5 22.1 21.2 Gas condensate production ths tonnes 54.8 51.5 –3.3 –6.0 * Since March 2017, indicators for assets located in the temporarily occupied territories of Donets`k and Luhans`k regions have not been consolidated into the reporting of DTEK Energy and DTEK Group due to loss of control. ** Since September 1, 2016, the operating performance of Obukhovskaya Mine Office has not been consolidated into the reporting of DTEK Energy due to the transfer of the company to the direct management of DTEK B.V. Strategic Holding. The transaction was carried out within the framework of the restructuring of the credit portfolio of DTEK Energy and is aimed at balancing the options for developing enterprises and servicing the loans. *** Including trading operations outside of Ukraine. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 In 2018, 18.1 mln tonnes of coal (–0.8 mln tonnes YoY) and 162.5 mcm of Electrical generation from G-grade coal increased by Manufacturing statement natural gas were supplied to TPPs and CHPP of the company. 4.4% YoY to 28.3 bln kWh. This made it possible to reduce the share of anthracite-based electricity generation to of DTEK Energy for 2018  Use of coal products from  ICUR*, %  Electricity generation and supply 12% of DTEk Energy's total production. DTEK Energy's TPPs by DTEK Energy TPPs and CHPP, mln kWh and CHPP, ths tonnes The company's priority is to increase production of G-grade  Run-of-mine coal shipment coal in order to ensure the increase in electricity production at power units operating on this type of fuel. In 2018, 24.1 mln tonnes to end users, ths tonnes DTEK Myronivs'ka CHPP 37.1 % of G-grade coal were mined, which is the highest annual output 263.9 (G, DG) in the company's history. 374.0 312.8 5,233.3 DTEK Energy TPPs 5,893.9 and CHPP 660.6 SCM DTEK Kurakhovs'ka TPP 3,695.7  Electricity output by enterprises, 180.6 180.6 48.4% enterprises (G, DG) mln kWh 16.0  Run-of-mine coal production 6,496.2 5,798.6 by enterprises, ths tonnes 205.2 Other industrial consumers 702.7 DTEK Myronivs'ka CHPP 497.5 DTEK Luhans'ka TPP 312.8 (G, DG) 1,036.5 21.6% (А, Т) DTEK Pavlohradcoal 2,303.2 2,002.1 (G, DG) Kyivenergo (gas) 1,615.0 20,011.8 896.0 DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP (G, DG, A, T) 4.7 17.7% 1,771.7 1,521.8 DTEK Skhidenergo DTEK Dobropolyeugol including  Run-of-mine coal shipment  Run-of-mine coal 24.2 (G, DG, A, T) mine Bilozers'ka processing, (G, DG) 4,119.8 to concentration plants, ths tonnes ths tonnes 7,800.7 DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP 2,834.7 (G, DG) 58.2% 12,212.5 11.6 DTEK Energy DTEK Dniproenergo 2,565.0 6,373.2 5,913.6 (G, DG, A, T) 17,201.5 152.1 DTEK Kryvoriz'ka TPP 31.0 9,679.4 (Т) 13.7% (G) — G-grade coal 2,106.8 Independent 805.4 2,482.5 2,244.1 (DG) — long-flame G-grade coal CCMs 330.3 DTEK Westenergy (G, DG) 966.6 DTEK Dobrotvirs'ka TPP (G, DG) 252.8 56.1% 2,507.9 2,270.0 14,655.5  Shipment of concentrate, 18.9 ths tonnes (G) — G-grade coal DTEK Energy TPPs DTEK Ladyzhyns'ka TPP 1,818.9 (DG) — long-flame G-grade coal 9,691.3 30.0% and CHPP (G, DG) (T) — lean coal 107.6 (A) — anthracite  Coal concentrate 3,947.7 3,613.8 SCM — gas production, 10,418.6 55.5 enterprises ths tonnes 4,951.5 DTEK Burshtyns'ka TPP 47.3 % (G, DG) 9.2 Other industrial 702.7 consumers 217.2 9,768.4 8,771.7 Ukrainian coal was not exported (Coal grades used) DTEK Energy The average ICUR Electricity generation in 2018 was 35.16%. Other producers (Ukraine) Electricity output Imports * The ICUR is specified without taking into account oil/gas units and those are in conservation. 60 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 01 | Production activity 61 Production capacity of DTEK Energy TPPs and CHPP as of January 1, 2019 Date of in-service/ Date of in-service/ Power unit Installed capacity, Running time, Power unit Installed capacity, Running time, last overhaul repair or Overhaul repair/reconstruction last overhaul repair or Overhaul repair/reconstruction No. MW hours No. MW hours reconstruction reconstruction DTEK Kurakhovs'ka TPP DTEK Kryvoriz'ka TPP 3 200 1972/2018 299,259 plans are in consideration reconstruction was completed in 2017; increase in installed capacity by 33 MW. 4 210 1973/2018 272,538 plans are in consideration 1 315 1963/2017 300,839 In 2019, it is planned to change the specified fuel — reconstruction was completed in 2009; to switch from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal 5 222 1973/2015 252,951 increase in installed capacity by 12 MW 2 300 1964/1998 313,593 plans are in consideration major repair is planned for 2020 reconstruction was completed in 2013; reconstruction was completed in 2013; increase in installed capacity by 18 MW 6 225 1973/2013 253,007 increase in installed capacity by 15 MW 3 300 1965/2013 275,160 In 2020, it is planned to change the specified fuel — major repair is planned for 2019 to switch from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal reconstruction was completed in 2010; 7 225 1974/2016 263,830 In 2021, it is planned to change the specified fuel — increase in installed capacity by 15 MW 4 300 1966/2005 253,224 to switch from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal reconstruction was completed in 2012; 8 225 1974/2017 262,128 5 282 1967/1994 303,698 plans are in consideration increase in installed capacity by 15 MW reconstruction was completed in 2015; 8 282 1969/1996 266,333 plans are in consideration 9 225 1975/2015 258,997 increase in installed capacity by 15 MW 10 300 1972/2017 209,304 plans are in consideration major repair is planned for 2021 Total 2,079 Total 1,532 DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP DTEK Luhans'ka TPP 9 200 1962/2017 332,977 plans are in consideration In 2017, the specified fuel was changed — 7 150 1958/2013 343,098 switched from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal reconstruction was completed in 2012; 10 210 1962/2018 323,536 increase in installed capacity by 35 MW 11 200 1963/2004 318,289 plans are in consideration In 2017, the specified fuel was changed — 8 150 1958/2014 368,189 switched from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal reconstruction was completed in 2014; 13 210 1967/2014 305,065 increase in installed capacity by 35 MW reconstruction was completed in 2012 without increasing major repair is planned for 2020 installed capacity. 9 150 1959/2012 333,930 14 200 1968/2018 291,814 plans are in consideration In 2018, the specified fuel was changed — switched from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal 15 200 1969/2018 305,313 plans are in consideration In 2019, the specified fuel will be changed — 10 150 1960/2006 331,458 Total 1,220 switched from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP In 2020, it is planned to change the specified fuel — 11 310 1962/2016 266,443 to switch from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal reconstruction was completed in 2012; 1 325 1972/2012 295,788 increase in installed capacity by 25 MW Total 910 major repair is planned for 2019 DTEK Dobrotvirs'ka TPP 2 300 1972/2018 286,676 reconstruction is planned for 2024—2025; 5 100 1960/2018 351,299 plans are in consideration reconstruction was completed in 2014; 3 325 1972/2014 291,489 increase in installed capacity by 25 MW 6 100 1961/2015 346,143 plans are in consideration major repair is planned for 2021 7 150 1963/2011 359,998 major repair is planned for 2019 major repair is planned for 2019; 4 300 1973/2016 271,541 reconstruction was completed in 2014; reconstruction is planned for 2022—2023; 8 160 1964/2014 333,235 increase in installed capacity by 10 MW unit fired by fuel oil and gas. major repair is planned for 2020 5 800 1975/1995 148,998 Plans are in consideration Total 510 unit fired by fuel oil and gas. 7 800 1977/1992 133,190 Plans are in consideration Total 2,850 62 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 01 | Production activity 63 Production capacity of DTEK Energy TPPs and CHPP as of January 1, 2019 Commercial activities Imports and supplies of natural gas to the domestic market Power unit Installed capacity, Date of in-service/ Running time, Coal shipments in foreign The volume of sales of natural gas in the domestic market last overhaul repair or Overhaul repair/reconstruction No. MW reconstruction hours and domestic markets of Ukraine amounted to 1 931.5 mln cubic meters. Preservation of the volume of trading operations at the DTEK Burshtyns'ka TPP The company exports coal only from the Obukhovskaya level of the previous year was due to the increase in sales Mine Office. In 2018, 486.3 ths tonnes of coal products 1 195 1968/2017 307,061 plans are in consideration of natural gas to enterprises in the metallurgical sector, made shipments to foreign markets — by 35.0%, which offset the decline in demand from enterprises in the or 261.9 ths tonnes, which is lower than the previous year. 2 185 1965/2014 293,698 plans are in consideration energy sector. According to the contracts, the products were supplied to markets in Europe, South Africa, Canada and India. 3 185 1966/2013 306,203 major repair is planned for 2019 The decrease is due to a significant increase in send to Electricity supply to foreign markets 4 195 1966/2018 327,996 plans are in consideration the Ukrainian market due to the cessation of anthracite The company supplied 5,825.6 bln kWh under the foreign mining. In general, shipments reached 1,514.7 ths tonnes, economic contracts, which is 16.5% more than in 2017. reconstruction of I stage was completed in 2013, which is 26.2%, or 314.0 ths tonnes, more than in 2017. Electricity was exported to Hungary, Poland and Moldova. 5 215 1967/2013 318,732 II stage — in 2016; increase in installed capacity by 20 MW In addition, the company imported coal products from the United States and South Africa — total imports amounted to major repair was completed in 2015; 2,662.6 ths tonnes. At the same time, the volume of purchases 6 195 1967/2015 322,125 for the needs of DTEK Energy TPPs decreased by 2.7% increase in installed power by 10 MW compared to the previous year, to 2,221.4 ths tonnes of coal. reconstruction was completed in 2012; With regard to trading operations, 2,085.0 ths tonnes 7 206 1968/2012 304,557 increase in installed capacity by 21 MW of coal was supplied to industrial consumers in Ukraine, major repair is planned for 2021 which is practically equal to the level of 2017. 8 195 1968/2009 317,354 plans are in consideration 9 195 1968/2016 300,751 plans are in consideration 10 210 1969/2018 311,064 reconstruction was completed in 2018; DTEK Energy is focused on European electricity markets increase in installed capacity by 15 MW  Electricity supplies for exports, mln kWh 11 195 1969/2011 283,009 plans are in consideration 12 195 1969/2018 272,465 plans are in consideration 7,987.9 3,555.1 3,983.9 4,999.6 5,825.6 Total 2,366 DTEK Ladyzhyns'ka TPP 4,172.5 3,490.3 3,474.6 1 300 1970/2018 259,957 plans are in consideration 3,022.7 2,970.9 2 300 1971/2009 258,425 major repair is planned for 2020 2,400.1 3 300 1971/2011 248,183 major repair is planned for 2021 1,395.2 961.2 1,133.9 894.8 955.8 729.6 4 300 1971/2001 245,332 plans are in consideration 685.6 64.8 5 300 1971/2003 223,785 mothballed 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 6 300 1971/2004 230,276 plans are in consideration Belarus Poland Moldova Hungary, Slovakia, Romania Poland Hungary, Slovakia, Romania Poland Hungary, Slovakia, Romania Poland Moldova Hungary, Slovakia, Romania Poland Moldova Hungary, Slovakia, Romania Total 1,800 DTEK Myronivs'ka CHPP TG No.2 100 1953/2004 285,814 under repair TG No.3 60 1954/1998 335,195 mothballed in 2017, the specified fuel of boiler No.10 was changed — switched from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal; TG No.5 115 2004/2013 80,574 in 2018, the specified fuel of boiler No.9 was changed — switched from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal major repair is planned for 2019 Total 275 64 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 01 | Production activity 65 DTEK Grids zz decrease in distribution of electricity by DTEK Donetsk Grids, DTEK Power Grid and DTEK Renewables DTEK Oil&Gas DTEK Energougol ENE by 4.7%, or 551.4 mln kWh, due to lower demand from industrial enterprises and Electricity distribution and suppliers under non-regulated tariff. Since March 2017, the networks located in the non-controlled territories of Renewable power generation Gas production grid operation the Donets`k region have not been managed. 677.0 mln kWh of green electricity was produced by In 2018, natural gas production amounted to In 2018, the company's enterprises reduced the the company in 2018. This is 6.1%, or 39.2 mln kWh, 1,648.5 mln cubic meters, which exceeded targets 43.7 bln kWh — the volume of electricity distribution in higher than in 2017. by 50 mln cubic meters. Gas condensate production amount of actual electricity losses to 5.46% (the figure 2018, which is 1.2%, or 529.7 mln kWh, higher than the amounted to 51.5 ths tonnes. Compared to last year, gas for 2017 is 5.44%). The breakdown looks as follows: The main factors affecting the performance indicators: previous year. production decreased by 0.4%, condensate — by 6%. DTEK Energougol ENE was 0.61% (in 2017 — 0.58%), DTEK Power Grid was 0.84% (in 2017 — 0.74%), zz Botievo Wind Farm increased electricity supply The main factors affecting the performance indicators: The main factors affecting the performance indicators: DTEK Dnipro Grids was 4.67% (in 2017 — 4.63%), by 4.8%, or 30.2 mln kWh. This was facilitated by zz increase in the volume of electricity distribution by favorable weather conditions and properly organized zz completion of drilling at well No.25 at the Semyrenkivsʼke DTEK Kyiv Grids and DTEK Dnipro Grids by 3.4%, DTEK Kyiv Grids was 6.75% (in 2017 — 7.01%), DTEK Donetsk Grids was 17.23% (in 2017 — 16.49%). operation of the equipment. In 2018, the availability field, with a depth of 5,652 meters, with a distance or 1,081.1 mln kWh, due to greater demand from the factors of wind power plants and infrastructure of of 700 meters from the vertical, and well No.61, with population and small businesses; The average for Ukraine was 11.82%. the plant increased to 98.64% and 99.34% (in 2017 — a depth of 5,605 meters, and 380 meters from the vertical; 98.33% and 99.23%, respectively). This is in line with the best world performance of wind farms; zz overhaul of high condensate wells No.8, No.23, No.68 and No.70 at the Semyrenkivs'ke field; Electricity distribution in 2018, mln kWh zz 12.7 mln kWh were produced by Tryfonivsʼka SPP. zz carrying out of measures to intensify flow rates at the The equipment availability factor of the solar plant was 99.89%. existing well stock. other transport and Enterprise industry households utilities non-industrial agriculture Total construction consumers DTEK Dnipro Grids 16,774.7 3,377.5 1,425.1 1,101.0 184.8 245.7 23,108.7 DTEK Kyiv Grids 1,272.8 3,491.9 2,364.6 1,608.5 677.5 9.2 9,424.6 DTEK Donetsk Grids 544.6 1,471.6 255.8 681.1 — 114.5 3,067.5 In 2018 natural gas production amounted to 1,648.5 DTEK Energougol ENE 136.2 14.4 427.9 6.1 — — 584.6 DTEK Power Grid 7,477.0 1.5 — 8.9 11.2 0.8 7,499.4 According to the Electricity Market Law, companies the Law, unbundled their activities. From January 1, 2019, must conduct unbundling — separation of a distribution electricity is distributed by DTEK Kyiv Grids, DTEK Dnipro system operator from production and supply of electricity. These changes occur within the framework of the first stage of the energy market reform and are the basis for Grids and DTEK Donetsk Grids. Electricity supply services to consumers are provided by Kyiv Energy Services, Dnipro Energy Services and Donetsk Energy Services. mln cubic meters the liberalization of the retail electricity market. Unbundling of activities ensures equal access to The DTEK Group carried out systemic changes in its the networks of distribution system operators for all activities. DTEK Power Grid and DTEK Energougol ENE electricity suppliers. In the new market model, distribution will focus solely on electricity distribution and network system operators are also responsible for provision of operation. Kyivenergo, DTEK Dniprooblenergo and reliable power supply, development of infrastructure and DTEK Donetskoblenergo, according to the requirements of operation of electricity networks. 66 02 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 02 | Investment projects 67 Investment projects DTEK Energy UAH 19.9 bln was invested in production development across DTEK Group. Coal mining and processing The amount of capital investment almost doubled year-on-year, laying the foundations for improved performance statistics across all activity areas Ukraine has sufficient reserves of G-grade coal to become energy independent. in the future. This will contribute to achieving Ukraineʼs strategic goal of The company invests in the industrial development of enterprises and the newenergy independence. generation of equipment for the maximum conversion of thermal generation to domestic coal. Investments volume, UAH mln (IFRS, ex VAT)* Key projects in 2018 enrichment of 1–13 mm run-of-mine coal in heavymedium hydrocyclones. Business segment 2017 2018 Change, (+/−) Change, (%) Ensuring stable ventilation of mines zz Two new centrifuges have been installed at the zz The Yuvileina mine is building a ventilation well. DTEK CCM Pavlohrads’ka CEP, one of the сompany's This long-term project provides for ventilation of the most powerful processing plants. This project will have DTEK Energy 8,416 7,587 −829 −10 mine workings and transport connections to the work a positive impact on the region's ecology, because the site to ensure access to new reserves and extraction installation of centrifuges will reduce the consumption of Coal production and processing 4,552 4,061 −491 −11 of 19 mln tonnes of coal. In 2018, preparation for the chemicals during the enrichment of coal, while reducing well operation in the “load” mode was in progress — the load on the water-slurry system of the enterprise. Electricity generation 1,526 1,408 −118 −8 construction, installation work on the garage-charging According to the results of 2018, the use of reagents was facility was completed, and the side-tilting facility was reduced from 11.4% to 10.4%, and the throughput load constructed. The lift system for staff transportation has of the plant was increased from 925 to 1,013 tonnes Kyivenergo 1,199 103 −1,096 −91 been working since 2016, the airing mode since 2013. per hour. It is planned to continue the implementation of zz The Dniprovs’ka mine is carrying out replacement the project and install two more centrifuges. Others 147 465 +318 +216 of its main ventilation fan to provide enhanced airflow, zz The DTEK Dobropil's'ka CEP and DTEK Oktyabrs’ka which is important for maintaining coal production CEP are building waste dumps using innovative “green DTEK Grids 992 1,932** +940 +95 volumes. The project is to be carried out in three dump” technology. A clay bank-up is carried out for stages. During the first stage, the mechanical part each tier of the dump by building an internal drainage DTEK Renewables 370 9,556 +9,186 +2,483 of the main fan installation was commissioned, system and a fire-prevention protective layer. a vestibule-gateway was erected, and the channel These projects reduce the environmental impact by door was replaced. In the second and third stages, eliminating the formation of combustion sources and DTEK Oil&Gas 1,143 1,685 +542 +47 which are scheduled to begin in 2020, the electrical the contact of waste coal with the environment, while part of the fan and charge feeders will be replaced. water will be discharged into the pond and reused DTEK Group 10,388 19,878 +9,490 +91 Modernization of processing facilities in production. In 2018, construction and installation work at DTEK Oktyabrs’ka CEP was completed, which zz The first supplies of equipment were made to the * Excluding the cost of intangible assets. ensures the disposal of waste coal for 10 years. DTEK Oktyabrs’ka CEP as part of a project to ** The total amount of investments includes UAH 1,550 mln until the moment when DTEK Grids was separated from DTEK Energy The completion of the DTEK Dobropilʼsʼka CEP project modernize outdated facilities, which envisages is expected in 2019. UAH 19.9 bln was invested in production development of DTEK Group 68 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 02 | Investment projects 69 DTEK Energy's performance in coal production increased by one-third due to Electricity generation the development of production facilities, tonnes/person per month* Reduction of the share of imported energy resources in the countryʼs fuel balance and integration with the European energy system ENTSO-E remain 94.3 100.4 82.2 84.2 the key tasks of the energy sector. The сompany actively supports these 77.9 processes to strengthen the energy security of Ukraine. In 2018, DTEK Energy continued converting its TPPs to run on domestic coal and preparing for work according to ENTSO-E standards. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 *The data are given for mining of D, DG-grade coal. Key projects in 2018 advanced functions for predicting the operating modes of equipment. The project has significantly zz DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP: power unit No.9 was switched improved production capabilities — the installed Upgrading and developing new equipment Cooperation with research institutions from anthracite to G-grade coal. To re-equip the power capacity of the power unit has been increased by zz On the request of the сompany, engineering plants Development of coal deposits is a knowledge-intensive unit, more than 200 tonnes of heat and mechanical 15 MW to 210 MW and the service life of the are developing new-generation equipment aimed at process, since in Ukraine the mining and geological conditions equipment was installed (gas, air, dust pipelines); three equipment has been extended by 15 years. increasing production levels of G-grade coal over a are among the most complex in the world. The сompany, new fans were installed in the gas-air-drying scheme, 16 old burners were replaced with new ones, with low zz DTEK Ladyzhyns'ka TPP built a solar power plant at a shorter time to minimize the use of anthracite by thermal together with research institutions, is developing solutions dam with installed capacity of 0.5 MW. Ladyzhyns'ka SPP generation. At the same time, coal deposits in Ukraine for the efficient development of deposits. Cooperation is in nitrogen oxide emissions. has supplied electricity to the United Energy Systems are characterized by location at great depths — from the following directions: Similar work on re-equipment of the power unit No.10 of Ukraine since July 1, and produced 265.5 ths kWh 500 to 1,000 meters, and thin productive reservoirs of has been completed in 2019. A new electrical filter during the past year. 0.8–1 meters. Polyakov Institute of Geotechnical Mechanics under the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine was built as part of the project. Starting in 2012, when upgrading and reconstructing power units, the сompany zz DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP completed a pilot project to 2013—2016 zz developing recommendations for the ventilation and has been reconstructing electrical filters to achieve dust develop a standard plan for monitoring, reporting Development of fundamentally new equipment for the degassing of the mine network emissions in accordance with Directive 2001/80/EC. and verifying greenhouse gas emissions by thermal carrying out rectangular airways in thin coal seams, generation enterprises. This is a preparatory stage for zz examining aerogas control projects and fire protection zz DTEK Myronivs'ka CHPP has completely transferred in which equipment for coal extraction is then installed. the implementation of a national scheme for trading projects at the mines from anthracite to using G-grade coal. In the reporting Several of the company's mines carried out testing emissions of greenhouse gases. The project was for a cutting frontal complex (СFC), in order to adapt zz developing measures for the opening and degassing period, the re-equipment of boiler No.9 was completed, implemented jointly with the World Bank under the it to work in various mining and geological conditions. of reservoirs similar work on boiler No.10 was completed in 2017. Partnership For Market Readiness program, which Performance of the CFC allows an increase in the was initiated to combat climate change. zz studying the ability of coal seams to oxidation zz DTEK Burshtyns'ka TPP has reconstructed power unit pace of mining, including through hard rock. The first No.10. As part of the project, a new boiler was built and and spontaneous combustion zz 11 power units of DTEK Energy TPPs completed samples were delivered to the Stashkov mine. the boiler drum, turbine, auxiliary transformer, turbine the reconstruction of automatic frequency and power zz determining the physico-mechanical indicators generator excitation system, dust preparation system control systems, which will ensure the maintenance 2017—2018 of rocks and coals and other equipment were replaced. Also, a new of the current frequency in accordance with ENTSO-E A CLS 450 cleaning combine has been developed and automatic control system was installed, which has standards. has passed industrial tests. It is intended for mining thin NTU “Dnipro Polytechnic” and medium coal seams in difficult mining and geological zz developing recommendations for rock-pressure conditions. The CLS 450 will increase the output at control the workface to over 2 ths tonnes of coal per day. 4 GW of installed capacities were restored by DTEK Energy, zz fixing a working face with a difficult-to-control roof The combine's completely conforms to the international due to the modernization of its TPPs and CHPP standard of labor protection OHSAS 18001: 2007. zz rational parameters of mining operations The first samples were delivered to Dobropil's'ka and Pisarenko Institute for Problems of Strength under the DTEK Kurakhovs'ka TPP No. 5 No. 7 No. 8 No. 6 No. 9 Bilozers`ka mines. National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine DTEK Luhans'ka TPP No. 10 No. 13 zz research and modeling of the condition of surface 2018—2019 objects Development of a new type of heavy-medium tunnel DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP No. 1 No. 3 boring machine with installation for anchorage. Ukrainian State Geological Research Institute No. 8 The project aims to increase the rate of development DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP No. 9 No. 7 No. 9 No. 10 zz geological examination and estimation of the initial of extraction from 5 to 10 meters per day. Testing of value of coal reserves DTEK Burshtyns'ka TPP No. 7 No. 5 No. 6* No. 5 No. 10 the new equipment, RH-160, is scheduled in 2019 at the Stepna mine. SE “UkrNDIvuhlezbahachennya” DTEK Kryvoriz'ka TPP No. 3 No. 1 No. 1 zz certification of coal for branding zz To improve safety and efficiency of operations, the сompany is upgrading its mining equipment. In addition, zz coal quality analysis DTEK Dobrotvirs'ka TPP No. 8 new equipment has improved performance, which reduces operating costs. In 2018, DTEK's Pavlohradcoal SE “Shulgin State Road Research Institute” DTEK Myronivs'ka CHPP No. 10 No. 9 mines were supplied with 12 tunneling and 8 cleaning zz studying the composition and properties of the rock 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 combines, as well as 35 electric locomotives were (plans) modernized. DTEK Dobropolyeugol was supplied with zz developing recommendations for design and construction 3 tunneling and 2 clearing combines. of highway embankments using byproduct rock of upgraded power units converting power units from anthracite to G-grade coal enterprises * Overhaul with an increase in installed capacity. 70 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 02 | Investment projects 71 DTEK Renewables 1 GW of installed capacity of DTEK Renewables will reduce 2,600 ths tonnes of CO₂ emissions' equivalent per year Data as of May 30, 2019 Renewable power generation According to the Energy Strategy of Ukraine, annual generation by wind and solar power plants should reach 25 bln kWh by 2035. To help achieve this goal, the сompany plans to increase its portfolio of completed projects to 1,000 MW Constructed Under construction In the design phase by 2020. Key projects in 2018 zz Nikopol solar plant (installed inverter capacity of Botievo WPP Prymorsʼk WPP-2 Tylihulʼsʼka WPP 200 MW): the project partner is China Machinery 200 MW 100 MW 565 MW zz Prymors`k wind park (installed capacity of 200 MW): Engineering Corporation (CMEC), with whom a a contract was signed with GE Renewable Energy on contract for design and construction of the plant has acquisition, installation and further maintenance of been concluded. Lands unsuitable for agriculture in 52 wind turbines. As at other plants of the сompany, the territory of an abandoned quarry are reserved for Tryfonivsʼka SPP Orlivsʼka WPP Vasylʼkivsʼka SPP new-generation wind turbines will be installed, which construction. Seraphim Solar and Trina Solar were 10 MW 100 MW 115 MW adapt to the direction and strength of the wind, with selected as suppliers of solar panels, KSTAR will a capacity of 3.8 MW each. In addition, GE will supply supply inverter substations, Xian Electric Engineering high-voltage equipment for a central distribution will supply transformers (all of them are Chinese Nikopol SPP Pokrovsʼk SPP Pavlohradsʼka SPP point of 150 kV, two 150/35/10 kV substations and companies). In 2018, solar panels and inverters were 200 MW 240 MW 105 MW one 150/35/10 kV distribution substation. This will be installed as part of the project, and infrastructure the first case in Ukraine when digital technologies for construction was completed. controlling high-voltage equipment and substations will be introduced. The plant generates green electricity as of 1 March Prymorsʼk WPP 2019. Nikopol SPP is among the top 3 largest solar 100 MW Construction of the wind farm consists of two stages. power plants in Europe (at the time of construction). In 2018, during the first stage, the infrastructure construction and installation work was completed, zz Development of new projects: 1,000 MW of installed Production of electricity from fossil fuels involves the downside of atmospheric emissions of greenhouse gases. To estimate these emissions, the CO2 equivalent all sets of towers and blades were delivered, capacity in renewable energy should be achieved by is used, which allows all greenhouse emissions to be brought to a common denominator. To calculate the contribution of renewable energy to the reduction of 2020 in accordance with the development strategy of emissions, we use conversion factors for specific CO2 emissions per 1 kWh from the average calculation for thermal power plants. In 2010, the National Environmental commissioning works were carried out at the central Investment Agency of Ukraine approved the value of this indicator in the amount of 1,063 kg of CO2 per 1 kWh. distribution and transformer substations. The first seven the company. A new project will be the construction turbines have been commissioned in March 2019. of Pokrovs`k solar plant, the start of green power generation are planned in 2019 (installed inverter Driveways and pile fields were prepared for the capacity of 240 MW). construction of foundations for wind turbines planned for the second stage of the project. The completion of zz In addition, the company is developing projects which the project is expected in 2019. implementation is planned for 2020. Tylihulʼsʼka WPP and Tylihulʼsʼka WPP-2 with total installed capacity zz Orlivs`ka wind park (installed capacity of 100 MW): of 565 MW are projects in the wind energy sector. a contract for the construction of a wind park was The new plants will produce around 2 bln kWh concluded with the Danish company Vestas, which will annually. This will allow CO2 emissions to be cut supply 26 wind turbines with a capacity of 3.8 MW each. by almost 3 mln tonnes annually. Among the solar Vestas equipment has proved effective in Ukraine both projects, Vasylʼkivsʼka and Pavlohradsʼka SPPs in terms of wind-dynamic characteristics and electrical (installed inverter capacity of 115 MW and 105 MW power output to the grid. In 2018, preparatory work respectively) are under design. was carried out at the construction site, and in second quarter 2019 will start delivery of the main equipment. 72 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 02 | Investment projects 73 DTEK Oil&Gas DTEK Oil&Gas is among the best expertise in the industry Gas production The company is the largest private gas producer in Ukraine. As a leader we feel responsibility to introduce new solutions and technologies, and share the accumulated experience in order to contribute to the development of the industry. Technological progress expedites achieving the goals of the Energy 16 Strategy of Ukraine — to fully meet the country's need for natural gas from its own production. Key projects in 2018 zz Drilling of production well No.43 was started at the wells zz Wells No.25 and 61 were drilled at the Semyrenkivs'ke Semyrenkivs'ke field. built in five years field. Production well No.25 was designed and drilled zz A fully automated propane-refrigeration unit at the in compliance with the requirements and standards Semyrenkivs'ke field was commissioned to stabilize The company now of the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the natural gas production. The project has become operates 24 in total International Association of Drilling Contractors unique for the industry in terms of the equipment and (IADC). Exploration well No.61 was drilled to study the technological solutions used. marginal part of the field. zz Compressors have been put into operation at gas Since 2017, the company has been using a pit-free utilization plants, which will improve the environmental drilling method using the technology of sludge friendliness of the enterprise by returning to the decantation and recycling, which meets international condensate stabilization gas treatment system. environmental standards. zz An automated dispatch control system (ADCS), zz Overhauls of wells No.8, 23, 68 and 70 — with a high developed by the company, was patented. The ADCS content of gas condensate — at the Semyrenkivs'ke collects data from wells, from hydrocarbon metering field were completed. When repairing some wells, the stations, gas treatment installations, gas pollution company used the technology of snubbing, which allows systems, early detection and warning of emergencies. to carry out work without killing of well, continuing mining The system automatically analyzes technological operations. parameters and sends information to users’ computers and/or mobile devices. a depth of over 5 500 meters each 74 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 02 | Investment projects 75 DTEK Grids DTEK Grids provided a wide range of communication channels to household consumers Electricity distribution and grid operation The сompany intends to develop the concept of a Smart Grid, which will require a system upgrade of the electricity networks for the integration of modern technologies. This will allow cities to meet demand for automated Enterprise Customer reach Number of Number of contact User account PayHub Facebook customer service centers management of their power grids to increase the comfort level for residents. centers DTEK Grids began the implementation of automated power maps of electricity networks online. Using the geographic management system ADMS (SCADA), which accumulates information system, each user can obtain information DTEK Dnipro Grids 1,469 999 57 1 and processes data from all parts of the networks. about the location, voltage level; find the addresses and Implementation of this level of software is an important step name of transformer substations, and distribution points. in building a Smart Grid. For example, as soon as the system Development of the maps will be continued — the next receives a signal of power outage somewhere, the ADMS steps will be an introduction of data, indicated available identifies the incident site, analyzes what caused the failure, capacity, as well as creation of an online resource for calculates options for optimal line switching and minimizes customers to connect to networks. DTEK Donetsk Grids 873 711 22 1 inconvenience for customers. Thus, the сompany's specialists will receive a tool for swift resolution of abnormal In addition, departments for technological situations, and call-center employees will immediately inform connections created in 2018 at DTEK Dnipro Grids customers of the cause of the failure, as well as the timescale and DTEK Donetsk Grids (the same department has for fixing the problem. Such a system is expected to be fully been operating in Kyiv since 2017) will contribute to operational in Kyiv in three years, and in the Dnipropetrovs'k the increase in access availability to electricity grids. DTEK Kyiv Grids 1,155 000 7 1 region in five years. The task of the department's specialist staff is to prepare technical documentation, conduct all contractual and One more criteria by which evaluation of the сompany's accompanying work with the client, as well as monitor the effectiveness can be measured is connection to the progress of work at each stage. Thus, customers should electric grid. Simple and understandable conditions of just submit an application through the Customer Service Contact centers Personal account and PayHub this process are an important indicator in assessing the Centres or the сompany's website, which is immediately zz 24/7 support zz International security standards of payment systems country's investment attractiveness in the Doing Business sent to this department's specialist representative. rating. The rules on data disclosure contained in the Law This approach helps to minimize the time for connecting and zz Free call zz No fee “On the Electricity Market” and their implementation by The increase the number of completed applications. In 2018, zz Basic issues of power supply (transfer of meter readings, zz Online services for personal and mobile devices, based Distribution System Code provide the basis for building such DTEK Dnipro Grids almost doubled the number of established consultation on the account and current tariffs) on Android and iOS conditions. According to the requirements, as of 1 January connections to more than 6,000. Perhaps, this is the secret 2019, distribution system operators have been obliged to of leadership of Dnipropetrovs'k region in the number of zz Consultation on individual issues both by phone and zz All information and transactions on personal accounts make their geo-information data publicly available. home solar power plants. Practically 6 mln kWh were sold on Facebook (reception of meter readings, calculation of the cost of in May-September 2018 by the regional prosumers — consumed electricity, payment, receipt of email) DTEK Grids is one of the first in Ukraine to fulfill this zz Contact in event of an accident households that independently generate electricity for requirement. In 2018, DTEK Kyiv Grids, DTEK Dnipro Grids, Websites for customers their own needs and sell the surplus to the network. zz Schedule of planned works DTEK Donetsk Grids and DTEK Power Grid opened their zz Information about the сompany’s work Customer service centers zz Online services for signing a contract with the DTEK Grids made more than 11 ths connections in 2018 zz Principle of “one-stop shop” сompany and joining the power grids zz All electricity services, including connection to grids zz Detailed information on current tariffs for households Non-standard and legal entities Enterprise Standard connection connection zz Informing about the schedule of planned works I degree II degree III degree (up to 16 kW inclusive), (from 16 to 50 kW inclusive), (from 50 to 160 kW inclusive), pcs. pcs. pcs. city village city village city village DTEK Donetsk Grids 830 563 355 120 23 2 26 DTEK Kyiv Grids 166 — 555 — 32 — 312 DTEK Dnipro Grids 3,540 1,314 2,201 955 52 8 76 DTEK Power Grid — — — — — — 1 Total 4,536 1,877 3,111 1,075 107 10 415 76 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 02 | Investment projects 77 Key projects in 2018 integrated distribution gas-insulated installation has Characteristics of distribution system operators already been commissioned; two cable lines have Within the reporting period, DTEK Grids' enterprises built been built and are power-connected; of DTEK Grids as of January 1, 2019 147.1 km of high-voltage lines, reconstructed 38.1 km of power lines, and repaired 2,985.4 km of lines, of zz construction of a 110 kV high-voltage cable transmission which 821.4 km were replacement cables. In addition, line was started as part of a long-term program for the Enterprise Total length of power Total number of Total power of Number of clients lines, km substations, pcs. substations, MVA 10 points were built, 27 substations and distribution modernization of the capital's power grids. points were modernized, 4,932 facilities were repaired. DTEK Donetsk Grids: DTEK Dnipro Grids 50,258.6 12,663 11,521.2 1,534,388 All these projects are designed to improve the quality of zz the energy sector provides reliable power supply to life for end-users through uninterrupted power supply to settlements in the front-line zone. Since the outbreak DTEK Donetsk Grids 32,691.8 6,921 5,105.9 886,808 consumers. Also, modernization of power grids provides of hostilities, energy supply has been restored in 1,037 for the elimination of power shortages, which arise during settlements; DTEK Kyiv Grids 11,772.0 3,832 7,278.3 1,194,400 the development of cities, and to reduce the frequency of outages in electricity transmission. zz the first stage of reconstruction of the 35 kV Selydove substation was completed, which will significantly DTEK Power Grid 1,888.2 38 887.8 552 DTEK Dnipro Grids: increase the reliability of the power supply to the city zz construction of the 150/10/6 kV Naddnipryans’ka of Selydove and the surrounding settlements; substation, an important infrastructure facility, was DTEK Energougol ENE 105.1 24 47.2 7,069 completed in Dnipro. From 2019, this substation will zz in Pokrovs`k, an updated one-stop shop customer service provide electricity to new metro stations and reliable center was opened. For the residents of Pokrovs`k, Total 96,715.7 23,478 24,840.4 3,623,217 power supply to two districts of the city; Myrnohrad and Rodyns`ke, the center provides all services: from verification of meter readings to carrying zz for the first time in Dnipropetrovs'k region, aerial out contracts; facilities (helicopters and drones) were used to survey power lines. Due to the data obtained, specialists will be zz the project on the organization of a new Central Dispatch able to carry out preventative repairs to suspect areas; Center is on-going; it will improve the management of the region’s energy infrastructure. zz in Dnipro and Pavlohrad, two updated customer service centers have been opened, which provide the DTEK Power Grid: entire package of basic services. zz a comprehensive reconstruction of the 110 kV Vuhledar substation has begun to ensure a stable DTEK Kyiv Grids: and reliable power supply to the city of Vuhledar. zz technical update of the 35/10 kV Garnizonna substation has been completed, which supplies Kyiv airport. A modern automated control system has been installed at the СAIDI, average power cut index substation. This allows for the online collection, storage and transmission of information on both the state of the of DTEK Grids' consumers, min. equipment and the parameters of electrical connections. In addition, the substation’s relay protection, electric and 130.5 control systems were converted to modern microprocessor devices which allow for free programming; 118.5 115.0 107.0 zz reconstruction of the 110/10 kV Center substation, which is responsible for the quality and stability of the power supply of the central districts of the capital, has been completed. The project has created a reserve capacity of 40 MVA; zz for the first time in Kyiv, unmanned aerial vehicles (drones) equipped with scanners, video cameras and thermal 2015 2016 2017 2018 imagers were used to check the condition of power lines; СAIDI is the ratio of the sum of all customer power cuts durations to the total zz reconstruction of the Poznyaky substation, aimed number of customer power cuts. The index is measured in minutes. The index does not include force majeure situations and outages in line with emergency at improving the reliability of the power supply along shutdown schedules. This data is given for all operators of the distribution the left-bank part of the city, continues. An 110 kV system of DTEK Grids. 78 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 02 | Investment projects 79 New areas STRUM: a network In many countries, the driving forces behind charging infrastructure development are energy companies, for of fast-charging stations example, ENGIE, Enel, E.ON, EDF, Fortum, Vattenfall and others. Following this global trend and the demand in the Innovation and efficient use of resources Ukraine has been in the top 10 countries in the Global EV Revolution for two years in a row, according to InsideEV’s. Ukrainian market, the сompany launched the STRUM network of high-speed chargers in June. At the first stage, a convenient The high increase in the number of electric vehicles — high-speed charging network was created in Kyiv. 10 pilot Further development of the Ukrainian energy sector is impossible without 200% in 2017 and 93% in 2018 — is maintained at the stations are located at a distance of 6–7 km from each the integrated introduction of innovation. This is the only way to become part of state level by abolishing excise and VAT on the importation other, which provides convenient logistics for drivers of of electric vehicles. At the same time, the charging electric cars. At the second stage of STRUM development, the modern economy and global trends. DTEK Group integrates new approaches infrastructure for electric vehicles is still in its infancy: it is planned to cover the main long-distance routes of into the business ecosystem in order to find solutions and technologies for the of 1,500 charging stations, only about 30 are fast chargers Ukraine: Kyiv — Odesa, Kyiv — Lviv and Kyiv — Dnipro. that can provide high-speed charging with power supply This will make travel by electric cars in terms of speed and transformation of industrial enterprises and the development of customer service. up to 50 kW. comfort comparable to a trip by conventional cars. Innovation DTEK: integration function, in 2018. The function is designed to focus on global trends and accelerate business transformation STRUM provided charge for customer vehicles at 211 MWh in 2018. of innovative solutions in order for DTEK Group enterprises to become part This is equivalent to using 94 ths liters of petroleum products, which could of modern energy and successfully work in the new To select and implement advanced technologies and electricity market. lead to 217 tonnes of CO₂ equivalent emissions. In future, the environmental solutions, DTEK has created the Innovation management impact will be enhanced by the organic growth of using electricity as fuel and the development of the network. Three key objectives of Innovation DTEK 1 Creation of an open innovation 2 Creation of efficient technological 3 Scouting of start-up teams on culture through cooperation communities to attract external local and international sites with both external and internal expertise in advanced areas, as according to the business needs environment. Building a unified well as ensuring rapid progression for innovation and creating a base center for managing ideas of the of solutions from concept to end of priority ideas for testing. DTEK Group. product, adapted to the needs of enterprises. In 2018, the Energy Accelerator project was launched with zz QRSmarty. The startup's solution enables increased the support of the Radar Tech technology cluster, which is control over accounting and movement of inventory items. aimed at finding innovative solutions for business needs. Laser markings are applied to consumables, goods, and 182 start-ups applied for participation in the project, of materials, and software that allows you to see data on which nine reached the final round and went through an storage and movement can be integrated into the general accelerator program with DTEK mentors. enterprise accounting system. A commercial launch of the solution is expected in enterprises in the first Three projects were selected for commercial quarter of 2019. implementation: zz eVRscan. 3D laser scanning systems, which, using zz Railtex. A platform that helps to find the most a scanning lidar and drone, allow for determining advantageous offer for both car owners and shippers. the amount of coal reserves currently in warehouses The platform developers, the Railtex team, plan to and obtaining digitized data. The technology makes create a Ukrainian wagon exchange. Thus, the product it possible to repeatedly increase measurement will facilitate liberalization of this market, which can accuracy compared to traditional methods, which change the working conditions of the whole sector will improve the quality of fuel supply planning. of the economy — industrial freights. The Directorate The startup was the first of the accelerator winners to of Logistics of DTEK Energy assists in finalizing go through to commercial launch — DTEK Energy’s the product and bringing it to the market, attracting electricity generation directorate took measurements major industrial carriers and transport fleet holders. at six stations and plans to use eVRscan in the future. ABB equipment is installed in the STRUM fast charging Through the application, you can find a station and build network. Depending on the technical characteristics of a route, start and stop the process of charging an electric the battery electric vehicle charging takes 15-50 minutes. vehicle, and replenish the account. A similar application The STRUM Charging mobile application is available for is used in 15 European countries for 10,000 electrical users, who can download it on PlayMarket and App Store. charges. 80 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 02 | Investment projects 81 DTEK ESCO: energy eaving and The projects, in addition to saving energy, are aimed at improving working conditions and industrial safety. energy efficiency In the public sector, the company completed nine energyefficient projects for kindergartens and schools in Kyiv, DTEK ESCO specializes in comprehensive energy efficiency Skvyra (Kyiv region), Pokrovs`k and Bakhmut (Donets`k and energy saving services. It is important to tell consumers region) in 2018. DTEK ESCO was selected on the results what effect can be achieved, and teach them to select tools. of tenders at the ProZorro platform, which is part of the This will help create a culture of energy consumption Ukraine. Unified e-public procurement system in Ukraine. At the end of 2018, the total amount of energy service As part of projects for the modernization of heating systems, contracts of DTEK ESCO exceeded UAH 712 mln. the engineering utilities were insulated, the heating system The company's portfolio includes 37 completed projects, was balanced, automatic weather control systems for for which annual savings are estimated at 40.2 mln kWh coolant supply, and temperature sensors were installed. and 1.6 mln cubic meters of natural gas. This is equivalent Energy saving windows were also installed at some sites. to reducing CO2 emissions by 38.4 ths tonnes. A comfortable temperature in the premises was achieved in DTEK ESCO specialists have implemented 14 projects for all projects for children, and a reduction in the consumption industrial enterprises, another five are in the final stage. of thermal energy from 20 to 45% was ensured for institutions. The completed projects allow for increasing the reliability Since 2016, Ukraine has introduced an energy service of the equipment and the level of industrial safety, as well mechanism in the public sector. The customer makes as improving the working conditions of employees. payment solely by saving energy, guaranteed and For example, at the Central Mining and Processing Plant, achieved as a result of the introduction of energydue to the installation and re-equipment of pumping units, efficient measures. The ESCO investor, upon pump energy savings of up to 50% were achieved, which will completion of the contract, transfers to the customer amount to about 1.8 mln kWh per year — while increasing the all the equipment and all further savings. reliability of the ore enrichment process. Ilyich Iron and Steel Works installed three sets of automatics and modernized DTEK was the first among Ukrainian companies to develop 24 gas burners in the sintering plant’s firing machines, which a set of energy-efficient products under the brand Rozumniy reduced natural gas consumption by 35%. And the metal WATT (Smart WATT) for retail consumers. The sets include sheet-rolling workshop of the Ilyich Iron and Steel Works dual-zone electricity metering devices, LED-lamps, sockets the modernized lighting system — 2,200 LED luminaires — with timers, instructions with tips on saving electricity and heat. will reduce electricity consumption for lighting by 60%, an In 2018, the company opened up new opportunities estimated 7 mln kWh per year, and increase industrial safety. for customers by offering to make a set independently, and expanded the choice of products for each position. DTEK Energy continues to implement projects to reduce In addition, an energy efficiency calculator is available energy consumption by thermal power plants. In 2018, at https://dtek-esco.com/calc, which is designed to lighting systems were upgraded in the turbine department help customers calculate current power consumption of DTEK Ladyzhyns'ka TPP and DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP, in the and show opportunities for rational consumption. This machine room of DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP, open switchgear calculation makes it possible to determine the economic of DTEK Kryvoriz'ka TPP (the expected total savings is feasibility of acquiring a set, since it calculates how much 2.7 mln kWh per year). Switching to LED lamps ensures an the power consumption will change in a month, one year, optimally comfortable level of illumination of 200 lux for power five years, and 10 years. engineers, which corresponds to recommended requirements for an industrial facility. In coal preparation, lighting systems At the end of the year, 18 ths sets of Rozumniy WATT energyat conveyor galleries of DTEK Dobropil's'ka CEP and the main efficient household goods were sold (2,379 sold in 2017). building of DTEK Pavlohrads’ka CEP have been modernized. 82 03 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 03 | Analysis of Financial Performance 83 Analysis of Financial Performance Income Sales expenses increased by 22.8% and amounted to UAH 1,934 mln, which was caused by an increase The income of DTEK Group is derived from electricity in transportation costs. wholesale to SE Energorynok, from the sale of coal, gas and gas condensate, as well as from the distribution of Other operating expenses increased by 34.2% and electricity and heat to end consumers. amounted to UAH 6,811 mln. The increase in other operating For 2018, the consolidated revenue of DTEK Group was UAH 157,619 mln. expenses is mainly due to the accrual of impairment reserve In 2018, income from the sale of electricity to Product sale costs increased to UAH 121,273 mln. As of the end of the year, end-users in Ukraine and exports accounted for 46% for fixed assets, intangible assets and goodwill. the net profit amounted to UAH 12,373 mln. of the consolidated revenue; the income from electricity Other operating incomes dropped by 53.4% and amounted wholesale to SE Energorynok — 38%; gas and gas to UAH 571 mln. The net operating cash flow for 2018 was UAH 29,326 mln (in 2017 it was condensate sale — 10%; sale of coal — 4%. UAH 23,754 mln). Capital expenditure increased by 91.4% and amounted to Liabilities and equity The DTEK Group generated the major part of UAH 19,878 mln. the income in the Ukrainian domestic market — 92% of Since the end of 2017, the volume of credits and loans the consolidated revenue (including the compensation had decreased from UAH 81,213 mln to UAH 77,983 mln for the difference in heat tariffs). The share of export by the end of 2018. In 2018, DTEK Group restructured income in the consolidated revenue was 7%: as of the end a significant portion of its bank borrowings amounting to of 2018, the income from export sales increased by UAH 7,725 mln by signing supplementary contracts to Consolidated Financial Performance of DTEK Group, UAH mln* UAH 3,175 mln year-over-year up to UAH 11,610 mln. reschedule the principal debt repayment. The following income changes took place in the key In addition, in 2018, DTEK Group attracted a number business segments: of loans to finance renewable energy projects. From Indicators 2017 2018 Change, (+/−) Change, (%) zz income from electricity distribution and supply in the a consortium of German banks headed by Bayerische domestic market increased by 16.6% and amounted to Landesbank, UAH 2,221 mln were attracted for UAH 63,310 mln compared to UAH 54,303 mln in 2017; the construction of the Prymorsʼk WPP with maturity Revenue 134,637 157,619 +22,982 +17.1 in 2028 at EURIBOR interest rate of +2.5% until zz income from electricity generation increased by April 2019, after that an interest rate decreases to Cost of sales (100,783) (121,273) +(20,490) +20.3 14.6% and amounted to UAH 59,389 mln compared to +1.9%. Moreover, financing for the construction of UAH 51,801 mln in 2017; the Nikopol SPP was attracted from CMEC (China) in Operating income 1,225 571 −654 −53.4 the amount of UAH 4,306 mln at an interest rate of 2.9% zz income from coal sales increased by 2.9%, to UAH with maturity in 2029. 6,901 mln, compared to UAH 6,704 mln a year earlier. Operating expenses (14,329) (13,211) +1,118 −8 Income from coal exports amounted to UAH 1,641 mln Long-term financial liabilities in 2018 decreased by 28.3%, compared to UAH 1,832 mln in 2017; or by UAH 2,074 mln, and amounted to UAH 5,266 mln. EBITDA 37,195 42,897 +5,702 +15.3 zz income from natural gas and gas condensate sale As of the end of 2018, DTEK Group’s accounts increased by 24.5% and amounted to UAH 15,971 mln payable dropped by 5.0%, from UAH 17,015 mln to EBITDA margin 28% 27% −1 pp −1.5 compared to UAH 12,826 mln in 2017. UAH 16,168 mln. Advances received as of 31 December 2018 decreased by 8.1% and amounted to UAH 7,649 mln. EBIT 26,484 28,303 +1,819 +6.9 Cost of sales In 2018, the cost of sales increased by UAH 20,490 mln Assets EBIT margin 20% 18% −2 pp −8.7 and amounted to UAH 121,273 mln. The increase in In 2018, the assets of DTEK Group dropped by 3% compared the cost of sales is linked to a rise in the expenses for to 2017 and amounted to UAH 147,971 mln. The book value of the supply of electricity, as well as expenditures on non-current assets decreased by 3.4%, to UAH 105,194 mln. Net profit 4,628 12,373 +7,745 +167.4 salaries, the purchase of energy resources in foreign Current assets decreased by UAH 838 mln, from markets, logistics and transportation. UAH 43,615 mln in 2017 to UAH 42,777 mln in 2018. Assets 152,492 147,971 −4,521 −3.0 As of 2018, the gross profit was UAH 36,346 mln, which exceeds the respective 2017 indicator by UAH 2,492 mln. Cash flow Capital investments 10,388 19,878 +9,490 +91.4 The gross margin decreased from 25.1% in 2017 to 23.1% In 2018, the net cash flow from operating activities increased in 2018. by UAH 5,572 mln and amounted to UAH 29,326 mln. Taxes paid in Ukraine 22,517 26,724 +4,207 +18.7 At the same time, the investment activity payments in 2018 Operating expenses and income increased by UAH 127 mln compared to 2017 and amounted * All data in the Financial Results Analysis section is sourced from the audited consolidated statements of DTEK B.V. to UAH 16,019 mln. As of 2018, the general administrative costs grew by 23.8% and amounted to UAH 3,630 mln. The main general Expenditure on financial activities in 2018 amounted to and administrative expense item is staff costs, including UAH 9,924 mln. payroll taxes, which accounted for 64.4% of all general and administrative costs in 2018. 84 Integrated report 2018 | Operating Performance 03 | Analysis of Financial Performance 85 DTEK Group’s share in enterprises Company % Company % and companies as of 31 December 2018, % SOLAR FARM-9 LLC 100 SOLAR FARM-10* LLC 100 D.TRADING LLC* 100 SOLAR FARM-11 LLC 100 Trading in coal, electricity, Company % Company % gas and oil products SOLAR FARM-12 LLC 100 Holding companies Mining machinery manufacturing DTEK TRADING SA 100 SOLAR FARM-13 LLC 100 DTEK B.V. CORUM GROUP LLC 100 DTEK TRADING LIMITED 100 SOLAR FARM-14 LLC 100 DTEK ENERGY B.V. 100 CORUM DRUZHKOVKA MACHINE-BUILDING DTEK TRADING LLC 100 100 SOLAR FARM-15 LLC 100 PLANT LLC DTEK RENEWABLES B.V. 100 DTEK Hungary LLC 100 CORUM TRADING LLC 99 * After the end of the reporting period, SOLAR FARM-10 LLC was renamed DTEK OIL & GAS B.V. 100 DTEK TILIGULSKA WEP LLC. DTEK POWER TRADE LLC 100 PERSHOTRAVENSKYI REPAIR AND 99 * Established after the end of the reporting period. DTEK GRIDS B.V. 100 ENGINEERING PLANT LLC DTEK OIL&GAS LLC 100 D.TRADING B.V. 100 SVET SHAKHTYORA PJSC 61.2 Gas production D.SOLUTIONS B.V. 100 D.SOLUTIONS LLC* 100 INVESTECOGAZ LLC 100 Others Electricity supply NEFTEGAZRAZRABOTKA LLC 100 and energy efficiency services Corporate centre KYIVENERGY JSC 72.9 NAFTOGAZVYDOBUVANNYA PJSC 73.0 DNIPRO ENERGY SERVICES LLC 100 DTEK LLC 100 OIL&GAS SYSTEMS LLC* 100 DONETSK ENERGY SERVICES LLC 100 Coal production and processing * Established after the end of the reporting period. KYIV ENERGY SERVICES LLC 100 Servicing of DTEK Group offices DONSKOY ANTHRACITE JSC 100 DTEK ESCO LLC 100 DTEK Service LLC 99.9 SULINANTHRACITE LLC 100 DTEK GRIDS LLC 100 * Established after the end of the reporting period. MINE OFFICE OBUKHOVSKAYA JSC 100 Electricity distribution DTEK ENERGY LLC 100 and grid operation Non-controlled companies Coal production and processing DTEK RENEWABLES LLC 100 DTEK POWER GRID LLC 100 DTEK ROVENKYANTHRACITE LLC 100 DTEK DOBROPOLYEUGOL LLC 100 Wind power DTEK ENERGOUGOL ENE PrJSC 95.7 DTEK SVERDLOVANTHRACITE LLC 100 DTEK PAVLOHRADCOAL PrJSC 100 WIND POWER LLC 100 DTEK KYIV GRIDS PrJSC 72.9 DTEK MINE KOMSOMOLETS DONBASSA 95.3 MINE BILOZERSʼKA ALC 95.4 WIND TECH LLC 100 PrJSC DTEK DONETSK GRIDS JSC 71.5 KURAHІVS’KA CCM LLC 99.9 ORLOVKA WEP LLC 100 MOSPINO CPE LLC 99.0 DTEK DNIPRO GRIDS JSC 51.7 PAVLOGRADS’KA CCM LLC 99.9 PRIMORSKAYA WEP LLC 100 DTEK KRYMENERGO JSC 57.7 After the end of the reporting period, DTEK Group completed acquisition 93.9978% of the PrJSC Kyivoblenergo and 68.2949% of the JSC DTEK OKTYABRS’KA CEP PJSC 60.9 PRIMORSKAYA WEP-2 LLC 100 Odesaoblenergo. DTEK Dobropilʼsʼka CEP PJSC 60.1 DTEK Scientific and Project Centre LLC 100 Solar power On January 21, 2015, the Crimean self-proclaimed government started to consider the movable and TRYFANOVKA Energy LLC 100 immovable property of DTEK KRYMENERGO as the property of the Republic of Crimea. Electricity generation SOLAR FARM-1 LLC 100 On March 15, 2017, the company declared that it had DTEK SKHIDENERGO LLC 100 SOLAR FARM-2 LLC 100 lost control over the enterprises and assets located in the areas of Donetsʼk and Luhansʼk regions temporarily TEHREMPOSTAVKA LLC 100 SOLAR FARM-3 LLC 100 not controlled by the Ukrainian government. DTEK DNIPROENERGO JSC 99.9 SOLAR FARM-4 LLC 100 DTEK WESTENERGY JSC 99.9 SOLAR FARM-5 LLC 100 DTEK MYRONIVKA CHPP LLC 100 SOLAR FARM-6 LLC 100 INTERENERGOSERVICE LLC 99.9 SOLAR FARM-7 LLC 100 ELEKTRONALADKA LLC 99.9 SOLAR FARM-8 LLC 100 Corporate governance 01 Corporate governance structure 02 Corporate governance bodies 03 Risk management system 04 Compliance and corporate ethics 05 Dividend policy 88 01 Integrated report 2018 | Corporate governance 02 02 | Corporate governance bodies 89 Corporate governance structure Corporate governance bodies The corporate governance system of the DTEK Group is built taking into account Supervisory Boards of operating holdings companies the best international standards of public international corporations, based The Supervisory Boards are designed to provide strategic management in each on the principles of transparency. The DTEK Group is continuously developing of the areas of business, and to monitor management activities. Face-to-face corporate governance, taking into account changes in business and society. meetings with management are held on a regular basis, during which reports on This approach ensures efficiency at all levels of management, a transparent the implementation of previous decisions are presented. There are advisory bodies decision-making environment and a competitive advantage in capital markets. — Committees – reporting to the Supervisory Boards. The task of the Committees is to review core issues and recommend solutions that also take into account This allows the company to maintain constructive Center determines the strategic directions of growth, DTEK Group's policy regarding risk management, compliance and corporate ethics. interaction with its investors, partners and employees, carries out general business management and thus contributing to the implementation of a long-term provides methodological support to operating holdings. corporate development strategy and improved investment All operating holdings are independent in production The personnel composition of the Supervisory Boards attractiveness for the DTEK Group. management and operating activities. This approach allows for equal development of new and existing areas DTEK ENERGY B.V. DTEK DTEK OIL & GAS B.V. DTEK GRIDS B.V. DTEK Group has divided its strategic planning and of activities in accordance with the long-term development Oleg Popov RENEWABLES B.V. Oleg Popov Sergey Korovin operational management functions. The Corporate strategy of DTEK Group. Damir Akhmetov Oleg Popov Damir Akhmetov Iryna Mykh Sergey Korovin Damir Akhmetov Sergey Korovin Johan Bastin Iryna Mykh Sergey Korovin Iryna Mykh Catherine Stalker Johan Bastin Iryna Mykh Robert Sheppard Frank Matthias Siebert DTEK B.V. Robert Sheppard Johan Bastin Catherine Stalker D.TRADING B.V. D.SOLUTIONS B.V. Corporate Secretary of the Supervisory Boards Sergey Korovin Sergey Korovin of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., Iryna Mykh Iryna Mykh DTEK OIL & GAS B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V., D.TRADING B.V., Johan Bastin Johan Bastin D.SOLUTIONS B.V. (non-voting) — Oleksiy Povolotskyi. General Meeting of Shareholders Frank Matthias Siebert Frank Matthias Siebert Management Board DTEK DTEK DTEK DTEK D.TRADING B.V. D.SOLUTIONS B.V. ENERGY B.V. RENEWABLES B.V. OIL & GAS B.V. GRIDS B.V. General Meeting General Meeting General Meeting General Meeting General Meeting General Meeting of Shareholders of Shareholders of Shareholders of Shareholders of Shareholders of Shareholders Supervisory Supervisory Supervisory Supervisory Supervisory Supervisory Oleg Popov Damir Akhmetov Board Board Board Board Board Board Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL & GAS B.V. and DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL & GAS B.V.; Management Management Management Management Management Management CEO of SCM JSC Chairman of SCM Advisors (UK) Limited Board Board Board Board Board Board Graduated from Donets’k Polytechnic Institute in 1991 In 2010, he graduated from Sir John Cass Business and from Donets’k State University in 1996. School (City, University of London) with a MSc in Finance. From 1991 to 2000 he worked in various state institutions. Since February 1, 2013 he has been working at SCM Advisors (UK) Limited, and currently holds the office The General Meeting of Shareholders is the highest The Corporate Center's Management Board is a collective He was invited to join SCM JSC as deputy general director of Chairman. governing body. The Supervisory Board, elected advisory body, which task is to ensure a unified approach in 2000. He held the office of executive director from 2001 by the General Meeting of Shareholders, provides to strategic priorities and issues taking into account interto 2006. Oleg Popov has been CEO of SCM since January Damir Akhmetov is also member of the Supervisory Board strategic management and control over actions ests of all businesses of the DTEK Group's. The Manage2006. He is also the chairman of the supervisory boards of Metinvest B.V. of the management. Since 2008, DTEK Group has ment Board of operating holdings is a collective executive of FC Shakhtar and FUIB PJSC, and is on the supervisory implemented the practice of attracting independent body responsible for the implementation of the strategy board of Metinvest B.V. directors to its Supervisory Boards. and management of current operations. He approves key financial, investment and personnel decisions related to both the management company and SCM Group’s assets and assesses the performance of their directors. 90 Integrated report 2018 | Corporate governance 02 | Corporate governance bodies 91 Sergey Korovin Iryna Mykh Johan Bastin Catherine Stalker Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK GRIDS B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., D.TRADING B.V., D.SOLUTIONS B.V., member DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL & GAS B.V., DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V., Independent Director of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V., D.TRADING B.V., D.SOLUTIONS B.V., D.TRADING B.V., D.SOLUTIONS B.V., Director of DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL & GAS B.V. Senior lawyer of SCM JSC DTEK FINANCE PLC, DTEK INVESTMENTS Limited, Catherine Stalker graduated from Heriot Watt University in Managing Partner of Iveaghouse Capital Investment Edinburgh, UK, with a Bachelor’s degree and obtained her In 1993, Sergey Korovin graduated with honors from Iryna Mykh graduated from the law school of Ivan Franko Advisors Master’s degree from the London School of Economics. the Department of Applied Mathematics and Cybernetics State University in Lviv, Ukraine, in 1994. Later she studied of the Lomonosov Moscow State University. at the Osgoode Hall Law School, York University, Toronto, Dr. Bastin holds a MSc in Urban Planning from She began her career in 1991 with the Bank of England as Canada. the Eindhoven University of Technology in the Netherlands a research analyst and banking supervisor. From 1995 to From 2002 to 2008, he worked at the Danish and Russian and Ph.D. in Regional Planning with a specialty in public 2007, she worked at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Moscow offices of McKinsey & Company international consultancy. From 1996 to 2006, she was a senior lawyer at Silets’kyi administration and finance from the University de Montreal and Berlin, where she was the Partner in charge of From 2008, Sergey Korovin was responsible for and Partners law firm, an affiliate of Squire, Sanders & in Canada. He also attended the MBA programme at the client practice for HR management in the CEE-CIS working with telecommunication companies and served Dempsey LLP, where she became a partner in 2006. McGill University in Montreal. region. She led client projects on executive compensation, as member of the Board of the Microsoft office in Russia. From June to October 2008, she was a legal adviser organizational restructuring and human resource to Ukrainian Agrarian Investments Group owned by From 1985 to 1992, he served as Resident Team management. In 2010—2017, he was Director of Energy Business Renaissance Capital. She then worked as Head of Director at Harvard University’s Institute for International Development at SCM JSC. the Legal Department of Klub Syra Ltd. until June 2009. Development in Indonesia, providing advice to Indonesia’s Catherine is now based in the UK where she advises She held the office of Senior Attorney at the Voropaev and Minister of Finance on infrastructure investment, fiscal a range of companies on corporate governance, with Partners law firm until 2017. decentralization and privatization of state-owned particular focus on the efficiency of their boards. companies. From 1993 to 2002, he held several senior Currently, she holds the office of Senior Attorney at SCM JSC. management positions with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London, UK, latterly as Business Group Director responsible for loans and equity investments in infrastructure, transport and energy utilities, municipal and environmental services and energy efficiency across the entire EBRD’s geography. From 2002 until 2009, Dr. Bastin was Managing Director at Darby Private Equity, a major private equity fund manager and subsidiary of Franklin Templeton Investments, providing finance to companies in Central and Southeast Europe. From 2009 until 2015, he was CEO of CapAsia, an international fund and asset management company headquartered in Singapore and focusing on private equity investment in the infrastructure and energy sectors Frank Matthias Siebert Robert Sheppard in Southeast and Central Asia. Oleksiy Povolotskyi Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK GRIDS B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Since mid-2015, Dr. Bastin is a managing partner Corporate Secretary of the Supervisory Boards D.TRADING B.V., D.SOLUTIONS B.V., Director of Strategy DTEK OIL & GAS B.V., Independent Director and Chairman of Iveaghouse Capital Investment Advisors, a Netherlandsof DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., and Finance of DTEK LLC of IPM Advisors based investment boutique, advising on corporate DTEK OIL & GAS B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V., D.TRADING B.V., strategy, investment finance, renewable energy and M&A. D.SOLUTIONS B.V., Director of Corporate Governance, He earned a Master's Degree in Economics at the Robert Sheppard graduated from the University of Risk Management and Compliance at DTEK LLC; lawyer University of Göttingen, Germany. During his studies, Wyoming in 1972 and has a Bachelor’s Degree in Physics he took part in the Fulbright scholar program and studied and Mathematics. He graduated from the Columbia Oleksiy Povolotskyi graduated from the law school of at Stony Brook University, New York, USA. Business School in 1991 with an Executive MBA degree. the Kharkiv University of Internal Affairs, Ukraine. Later on, he obtained a Master’s Degree in the Scarman Centre at He started his career in 1992 at Ruhrgas AG, and then He began his career in the oil industry at Amoco in 1972. the University of Leicester, UK. worked in Latvijas Gaze and E.ON (E.ON Ruhrgas UK In the mid-1980s, Robert Sheppard worked at Amoco North Sea, OGK-4). In 2012, he joined Nabucco Gas Exploration as a Vice President. He was an Executive Before becoming a lawyer at Squire, Sanders & Pipeline International, where he worked as CFO and Director at GUPCO (Gulf of Suez Petroleum Company) Dempsey LLP, an international law firm, he taught law and Managing Director, and then a shareholder representative from 1992 to 1995. He was President and General held the position of the director of international relations in the liquidation of the project company and suspension Director of Amoco representative offices in Argentina and department at the Kharkiv University of Internal Affairs. of the construction project of the Nabucco international Egypt from 1995 to 1998. He worked as Chief Operating gas pipeline. From 2017 to 2018 he was a member on the Officer, and then as President of Sidanco from 1998 He has been working in DTEK since 2010. Currently, he is Supervisory Board of Conexus Baltic Grid, a unified natural until it merged with BP. From 2002 to 2004, Robert responsible for the development and maintenance of gas transmission and storage operator in Latvia, which Sheppard was Senior Vice President at BP responsible the corporate governance system throughout the DTEK was established after unbundling Latvĳas Gaze. for overseeing assets in Russia. Later on he was appointed Group, the development of a centralized risk management as General Director and then Non-Executive Director system, as well as the implementation of compliance funcIn early 2018, he joined DTEK's team as Director of Soma Oil and Gas. tions and anti-corruption policies. of Strategy and Finance. Currently, he is Chairman of IPM Advisors consulting Member of the Board of the Professional Association company. of Corporate Governance and a member of the Ukrainian Bar Association. 92 Integrated report 2018 | Corporate governance 02 | Corporate governance bodies 93 Committees under Supervisory Committee on appointments, remunerations and corporate governance under the Supervisory Boards The Management Board of DTEK LLC Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V. The task of the Management Board is to provide a unified approach to the corChairman: C. Stalker (DTEK ENERGY B.V., Audit committees under the Supervisory Boards DTEK GRIDS B.V.) porate governance system for strategic business decisions by strengthening of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL & GAS B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V., D.TRADING B.V., Committee O. Popov (DTEK ENERGY B.V.), dialogue between the Corporate Center and operating holdings companies. D.SOLUTIONS B.V. Member: S. Korovin (DTEK GRIDS B.V.) To this end, the Management Board act as a single center that regulates a wide Chairman: S. Korovin (for all the Supervisory Boards) range of issues so that DTEK Group works as a team. Under the Management Main tasks: Board, the committees work as a permanent collective advisory body, working Committee I. Mykh (DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK Member: RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL & GAS B.V.), zz assistance to managers in increasing the efficiency of personnel management and corporate governance out issues in detail before being submitted to the Management Board for consi­ F. Siebert (DTEK GRIDS B.V., D.TRADING B.V., D.SOLUTIONS B.V.) systems; deration and promptly react to emerging requests. zz monitoring and preparation of recommendations Main tasks: on non-market strategy (social initiatives and The personnel composition of the Management Board of DTEK LLC partnerships, reputation management, GR) zz supervision of the internal control and risk for managers; M. Timchenko, CEO of DTEK LLC (Chairman of the Management Board) management system, internal and external audit; zz monitoring and preparation of recommendations O. Povolotskyi, Director of Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Compliance of DTEK LLC zz analysis and consideration of the validity and reliability (Secretary of the Management Board) on implementing the best global practices in corporate of financial and other reports; governance for managers, as well as motivation, F. Siebert, Director of Strategy and Finance of DTEK LLC zz consideration of issues related to risk management assessment, remuneration and development A. Selischev, Director of Business Development of DTEK LLC systems, internal control and compliance with of top managers; A. Kucherenko, Director of Sustainable Development of DTEK LLC applicable laws; zz preparation of recommendations on appointing Y. Shylina, Director of Corporate Communications of DTEK LLC zz recommendations to the Supervisory Boards on top managers for the supervisory board; O. Zakharchuk, Director of Legal and Regulatory Affairs of DTEK LLC auditor candidates to approve financial statements; zz preparation of recommendations on the structure D. Sakharuk, CEO of DTEK Energy LLC zz assessment of the scope and quality of audit of the supervisory board and its committees; P. Leckebusch, CEO of DTEK Renewables LLC procedures, as well as the degree of independence zz monitoring compliance with the basic principles and I. Shchurov, CEO of DTEK Oil&Gas LLC and objectivity of the auditor. legislative requirements of corporate governance in I. Gelyukh, CEO of DTEK Grids LLC Labor safety and environmental protection committees the company’s jurisdictions, as well as with corporate under the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., governance standards of DTEK Group. V. Butenko, CEO of D.Trading LLC DTEK OIL & GAS B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V. A. Koksal, CEO of D.Solutions LLC Chairman: R. Sheppard (DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK OIL & GAS B.V.), The Management Board's programs for successors to key positions: Top 50, Energy of the Leader, Energy of Knowledge, J. Bastin (DTEK GRIDS B.V.) committees Talent Pool; Committee I. Mykh (DTEK ENERGY B.V., zz assessment of the labor occupational health and Member: DTEK OIL & GAS B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V.) Finance and Risks Committee safety system; Main tasks: Chairman: F. Siebert zz approval of environmental strategy, monitoring zz identification of occupational safety and environmental Main tasks: of the implementation of significant environmental protection risks, development of measures projects; zz approval and monitoring of the implementation to minimize them; of annual budgets, managing the loans portfolio, zz management of DTEK's brand and reputation. zz development of a staff motivation system to comply taking measures on the results of internal and external with occupational safety rules; financial audits; Strategy and Development Committee Chairman: A. Selischev zz conducting emergency response exercises zz approval and monitoring of investment projects; at the enterprises of DTEK Group. Main tasks: zz approval of compliance management and risk management strategies, including a target risk zz approval and monitoring of the implementation management model and internal control system; of the long-term development strategy of existing businesses; zz standardization of business processes. zz identification of priority areas for investment; Committee on Sustainability zz approval of the development strategy of new Chairman: A. Kucherenko businesses, including promising projects and Main tasks: M&A transactions, as well as monitoring of the implementation of decisions; zz approval and updating of the strategy, as well as personnel management policies, including zz approval and monitoring of the implementation the concept of corporate culture, consideration of innovative projects. of internal candidates for participation in training 94 03 Integrated report 2018 | Corporate governance 04 04 | Compliance and corporate ethics 95 Risk management system Compliance and corporate ethics DTEK Group conducts continuous development and improvement of the risk DTEK Group conducts its business in full compliance with the regulatory management system, which allows timely identification and response to changes, requirements of the jurisdictions where its enterprises and companies operate. while maintaining efficiency and effectiveness of operations. DTEK Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to corruption in all its forms and manifestations. Each employee must adhere to the Group’s ethical business Since 2007, DTEK Group has been operating a risk In order to switch to a centralized risk management practices. management system using a three lines of defense model, system, a new model of functional interaction for all which is integrated into the business processes of the participants of this system was approved, a program of key Since 2010, a special unit called the Compliance provisions, which is common practice in international Corporate Center and operating holdings companies. initiatives and projects was developed and successfully Service has been operating across DTEK Group under companies, but so far is not popular among domesIn 2018, a decision was made to switch to a centralized implemented, and the implementation of regulatory the supervision of the Compliance Officer. Its activities tic businesses. The provision reflects changes in risk management system and consolidate the coordination and procedural documents on the analysis of certain are constantly updated to reflect changes in the external risk assessment and is designed taking into account of risk management processes, internal controls and significant risks continues. In addition, business planning operating environment. Today, its main responsibility is the recommendations of national legislation, internainsurance in the Directorate of Corporate Governance, processes and approaches to managing business process implementing a system of internal controls to minimize tional principles and legislation, best foreign practices Risk Management and Compliance. The main goal was models, financial controlling and reporting are being corruption risk, as well as the risk of economic sanctions and experience in the enforcement of sanctions. to create a single center that will help integrate the risk updated, new tools for risk analysis and management and dissemination of insider information. Decisions and management system into the corporate culture, enhancing are being introduced. The methodological basis of recommendations made by the Compliance Service are zz Negotiating contracts that could potentially carry efficiency in all key processes. integrated risk management is also expanding, including mandatory for all employees of DTEK Group. an increased corruption risk. There is a mandatory recommendations on business planning and business approval by the Compliance Officer of gratuitous Basic principles of risk management: process risks, on assessing financial risks, as well The Service is overseen by the Director of Corporate transactions in the field of sustainability, charity, zz timely detection; as methodologies for monitoring and testing internal Governance, Risk Management and Compliance, which is donation, representation of the interests of DTEK Group controls. directly subordinate to the CEO of DTEK. The Director is a to third parties, mergers and acquisitions. zz prevention of risks and mitigation of consequences member of the Management Board at DTEK and reports to at an acceptable level; The Directorate of Corporate Internal Audit regularly zz Risk assessment of employees' conflicts of interest. the Supervisory Boards of operating holdings companies. assesses the efficiency of the risk management Conflicts of interest are identified when employees are zz key risk management based on regular analysis and internal control system, and also monitors the Key mechanisms of DTEK Group’s compliance system hired and promoted to another position or enterprise and impact assessment; implementation of decisions to ensure and improve include active support from the Supervisory Boards and of DTEK Group. In addition, since 2011 at the disposal zz monitoring of the efficiency of risk management its efficiency. This kind of multi-level management leadership from the holding companies. In addition, of employees there is an automated system to selfmeasures; system enhances operational security, contributing to the Compliance Service has proposed initiatives to declare situations of potential conflict of interest. transparency and improving communications. strengthen DTEK Group’s compliance culture. A annual declaration of conflict of interest is held, zz continuous improvement of the internal control aimed at minimizing the risks of such situations. and risk management system in accordance with zz Approval of policies and procedures. The level of rules the business environment. and procedures provides for the participation of the zz Reconciliation of business gifts and business Compliance Officer in the processes of coordination hospitality. There is a system of accounting and of regulatory documents of companies: regulations, coordination of business gifts and business hospitality, Centralized risk management model of the DTEK Group policies and procedures. which has been automated since 2016. The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, the Anti-Corruption A unified classification and a unified register of risks are used to analyze and flexibly manage the identified or implemented zz Assessment and management of compliance risks. Program, and internal rules set limits on the delivery changes. An owner is appointed for each category of risk, and the terms and tasks of risk analysis are determined taking into The methodology for identifying and evaluating and acceptance of business gifts and hospitality. account the characteristics and requirements of each business process. This approach allows for the development of areas compliance risks is in place, for the management of responsibility and monitoring risks at all levels of management, as well as to develop targeted response plans. of which standard activities are identified and the risk zz Abuse reports and corporate investigations. appetite is regularly reviewed. DTEK Group employees and any third parties have the opportunity, including doing so anonymously, 1st line of defense Risk Management zz Monitoring and testing of compliance controls. to report violations of the Code of Ethics and Business (business function) System Processes To assess the efficiency and adequacy of compliance Conduct to the SCM trust line, which includes controls, audits of corporate internal audit and of DTEK Group. The Compliance Service participates Operational management, which is responsible for assessing, regulating and minimizing risks, as well as ensuring Country and Management compliance services are carried out on the regular in corporate investigations for various categories an effective internal control system. regional basis. Audit results are used to review compliance and culture of applications (as part of an investigation team programs, as well as update regulations, policies or as an expert). Strategy and procedures. 2nd line of defense Reputational Regulatory and goal setting zz Training of employees in ethical and anti-corruption zz Relationships with contractors and intermediaries. standards, the basics of sanctions compliance. (monitoring functions) Performance Identification and risk assessment is carried out on Since 2017, these areas are included in the training Departments that provide and monitor the Top efficiency the basis of risk appetite and assessment matriimplementation of effective risk management risks program for all employees. An appropriate e-course practices, internal controls, compliance with laws Production and Financial Monitoring and ces of business partners for reliability, exposure to has been developed for distance learning. In addition, technological and administrative rules/internal regulations, and implementing changes sanctions and corruption risks. All contracts with trainings are conducted monthly for managers and the investigation of fraud. contractors include anti-corruption and anti-sanction employees exposed to high compliance risk. Information, communication Commercial Industrial 3rd line of defense and reporting (independent function) Internal audit based on a risk-based approach provides top management with a conclusion on the accuracy of risk assessment, risk management effectiveness, including an assessment of the effectiveness of the first and second lines of defense. 96 Integrated report 2018 | Corporate governance 05 05 | Dividend policy 97 Business ethics Dividend policy DTEK openly declares its anti-corruption standards and pays special attention to building a compliance culture. In the Transparency in Corporate Reporting The dividend policy of DTEK Group is based on maintaining a balance between the need to invest in the development of production facilities and respect for the right of shareholders to participate in the distribution of profits. Such approach study conducted by experts of the Transparency International Ukraine*, is a determining factor contributing to the long-term growth of the shareholder value of the operating holdings of DTEK Group. an independent international organization, DTEK’s anti-corruption program received the highest rating. At the same time, DTEK Group continues to improve organizations which were determined by the Compliance and enhance the effectiveness of the system of internal officer as having high corruption risk. Transactions with controls and mechanisms aimed at countering corruption. contractors that have a moderate corruption risk can only In order to develop the provisions of the Code of Ethics be carried out, if recommendations from the Compliance and Business Conduct, a new Anti-Corruption Program Service to help minimize the risk have been implemented. was approved in 2018. Special attention is paid to compliance with sanctions The program is developed in accordance with the best regimes in the jurisdictions where the enterprises international practices and standards of corruption and companies of DTEK Group operate. According to risk management, taking into account the provisions the approved risk appetite, all business partners are of ISO 37001:2016 Anti-bribery management systems, considered to be subject to sanction risk, regardless of anti-corruption legislation and international acts the amount and nature of the transaction. The sanction on combating corruption of extraterritorial action risk of business partners is identified on a daily basis (including the FCPA and the UKBA). In addition, through automated screening, which compares DTEK’s anti-corruption the section on checking business partners for the the contractor database of DTEK Group with a database corruption risk has been finalized and takes into account of an external specialized provider that aggregates the recommendations of the Transparency International the sanction lists of all countries and organizations. and the World Economic Forum. In addition, the identification of sanction risk is carried out Compliance with the Anti-Corruption Program is mandatory for all employees and representatives by checking the contractor, its ultimate beneficiary, direct and indirect shareholders, and the executive body for any indication of sanction risk. program of DTEK Group. The Program directly prohibits any manifestations of corruption, including commercial bribery or remuneration for the simplification of formalities. DTEK Group does not operate in jurisdictions that have been subject to extensive US and EU sanction-based received the highest rating in the Transparency In establishing business relations, preference is given restrictions. In DTEK Group, it is impossible to conclude to partners who share the principles of DTEK’s Antitransactions with contractors that have a medium sanction Corruption Program and those who have an effective risk without complying with the recommendations of the internal system of anti-corruption measures. All contractors that have the right to act on DTEK Group’s behalf or Compliance Service for risk minimization. At the same time, transactions with an increased sanction risk are subject in Corporate Reporting study represent its interests before any third parties, are subject to agreement with CEO of DTEK, if the recommendations to mandatory verification for corruption risks. At the same of the Compliance Service cannot be fully implemented. time, it is prohibited to cooperate with contractors or public * Transparency International Ukraine is a representative office of the international anti-corruption non-governmental organization Transparency International. The study was conducted to assess the implementation of compliance policy standards in the largest companies in the country and was published in 2017. During the study, websites and legal documents of 50 private companies and holding companies, as well as 50 state-owned companies were analyzed. https://ti-ukraine.org/en/ news/62-of-top-companies-of-ukraine-do-not-meet-transparency-standards-ti-ukraine/ Insider information management The register of insiders, in which persons who have access to insider information by virtue of their position DTEK's Eurobonds are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange, or professional activity, is regularly updated. Maintaining which imposes obligations regarding compliance with this register allows the Compliance Officer to inform listing and disclosure rules. In this regard, DTEK Group insiders promptly about obligations, responsibilities has adopted a regulation and introduced rules for handling and prohibited practices, which simplifies the process insider information and insider operations. In particular, of monitoring and supervising compliance with information the criteria for attributing information to insider were disclosure rules and transparency rules established defined, the procedure for forming and updating insider by foreign regulators. lists was adopted, and rules for notifying possession of DTEK securities and obtaining permission to conduct a securities transaction apply for insiders. Sustainability 01 Sustainability 02 Environmental protection ESG ESG: Environmental, Social and 03 Society Governance 04 Employees 100 01 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 01 | Sustainability 101 Sustainability Sustainability management The Sustainability Committee under the Management Board of DTEK and DTEK Group is focused on long-term sustainable development and considers Regional Policy Directorate of DTEK Energy, the executive office of DTEK ESG criteria (Environmental, Social, and Corporate Governance) for all Renewables, DTEK Oil & Gas, DTEK Grids plan and implement all sustainable its activities. The UN Sustainable Development Goals have been integrated development projects. into DTEK Group’s business strategy. All actions and decisions correlate Cooperation and engagement with stakeholders are The Sustainability Committees’ key tasks are: with interests of the society, this responsible financing practice is aimed important components of sustainable development. zz approval and updates to the strategy, as well as at an integrated and balanced approach to sustainable development. DTEK Group believes in transparency, providing personnel management policies, including the corporate stakeholders with full information about its activities. culture concept, recommendations for considering We conduct partnerships and constructive dialog with internal candidates for participation in training programs As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, on reducing the organization’s environmental impact, stakeholders on a systematic basis, which ensures we can for successors to key positions — Top 50, Energy of DTEK Group contributes to the achievement of the UN sustainable use of resources, improving industrial safety share timely information which matches their interests and Leader, Energy of Knowledge, Talent Pool; Sustainable Development Goals. 17 goals were set by and health of personnel, ethical business practices and world leaders at the UN General Assembly and officially expectations. compliance with anti-corruption standards, open dialog zz assessment of the occupational safety management took legal effect on January 1, 2016. These goals set with employees and wider society. This approach applies Stakeholders include: system; out a timeframe of 15 years, in which countries and to activities throughout the value chain and at all levels organizations would focus on overcoming poverty, zz employees and their families, of business management: companies and enterprises zz identification of challenges and approval of social tackling inequality and eliminating the negative effects of zz citizens in areas where the company operates, development strategies for the regions of operations; of DTEK Group are guided in their activities by the climate change. DTEK Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and the zz non-governmental organizations, zz coordination of the environmental strategy; DTEK Group’s sustainable development policy focuses Sustainable Development Policy of SCM. zz local authorities, regional and central authorities, zz consideration of non-production issues that can significantly affect the company’s ability to reach zz international organizations and investment communities, 17 goals of the UN Global Compact business targets. zz experts and analytical centers, The directorates’ key tasks are: zz academia and the scientific community, zz planning, implementation, monitoring of social projects and assessment of their efficiency; zz media, zz cooperation with stakeholders; zz general population of Ukraine. zz development of corporate social responsibility in Ukraine; zz participation in Ukrainian and international sustainable development initiatives. DTEK Group invested in sustainability in 2018, UAH mln 23.7 1,377.3 Social infrastructure maintenance 1,378.8 Environmental protection Environmental tax 52.1 Employee training 556.3 169.3 Social partnership Occupational health and safety 102 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 01 | Sustainability 103 Top 5 Awards by ESG criteria of the Ukrainian-German project Green Business Solutions — Unity for Sustainable Development. for 2018 The company received an award for organizing an effective system of separate collection and disposal zz DTEK Burshtynsʼka TPP received of waste. the “ECO Transformation-2018” award for implementing a project to increase the extraction of zz Naftogazvydobuvannya was recognized as the best dry ash. company in the sector in the All-Ukrainian contest “The best enterprise in occupational health and safety”. Awards for achievements in the field of environmental The competition is held annually by the State Labor safety were given during the business forum Service of Ukraine. A prerequisite for participation “ECOtransformation of Ukraine”. The forum in the competition is the absence of accidents or brought together more than 50 companies, public environmental organizations and government occupational diseases in the preceding year. institutions responsible for the implementation zz A project managed by Academy DTEK was recognized of environmental policies. in the “HR-Brand Award Ukraine” competition. zz In the contest of the UN Global Compact in Ukraine, Held since 2011 by the recruiting company the Energy Efficient Schools project won the Planet Head Hunter Ukraine, the competition promotes nomination. Projects were evaluated according to the latest methods of personnel management. the following criteria: innovation, contribution to social The Academy DTEK project “To calculate is impossible development, number of people involved. to guess. Where to draw the line? How HR-analytics The Energy Efficient Schools project has been going saves people’s lives and health” won the lead in since 2012 and is aimed at educating students on the Region nomination. environmental values, responsible attitudes towards HR analytics is one of the tools helping DTEK achieve the consumption of resources and practical tips on its global goal of zero injuries in the workplace. conserving energy. Academy DTEK’s research team has developed zz DTEK Dnipro Grids’ work was recognized in a model that uses data analytics to forecast risks the Green Technologies and Innovations contest of safety violations associated with human factors. held by the Fede­ration of Employers’ Organizations Measures are already being developed to minimize and of Dnipropetrovs’k region within the framework eliminate those risks, based on the results obtained. Membership in associations and international and national organizations DTEK is a participant of the UN Global Compact network DTEK is a member of the European Business Association and a member of the Global Compact Alliance in Ukraine. and the American Chamber of Commerce, the EuropeanUkrainian Energy Agency, and the U.S.–Ukraine Business DTEK is one of the founders of the World Economic Council. Fourum's Energy for Society Initiative. DTEK is a member of professional associations: the European DTEK is a member of CSR Centre, an expert organization Association for Coal and Lignite (EURACOAL), the Union of that promotes corporate social responsibility to achieve the Electricity Industry (Eurelectric), the European Energy comprehensive and profound changes in Ukraine. Forum (EEF), the European Federation of Energy Traders (EFET), the European Distribution System Operators (E.DSO). 104 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 01 | Sustainability 105 DTEK Group follows the principles of social responsibility and sustainable development, implementing projects to achieve the goals of the UN Global Compact Criteria ESG: Environmental Criteria ESG: Social DTEK Group focuses its water resource management The DTEK Group strategy is aimed not only at reducing DTEK Group pays great attention to the issue of health DTEK Group’s enterprises primarily work in single-industry efforts around economic and efficient use at all costs but also focuses on maximizing output from existing care, ensuring employees of its enterprises and local towns. To foster the development of more economically its production facilities. To ensure optimum water resources. The enterprises use innovative technologies residents can all receive quality medical care on time self-sufficient communities, DTEK Group supports small consumption, the enterprises use both circulating water to reduce fixed unit costs and increase product (for more detail, see the Society). and medium businesses which can stimulate job creation supply systems and reuse of water (for more detail, see competitiveness. The second line of operation focuses on and attract investors to the regions. This also contributes Environmental Protection). energy awareness and fostering responsible consumption to the growth of tax revenues for local budgets (for more by organizations and citizens (for more detail, see detail, see the Society). Investment Projects, Environmental Protection, Society). DTEK Group supports various projects aimed at improving access to education and leisure. Educational programs In order to keep the environmental balance, DTEK Group have been implemented for external and internal systematically upgrades its facilities, ensuring stakeholders. The programs for external stakeholders DTEK Group works hard to ensure it has stable social production reliability and compliance with the European have been created on an open platform to provide partnerships with the communities and local governing environmental standards, as well as developing new DTEK Group’s environmental efforts all revolve around wider access. Employees, under the development of bodies of the regions in which it operates, to make business lines to decrease environmental impact and prevention and minimizing the organization’s negative professional competencies, are given free education those towns more comfortable to live in. To this end, combat climate change (for more detail, see Investment impact on biodiversity and the wider environment (for more opportunities in the corporate university — Academy DTEK the enterprises implement social partnership programs Projects, Environmental Protection). detail, see Investment Projects, Environmental Protection). (for more detail, see the Society, Employees). every year aimed at ensuring sustainable development. The programs cover five key areas: energy efficiency in the utilities sector, health care, developing socially-important infrastructure, supporting business environment and increasing local communities’ activity (for more detail, see the Society). DTEK Group provides equal conditions for all employees to unlock their full potential and promotes career development regardless of gender. DTEK Group’s human resources work — including headhunting and personnel recruitment, and staff administration — is in line with the relevant Ukrainian laws DTEK Group develops partnership relations with and internal regulatory documents, with zero restrictions international donor organizations, state funds for relating to gender. the implementation of joint sustainable development projects in the areas where the company operates (for more detail, see the Society). 106 02 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 02 | Environmental protection 107 Environmental protection Environmentally-related expenditure of the DTEK Group, UAH mln Capital investments Operating expenses Additional expenses Total business segment The strategic objectives of DTEK Group include the introduction of modern 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 technologies and best practices which minimize the impact of its production DTEK Energy: coal on the environment and optimize the use of hazardous substances and materials. production and 38.8 26.3 30.9 127.9 97.1 150.2 63.8 34.4 47.6 230.6 157.8 228.7 The principles of the UN Global Compact, which DTEK Group follows in the field of processing environmental protection, reflect the E , Environmental, in the ESG criteria. DTEK Energy: electricity 72.9 292.7 213.6 542.3 633.8 859.5 8.1 10.4 12.6 623.3 936.9 1,085.7 generation DTEK Renewables — — — 0.1 0.2 0.7 — — — 0.1 0.2 0.7 Ensure availability and sustainable Take urgent action to combat climate management of water and sanitation change and its impacts DTEK Oil & Gas — 29.3 55.2 1.3 0.8 2.2 — 0.5 0.03 1.3 30.6 57.4 for all DTEK Grids 0.2 0.05 0.3 1.0 0.5 2.1 1.9 0.8 2.4 3.1 1.3 4.8 the impact of activities which pose a heightened Ensure access to affordable, reliable, Protect, restore and promote environmental risk, has been established. sustainable and modern energy for sustainable use of terrestrial Responsibility has also been established for all ecosystems, sustainably manage non-compliance with the provisions with the possibility forests, combat desertification, of suspending the activities of the enterprise. and halt and reverse land zz Law of Ukraine “On Amendments to the Budget degradation and halt biodiversity loss Code of Ukraine”. Changes have been made to the allocation of eco-tax funds between the central Ensure sustainable consumption and regional budgets. The state budget revenues and production patterns Implementation of environmental will include 45% of the eco-tax. The exception is protection standards the eco-tax levied on stationary sources of pollution for carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere, which, from 2019, will be included in the general fund Environmental protection legislation of the state budget. Within the framework of the Association Agreement zz The Law of Ukraine “On Amendments to the Tax Code between Ukraine and the EU, regulatory legislation of the of Ukraine and Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on European Union was implemented, and these essential Improving Administration and Revising the Rates of All enterprises and their employees are required to adhere zz implementation of preventive measures are being documents adopted: Certain Taxes and Fees”. Changes have been made to DTEK Group’s Environmental Policy. incorporated as part of the modernization of for determining who pay environmental tax for CO2 zz Energy Strategy of Ukraine for the period until 2035. technological processes at all stages of the production emissions, and the environmental tax rate for such The document defines the following long-term goals in A high level of environmental responsibility, compliance chain; emissions has been increased from 0.41 to 10 UAH relation to environmental protection: with high environmental standards of production, zz annual and strategic environmental programs are transportation, transformation and energy consumption per tonnes. zz protecting the environment, including pollution prevention, responsible use of resources, reducing the implemented to sufficient level to achieve efficient is required from the state and energy companies. zz Order of the State Statistics Service of Ukraine impact of climate change, protecting biological diversity and effective management of significant environmental “On Approval of the State Statistical Observation zz The National Emission Reduction Plan for Large and ecosystems; aspects and risks; Form No.2 (air)”. The improved form of the “Report Combustion Plants. The document provides that zz monitoring, measurement, analysis and assessment emissions of dust and sulfur oxides to the atmosphere on Emissions of Pollutants and Greenhouse Gases zz developing renewable energy and modernization of environmental indicators are carried out; should be reduced by 40 and 20 times respectively by into the Air from Stationary Emission Sources” has of thermal generation; 2028, while emissions of nitrogen oxides should drop been approved. zz ensuring the environmental safety of enterprises; zz environmental safety is ensured by improving four-fold by 2033 in accordance with the requirements production and management processes; zz Order of the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Directive 2010/75/EC. of Ukraine Technological standards for permissible zz continuous improvement of environmental management system to improve environmental zz interaction with the public and stakeholders in relation zz The National Waste Management Strategy for emissions of pollutants from thermal power plants, performance. to environmental activities; the period to 2030. As a part of implementation of the nominal thermal capacity of which exceeds 50 MW the strategy, national and regional waste management (updated). For existing plants that are included in the To achieve these goals: zz participation in external initiatives on environmental plans will be developed. National Emission Reduction Plan for large combustion protection, including development and improvement zz ensures the environmental management system’s plants, the deadlines for achieving the indicators for of the environmental legislation of Ukraine; zz Law of Ukraine “On Environmental Impact operation, analysis and continuous improvement; permissible pollutant emissions have been amended. zz employees are trained in environmental protection; Assessment”. A new mechanism for assessing zz compulsory legislative and other requirements adopted by DTEK Group are complied with; zz programs are initiated to motivate employees to improve environmental performance. 108 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 02 | Environmental protection 109 DTEK Group's approach suppliers must comply with the requirements of ISO zz DTEK Burshtyns'ka TPP reconstructed a drinking 14001, while technical specifications for the purchase of water pipeline, which ensured drinking water savings to Environmental Impact Assessment materials are formed in line with environmental protection of 10 ths cubic meters per month; requirements. Preventing and minimizing the negative environmental zz DTEK Dobrotvirs'ka TPP completed the first start-up impacts of DTEK Group operations is one of the main DTEK Group enterprises monitor their environmental complex of its project to reconstruct the water priorities of the organization’s environmental activities. impact in accordance with the requirements of current deferrification station. Now, treated wastewater is The structure of responsibility for the environmental legislation. For this, a control system has been built subject to iron removal of drinking water from wells, management system is defined, the main elements of that covers the entire production cycle: emissions and then is reused to clean the filters. The project which are as follows: and discharges pass laboratory tests, waste accumulation sites are assessed for their impact on soil and Water resource makes it possible to reduce discharges to local bodies of water by 95%. zz implementation, operation and improvement of the environmental management system in accordance air, atmospheric air and groundwater at the border of with ISO 14001; enterprises’ environmental protection zones are taken Water consumption Rational use of water by mining and concentrating enterprises of DTEK Energy is ensured by the reuse of for quality control, and environmental facilities and DTEK Group focuses its water resource management mine water for production needs and circulating water zz auditing the environmental management system; cleaning equipment are checked for compliance with efforts around economic and efficient use at all supply systems. For example, CCM Pavlohrads’ka and technical conditions. Environmental monitoring data its production facilities. To ensure optimum water zz identification and assessment of environmental risks DTEK Dobropilʼsʼka CEP installed filter presses, which demonstrates the impact production has on environconsumption, DTEK enterprises use both circulating water and opportunities, development of measures to create two products: clean water and small fractional ment and ensures enterprises can identify actions supply systems and reuse of water. manage them; waste with humidity of 40%. This eliminates the need which improve the situation and prevent adverse for an external slurry pond. Water is returned to the developments, in a timely manner. zz development and implementation of environmental Water withdrawal by DTEK Group's enrichment process, the plants have created a complete programs (annual and prospective) in the field closed cycle of the water-slurry scheme, and waste is of atmospheric air protection, rational use of For example, electricity generation enterprises of enterprises in 2018, mln cubic meters taken to a waste dump or used for land reclamation works. water resources, regulation of waste quality and DTEK Energy have implemented the “Automated System 1.1 1,298.5 groundwater in the areas hosting production facilities, of Environmental Indicators” project. There are five Surface water Underground water For drinking and other needs, Naftogazvydobuvannya uses waste management and land reclamation; automated functional units in this project: control over water contained in four wells. All wells are subject to permits the state of flue gas monitoring systems, control over 6.5 which limit the daily and annual water consumption. Wells zz conducting annual environmental trainings for all Water are equipped with verified meters, and water consumption the state of ash and slag pipelines and ash dumps, employees of enterprises; supplied by logs are kept. Limits have not been exceeded, to date. informing about environmental emergencies, managing utilities system Total zz work with contractors and suppliers. inspections of compliance with environmental legislation 1,375.2 requirements, calculation of the eco-tax. In response to updates in the requirements of standard ISO 14001:2015, DTEK Group’s industrial enterprises The locally monitored observation network at Wastewater discharges have developed internal regulatory documents Naftogazvydobuvannya became a basis for a similar style 69.0 DTEK Energy's enterprises continuously monitor the for introducing changes, and started compliance of monitoring the quality of soils and groundwater at quality of wastewater, implement projects to modernize audits. To date, auditing companies have confirmed the Semyrenkivsʼke and Machukhs'ke fields. A constant Other sources treatment facilities and reuse wastewater in technological the compliance of the environmental management collection of relevant data ensures can identify and cycles. systems at DTEK Skhidenergo, DTEK Dniproenergo, prevent negative environmental impacts. The company DTEK Westenergy, Wind Power, Naftogazvydobuvannya, takes water and soil samples at the local operational sites The largest volumes of water are used by the electricity DTEK Dnipro Grids, DTEK Donetsk Grids, of, carries out measurements on static water, pumps generation enterprises of DTEK Energy. Most of Mass of pollutants in wastewater DTEK Power Grid. The scope of certification included observation wells and takes gas from near-surface the company's power plants reuse industrial water of DTEK Group's enterprises in 2018, 100% of employees working at these enterprises. sediment on a quarterly basis. in the production cycle, working with a circulating In 2019, there are plans to conduct a certification audit for cooling system in their main and auxiliary equipment. tonnes In addition, DTEK works with the village of Kovalivka, The exceptions are DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP and compliance with ISO 14001:2015 by DTEK Kyiv Grids. where the main production activities of the enterprise DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP, which operate on a onceare concentrated, to carry out tests of water and soil at Pollutants Mass, tonnes In addition, DTEK Group supports adherence to through water supply system. the international environmental standard among its sites identified by the residents. To date, the research A circulating water supply system is used if, for technical Iron mass (total) 3.4 counterparties. For example, according to the Technical results demonstrate the absence of a detrimental impact Policy of Enterprises for Electricity Generation, equipment environmental impact from Naftogazvydobuvannya. or economic reasons, it is not possible to use a onceMass of petroleum products 6.1 through water supply system. Such a system includes cooling reservoirs, which are created on the basis of Mass pf ammonium nitrogen 8.8 a small river. A once-through water supply system is designed when the needs of thermal power plants do not Mass of nitrates 64.9 exceed the minimum flow of water in the river. Water passes through the station’s equipment once turbines Mass of BOD (full) 202.3 are cooled and then returns to the river. Thus, almost Mass of suspended substances 762.0 the entire volume of industrial wastewater is heatexchanging water and is classified as clean. Mass of sulphates 22,990.0 In 2018, the company's power plants implemented the Mass of chlorides 38,262.0 following activities aimed at more rational use of water resources and water treatment: Mass of dry residue 109,976.0 zz DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP retro-fitted an automated system for monitoring and recording water supply and sanitation, by installing 32 instrument sets for measuring water flow at supply, distribution and drain nodes; 110 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 02 | Environmental protection 111 In order to reduce the negative impact of wastewater on temperature), as well as the reconstruction of the Reducing the concentration of dust surface and groundwater, DTEK Energy TPPs monitor industrial drainage system; the quality of discharged wastewater and the status of emissions to European standards zz DTEK Luhansʼka TPP is implementing a project for groundwater. Furthermore, all stations monitor the quality the construction of industrial drainage systems; due to the construction and of wastewater and groundwater in areas where dumps are located in accordance with the approved schedules and zz DTEK Burshtynsʼka TPP developed designs for modernization of electrical filters carry out measures to clean up the reservoir-coolers from the construction of wastewater treatment plants for bottom sediments. domestic wastewater. Decreased dust concentration, The main activities aimed at prevention and minimization Power units of TPPs (equipment) of wastewater discharges implemented by DTEK Energy To maintain the water reservoir levels required to ensure the reliability and safety of their operations, DTEK Air emissions, climate change and number of times TPPs in 2018: Dobrotvirsʼka TPP and DTEK Burshtynsʼka TPP installed new segmented gates on spillway dams in 2017–2018; greenhouse gases No.6 DTEK Kurakhovs'ka TPP 50.6 zz DTEK Prydniprovsʼka TPP implemented the “Technical (electrical filters) re-equipment by installing an automated system DTEK Kurakhovsʼka TPP organized the construction of To minimize its negative impacts on the environment, for monitoring and metering water consumption an additional gateway regulator for its open discharge DTEK Group makes considerable efforts across all No.8 DTEK Kurakhovs'ka TPP 48.9 at discharge channels No.1 and 2 of DTEK channel; DTEK Luhansʼka TPP developed a project and stages of the production process. Systematic capacity (electrical filters) Prydniprovsʼka TPP” project, during which measuring started the reconstruction of shandors on discharges of modernization is carried out to preserve the ecological instruments were installed to assess heat exchange heat exchange waters. No.9 DTEK Kurakhovs'ka TPP balance, ensure reliability of production and guarantee 40.0 water indicators (volume and flow rate, water (electrical filters) compliance with European environmental standards. No.10 DTEK Luhans'ka TPP 3.3 Facilities of water intake for production and drinking water supply and discharge Greenhouse gas emissions by (wet dust collectors) of industrial wastewater DTEK Group enterprises in 2018, No.13 DTEK Luhans'ka TPP 46.2 ths tonnes (electrical filters) Facilities for water intake for industrial Enterprises and drinking water supply Facilities for industrial wastewater discharge No.1 DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP 6.4 139.0 (electrical filters) DTEK Energy: TPPs and CHPP Methane emissions No.3 DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP 6.8 Siverskyi Donets — Donbas Channel and 35,586.0 0.5 (electrical filters) DTEK Kurakhovs'ka TPP Cooling reservoir on Vovcha River Kurakhove reservoir on Vovcha River Carbon Nitrous oxide dioxide emissions No.9 DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP DTEK Luhans'ka TPP Siverskyi Donets River Siverskyi Donets River 17.0 emissions Total (electrical filters) DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP Dnipro River Dnipro River 35,725.5 No.10 DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP 18.8* (electrical filters) Dnipro — Kryvyi Rih Channel and cooling DTEK Kryvoriz'ka TPP Inhulets River reservoir No.11 DTEK Prydniprovs'ka TPP 24.6 (electrical filters) DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP Kakhovka reservoir on Dnipro River Kakhovka reservoir on Dnipro River No.1 DTEK Kryvoriz'ka TPP 26.0 Since 2012, DTEK Energy has been reconstructing (electrical filters) DTEK Burshtyns'ka TPP Cooling reservoir on Hnyla Lypa River Cooling reservoir on Hnyla Lypa River electrical filters when upgrading and reconstructing No.5 DTEK Burshtyns'ka TPP Cooling reservoir on Zakhidnyi Buh power units to achieve dust emission levels in line with 24.3 DTEK Dobrotvirs'ka TPP Cooling reservoir on Zakhidnyi Buh River (electrical filters) River Directive 2001/80/EC — the residual dust content of exhaust gases is not more than 50 mg/Nm3. Gas cleaning No.7 DTEK Burshtyns'ka TPP Cooling reservoir on Pivdennyi Buh 21.7 DTEK Ladyzhyns'ka TPP Cooling reservoir on Pivdennyi Buh River plants at modernized power units are equipped with flue (electrical filters) River gas monitoring systems for the continuous monitoring of atmospheric emissions. Additionally, all power plants No.10 DTEK Burshtyns'ka TPP DTEK Myronivka CHPP Cooling reservoir on Luhan River Cooling reservoir on Luhan River 8.0 have video surveillance systems installed, which allows (electrical filters) DTEK Energy: mines (including dust suppression) and processing plants operators of boiler units to obtain additional operational No.12 DTEK Burshtyns'ka TPP information about the combustion modes in those boilers. 2.7 (electrical filters) Underground water PROWSST, DTEK Pavlohradcoal Samara River Permits for emissions were received at all power plants Dnipro — Western Donbas SE, mine waters No.8 DTEK Dobrotvirs'ka TPP of the company in accordance with accepted changes to 5.8 Underground water and mine waters, surface (wet dust collectors) environmental legislation. waters of the Pokrovskyi and the Dobropilskyi No.12 DTEK Dobrotvirs'ka TPP Byk River, Gnylusha River, 22.0 DTEK Dobropolyeugol Production Department of Water and Sewer (wet dust collectors) Vodyana River Utilities of Public Utility Company “Voda In 2018, DTEK Prydniprovsʼka TPP started using Donbasu”, artesian wells of the Pioner mine an automatic monitoring station for atmospheric No.1 DTEK Ladyzhyns'ka TPP 3.0 Surface waters of Dobropillia Production air at the border of its sanitary protection zone. (electrical filters)** DTEK Dobropil's'ka CEP None, a recirculation system is used Digital sensors monitor the concentration of dust, Department of Water and Sewer Utilities carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen in * Works completed in the first quarter of 2019. The power unit is in Surface waters of Selydove Production the atmospheric air. The installation of the station commissioning mode until August 31, 2019, in connection with which design CCM Kurahivs'ka None, a recirculation system is used Department of Water and Sewer Utilities allows residents to have greater control of the indicators are specified. ** In 2018, the first stage of the project for the technical re-equipment of dustSurface waters of Pavlohrad Production quality of atmospheric air — all data is transmitted CCM Pavlohrads'ka None, a recirculation system is used cleaning equipment was implemented. In 2019, it is planned to implement the Department of Water and Sewer Utilities to the site https://ecoinfo.pro, which aggregates second stage of the project. indicators from other monitoring posts installed in In 2009-2011 was reconstructed electrical filters and significantly reduced DTEK Oil & Gas the Dnipropetrovsʼk region. dust emissions at power unit No.3, No.5, No.7 DTEK Kurakhovs'ka TPP. Special tanks and cesspools with Naftogazvydobuvannya Underground water further disposal 112 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 02 | Environmental protection 113 A significant project in 2018 was a collaboration with the Each year, experts at DTEK Grids monitor DTEK Renewables also continuously monitors bird World Bank that formed part of the Partnership for Market the appearance of new stork nests on power and bat populations, conducting annual research Readiness project. This project was implemented in lines during inspections in order to equip them on the environmental impact of wind turbines. compliance with the requirements of Directive 2003/87/EC appropriately future. In 2018, DTEK Dnipro Grids The monitoring covers the sites of all wind farms on the establishment of a greenhouse gas emission and DTEK Donetsk Grids transferred 16 nests of the company: Botievo, Orlivs̓ka, Prymors̓k and trading scheme in order to prepare for DTEK Energy TPPs’ of white stork to special artificial platforms, and Prymors̓k-2. Since 2018, ornithological monitoring participation in the national greenhouse gas emission 111 nests were transferred over the last five years. has been carried out in accordance with the trading system. With technical support from the bank, In addition, two artificial nests and three protective recommendations of the Scottish Natural Heritage, DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP successfully implemented a pilot visors for the stock dove (Columba oenas), the Equator Principles and the standards of international project on monitoring, reporting and verification of greenConservation and restoration a species listed in the Red Book of Ukraine, are financial companies. house gas emissions. Representatives of the World Bank trained employees from the environmental departments of biodiversity installed on the power transmission towers. DTEK Energy's electricity generation enterprises, which at all power plants of the company to develop plans for use significant volumes of water in their production DTEK Dnipro Grids attract children and young people cycles, carried out an assessment of bio-reclamation monitoring greenhouse gas emissions. Considering the ornithological safety of electrical to the protection of white stork, conducting an annual works and the possibility of fish farming, as well as equipment remains a new issue for the Ukrainian energy regional competition Leleka since 2015. In 2018, expert analysis of the state of cooling reservoirs. The development of the renewable energy sector, sector. Previously, power engineers were only concerned 11 winners of the competition were awarded with Pilot projects on bio-reclamation and fish farming are which is led by DTEK Renewables, will help reduce about protecting power lines from potential damage valuable gifts. The company focuses on motivating being implemented at DTEK Ladyzhyns̓ka TPP and greenhouse gas emissions. The company is actively and emergencies, but now special attention is paid to employees to engage with environmental activities. DTEK Kryvorizʼka TPP, and a fish protection device has building green power plants, and the portfolio of cooperation with ecologists and ornithologists. Employees across three structural divisions of the been installed at DTEK Kurakhovs̓ka TPP to protect fish, implemented projects should reach 1,000 MW in According to research, birds are making increasing use of company were awarded with the The Best in Taking particularly juvenile fish from entering the intake facilities 2020. This means that the annual production will power line pylons, used by them instead of trees in the open Care of Nature Cup alongside monetary prizes. of the TPP. amount to 2,500 mln kWh of green electricity — the equivalent of Ukraine’s total consumption for areas. White storks, stock doves, and saker falcons all have seven days. This also means that CO2 emissions will been nesting on these structures. Ornithologists estimate decrease by 2,650 ths tonnes per year. that more than 50% of the population of white storks nest on power lines, because they make a convenient place for In addition, since 2016, DTEK Renewables has been the birds to rest and look for prey. promoting an Industrial Tourism program to build greater DTEK Group's enterprises responsible for distribution of awareness of green energy. Every Friday for anyone who electricity were among the first to introduce programs for would like to join, Botievo Wind Power Station conducts ornithological safety on power lines back in 2013 when free tours, which include an inspection of the stationʼs bird-protecting devices were installed. The benefits of control center, visits to the wind installations and the site the program are twofold: birds receive greater protection near the wind tower. Every year such tours are becoming and consumer receive more reliable power supply. more and more popular — in 2018, Ukraine’s largest wind power plant received 1,500 visitors, and almost a third of In addition, in the protected areas, distribution system them were schoolchildren. operators are implementing special projects for the conservation of rare bird species. For example, since Twice a year, in the sphere of natural gas production, 2015, together with the Dnipro-Orel Nature Reserve, compliance with the standards for maximum permissible together with the Dnipro-Orel Nature Reserve, DTEK has emissions at the border of the sanitary protection monitored the impact of power lines on the aerial wildlife zone is monitored, and once a year — the monitoring in the Dnipropetrovsʼk region. This monitoring is primarily of pollutant emissions broken down into sources and aimed at protecting the white stork. Monitoring allows to substances is carried out according to the permissions select areas for the installation of bird protection devices. set out in “Measures to monitor compliance with 179.8 km of power lines have been already surveyed. the approved standards for allowable emissions . In the territory of the ornithological reserve “Bulakhivsʼky Naftogazvydobuvannya received permits for emissions Lyman”, 2 km of power lines are equipped with special of pollutants into atmospheric air from stationary markers. Markers with light-reflecting elements that are sources that cover all gas treatment facilities and wells in visible at a distance of up to 15 meters, thanks to which operation. Emissions do not exceed the permissible limits birds can safely fly over wires at dusk or in bad weather. and are in the limit of requirements. Also, in the Orels`ky national natural park, covers have been installed (a cap of insulating material that covers the insulator and wire sections on the sides). 114 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 02 | Environmental protection 115 Road construction is another promising area for the Since 2017, when developing the Semyrenkivs'ke field, DTEK Dnipro Grids was recognized in the Green re-use of ash and slag. An expert opinion was developed Naftogazvydobuvannya has been using heightened Technologies and Innovations Competition for its concerning the use of ash and slag by DTEK Ladyzhyns’ka environmental standards and pit-free drilling for wells, efficient system for separate collection and recycling TPP, DTEK Burshtyns’ka TPP, DTEK Dobrotvirs’ka TPP, which eliminates the detrimental environmental impact. of waste. The enterprise collects up to 40 types of DTEK Kryvoriz'ka TPP, DTEK Kurakhovs’ka TPP and Pit-free drilling makes it possible to clean up sludge waste generated during production activity: mercury DTEK Prydniprovs’ka TPP, which in 2017 was approved by using special equipment. DTEK Oil & Gas cleans up all of lamps, tires, batteries, petroleum products, waste Shulgin State Road Research Institute. This made it its sludge, with solid elements transported to specially paper, electrical insulation, polymer waste, etc. The possible to introduce the use of ash and slag materials in equipped landfills and fluid elements reused in drilling. company separately collects waste and transfers it to the design and estimate documentation for construction, The land is then reclaimed and returned to its original a five-year disposal process, preventing the release of Waste management and land reconstruction, overhaul of state and local roads. state, suitable for biological reclamation. In 2018, the company reclaimed 4.5 hectares of land. hazardous waste to landfills. reclamation of lands In 2018, cooperation with the research institute continued — rock studies were carried out for DTEK Pavlohradcoal The competition was held by the Federation of mines, and recommendations were given on the design Handling and optimizing the use of Employers' Organizations of the Dnipropetrovsʼk 99.9% of the waste generated during the production region within the framework of the Ukrainian-German activities of DTEK Energy’s enterprises is non-hazardous, and construction of road embankments using rocks. hazardous substances and materials “Green Business Solutions — Unity for Sustainable but it still needs to be distributed across available This will allow the company to conduct further work to Development” project. better utilize waste. Optimizing the use of hazardous substances and materials land. In this regard, one of the key tasks in the field of is one of the key initiatives of DTEK Group’s industrial environmental protection is increasing the use of ash DTEK Pavlohradcoal annually reclaims land disturbed enterprises. In 2018, work to reduce the use of materials and slag materials (ASM), which are formed during by mining operations. Reclamation is carried out containing asbestos continued. Enterprises responsible Waste management in 2018, ths tonnes the combustion of coal for electricity generation. by dumping rock sections with a sunken surface. for electricity generation made a partial replacement of ASM can be used in the construction industry in the Then, a fertile layer is applied to the plot of land and materials containing asbestos for alternative substances 13,811.3 production of cement and concrete, which will also help biological reclamation is carried out: organic and and materials during repairs, brick setting and insulation mineral fertilizers are applied, land reclamation and 9,938.1 reduce the use of natural raw materials and greenhouse of equipment. In addition, distribution system operators gas emissions. In Ukraine, an average 5-10% of ash and sowing of various agricultural crops are carried out are replacing oil-filled equipment with hermetic oil slag materials are transferred to construction organizain order to restore fertility of the soil. In 2018, the transformers that do not require maintenance, or with tions, while in European countries that figure is 95%. technical stage of reclamation was completed on an vacuum, gas-insulated, or dry dielectric. This makes it area of 10.9 hectares with a conditionally fertile layer. possible to improve the environmental safety of equipment Programs for increasing the use of fly ash, slag and 3,363.2 In addition, the company takes part in forest planting and eliminates the risk of oil spills. ASM have been developed and are being implemented at all TPPs of DTEK Energy. In 2018, the first stage of initiatives every year, replacing forests damaged Also, enterprises are replacing lamps which contain the project “Technical re-equipment of the electrical during mining operations. In 2018, the Pavlohrads’ka, mercury with LED lightbulbs, which are more economical filter of the power unit No.1 DTEK Ladyzhyns’ka TPP” Ternivs’ka, Blahodatna and Samars’ka mines carried and significantly less harmful to the environment. out forest planting across an area of 13 hectares. Volume of Volume of Volume of disposal was implemented, aimed at increasing the collection For example, in 2018, thermal generation enterprises generation of I—IV disposal of I—IV and management of dry ash to 50 ths tonnes per year. Also, power units replaced 15,711 lamps with LEDs, while distribution class waste class waste of I—IV class waste No.7 and No.12 of DTEK Burshtyns’ka TPP re-equipped Coal processing enterprises have switched to using an system operators replaced 2,775 lamps. systems for pneumatic ash removal, which will increase innovative “green dump” technology in the construction the amount of ash utilization up to 70 ths tonnes per year. of waste dumps. Clay banking is built for each tier of In addition, DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP developed technical the dump as well as an internal drainage system and a documentation for the construction of a pneumatic ash fire-prevention protective layer. This approach reduces removal system on the electrical filters of power units the environmental impact by eliminating the formation No.2 and No.3. of combustible sources and stopping waste coal leaking into the wider environment, while waste water can be To halt the allocation of new lands for the disposal of discharged into the pond and reused in production. In 2018, the Pavlohrads’ka, Ternivs’ka, ash and slag waste, thermal generation enterprises In 2018, DTEK Oktyabrs’ka CEP completed construction Blagodatna and Samarska mines are increasing dams of ash dumps using this 13 and installation work on the third phase of construction on the area of material. In particular, DTEK Kurakhovs’ka TPP, of a “green dump”, ensuring the authorized and DTEK Dobrotvirs’ka TPP, DTEK Ladyzhyns’ka TPP, environmentally-friendly disposal of coal waste. hectares DTEK Zaporiz'ka TPP and DTEK Prydniprovs’ka TPP performed such works in 2018. At the same time, stations In the field of natural gas production, DTEK is applying are being replaced at ash and slag lines to stop ash and modern technologies for utilization of waste products planted slag waste mixing into the environment. In 2018, 5.7 km arising from the drilling of wells, which minimize were replaced. the environmental impact. Previously, drilling waste — primarily cuttings and waste water — was collected in In 2018, the amount of ash and slag used was 949.5 ths tonnes. In total, DTEK Energy TPPs used 516.3 ths tonnes for their own needs and special waterproofing slurry barns, and after the work was completed, they were neutralized, cleaned and buried in places determined by environmental impact assessment trees 433.2 ths tonnes were sent to external customers. projects. This is 21.8% of the total ash and slag formation. 116 03 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 03 | Society 117 Society Social Partnership Programs business and government funds, and from international donor organizations. Strategies for the social and economic development As part of the strategies, Social Partnership Programs of the territories are instruments for achieving are implemented, which consist of interregional and All of DTEK Group’s companies have a social partnership with the communities sustainable development goals. Strategic road maps local projects. Interregional projects are large investment are developed jointly between local authorities, experts, where they operate, with the aim of building trust-based relationships. and the general public, whose representatives form projects that are implemented at a territorial level, uniting several cities where the DTEK Group companies operate. Our goal is to improve the quality of life within those communities through committees for managing and implementing strategies. Such projects solve problems common to all the territories Then the strategies are approved by local authorities, and the sustainable social, economic and cultural development. the committees monitor their implementation. This allows involved. Local projects are designed to correlate to activities and take into account the needs of the local The principles of the UN Global Compact, which DTEK Group adheres to in involvement from the whole community and unites people community. This approach ensures the peculiarities of in tackling the most urgent sustainability issues. relation to social partnerships, reflect the “S”, Social, in the ESG criteria. Also, this approach allows the community to raise funds each community can be taken into account, thereby reducing social risks. for the implementation of the projects — both from Ensure healthy lives and promote Make cities and human settlements Investments in the directions of the Social Partnership Programs, UAH mln well-being for all at all ages inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Directions 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Development of socially important 34.2 34.4 13.9 10.9 40.9 63.6 infrastructure Ensure inclusive and equitable Ensure sustainable consumption quality education and promote and production patterns Increasing local communities’ activity 5.5 3.8 3.3 9.2 39.8 58.8 lifelong learning opportunities for all Energy efficiency in the utilities sector 45.9 25.7 12.7 23.1 86.6 38.5 Health care 32.2 11.1 10.1 1.5 3.3 6.4 Promote sustained, inclusive and Strengthen the means of sustainable economic growth, implementation and revitalize Development of business environment 12.8 2.6 0.9 0.8 2.0 2.1 full and productive employment and the global partnership for sustainable decent work for all development Total 130.8 77.6 40.9 45.5 172.6 169.3 Since 2013, DTEK Group has switched from “selective” projects to the social partnership strategies in order to increase Build resilient infrastructure, the efficiency of social investments. promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Number of projects implemented under the Social Partnership Programs in 2018 7 54 Increasing local Energy efficiency communities’ in the utilities activity sector 1 Health care Total 208 41 Development 105 of business environment Development of socially important infrastructure From 2007 to 2018, within the framework of the Social Partnership Programs, 2,208 projects were implemented, in which DTEK Group invested UAH 1,208.3 mln. 118 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 03 | Society 119 “Your Hometown Begins with You” interregional project Project TREND: “Technologies of Reasonable Energy Saving The main goal of this project is to develop of public participation among in Our Houses” the residents, involving them in solving the problems relevant to their area. The housing and utilities sector of the country must meet energy demand As part of the project, each resident can contribute to improving the quality needs while creating a culture of responsible energy consumption. DTEK Group of life among residents in their districts, cities and villages. By supporting started a new project in 2018 to create tools designed to help residents save the initiatives, DTEK Group helps everyone understand the importance of energy in the territories where the company operates. The main task of their individual contributions towards sustainable development. the TREND project is to encourage the residents of apartment buildings to “Your Hometown Begins with You” is a mini-grants This competition has achieved important changes: implement energy saving measures. competition, for which residents can submit their project for participants have formed true partnerships and a the improvement of local facilities. The selection of the best systematic approach to teamwork is being used for Project “Technologies of Reasonable Energy Saving in http://energytrend.org.ua/, which is a development projects involves local communities through the social the implementation of projects. At first, residents Our Houses” is designed to: from the Municipal Development Institute. The platform partnership program website http://spp dtek.com.ua/, submitted projects for improving their buildings and zz Raise awareness of the energy saving and energy collected services for ABCO for monitoring and managing where online voting determines the fate of each project. surrounding grounds, but more recently projects have efficiency among apartment building co-owners energy consumption, feasibility and financial modelling In 2018, 61,000 residents took part in the voting. been submitted on developing wider urban space. In this (ABCO) of the apartment building management, introduction of Moreover, the best projects are evaluated by the regard, a large grants competition is also held separately energy-efficient measures and management accounting, competition commission. In 2018, the commission included within a similar scope to these projects. In 2018, zz Taking training and carrying out activities including and distance training program. the Chairman of the Board of the UN Global Compact in the competition covered 15 territories and communities information technology Dobropillia, Bilyts’ke, Bilozers’ke, Novodonets’ke, Ukraine, representatives of DTEK Energy, sports figures submitted 45 ideas on changing public urban space. zz Attracting investment in improving the energy Pavlohrad became pilot cities participating in the project. and the media. The commission identified the five best Based on the results of online voting, the 15 best projects efficiency of residential buildings In these cities, 149 ABCO took part in the project, projects, which received additional grants ranging from were selected, one for each corresponding territory. for which trainings and workshops were held throughout UAH 20,000 to 60,000. zz Improving the management efficiency of apartment the year. As a result, 50 ABCO conducted energy audits, buildings. which made it possible to develop and implement DTEK Group has been implementing the project The project uses a common algorithm across 20 energy efficiency projects. all cities on the online platform TREND 1.0, “Your Hometown Begins with You” for seven years Indicators 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TREND is a new project to improve the quality of life in the apartment buildings Number of settlements that took part in 1st and 2nd waves 18 19 15 38 42 55 the project Number of residents who took part in 5,600 6,535 5,918 7,222 16,000 16,400 the project Project participants Number of applications for mini-grants submitted for the consideration by 262 401 396 500 539 647 149 ABCO 37,500 residents the commissions Number of winning projects for mini-grants 105 167 140 210 268 305 Coverage of implemented events The maximum size of the mini-grant from 20,000 20,000 30,000 30,000 50,000 55,000 the company, UAH 20 projects 3,500 residents Number of applications for maxi-grants submitted for the consideration by the 154 45 commissions Savings on implemented projects Number of winning projects for maxi-grants 15 15 UAH 734,200 655.5 Gcal Maximum amount of the maxi-grant from 200,000 – 200,000 – the company, UAH 500,000 700,000 Fund raising by the communities, UAH mln 1.4 1.2 2.0 2.3 6.0 7.3 120 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 03 | Society 121 “Energy-Efficient Schools: New Generation” interregional project International project “Come on, Let’s Play!” “Energy-efficient schools: new generation” is an educational program for “Come on, Let’s Play!” is a joint project with FC Shakhtar, which aims to schoolchildren in grades 6–11, aimed at fostering environmental values and increase participation in youth football in Ukraine and promote a healthy developing a responsible attitude to energy consumption and a skills in rational lifestyle. This is a project that involves boys, girls, children with special use. The program is hosted on an open online platform — energyschool.org.ua needs.. — which ensures all schools can access the modern teaching methods, whether This sort of unique initiative is only possible with Come on, Let’s Play! is open to all children aged they’re in city or village. Only 6 rural schools took part in the project in 2015, the support of large business, given it requires major 7–12. The children receive free training and all development to existing sports infrastructure. Projects the necessary equipment. They are taught by qualified but that number increased to 327 in 2018. like these allow businesses to become active contributors volunteer coaches three times a week. DTEK and to society and local communities, creating new oppor­tu­ FC Shakhtar jointly organise regular competitions nities for children regardless of where they’re from. for the players, and alongside professional training, Two training courses have been developed by the company “Secrets of an apartment building”, which was developed workshops and master classes from European under the project — “Fundamentals of Energy Saving jointly with experts and representatives from the education DTEK Group supports this project in the belief that mass specialists for the trainers. and Energy Consumption”, and “The ABC of Housing and sector. The innovation was accepted by teachers in other participation football is useful not only for sports but Utilities Management” — were ratified by the Ministry of regions too — 20 schools included it in their education In 2018, the project involved more than 3,000 also for social development. From an early age, children Education and Science of Ukraine. Students can also play programs and successfully completed the training course. children playing on 43 football fields, seven of which learn how to be part of a team and lead a healthy the online game “Smart House”. The program “Career 4.0” was offered to students of were opened in cities where DTEK Group operates. lifestyle, inspiring them to further become self-starters. the 9th–11th grades, aimed at developing professional Implementation of the project on the open online platform competencies needed in the contemporary labour market enables to create virtual classes where students from by providing basic knowledge of technology, engineering, different cities and regions study. In the 2018/2019 IT and energy. The project is implemented in partnership school year, students from 43 schools across 26 different with the leading universities in Ukraine. cities in Ukraine studied the “ABC of Housing and Utilities Management”, took part in the online game “Smart Demand for innovative educational project is increasing House”, made exchange visits to their partner cities and every year. DTEK Energy, in partnership with the competed in game Brain-ring on energy efficiency. Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, held In 2018, the education programs for students of 4th round tables in Lviv and Dnipro, which brought together and 9th–11th grades became the project’s innovations. representatives from the department of education The idea of teaching the youngest students the basic and school principals. The purpose of the events was principles of energy efficiency belongs to the school to select schools for participation in an experiment teachers in Burshtyn. DTEK supported this initiative on the introduction of energy efficiency courses and six months later presented the education program a compulsory part of the national curriculum. Every year the number of participants of project “Energy Efficient Schools: New Generation” increases 1,257 858 150 79 55 11 475 476 32 20 11 1 1st waves 2nd waves 3rd waves 4th waves 5th waves 6th waves of the project of the project of the project of the project of the project of the project Number of schools Number of territories The project’s methodological and organizational support is provided by the Municipal Development Institute All-Ukrainian Charitable Organization. According to the Institute's calculations, every thousand schools participating in the project can save up to 5,200 MWh, which reduces CO2 emissions by 4,742 tonnes. 122 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 03 | Society 123 a visual showcase of various interesting substances self-sufficient communities, DTEK Group supports from the areas of physics and chemistry, as well small and medium businesses which stimulate as alternative energy sources. A delegation from job creation and attract investors to the regions. Burshtyn presented a set of activities aimed at This growth also contributes more tax revenues to intercultural dialog with Zelenodolsʼk. In addition, local budgets. there were hip-hop and drumming workshops. To encourage economic development in the communities zz Ternivka (Dnipropetrovsʼk region): the “Ternotsvit” where enterprises operate, DTEK Group approved a festival focused on dance and art. Social dance preferential list of local contractors for the purchase workshops (salsa and bachata), drumming, Emotional of products and services. This approach is aimed at 5 key areas of Social Partnership Programs Restart Playback Theatre, and acroyoga all featured in creating competitive opportunities for small and medium the festival. businesses, as the companies purchase centrally through DTEK Group has implemented Social Partnership Programs in 55 areas where zz Pershotravens’k settlement (Dnipropetrovsʼk tender procedures, in which large companies from all over the country participate. In 2018, preferential lists were its companies operate. Social investments are allocated to five key areas: energy region): the “Energy of the City” festival aimed at promoting a healthy lifestyle. During the festival, introduced in ten pilot areas of Donetsʼk, Ivano-Frankivsʼk and Lviv regions. efficiency in the utilities sector, health care, development of socially-important there were five sports and five cultural and creative locations. A sports flash mob and game quest “Energy When evaluating suppliers’ proposals, local contractors infrastructure, development of business environment and increasing local of the City” was special features of the event, involving are awarded five additional points out of 100. They are communities’ activity. 50 students from grades 10–11. also given the opportunity to review prices after bidding (individual re-bidding), to sign a three-year contract zz Pavlohrad (Dnipropetrovsʼk region): the “Pavlohrad with the possibility of reviewing the price, and to receive 1. Energy efficiency in the utilities sector 3. Development of socially-important Talisman” festival was integrated into the citywide an advance payment for the procurement of materials program of celebrating City Day. The event focuseds Energy efficiency is the driver of sustainable economic infrastructure on family traditions and values. A city-wide competition required for the execution of the order. Preferential treatment is granted if the local contractor provides jobs development in Ukraine. DTEK Group invests in was held for the best answer to: “Family is ...”, there DTEK Group supports projects aimed at improving to local residents and pays taxes to the local budget. projects that increase utility-sector energy efficiency were thematic street exhibitions, as well as family and social infrastructure, and upgrades to street the quality and accessibility of social services, workshops. A musical jam including classical and As part of business development projects, nine local lighting in cities and towns. addressing major problems in vital infrastructure, non-traditional ethnic instruments was new this year. economic development agencies worked with the and improving access to education and leisure. representatives of small and medium businesses, Upgrading heat supply systems and implementing energy-efficient measures at socially important facilities The most significant projects of 2018 are: 5. Development of business environment organizing meetings with donor organizations, advising zz Dobropillia (Donetsʼk region): works on covering in the preparation of business plans and providing like kindergartens, schools, hospitals, public places The DTEK Group enterprises primarily work in singletechnical support to business start-ups for the first-time are important aspects of improving quality of life across the football field have been completed industry towns. To help develop more economically entrepreneurs. In 2018, 25 new jobs were created. communities. zz Novodonets’ke settlement (Donetsʼk region): In 2018, DTEK Group’s efforts to improve heat supply completed a major overhaul of the pool at the Palace revolved around purchasing equipment and materials of Sports for repair work. In Shchastia, 500 metres of pipes were zz Tryfonivka village (Kherson region): reconstruction purchased and repair work was carried out to replace of the water supply system was completed for problem sections of the mains heating. This provided proper heat for 12 multi-storey buildings which house 700 residents of the village The following was created, repaired, landscaped and equipped in 2018 pumping stations were installed at the “Pivdenna” zz Starozavods’ke village (Dnipropetrovsʼk region): boiler house, which heats 70% of the town’s residential 32 9 12 the old water conduit was reconstructed with laying properties and social facilities. of 1.3 km of pipes of larger diameter, which enables to supply more water. Hydraulic pump station is being Street lighting remains an acute problem for many areas: constructed with modern variable-speed pumps. it is either absent or in need of significant modernization. To solve this problem, DTEK Group financed projects on Medical facilities and Parks Sports facilities and street lighting modernization in areas where the company 4. Increasing local communities’ activity rehabilitation centres and recreation areas establishments operates. In Burshtyn, lighting was replaced on Enerhetykiv, Budivel`nykiv, Sichovykh Striltsiv streets. Six pedestrian Promoting development of public, cultural and sport 24 127 crossings were improved, while 160 new energy-efficient initiatives is important for DTEK Group, for changes lamps and 14 new transmission towers were installed. in the quality of life depend on activity and initiatives of each particular resident. 2. Health care DTEK Group understands the importance of health care and ensures employees of its enterprises A key part of our work in this area in 2018, was the citywide “CITYFest: open space” project which promoted social and cultural events. 30 Educational Utility networks (heat, water and gas pipelines, lighting) Children’s playgrounds and sports grounds and local residents all receive high quality, on time zz Burshtyn (Ivano-Frankivsʼk region): the “Shining. medical care. Circle of the Heart” festival was dedicated to institutions celebrating Mother’s Day. A team of local volunteers The most significant projects of 2018 are: was created to help organize the festival for zz Vinnytsia: a mobile ultrasound system was purchased the first time, and a city-wide photo competition — for the regional clinical oncology dispensary, “The greatest right of a woman to be a mother” — was allowing non-transportable patients to be diagnosed. held. During the festival there were seven interactive The hospital treats more than 16,000 children and locations focused on creative and social activities of 120,000 adult patients every year and carries out more women. than 5,000 operations. zz Zelenodolsʼk (Dnipropetrovsʼk region): zz Shishats’ky district (Poltava region): modernization the “EnergyFEST: new generation” festival attracts of the Shishats’ka district hospital is ongoing. In 2018, 10,000–12,000 residents every year. The main the subsequent step of this project was repairing the objective of the festival in 2018 was to integrate first floor of the pediatric department and purchasing new interactive components of social activity. specialist equipment for patients requiring isolation. Children aged 9 to 13 took part in the Crazy Show, 124 04 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 04 | Employees 125 Employees Gender aspect: organizational position in DTEK Group, % relative to the gender 8.3 4.3 Head Head People are main source of value and competitive advantage. Only a solid team 3.9 1.9 of professionals can solve ambitious tasks, therefore, DTEK Group has created including including from a system of continuous personal development for every employee, while from internally appointed internally appointed candidates managers of all levels are trained in personnel management processes. candidates % % 1.4 This is all in aid of creating a constructive working environment, which lets 11.4 Manager people work effectively and progress. Specialist 0.9 75.5 56.3 36.0 The principles of the UN Global Compact observed by DTEK Group in human Manager Worker Worker Specialist resources management, reflect the S , Social, in the ESG criteria. Men Women More than a third of DTEK Group employees obtained higher professional education. Among DTEK employees 45% of Ensure inclusive Achieve gender Promote sustained, women and 28% of men have higher education. and equitable equality and inclusive and quality education empower all sustainable and promote women and girls economic growth, organizations and conduct an open dialogue with them, lifelong learning full and productive guaranteeing identification and timely resolution of opportunities employment and potential disputes. Collective agreements are another for all decent work for all guarantee which protect employees’ interests and rights. The agreements contain provisions on remuneration, social benefits, payments to retirees and obligations in the field of occupational safety and personnel training. Senior management reports on the fulfillment of collective The total number of DTEK Group personnel in 2018, persons agreement terms annually. HR management approaches To maintain an ongoing bilateral dialogue, a number 16,797 977 358 of mechanisms are used to convey the views of employees The HR management system at DTEK Group is in line with to top management: Women Temporary Part-time the relevant laws of Ukraine, industry regulations and employees employment internal rules. zz interaction with trade unions and regular meetings with trade union leaders; DTEK Group’s HR management strategy is focused around: zz meetings between company leaders and specialized directorates and labor collective; • providing equal opportunities for all employees; • involving the best professionals in the labor zz meetings between company leaders and opinion market; leaders; • ensuring a decent level of remuneration and zz individual reception of employees by company reward for employees; director and HR manager; • talent management; zz HR days on which HR managers meet with employees • forming a unified corporate culture. directly at workplaces and answer questions, inform 49,049 64,898 65,438 them about projects, initiatives, and events in the field Men Permanent Full-time The system is built in this way so it can be an effective tool which provides opportunities for employee of HR, as well as providing feedback on the status of employees employment initiatives. issues addressed at previous meetings; zz employee surveys; DTEK Group respects the right of employees to create trade unions and other associations which represent their zz collection of complaints, comments and suggestions interests. DTEK Group’s companies cooperate with these from employees. TOTAL* 65,846 * Not including staff of DTEK Service LLC. 126 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 04 | Employees 127 Payment, remuneration and Staff recruitment zz annual performance appraisals that cover all personnel which form the basis of personal incentive Employee planning, personnel recruitment, and personnel development programs; In the first quarter, employees undergo an Annual administration are carried out in accordance with the laws zz the Talent Pool program, which let to plan and Performance Appraisal (APA), with career prospects and of Ukraine, the collective agreement, recruitment develop career cards. remuneration determined by the results in the reporting regulations, internal work regulations, the Code of Corporate Ethics and Business Conduct, instructions DTEK Group’s corporate university, Academy DTEK, period, and a task, training and development program is formed for the next year. “On the procedure for work incapacity certificate” and plays the leading role in educating and developing “On the procedure of scheduling vacations and providing personnel. Academy has become a tool for managing Since 2017, APAs have been applied to employees in traditionally blue-collar roles. In 2018, it also vacations to employees”. Personnel training and talents, knowledge and changes. All employees have the opportunity to develop their potential at covered those in DTEK Energy in mining machinery When recruiting and selecting individuals for a vacant development the corporate university. manufacturing. A work contribution coefficient (WCC) is position, internal recruitment is the main route used: applied for a more objective appraisal of employees in employees are informed about open vacancies, those DTEK Group is focused on its growth and innovation production companies. WCC is the personal contribution who wish can send a resumé and be interviewed to see strategy. This requires enterprising employees who of each worker to the overall result of the division, DTEK Group transformed its corporate university, if they have the right qualifications and personal qualities are willing to learn and grow throughout the course of which considers the indivi­dual appraisal. The criteria for helping it become an innovative educational required for the vacant position. External recruitment their daily activities. DTEK’s approach to training and calculating WCC include the performance of work duties, business platform open to business, government, is carried out through employment centers, online development covers all personnel — from workers to compliance with the requirements of occupational safety public, and international partners. In its new recruitment on specialized job search resources and other the general director — and provides opportunities for and health, and competence. form, Academy DTEK is partnering leading external sites. career and personal growth. business schools and organizations including The regulation for employee remuneration manageINSEAD, IE Business School, Thunderbird, HRCI, The following activities are carried out in the framework ment sets out the basic benefits and social package and Kyiv Mohyla Business School to introduce of training and development: available to staff. In 2018, all employees received salary international HR practices to Ukraine. increases and the social package was retained in full. zz compulsory vocational training for staff, including simulator training in individual specialties; Academy DTEK has opened its doors at UNIT.City, Social payments and benefits provided to DTEK Group's employees in 2018, zz development of professional corporate standards a space that is equipped with the latest technology and creates an atmosphere for the generation of UAH ths for key industrial occupations; great new ideas. The campus where the office is zz competitions aimed at promoting a culture of located conforms to the “green building” standard Support for retirees and veterans 1,641.2 professional competence among employees of the American LEED (Leadership in Energy and throughout the organization; Environmental Design) system. Improvement of living conditions 153,284.3 Financial aid 114,859.8 Corporate events 41,823.5 Voluntary health insurance 43,198.4 Health care service 18,353.9 One-time employee bonuses 49,114.6 DTEK Group's investment in employee training and development, UAH mln Others 24,353.0 52.1 40.8 Approach to responsible zz insourcing and outsourcing of non-core functions; 26.6 zz transfer of social facilities into communal ownership; restructuring and retirement zz natural staff reduction (retirement of employees, of employees voluntary resignation, etc.); 2016 2017 2018 In 2018, DTEK Group companies did not dismiss any zz negotiated resignation. personnel due to production and labor changes in their Collective agreements set a minimum period within organizations. which employees must be notified of upcoming changes. Companies use the following personnel restructuring This period corresponds to the statutory two months, and mechanisms: in the case of coal companies, three months. Forecast for retirement of employees, % Percentage of employees who will retire after 5 years Percentage of employees who will retire after 10 years Men Women Men Women 6.2 5.6 8.9 7.4 128 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 04 | Employees 129 Professional standards. DTEK Group creates corporate professional standards for its production companies The introduction of a dual training system was an 2018: Staff training and development in figures innovation in the field of personnel training and what’s codify to actualization requirements to regard development in 2018. The theoretical part of the develop production. In 2018, the following corporate training takes place at an educational organization, and standards were developed: in the coal industry — “master 31 11,554 the practical part in the workplace. Pershotravens’ky blaster”, “miner on auxiliary works”, “machinist of mountain lyceum and Higher vocational school No.20 11 enrichment and briquetting installations”; in the energy (Lviv) both provide employees knowledge of these industry — “chemical water cleaning operator”, “ultrasonic future professions: “electric locomotive engineer , inspection tester”, “chemical analysis technician”, underground installation engineer , electric gas competitions of facts of trainings for “electric gas welder”, “automotive crane driver”; in welder , gas cutter , electric welder of manual the field of electricity distribution — “electrician for repair professional skills leading technical universities of engineering employees welding . While the experts of the companies help to of dispatching equipment and teleautomatics” and “driver were held among Ukraine are partners of DTEK by internal trainers realize them in the conditions of real production. of aerial work platform and truck-mounted hydraulic lift”. the employees of Professional contests and competitions are aimed the company 4,985 Most corporate standards form the basis of state standards 55,635 in vocational education. This reduces the gap between at promoting high standards of excellence among theoretical knowledge and the practical requirements employees of production companies. 39 contests were of employers — students gain knowledge that will be held in 2018. needed for the profession, which speeds up their ability to The creation of the Youth Movement of DTEK Energy was a facts of trainings learning facts adapt to the conditions of production. In 2018, the following significant event in 2018. The Movement works across the for engineering corporate professional standards were adopted at a following areas: national level: chemistry lab technician and operator of employees by enrichment and briquetting equipment zz social sector — participation of young employees external trainers in social programs; In addition, at a national level, work was initiated to create a new profession — “miner on auxiliary work in mines”. zz production sector — development of projects aimed at The new profession combines four functions: underground improving production, occupational safety systems, etc.; miner, underground engineer, underground bottom man zz sports sector — development of programs to and roadway repair miner. In early 2019, this profession encourage young people to live a healthy lifestyle; was listed in the national occupational classifier. zz cultural sector — organization of cultural events. Profession-oriented schools. There are nine specialized schools operating at DTEK Group companies which aim Employees of 26 companies — over 400 activists — to give each employee the opportunity to realize their actively participate in the Youth Movement. potential in their profession. Cooperation with Universities. Since 2009, DTEK Group The second area of work revolved around highly qualified has cooperated with higher education institutions. specialists transferring their experience to the younger The companies’ personnel requirements are considered in generation. For example, there is a tool called “Vacant the program and necessary specialists are subsequently Full-Time Equivalent” at DTEK Energy’s organizations, trained. In higher education institutions, DTEK Group which assigns an external expert to each appointed identifies promising fourth-year students who are then employee to shorten the adaptation period and help new trained using additional programs that take the specifics of employees master the subtleties of the position. In 2018, their future profession into account. about 40 experts shared their unique experience. Today, partner universities include: NTU Dnipro UniverIn addition, the “Work Mentorship in the Workplace” sity of Technology , NTU Kharkiv Polytechnic Institute , program involves current and retired specialists teaching Donetsʼk National Technical University and Industrial 9 young employees practical skills. 6 928 mentors have Institute of Donetsʼk National Technical University, Dnipro 35,471 passed on their experience. In the reporting year, National University of Railway Transport, Ukrainian DTEK Energy developed an Experience program aimed at State University of Chemical Technology, Donbas State disseminating and preserving the professional experience Machine-Building Academy, Kharkiv National Automobile and technical expertise of sector-specific specialists. and Highway University, Ukrainian Engineering Pedago­ profession-oriented schools: As part of the program, the Experience YouTube channel gical Academy, NTU Igor Sikorsky Kyiv Polytechnic Instifacts of trainiangs for was created, where educational videos are freely tute, Pryazovskyi State Technical University, and Poltava zz School of Chief Engineers workers by internal available. National Technical Yuri Kondratyuk University. zz School of Site Supervisors trainers zz School of Masters and Foremen 27.3 3,625 zz School of Mining Masters zz School of Concentrators zz School of Teachers zz School of Finance for Non-Financiers man-hours — the average facts of trainings for zz Institute of Project Managers number of training hours workers by external zz HR Tools for Managers per employee per year trainers 130 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 04 | Employees 131 zz compliance with regulatory requirements for sanitary In 2018, DTEK Dnipro Grids, DTEK Kyiv Grids and zz Implementation and operation of a hazard conditions; DTEK Donetsk Grids adopted a new wording of collective management algorithm using the Novator continuous agreements, which takes into account the urgent improvement system, aimed at creating conditions for zz purchase of protective clothing, protective shoes, needs of employees, the capabilities of companies and improving the OSH management system. The project personal and collective protection equipment, fire the requirements of the NEURC Decree No.1406 dated encourages staff to submit ideas on how to improve protection equipment; December 27, 2017. safety at work. zz conducting primary, periodic and extraordinary zz Implementation of the Cardinal Rules. The main medical examinations of personnel; Fostering a culture which promotes a careful and attentive attitude towards one’s own life and the purpose of introducing the rules is to increase employees’ personal responsibility for the observance Occupational Health and Industrial zz training and improving staff knowledge; safety of others requires corrective thinking, which can be achieved by introducing knowledge and of safe working conditions. Failure to comply with the zz carrying out measures to prevent injuries among Safety, Health Care of Employees the general population. principles that underlie any industrial action. To this rules entails the mandatory formulation of dismissal. end, the companies of DTEK Group develop internal zz Leadership and personal involvement in ensuring The main objective of DTEK Group’s system of regulatory documents to improve their occupational occupational and industrial safety is the preservation of HSE approaches and certification safety management systems, which in coordination occupational safety. An enterprise ranking system was developed to promote participation. In addition, employees’ lives, health and working ability in the course with trade unions are then introduced into practice. managers on occupational safety issues are of their work activities. To achieve this goal, DTEK Group The “Occupational Health and Safety” section is This comprehensive approach has allowed us to a mandatory clause in collective agreements at all of assessed on an ongoing basis. This is an effective has adopted a zero tolerance for industrial accidents and accumulate considerable experience, which has been tool for the quantitative and qualitative assessment of built a culture where employees respect their own and DTEK Group’s production companies. This clause includes recognized at a state level. For example, employees obligations of the administration and trade unions to fully the effectiveness of safety work. others’ welfare. of DTEK Energy’s coal-mining companies are now implement the legislation in this area. part of a working group which is revising government zz Conducting internships for employees who are DTEK Group has built an organizational structure that regulations: Safety rules in coal mines and fire safety scheduled to be appointed or appointed to senior covers occupational health and safety for all levels In accordance with the collective agreement, DTEK Group companies undertake to: regulations for coal industry companies. The working positions in occupational safety systems. of management. Committees on labor safety and group included representatives of the Ministry of environmental protection under supervisory boards are zz conduct certification of workplaces; Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and All organizations contracted to carry out work at DTEK the main method of analyzing the current management Coal Industry of Ukraine, specialized institutes and Group’s production companies should also follow system. The Committee on Sustainable Development zz provide workers with the necessary tools, protective the accepted approaches to occupational health and other participants. under the Board regularly evaluates the management clothing, protective footwear, personal and collective safety issues. A provision has been developed on the system and makes recommendations for improvement. protection equipment, detergents; An occupational health and safety management system “Security of Contracting Companies' Services”, which In each area of business, occupational safety functions zz ensure the stable operation of surface and operates or has been implemented at DTEK Group's clearly sets out the requirements in relation to occupahave been created that are responsible for implementing underground health centers with constant acquisition production companies in accordance with the tional, industrial, fire and general safety. The provision systematic approaches based on previous decisions. of medicines and equipment; requirements of the international standard OHSAS 18001. includes a contractor’s compliance assessment sheet Thus, the Health, Safety and Environment system (HSE) In 2018, DTEK Dniproenergo and DTEK Skhidenergo with safety requirements, requirements for actions is integrated into the daily activities of all production zz conduct periodic medical examinations, provide underwent a certification audit, Naftogazvydobuvannya — to ensure the safety of the contractor’s work, and a companies and is a prerequisite for setting and achieving emergency medical care; a recertification audit, DTEK Westenergy, Interenergo­ scheme of actions and allocation of responsibilities for strategic goals. service, DTEK Dnipro Grids, DTEK Donetsk Grids — ensuring the safety of work by the contracting organizz compensate for the damage caused to the employee a supervisory audit for compliance with OHSAS zation. If a contractor does not adhere to the requirePriority areas for investment in HSE: because of an industrial injury or occupational 18001:2007. In Wind Power, the occupational health and ments, appropriate action will be taken including the disease; safety management system is certified for compliance with zz regular certification audits of the occupational safety OHSAS 18001:2010. According to the auditors' report, cessation of all work and termination of the contract. management system to ensure compliance with zz carry out vocational and occupational health and management systems in all companies are fully effective. Every time a DTEK Group employee is injured at work, national regulatory requirements and the international safety training; 100% of employees are certified. an investigation is carried out by a commission that standard OHSAS 18001; includes representatives of the controlling authorizz inform workers about occupational health risks and In 2018, DTEK Group adopted the program of Occupaties, as well as an internal investigation. DTEK Group zz implementation of comprehensive measures to take measures to minimize and eliminate such risks; tional Safety and Health Initiatives at coal production and carries out any corrective measures to prevent similar improve working conditions; processing enterprises and companies responsible for incidents in the future, according to the results and zz encourage employees who are actively involved electricity generation. The priority areas are as follows: recommendations from the investigations. zz continuous improvements to workplaces to enhance in the implementation of measures to improve occupational safety and improve the working occupational and industrial safety. environment; DTEK Group's investment in occupational and industrial safety, UAH mln 556.3 517.1 478.3 2016 2017 2018 132 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 04 | Employees 133 Training in the field of HSE measures to protect against the threat of natural disasters, including flood preparation, monitoring the state DTEK Group has developed a training system to ensure of lightning protection and fire proofing, and maintaining zz “Training ground of the power unit of 200, 300 MW” for testing operations which all workers are adequately and ready to perform their personal protective equipment and protective equipment eliminate abnormal and emergency modes duties as set out in the safety requirements of their roles. in readiness. zz Virtual reality training module Taking 6 kV switchgear cells out of service for repair , All production companies of DTEK Group conduct Training DTEK Group also carries out skill contests and specialized the operation of which is associated with an increased risk or with high costs and knowledge testing on an ongoing basis. conferences to motivate staff to pay special attention to zz Incentives for the performance of occupational health and safety indicators: tangible safety at work. For example, in 2018, DTEK Energy held and intangible rewards In 2018, 41 ths employees passed training in the field an All-Ukrainian competition of voluntary fire brigades, Electricity generation of occupational safety and health. in which employees of all thermal power plants across of TPPs and CHPP zz Emergency and fire training the country took part. The industrial fire-fighters faced zz Professional skills contests The main approaches to training in health and safety challenges including military deployment, a relay race, issues include: accuracy challenge for water from the fire engine at zz All-Ukrainian volunteer fire brigade competitions • visual aids during training sessions the target, and theoretical questions. The commission zz Conferences on occupational safety issues including representatives from trade (educational films and slides); gave the third place to the team of Sloviansʼka TPP, unions of production companies the representatives of DTEK Dobrotvirsʼka TPP took • video tutorials; zz Annual occupational safety days including employees’ family members silver, and the firefighters of DTEK Burshtynsʼka TPP won • differentiation of workers by skill level and the overall competition. specialization; Every year, DTEK Oil & Gas organizes the International • involvement of all staff in the training process; Scientific and Technical Conference on occupational, zz Monitoring compliance with the requirements of occupational and industrial safety • multi-level knowledge control. industrial and environmental safety. In 2018, over 100 at wind and solar power plants participants attended the Conference. They discussed In order to increase efficiency, DTEK Group developed how innovative solutions contribute to improving the level zz Bringing fixed assets into compliance with the requirements of regulatory legal acts Renewable energy procedures for testing knowledge and conducting of occupational, industrial and environmental safety, the in the field of occupational and industrial safety briefings which set out the types, frequency and order of potential for improving fire and technological safety of oil zz Workshops and trainings on the provision of domestic medical care and readiness organizing these activities. In addition, DTEK Group's and gas facilities, the procedure for certifying workplaces to respond and manage emergencies companies carry out technical, organizational and training for working conditions and other important issues. zz Twenty-four-hour monitoring of compliance with industrial safety requirements Basic tools of occupational health and industrial safety zz Automated emergency response and fire safety systems zz Control of production culture, technological discipline zz Monitoring the psycho-physiological state of staff zz Emergency and fire prevention trainings zz Video instruction before shifts Natural gas production zz First aid training zz Training and knowledge testing on the basis of the PROTEK program zz Professional skills contests zz Registration and monitoring of critical risks zz Annual conference on occupational safety, industrial safety and environmental zz Algorithm for managing hazardous activities using the Novator continuous protection Coal production improvement system and processing zz Cardinal Rules zz Evaluation of senior managers on occupational health and industrial safety zz Providing crews with video recorders for recording workflows to monitor the quality of targeted briefings zz “Line of trust” on occupational health and industrial safety zz Remote access to video cameras control points zz Incentives for the performance of occupational health and safety indicators: tangible and intangible rewards zz Stimulation for the performance of occupational health and safety indicators: tangible and intangible rewards. A system of ratings based on occupational safety zz Professional skills contests indicators has been introduced, which is used to rank structural units at companies. Electricity distribution All employees of the structural units included in the top 3 are rewarded quarterly zz The ECM program to account for workplace audits zz Training and knowledge testing on the basis of the PROTEK program zz Fire and object training Electricity generation zz Own training and production centers with the right to issue a state diploma of TPPs and CHPP zz Annual occupational safety days which include employees of medical institutions, zz Training ground for the preparation of certified electric welders, certified in traffic police, the MES Paton Electric Welding Institute 134 Integrated report 2018 | Sustainability 04 | Employees 135 Health care of employees, and Occupational Medicine The production companies of DTEK Energy and DTEK Grids look to improve the health of their personnel by incorporating a health resort. The companies allocate financial resources towards organizing recreation ZVUT — a unified base for monitoring the health indicators of employees of companies DTEK Group implements comprehensive programs and rehabilitation for both employees and their family and the activities of medical facilities of companies around occupational medicine, monitoring the dynamics members. The organization of these activities is of two medical and social indicators: the incidence rate conducted in conjunction with trade union committees. centralized administration and the health index. This makes it possible to increase productivity and reduce financial DTEK Group’s losses. uniform standards of care health insurance for all employees Key facts about health care of employees, and Occupational Medicine occupational disease prevention assessment of workplaces health improvement more than 2.0 mln of employees and their families at recreation centers of companies and health centers of DTEK Service employee inspections before the shift 10.16 — incidence rate with temporary disability in 2018 33 (10.93 — per 1 employee of production companies in 2017) 405,900 health centers, of which 32 are round-the-clock and 18 are underground employee receptions were held 53.0 — 8,601 health index in 2018 (in 2017, the health index (the percentage of employees who did not get sick during the year) was 56.0) 1,400 people improved health in sanatoriums 546 medical professionals, workers received emergency medical care of which 77 are doctors 16 24,800 psychology consultations psychologists 2 Integrated report 2018 | Annex Annex 1 3 Annex 1 conducted in 2018 by the DTEK Group or which are important from the point of view of understanding the sustainable development objectives. The report is the sixth integrated report and the ninth On the report and the process report disclosing information about the DTEK Group's activities in the field of sustainable development. of non-financial reporting The previous report was published in 2018 and contained information on activities in the 2017 calendar year. This report, including the Sustainable Development” section (hereinafter referred to as the “Report”), reflects The report was prepared using: material facts about the sustainable development zz indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in activities of the DTEK Group in the 2018 calendar year the field of sustainable development; (from January 1 to December 31), as well as some facts of 2019 which have a direct relationship with the activities zz content of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. GRI Compliance Level С С+ B B+ A A+ Self-declaration Third party verification GRI verification Boundaries and Scope and environmental spheres, personnel management, interaction with society, customer-oriented activities. of Reporting The structure is presented in the “About the DTEK Group” section on page 14. Non-financial reporting includes The report reflects the scale of DTEK Group's activities, quantitative and qualitative (descriptive) elements by approaches in the field of management and stakeholder the DTEK Group activities that have the most significant engagement, performance indicators in the economic impact on the economy, ecology, and social aspects. 4 Integrated report 2018 | Annex Annex 1 5 Organizational boundaries of non-financial reporting Grounds for excluding Essential topics organizations from reporting In assessing how essential the topics for non-financial Company Company reporting objectives are, the DTEK Group relies on scope the principles of expediency and relevance in the Ukrainian context. Following an audit of informational materials 1. Electricity generation: TPPs and CHPP 3. Electricity distribution The reporting scope does not include companies in the media, social climate research at DTEK Group whose impact is insignificant in terms of GRI indicators, enterprises, analysis of the content of non-financial companies and enterprises operating outside Ukraine, DTEK Skhidenergo LLC, including: DTEK Power Grid LLC reports of leading energy companies, content of dialogues enterprises and assets of enterprises over which no with stakeholders, the following substantive topics were operational management is carried out.  DTEK Kurakhovsʼka TPP DTEK Energougol ENE PrJSC determined for the Report (based on the expert evaluation of DTEK management):  DTEK Luhansʼka TPP DTEK Kyiv Grids PrJSC DTEK Donetsk Grids JSC Context Marginally essential Moderately essential Highly essential DTEK Dniproenergo JSC, including: DTEK Dnipro Grids JSC International Benefits of various tariffs for New philosophy: social and Modernization of power  DTEK Kryvorizʼka TPP 4. Renewable energy: WPP and SPP consumers customer-oriented power systems and restoration  DTEK Zaporizʼka TPP industry of fixed assets (Eastern Europe) Safety of network  DTEK Prydniprovsʼka TPP Wind Power LLC infrastructure for Promoting responsible Primorskaya WEP LLC the population energy consumption Combined use of fuels, renewable energy DTEK Westenergy JSC, including: Primorskaya WEP-2 LLC development Scientific R&D Investment in new  DTEK Burshtynsʼka TPP Orlovka WEP LLC technologies Energy efficiency Interaction with contractors  DTEK Dobrotvirsʼka TPP Wind Tech LLC and reduction of greenhouse Interaction with customers gas emissions  DTEK Ladyzhynsʼka TPP Tryfanovka Energy LLC Solar Farm LLC Management of environmental impacts DTEK Myronivka CHPP LLC 5. Gas production Ukraine Conservation of biodiversity Risk of monopolization of the DTEK Group strategy 2. Coal mining and processing Ukrainian market and investment directions Naftogazvydobuvannya PJSC Labor remuneration system DTEK Pavlohradcoal PrJSC, including: at DTEK Group enterprises Improving the environmental Improving the standard of monitoring system living of the population of  Ternivs’ke Mine Office SIU the territories of enterprises Quality of education and  Pavlograds’ke Mine Office SIU health services The need for a national strategy for sustainable Miners work safety  Geroiv Kosmosu Mine Office SIU development Development of social  Dniprovs’ke Mine Office SIU entrepreneurship Restructuring of the coal Waste management until full industry and the energy  Pershotravneve Mine Office SIU disposal sector as a whole DTEK Dobropolyeugol LLC, including:  Dobropilʼsʼke Mine Office SIU Calculation of indicators greenhouse gas emissions. At present, there is no calculation of the amount of indirect greenhouse gas Data was taken from official reporting forms, which emissions due to their extreme insignificance compared to  Bilozers’ke Mine Office SIU are submitted annually to the state statistical bodies. the volumes of direct emissions. A number of indicators are collected and calculated in To calculate the turnover rate, the average number of fullaccordance with the forms of internal reporting, which are time employees is used. DTEK Dobropilʼsʼka CEP PJSC verified by the responsible representatives of companies as part of internal audit procedures. A detailed description of the methodology for calculating CCM Pavlograds’ka LLC indicators was presented in the “Report on the sustainable Data on greenhouse gas emissions include only direct development activities of the DTEK Group for 2008-2009.” CCM Kurahivs’ka LLC DTEK Oktyabrs’ka CEP PJSC 6 Integrated report 2018 | Annex Annex 2 7 Annex 2 The total volume of water recycled and reused, ths of cubic meters Year Indicator DTEK Group Quantitative Performance Indicators 2015 4,883,221.1 Economic 2016 6,495,344.4 The DTEK Group economic performance indicators are given in the sections “Review of industries and macroeconomic indicators of Ukraine”, as well as in the section “Operating results” hereof. 2017 6,050,243.6 Ecological 2018 5,209,024.5 Gross greenhouse gas emissions, ths tonnes Total water consumption for own needs by source, ths of cubic meters Year Methane Carbon dioxide (СО2) Nitrous oxide (N2O) Total CO2 equivalent, tonnes Water supplied to utilities and other Year Surface water Groundwater Other sources Total enterprises 2015 215.6 42,824.3 0.728 43,040.7 47,606,643.9 2015 1,620,121.9 1,718.2 67,043.0 11,218.4 1,700,101.5 2016 234.5 45,108.6 0.632 45,343.8 50,265,704.9 2016 1,743,516.6 1,597.7 58,265.7 13,137.5 1,816,517.6 2017 158.3 40,080.9 0.553 40,239.8 43,598,174.9 2017 1,578,146.5 951.2 50,117.8 13,386.2 1,635,908.7 2018 139.0 35,586.0 0.544 35,725.6 38,763,963.4 2018 1,298,518.0 1,069.2 6,501.9 69,032.8 1,375,194.4 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances: N2O, hexofluoride, tonnes Waste treatment methods, tonnes Hydrochlorofluorocarbons Chlorofluorocarbons Trichloroethane Carbon tetrachloride Year Storage volume Submitted by third parties Volume of utilized, recycled waste Total Year Halons (HCC) (CFC) (С2Сl3H3) (tetrachloromethane) 2015 12,552,654.6 2,225,661.2 1,656,912.1 16,435,228.0 2017 10.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.018 2016 13,238,278.7 853,070.6 3,906,109.0 17,997,458.4 2018 0.088 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.018 2017 13,831,285.3 709,980.7 3,107,214.1 17,648,480.2 2018 9,938,133.1 509,963.6 3,363,227.5 13,811,324.2 The content of pollutants in wastewater, tonnes Suspended Ammoniacal Year BOD* Oil products substances Solid residue Chlorides Sulfates nitrogen Iron total Nitrates Land reclamation, ha 2015 544.3 14.7 2,579.9 237,370.4 55,285.5 62,082.1 30.0 17.3 323.32 Area of land to be reclaimed Area of land to be reclaimed Area of land reclaimed Year at the beginning of the year at the end of the year in the reporting year 2016 389.3 10.1 2,352.4 183,803.7 35,169.3 52,673.5 27.7 15.7 282.30 2015 453.3 423.7 26.6 2017 183.8 5.3 705.2 89,200.1 27,567.8 21,467.6 8.5 3.0 47.9 2016 389.3 496.9 30.1 2018 202.3 6.1 762.0 109,976.0 38,262.0 22,990.0 8.8 3.4 64.9 2017 295.2 198.7 39.3 * Biochemical oxygen demand 2018 480.5 480.5 10.9* * Completion of the technical stage of reclamation 8 Integrated report 2018 | Annex Annex 2 9 Occupational Safety and Health DTEK Group employees by gender, 2018* Injury rates Women, persons Men, persons Indicator 2015 2016 2017 2018 Age Age Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate (LTAFR) 0.500 0.530 0.570 0.580 under 30 30 — 50 over 50 under 30 30 — 50 over 50 1,380 10,265 5,066 8,770 30,786 9,270 Fatal Accident Frequency Rate (FAFR) 0.014 0.010 0.010 0.021 Suffered non-lethal injuries, persons 322 399 285 246 Educational background Educational background higher education scientific degree higher education scientific degree Suffered lethal injuries, persons 9 9 5 9 7,579 6 14,258 22 Personnel Years spent in the company Years spent in the company The total number of personnel as of December 31, 2018, persons under 3 3—5 over 5 under 3 3—5 over 5 2,631 1,955 12,125 9,571 5,881 33,445 Percentage of employees Percentage of employees who retire within 5 years who retire within 10 years Permanent Temporary Total Full-time Part-time Women Men personnel personnel women men women men Position within organization Position within organization 65,846 64,898 977 65,438 358 16,797 49,049 5.6 6.2 7.4 8.9 including including from internally from internally Head Manager Specialist Worker Head Manager Specialist Worker appointed appointed candidates candidates 728 315 233 6,039 9,441 4,219 1,965 468 5,798 38,373 * The indicator reporting limits do not include Naftogazvydobuvannya PJSC 10 Integrated report 2018 | Annex Annex 3 11 Annex 3 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional Description Description reporting element information sources/direct answer reporting element information sources/direct answer GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 10 A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements GRI 102-9 as they relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and 14—16, 58—59 services GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10—11; 14—16 Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 12—13 or supply chain, including: zz changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of openings, closings, and expansions; GRI 102-4 countries where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the 12—14 16, 18—19, 82—85, GRI 102-10 zz changes in the share capital structure and other actions formation, sustainable development topics covered in the report Annex 1 maintenance and alteration operations (for private sector 10, 14; Annex 1, https:// organizations); GRI 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form energo.dtek.com/about/ zz changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, dtek_energo/ or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. Markets served (including a geographic locations where products Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary Principle or GRI 102-6 and services are offered; sectors served; and types of customers and 15—16 GRI 102-11 approach (an organization’s approach to risk management in operational 94 beneficiaries) planning, or when developing and introducing new products) The scale of the organization, including: Externally—developed economic, environmental and social charters, zz total number of employees; GRI 102-12 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes, or which 19, 102, 107, 128 it endorses zz total number of operations; GRI 102-7 zz net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public 10—11 A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, and GRI 102-13 102 sector organizations); national or international advocacy organizations zz total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity; A statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainability to GRI 102-14 4—7 the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability zz quantity of products and services provided. GRI 102-15 A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 16, 22—23 The reporting organization shall report the following information: zz total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and A description of the organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms GRI 102-16 20, 95—96 temporary), by gender; of behavior, such as codes of conduct and ethics zz total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region; Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics: zz total number of employees by employment type (full—time and part— zz the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice about ethical time), by gender; GRI 102-17 and lawful behavior, and organizational integrity; 95—96 zz whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are zz the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about GRI 102-8 124—125, Annex 2 performed by workers who have legal status of self—employed unethical or unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity persons or private entrepreneurs, or persons who are not members of the company’s permanent or temporary personnel, including Governance structure of the organization, including committees of permanent and temporary personnel of the company’s subcontractors; GRI 102-18 88—89 the highest governance body zz an explain any significant variations in the numbers of personnel reported (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social industries); GRI 102-19 topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other 89—93 zz an explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any employees assumptions made. Executive/executives, responsible for economic, environmental, and social GRI 102-20 24—27, 89—91, 93 topics 12 Integrated report 2018 | Annex Annex 3 13 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional Description Description reporting element information sources/direct answer reporting element information sources/direct answer Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s GRI 102-21 101, 117, 125 GRI 102-27 101 governance body on economic, environmental, and social topics collective knowledge of economic, environmental, and social topics Composition of the highest governance body and its committees, including: CEO, Director of sustainable development and Regional zz executive and non—executive; Development Director Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s performance with zz independence; have performance indexes respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, GRI 102-28 established in respect of zz tenure on the governance body; including independence of evaluation and its frequency; actions taken in economical, environmental response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance zz number of each individual’s other significant positions and and social aspects. The GRI 102-22 89—93 performance is controlled commitments, and the nature of the commitments; by the Supervisory Board zz gender; zz membership of under—represented social groups; Highest governance body’s role in identifying and managing economic, GRI 102-29 environmental, and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities; 92—95, 101 zz competencies relating to economic, environmental, and social topics; the use of stakeholder consultation zz stakeholder representation. Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive GRI 102-30 of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, 94 officer in the organization (and, if the chair is also an executive officer, environmental, and social topics GRI 102-23 none describe his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) Within the scope of activities Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, GRI 102-31 of committees under environmental, and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body, Supervisory Boards including: 89—93, Annex 2. The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves zz whether and how stakeholders are involved; Guidelines for top GRI 102-32 the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material topics CEO management recruitment are covered GRI 102-24 zz independence; are in place in the DTEK zz gender; Group (from Human Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance Resources Policy) GRI 102-33 88—94 body zz expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics Nature and total number of critical concerns: Conflicts of interest: zz a. total number and nature of critical concerns that were communicated GRI 102-34 22—23, 56—80, 82—83 zz processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of to the highest governance body; GRI 102-25 95 interest are avoided and managed; zz b. mechanism(s) used to address and resolve critical concerns zz were conflicts of interest disclosed to stakeholders or not? Remuneration policies: 92—95 Process for determining The development, zz remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior remuneration is based approval, and updating executives GRI 102-35 on the evaluation of of DTEK’s purpose, value zz how performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate to the approved strategic Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in or mission statements of the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ objectives for objectives and KPI the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, the company, strategies, economic, environmental, and social topics GRI 102-26 value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to policies, and goals related economic, environmental, and social topics to economic, environmental and social impacts are 126—127 made with the involvement Process for determining of the Supervisory and Process for determining remuneration, and whether remuneration remuneration is based GRI 102-36 Management boards consultants are involved in determining remuneration on the evaluation of the approved strategic objectives and KPI 14 Integrated report 2018 | Annex Annex 3 15 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional Description Description reporting element information sources/direct answer reporting element information sources/direct answer 126—127 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material GRI 102-49 Annex 1 Process for determining topics and topic Boundaries Stakeholders’ involvement in the remuneration process: how stakeholders’ remuneration is based GRI 102-37 views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration; on the evaluation of if applicable, the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals GRI 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided Annex 1 the approved strategic objectives and KPI GRI 102-51 The date of the most recent previous report Annex 1 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest— No evaluation was paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median GRI 102-38 performed during the GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Annex 1 annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest—paid reporting period individual) in the same country Victoria Grib, Sustainability Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation for Department Director at the No evaluation was GRI 102-53 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents the organization’s highest—paid individual in each country of significant Regional Policy Directorate GRI 102-39 performed during the operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation csr@dtek.com reporting period for all employees (excluding the highest—paid individual) in the same country This Integrated Report was GRI 102-40 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 101 prepared in accordance with GRI 4 Sustainability No evaluation was GRI 102-54 The claim of report in accordance with the GRI Standards Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining Reporting Guidelines — GRI 102-41 performed during the self—declaration of GRI 4 agreements reporting period application GRI 102-42 The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage 101, Annex 1 GRI 102-55 The GRI Content Index Annex 3 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an This Integrated Report was GRI 102-43 101 indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as prepared in accordance part of the report preparation process with GRI 4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines — The organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking self—declaration of GRI 4 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder GRI 102-56 external assurance for the report Comprehensive application. GRI 102-44 engagement and how the organization has responded to those key topics 101, 119, 122—123 and concerns Non-financial reports of DTEK Group before Legal entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial 2012 were subject to the statements: independent audit zz legal entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial An explanation of the material topic and its Boundary (an explanation of GRI 102-45 statements or equivalent documents; Annex 1 why the topic is material, where the impacts occur; the organization’s GRI 103-1 Annex 1 zz whether or not any entity included in the organization’s consolidated involvement with the impacts), why each topic is material and topic financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by Boundary the report. The topic management approach and its components: GRI 102-46 The process for defining the report content and the topic Boundaries Annex 1 zz an explanation of how the organization manages the topic; GRI 103-2 zz a statement of the purpose of the management approach; Annex 1 A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report GRI 102-47 Annex 1 zz policies, commitments, goals and targets, responsibilities, resources, content grievance mechanisms, specific actions and initiatives included in Standards update to GRI the management approach 4 version in accordance The effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports, and GRI 102-48 with https://www. the reasons for such restatements globalreporting.org/ standards/ 16 Integrated report 2018 | Annex Annex 3 17 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional Description Description reporting element information sources/direct answer reporting element information sources/direct answer How the organization evaluates the management approach, including Total weight or volume of materials that are used by non—renewable GRI 301-1 Annex 2 the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management materials and renewable materials GRI 103-3 Annex 1 approach, the results of the evaluation of the management approach and Percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture any related adjustments to the management approach GRI 301-2 Annex 2 the organization’s primary products and services GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 82—83 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization No analysis was made Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization 34; 42—43; 46—47 to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue, or expenditure (including a description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as GRI 302-3 Energy intensity No analysis was made GRI 201-2 No data is available either physical, regulatory, or other; a description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity; the financial implications of the risk or opportunity; the costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity) GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 80; 118—119 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations and other GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 80; 118—119 GRI 201-3 126 retirement obligations The Company does not GRI 303-1 Total volume of water withdrawn, with a breakdown by sources 109—110, Annex 2 Financial assistance received by the organization from any government received any financial GRI 201-4 during the reporting period assistance from the Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water by government GRI 303-2 109—110, Annex 2 the organization No evaluation was Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum GRI 303-3 Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization Annex 2 GRI 202-1 performed during the wage reporting period Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected No evaluation was GRI 304-1 112—113 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI 202-2 performed during the significant locations of operation reporting period Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on GRI 304-2 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 114—115 The development and impact of infrastructure investments and pro—bono protected areas GRI 203-1 services, including positive and negative impacts on local community and 116—123 whether these investments are commercial or for the public good GRI 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 114—115 Significant identified indirect economic impacts of the organization, GRI 203-2 including positive and negative impacts and significance of the indirect 116—123 Total number of the IUCN Red List species and national conservation list economic impacts in the context of stakeholder priorities GRI 304-4 112—115 species with habitats in areas affected by the operations of the organization GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 123 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 111, Annex 2 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 111, Annex 2 GRI 205-1 95 corruption and the significant risks identified GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 111, Annex 2 GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti—corruption policies and procedures 95 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 111, Annex 2 GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 95 Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Annex 2 period regarding anti—competitive behavior and violations of anti—trust GRI 206-1 None registered and monopoly legislation in which the organization has been identified as GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone—depleting substances (ODS) Annex 2 a participant 18 Integrated report 2018 | Annex Annex 3 19 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional Description Description reporting element information sources/direct answer reporting element information sources/direct answer Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air Type of injury and injury rates, occupational diseases rate, lost days rate, GRI 305-7 Annex 2 GRI 403-2 and absentee rate, and total number of work—related fatalities, by region Annex 2 emissions and by gender Total volume of discharges with indication of quality of water discharges and receiving facility, including planned and unplanned water discharges Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their GRI 306-1 109—110, Annex 2 GRI 403-3 131 by destination and quality of water; whether the water was reused by occupation another organization. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 130—131 Total weight of waste, with a breakdown by type and disposal methods, GRI 306-2 Annex 2 and how the waste disposal method has been determined Average hours of training that the organization’s employees have GRI 404-1 127—129, Annex 2 undertaken during the reporting period, by gender and employee category GRI 306-3 Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills Irrelevant Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued GRI 306-4 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention, Annex I, II, III, and VIII, Irrelevant GRI 404-2 employability and the management of career endings resulting from 127—129 and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally retirement or termination of employment Identity, size, protected area, and biodiversity value of water bodies Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who GRI 306-5 and related habitats that are significantly affected by the organization’s 114—115 GRI 404-3 received a regular performance and career development review during 129 discharges of water and runoff the reporting period Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies and GRI 308-1 108 GRI 405-1 percentage of employees per employee category by gender, age group, Annex 2 criteria and other indicators of diversity No evaluation was Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts identified GRI 308-2 performed during the Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 405-2 No analysis was made reporting period employee category, by significant locations of operation No evaluation was Total number and rate of new employee hires and total number and rate GRI 401-1 performed during the No data on such situations of employee turnover, by age group, gender and region GRI 406-1 Non—discrimination reporting period was received Benefits which are standard for full—time employees of the organization GRI 401-2 but are not provided to temporary or part—time employees, by significant 126 The right to freedom of locations of operation associations is set forth in collective bargaining Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to exercise freedom of agreements Total number and percentage of employees that returned to work after association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, parental leave ended, and percentage of employees retained by the GRI 407-1 No evaluation was and measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to Employees have the right organization after parental leave ended, by gender; total number of support rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining to strike GRI 401-3 performed during the employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still reporting period Negotiation is the main employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender; return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave, by gender dispute resolution method Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes and whether Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents Irrelevant GRI 402-1 126 the notice period is specified in collective agreements of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor, including: Child and forced labor are Percentage of workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by prohibited under Ukrainian GRI 403-1 the organization, that are represented by formal joint management—worker 132—135 zz operations and suppliers that employ child labor and young workers law GRI 408-1 health and safety committees (under the age of 18 years) exposed to hazardous work; The Company does not zz operations and suppliers that employ child labor by type of operation operate in the countries and supplier, and by countries or geographic areas of operations and exposed to risks of such suppliers. violations of human rights 20 Integrated report 2018 | Annex Annex 3 21 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional Description Description reporting element information sources/direct answer reporting element information sources/direct answer Irrelevant Irrelevant Child and forced labor Pursuant to the sanitary Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of standards, electrical are prohibited under Types of information required by the organization’s procedures for product forced or compulsory labor either in terms of type of operation and supplier; equipment under 220 KW Ukrainian law and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product GRI 409-1 countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered GRI 417-1 does not provide for or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such at risk; measures taken by the organization intended to contribute to The Company does not actions aimed at protection procedures the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor operate in the countries of consumers’ health in exposed to risks of such connection with the effects violations of human rights of electromagnetic fields Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights Total number of incidents of non—compliance with regulations and/or GRI 410-1 No evaluation was done No such incidents were policies or specific procedures that are relevant to operations GRI 417-2 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, registered by type of outcomes The Company does not Total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of GRI 411-1 operate within the territories GRI 417-3 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 74—77 indigenous peoples and actions taken of indigenous peoples Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches No such incidents were Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to GRI 418-1 GRI 412-1 No evaluation was done of customer privacy and losses of customer data registered human rights reviews or impact assessments Total monetary value of significant fines for non—compliance with laws Total number of hours devoted to training on human rights policies or GRI 419-1 and/or regulations concerning the provision and use of products and No evaluation was done GRI 412-2 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to No evaluation was done services operations Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated/recultivated by the company in ММ1 Annex 2 GRI 412-3 contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights No evaluation was done the reporting period screening Area and percentage of lands where biodiversity reproduction is required, MM2 635.32 hectares Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, at the end of the year GRI 413-1 116—123 impact assessments, and development programs Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailing at the beginning and at the end MM3 Annex 2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local of the reporting period GRI 413-2 Irrelevant communities No such incidents were GRI 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social criteria No evaluation was done registered The right to freedom of Significant actual and potential negative social impacts identified in associations is set forth GRI 414-2 No evaluation was done in collective bargaining the supply chain and actions taken ММ4 Number of strikes and lock—outs exceeding one week’s duration agreements Total monetary value of financial and in—kind political contributions The Company does not Employees have the right GRI 415-1 made directly and indirectly by the organization by country provide aid to political to strike and recipient/beneficiary parties Negotiation is the main dispute resolution method Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health GRI 416-1 118—119, 122—123 and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to indigenous The Company does not MM5 peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites operate within the territories Total number of incidents of non—compliance with regulations and/or where there are formal agreements with indigenous peoples’ communities of indigenous peoples No such incidents were GRI 416-2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and registered services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 22 Integrated report 2018 | Annex Annex 3 23 Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact Initiative Guidelines and UN Global Compact GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional GRI, UN GA Page/references to additional Description Description reporting element information sources/direct answer reporting element information sources/direct answer The Company is engaged EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas No data is available in a permanent dialog with population and authorities Whether there were disputes or situations where land use issues had to be in the areas where the EU27 Number of residential disconnections for non—payment No evaluation was done MM6 discussed with the local communities (population, authorities) company operates No disputes have been EU28 Power outage frequency 76 registered EU29 Average power outage duration 76 The Company is engaged in a permanent dialog with EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime No evaluation was done population and authorities Which mechanisms relating to investigation of complaints related to land in the areas where ММ7 use are used by the company the company operates No disputes have been registered No resettlements took Any resettlements within the reporting period in connection with the mining MM9 place in connection with works the allocation of objects Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, EU10 56—73 broken down by energy source and regulatory regime Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and by EU11 56—62; 69 regulatory regime EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy 64 In which way biodiversity of offset habitats is compared to biodiversity of EU13 No evaluation was done the affected areas Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years, broken EU15 Annex 2 down by job category and regions Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in EU17 No data is available construction, operation and maintenance of energy objects Percentage of contractor and subcontractor workers who took relevant EU18 No data is available health and safety training courses Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, EU22 No evaluation was done broken down by type of project Number of injuries and fatalities, diseases to the public related to damage EU25 No evaluation was done caused by company assets
