Global Social Responsibility 2018 Progress Report AT MYLAN, WE ARE COMMITTED TO SETTING NEW STANDARDS IN HEALTHCARE. MISSION WORKING TOGETHER AROUND THE WORLD TO PROVIDE 7 BILLION PEOPLE ACCESS TO HIGH QUALITY MEDICINE, WE INNOVATE TO SATISFY UNMET NEEDS; MAKE RELIABILITY AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE A HABIT; DO WHAT’S RIGHT, NOT WHAT’S EASY; AND IMPACT THE FUTURE THROUGH PASSIONATE GLOBAL LEADERSHIP. 3 About this Report ABOUT MYLAN Mylan’s Global Social Responsibility 2018 Progress Report offers a company-wide overview of We offer a robust portfolio Mylan’s global efforts related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters. of more than 7,500 The content of the report is based, in part, on an issues assessment conducted in 2018 with internal products, including and external stakeholders and is prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) prescription generic, Standards: Core level.1 branded generic, brandMylan is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and is committed name and biosimilar to its 10 principles aimed at protecting human rights and the environment and ensuring fair labor and corruption-free business practices. As a Compact drugs, as well as oversignatory, this report constitutes Mylan’s Communication on Progress Report. the-counter (OTC) Mylan N.V. and certain subsidiaries2 are subject to statutory sustainability remedies. We market our reporting in the EU, following the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive (EU products in more than 165 NFR). This report, together with Mylan’s statutory filings is intended to fulfill our applicable reporting requirements. countries and territories, and every member Information contained in this report reflects progress from Jan.1, 2018 – Dec. 31, 2018, unless otherwise noted. Mylan most recently issued its 2017 Progress Report on Global Social Responsibility of our approximately in May 2018 and intends to continue publishing reports on an annual basis. 35,000-strong workforce is More information on Mylan’s work, policies and management processes is available at Mylan.com. dedicated to creating better Reporting on other matters specific to financial performance of Mylan N.V. and our subsidiaries health for a better world. can be found in Mylan’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Should you have questions, please contact us at GSR@Mylan.com. 1 Please see the GRI Disclosures index in the Appendix. 2 Mylan N.V. in the Netherlands and Meda AB (publ) in Sweden Publication date: April 2, 2019 Visit Mylan.com for more information. 4 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 81% OF MYLAN EMPLOYEES ~35,000 GLOBAL WORKFORCE see a clear link between their work and the company’s mission >7,500 PRODUCTS GLOBALLY ~59B DOSES SOLD ~40% 40+ at an average selling price of 19¢ OF THE NEARLY 22M 1 HIV+ PATIENTS MANUFACTURING PER AND FACILITIES DOSE ~60% >165 INCLUDING REGULATORY OF THE WORLD’S HIV+ CHILDREN COUNTRIES & 90% APPROVALS FOR BIOSIMILARS IN >65 OF LOWAND ON TREATMENT TERRITORIES LOWER-MIDDLE DEPEND ON ONE OF REACHED INCOME OUR PRODUCTS COUNTRIES2 COUNTRIES 1 http://www.unaids.org 2 Income groups from the World Bank list of economies (Published June 2018) 5 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 12 BALANCED AND R&D DIVERSE REACH CENTERS Net Sales by Segment Rest of North with ~3,700 products 1 World America 27% 36% pending approval or in development Europe 37% Net Sales by Product Type COLLABORATED WITH OTC >50 ORGANIZATIONS Rx/Bx WORLDWIDE ON ISSUES OF Gx GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH ~30% 68 PRODUCTS 2 increase in on the WHO list of RENEWABLE ENERGY prequalified products PURCHASED 1 Products taken from internal data and rounded 2 https://extranet.who.int/prequal/content/prequalified-lists/medicines, as of 2.1.19 6 Advancing Our Mission Everyone deserves the opportunity to Providing access to medicine means live a healthy life. All too often, however, a lot of different things to a lot of circumstances largely beyond an different people, especially when it individual’s control, such as geography, comes to reaching lowand middleethnicity, economic status and gender, income countries. Our definition of affect the ability to achieve positive health access is making sure the medicine outcomes. we make is actually getting into the hands of patients in the more than That’s why Mylan’s long tradition of 165 countries and territories we breaking through barriers and pushing serve. We believe it’s important for boundaries to identify solutions for this perspective to have a seat at the unmet needs is as important as ever. table whenever reach and impact are and human rights and their relationship planning, and we look forward to gaining Our strategy, which is centered around being discussed and measured. to business. It remains clear that working even more insights from internal and our mission to improve access to with others to identify concrete ways to external stakeholders as we continue our medicine, dictates that we continuously As always, there is much work to be enhance our contributions to society efforts. work to strengthen and adapt our done. Healthcare systems throughout the will maximize our collective impact, business model to benefit the patients world can and must continue to improve. ultimately bringing greater health As a global healthcare leader, we take and communities we serve today as The U.S., for instance, is undergoing outcomes to people around the world. seriously our role and the impact we well as those we envision helping in the fundamental changes that will impact not have on the lives of billions across the future. We believe the greatest potential only its own healthcare system’s delivery This also was a year of continued world. We know that the support of for serving all stakeholders comes from and payment mechanisms, but quite development for our Global Social our stakeholders, collaboration with focusing on not just the short-term possibly those in other countries as well. Responsibility (GSR) practice. Building our partners and the dedication of our aspects but also the long-term impact of upon last year’s momentum, we employees are essential requirements for models that are built around sustainability As we work to do our part and contribute enhanced our oversight of GSR success. I am grateful for their genuine for all concerned. to the global dialogue on public health, issues, as well as undertook our most commitment to work together to face we remain committed to the United comprehensive analysis to date to challenges, solve complex issues and – In 2018, we continued our efforts by Nations Global Compact and its 10 identify key social responsibility priorities above all – tirelessly seek opportunities bringing new or improved products and principles and support the Sustainable and better understand our potential to to create better health for a better world. solutions to patient populations around Development Goals (SDGs). I was increase our positive impact and reduce the globe. We also remained engaged privileged to participate in the U.N. risks in the areas that most affect our with policy leaders in every region on Global Compact CEO Roundtable for the business and society. The information matters related to increasing patient first time in 2018, where an international we gathered informs our strategic access and choice. coalition of leaders discussed equality Heather Bresch, CEO 77 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by all United commitment to increasing access to high quality medicine through Nations Member States in 2015, form the basis for collectively innovation and partnerships – strongly positions Mylan to make creating a better future by addressing fundamental global challenges continued contributions toward this goal. such as poverty, poor health, inequality and climate change, among others. Mylan supports the U.N.’s agenda and believes As a global healthcare company, we know our influence and actions that companies can play a central role in helping to achieve these impact other goals as well. From ensuring a fair, diverse and safe development goals. workplace and upholding a culture of integrity and ethical business practices to supporting local communities and reducing our The SDG that is most relevant to our mission and impact is No. environmental impact, we are committed to helping lead positive, 3: Good Health and Well-Being. Our broad and diverse portfolio sustained change. across 10 therapeutic categories – combined with our long-standing See page 81 for a full list of the SDGs most relevant to Mylan. 8 Building Upon Our Heritage A message from Mylan’s Head of Global Sustainability At Mylan, we appreciate that the decisions we make and the actions we take can • Enhanced our GSR oversight structure by establishing our global have a lasting impact on the world around us. It’s why we take such pride in the sustainability function as a direct report to our CEO. GSR also became work that we do and why our mission of access is so ingrained throughout our an established focus area of Mylan's Executive Governance Team as well as organization. It is also why our commitment to global social responsibility (GSR) is a an emphasis for Mylan's global Risk Management Team, which was created in fundamental component of our aspiration to deliver better health for a better world. 2018. The Risk Oversight Committee of Mylan’s Board of Directors also included oversight of management’s efforts with respect to GSR as a formal component of While our GSR governance and reporting efforts have increased in visibility and focus, its Charter in 2018. operating as a responsible member of the communities in which we live, work and serve patients has been a priority for us since our founding. This heritage has helped • Undertook our first formal process to identify the topics of greatest us achieve meaningful progress in the continuing development of our formal GSR GSR significance and potential materiality to our business and to our practice over the past year. stakeholders. To us, it’s no surprise that the priority topics identified aligned closely with our mission of access. How we implement our overall GSR strategy Throughout 2018, we increased our engagement with our external stakeholders and the level of success we achieve is dependent upon our ability to understand through meetings with investors, additional communication with our business these topics and plan accordingly. partners and active participation in GSR-related discussions with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and industry associations. This interaction provided valuable As we move through 2019, we will continue examining the intersection of our insights and will continue to inform Mylan’s approach and transparency. As part of priorities, opportunities and challenges with those of our stakeholders and develop our work to put our learnings into action, we: specific social responsibility goals that we plan to share in our next report. • Reviewed our policies and activities to identify opportunities to improve I cannot thank the members of the Mylan team throughout the world enough for our performance and communication related to GSR. As a result, we their dedication and commitment to global social responsibility. As I have come to have further expanded our disclosures throughout the year to better serve our know well over the past year, the content of this progress report represents only a stakeholders. We will maintain these types of regular reviews as our overall sample of the work they are doing both individually and collectively to ensure Mylan approach and capabilities continue to evolve. This is especially relevant given the makes an impact. I am energized by the opportunity to carry on our work together significant acquisition activity and resulting integration that has occurred within in 2019 and beyond. Mylan during the last several years. Lara Ramsburg Our Vision for Global Social Responsibility Global social responsibility is intrinsically woven within Mylan’s commitment to achieve our mission and deliver better health for a better world. It is what drives our enduring passion to improve access and serve unmet needs across all geographies, while respecting the environment and positively impacting our stakeholders. 9 OUR GSR ASSESSMENT AND PRIORITIES AT MYLAN, WE Mylan’s 2018 GSR priority assessment was conducted in coordination with a recognized ESG consultant and included: • GSR-related input from external stakeholder engagements and a comprehensive analysis of reports, publications (including ESG analyses of Mylan) and other written materials representing the GSR viewpoints, concerns and priorities of a broad range of stakeholders, including customers, partners, investors, NGOs, employees, community groups and policy makers; and, create shared • an internal GSR survey of 60 senior leaders at Mylan, representing key business units and cross-functional areas of our company, spanning Mylan’s geographic footprint. value through our The issues list below reflects the full universe of GSR topics that were considered in this initial prioritization exercise and the matrix BUSINESS MODEL, indicates the relative degree of stakeholder interest and potential company impact perceived for the top 15 ranked topics. Five issues – pricing, manufacturing and distribution (including product quality and safety), research and development, access to medicines management and talent management – were identified as GSR priorities based on their overall stakeholder interest and potential impact on Mylan’s business and mission. However, all topics are relevant and important to Mylan, and we recognize our ongoing responsibility to continue to manage each of them diligently and effectively. These topics, integrate social and the broader findings of our GSR analysis, form the basis for and are addressed throughout this report and are also being used to inform Mylan’s strategic planning and enterprise risk management efforts. responsibility g Patient Outcomes Access to Medicines Management COMPLETE LIST OF ISSUES ASSESSED ACROSS OUR Business Ethics Research & Development Access to Medicine Access to Medicines Environmental Stewardship VALUE CHAIN Pricing Management* Air Supply Chain Manufacturing & Distribution Compliance Climate Change and Energy Local Capacity Building Environmental Protection Market Influence Manufacturing and Distribution Pharmaceuticals in the Talent Management and convey Contribution to Global Public Health (including product quality Environment Employee Engagement STAKEHOLDER INTEREST & safety)* Product Stewardship Pharmaceuticals in the Environment Market Influence Waste Corporate Governance Patents and Licensing Water Regulatory Impact Brand & Reputation Pricing* Product Donations Research and Development* Workplace Health and Safety Operating a Responsible OUR IMPACT: Business Being a Responsible Brand and Reputation Employer Diversity and Inclusion Business Ethics Corporate Governance BETTER HEALTH Employee Engagement Talent Management* Customer Satisfaction Data Privacy and Protection FOR A BETTER Societal Impact Community Engagement and Ethical Marketing and Promotion WORLD Global Competitiveness Impact Human Rights Patient Outcomes Regulatory Impact Contribution to Global Public R&D Impacts Health Risk Management *denotes top 5 priority based Supply Chain upon assessment results Transparency IMPACT ON COMPANY g 10 OUR COMMITMENT TO ACCESS Throughout our history, Mylan’s foundation and core business model have been focused on providing access to medicine. Given the significance of patient needs across the globe and across all income levels, we are convinced that meeting this challenge requires a consistent and sustainable commitment. To reinforce that commitment, we have developed access objectives and key performance indicators (KPIs) that flow from our mission statement and seek to describe how we have and will continue to operate universally to fulfill our aim of providing high quality medicines to billions of patients around the world. 11 OUR ACCESS OBJECTIVES: OUR ACCESS KPIs: OUR MISSION • Doses sold • Number of products At Mylan, we are committed Continuously leverage the breadth, depth and capability • Number of countries and territories reached to setting new standards in of our business model to consistently provide high quality • Therapeutic categories healthcare. Working together medicine and related services to meet the needs of • Coverage percentage of the top ten causes of death patients in low-, middleand high-income countries globally around the world to provide 7 • Coverage percentage of the top ten causes of death billion people access to high across lowand lower-middle income countries quality medicine, we: Research and develop new dosage forms that will • Innovate to satisfy unmet needs improve effective adherence; alternative product • Products in development by region options that will provide more affordable access; and • Products pending approval by region • Make reliability and service opportunities to bring our existing portfolio to additional countries and regions excellence a habit Cultivate quality-focused internal and external • Do what’s right, not what’s easy • Types of products manufacturing capabilities and services along with pricing • Average selling price of Mylan’s medicines approaches that allow for both affordable patient access • Impact the future through and sustainable supply • Customer service levels globally and by region passionate global leadership • Percentage of lowand lower-middle income countries reached Apply the same commercial and operational focus as • Doses sold in lowand lower-middle income countries well as commitment to quality and safety while supplying • Number of products on the World Health Organization's products to patients and countries with varying degrees (WHO) Essential Medicines List of income level and resources • Number of products on the WHO list of prequalified products (including cross-listed approvals) Seek out opportunities to provide access-related • Active partnerships or organizational memberships related industry and global public health leadership to increasing access to medicines 12 OUR PATH TO PATIENTS At Mylan, we recognize that 1 2 effectively meeting the diverse needs of patients in a complex global Research & Development Raw Materials pharmaceutical marketplace requires dedicated action. In the pharmaceutical industry, R&D is often assumed to The active pharmaceutical ingredients reference the development of new, brand-name drugs. However, (APIs) and other materials and supplies Our approach is designed for longthere are many other components of R&D that are just as critical we use in our manufacturing operations term, sustainable impact. We’ve built to providing the world’s population with access to needed are purchased from third parties or and scaled our commercial, operational medicines. At Mylan, we constantly look for ways to improve produced internally. patient convenience, prescription compliance, safety, experience and enterprise capabilities to meet and access. Our ability to make or obtain quality the evolving needs of patients and raw materials at reasonable prices is From the development of complex products like biosimilars crucial to our capability to maximize customers in ways that aim to be used to fight cancer and other life-threatening diseases to the our impact and supply patients with the globally consistent yet locally sensitive. creation of heat-stable medications for patients without access finished product medicines they need to We are grounded by our unwavering to refrigeration and product formulations that can be consumed maintain their health. more easily by children, we’ve invested billions of dollars to more commitment to quality; maintaining a effectively reach patients with a wide variety of health conditions broad spectrum of geographic reach, across 10 therapeutic categories and multiple dosage forms. product types and access channels; and With 12 R&D centers around the world, including 10 technologyoffering new product and affordability focused development sites and two global R&D centers, Mylan’s options. Through our robust research scientists develop and implement solutions to address some and development (R&D), manufacturing, of the world’s most pressing health concerns. We develop products for patients in low-, middleand high-income countries supply chain and market outreach with a range of types and expertise that often sets us apart. competencies, we continually are This process starts with product selection based upon unmet focused on meeting the needs of patient needs and continues all the way through to development and regulatory approval. To achieve product approval we must patients today while also anticipating continuously work with various regulatory agencies throughout their needs in the years to come. the globe. 13 3 4 5 Manufacturing Market Outreach Distribution In 2018: & Supply Chain Our more than 40 manufacturing sites, With our diverse portfolio of Mylan’s products make their way to we supplied more combined with our global supply chain prescription generic, branded generic patients through a variety of distribution network and the facilities of the many and brand-name drugs and OTC channels and intermediaries, and local than 7,500 products partners with whom we collaborate remedies, we work to build awareness laws and customs give rise to different on manufacturing, development, on issues related to patient health types of pharmaceutical markets supply and logistics offer a worldwide, and break down barriers to improve (distribution, tender, substitution with the ability to strategically located network of robust size and scope. Designed to reach access, including fighting against unwarranted patents when necessary. and prescription). As a result, the customers we work with to distribute treat 9 out of the more patients with more solutions We manage our products and our medications to patients number in top 10 global when and where they need them, our healthcare solutions on a geographic the tens of thousands and include retail regional supply sites are often in close basis worldwide (North America, pharmacies; wholesalers and distributors; causes of death 1,2 proximity to our key markets and Europe, Rest of World), and engage payers, insurers and governments; and utilize real-time demand and supply with physicians, pharmacists, insurers, institutions such as hospitals, among data to leverage capabilities and policy and regulatory leaders and others. We work closely with them and and reached more create efficiency and flexibility across related organizations across the globe. other important collaborators including our operations. NGOs, to help create better health for than 165 countries In addition, as part of our efforts to a better world by making our products Wherever we operate, the quality and inform healthcare providers on the available to patients in countries with and territories, safety of our products remain our appropriate use and efficacy of Mylan’s varying degrees of income and resources. top priorities; our suppliers, contract products, our sales and marketing manufacturers, clinical trial partners professionals focus their educational including 90% of lowand others are expected to comply outreach on the people who make with the same high standards and key decisions around pharmaceutical and lower-middleregulations as Mylan’s own operations. prescribing, dispensing and buying. Consequently, the patients we serve These interactions are governed by income countries, 3 can be confident that the Mylan Mylan policies and processes that are products they receive are produced based on well-established regulations with quality in mind. and ethical standards. at an average selling 1 2 The remaining cause of death is road injury. Source: Global Health Estimates 2016: Deaths by Cause, Age, Sex, by Country and by Region. 2000-2016 Geneva, World Health Organization; 2018 price of 19¢ per dose. 3 Income groups from the World Bank list of economies (Published June 2018) 14 15 Our Impact 01 Patient Health...........................16 02 Employee Health......................32 03 Environmental Health................38 04 Global Public Health.................44 05 Community Health....................52 16 32 06 Oversight and Compliance.......58 07 Appendix..................................68 38 44 08 GRI Table.................................82 52 Visit Mylan.com 58 for more information. 16 Patient Health 01 Better Patient Health • CHAPTER SNAPSHOT Key 2018 Accomplishments • Launched biosimilars in key markets, progressed several scientific programs and overcame regulatory hurdles • Procured additional ARV manufacturing capacity in South Africa Current Challenges • Addressing supply constraints when they arise • Adapting to a continually evolving regulatory landscape Future Opportunities • Continuing our core generic drug development while also creating more complex and differentiated products for patients • Creating additional access to more affordable biosimilars 17 Patient Health Striving to Meet Patient Needs We are committed to offering solutions that improve access and advance care for patients at every step of their healthcare journey, from prevention and diagnosis to treatment and supportive care, regardless of where they may live. We do this through our diverse product portfolio, differentiated global manufacturing network and worldwide reach. Our products are capable of addressing 9 of the top 10 causes of death globally and almost 80% of the top causes of death across lowand lower-middle-income countries.1 To maximize our ability to meet patients’ needs across a variety of health conditions, We also offer an evolving number of healthcare solutions to complement our product we focused in 2018 on 10 therapeutic categories. We serve an industry leadership offerings, such as mobile apps and diagnostics designed to help patients better role in many of these areas, with each category containing not just one or two manage their health. By working with partners, healthcare providers, customers and products, but often hundreds of products in a broad range of dosage forms, other stakeholders we strive to make a positive impact by providing people across formulations and delivery systems that allow physicians and patients to tailor care for all incomes with accessible and affordable options to help them live healthier lives. optimal treatment. MYLAN’S THERAPEUTIC CATEGORIES* Cardiovascular CNS & Dermatology Diabetes & Gastroenterology Anesthesia Metabolism PRODUCTS 1,150 Current 1,900 Current 500 Current 450 Current 700 Current 320 In Development 550 In Development 60 In Development 300 In Development 150 In Development Immunology Infectious Oncology Respiratory & Women’s Disease Allergy Healthcare PRODUCTS 80 Current 1,100 Current 450 Current 600 Current 650 Current 100 In Development 900 In Development 550 In Development 150 In Development 150 In Development 1 The remaining cause of death is road injury. Source: Global Health Estimates 2016: Deaths by Cause, Age, Sex, by Country and by Region. 2000-2016 Geneva, World Health Organization; 2018 *Products taken from internal data as of YE 2018 and rounded 18 PATIENT HEALTH Combating Non-Communicable Diseases A non-communicable disease (NCD) is a condition that is not transmissible directly from one person to another and can be chronic in nature or acute (a limited duration). According to the U.N., NCDs are the leading cause of death and disability globally.1 At Mylan, we are continually striving to bring more access to products to ease the burden and impact of NCDs in countries around the world. Some examples of our work in 2018 include: Bringing New Options and Convenience to Respiratory and Allergy Patients Our ability to help respiratory patients was further expanded in 2018 when the U.S. FDA approved Mylan’s brand drug YUPELRI® for adults with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) – the third leading cause of death in the U.S.2 YUPELRI is the first and only once-daily, nebulized bronchodilator approved for the treatment of COPD, offering patients and clinicians an important therapeutic option that didn’t exist before. We plan to expand access to this drug across multiple countries in our Rest of World (ROW) region. And in just a few examples of helping patients better manage allergies, a growing global health concern, we support an allergic rhinitis application that helps to track symptoms and tailor treatments as well as several websites and social media sites in Europe that help educate patients and their families about allergies and asthma including types of conditions, the progression of the conditions, symptoms and treatment options. Expanding Access to Diabetes Treatments The number of those living with diabetes is expected to rise to 522 million people by the year 2030.3 That’s a significant health challenge, but it’s also an economic challenge. An estimated 12%, or $727 billion,4 of global health expenditures on adults are spent on diabetes-related healthcare. In 2018, Mylan launched the insulin glargine biosimilar Semglee® in the U.K., Croatia and Denmark expanding access to more patients. Mylan’s insulin glargine has received regulatory approval in more than 40 countries. Increasing Care for Women Mylan’s Women’s Health portfolio spans oncology, hypothyroidism, diabetes and menopause, among other health concerns predominant in women. As part of our commitment to the U.N.’s Every Woman Every Child initiative, Mylan pledged to register our contraceptives portfolio in 80% of Family Planning 2020 target countries (among the poorest countries in the world) by 2020, which we achieved this year. An additional goal is to provide contraceptives to 25 million women and girls in FP2020 countries. Our receipt in 2018 of the first World Health Organization (WHO) Prequalification for medroxyprogesterone acetate, 150 mg (IM DMPA), a generic injectable for Depo-Provera® that provides three months of birth control protection, should help further that effort. Mylan also raises awareness of women’s health concerns in countries like India, where we conducted a workshop for more than 5,000 girls about feminine hygiene, cervical cancer, infections and reproductive complications. Serving Patients with Autoimmune Disorders In an effort to enhance access to treatment for patients in Europe suffering from chronic diseases such as autoimmune disorders, we launched Hulio®, a biosimilar to AbbVie’s Humira®, in partnership with Fujifilm Kyowa Kirin Biologics. Humira is the world’s best-selling biologic medication, and Hulio offers an important alternative option for patients. The European Commission approval of Hulio applies to all 28 European Union (EU) member countries and the European Economic Area (EEA) member states of Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 1 https://news.un.org/en/story/2011/04/373282-non-communicable-diseases-leading-cause-deaths-worldwide-says-un-report 3 https://www.idf.org/images/HLM_two-pager.pdf 2 https://www.lung.org/lung-health-and-diseases/lung-disease-lookup/copd/learn-about-copd/how-serious-is-copd.html 4 https://www.idf.org/aboutdiabetes/what-is-diabetes/facts-figures.html 19 PATIENT HEALTH Working to Improve Heart Health According to the WHO, cardiovascular diseases are the number one cause of death globally.1 In 2018, we launched Rozor™, a new fixed dose combination of rosuvastatin and ezetimibe to improve control of LDL-c (bad cholesterol) in Slovenia, Spain, Czech Republic, Poland and Portugal with more launches planned for 2019. Mylan also added tadalafil tablets USP, 20 mg, the first generic version of the reference listed drug Adcirca® indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, to our product portfolio in the U.S. We also have approval for this generic in nine other countries currently. To support medical education, we also became a corporate partner of the European Atherosclerosis Society. Supporting Patients with Digestive Issues One of the many products in Mylan’s gastroenterology portfolio is Creon®, which we supply in Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Japan. Creon is used by patients who cannot digest food normally because their pancreas does not make enough enzymes. Some of those who use Creon suffer from pancreatic cancer and may struggle with issues such as malnutrition. Certain cystic fibrosis patient also take Creon. An example of our efforts to support this population is our work in France, where we provide a mobile application to remind children to take their pancreatic enzymes, as well as materials to assist adult cystic fibrosis patients. We also offered master classes to educate healthcare providers on correctly diagnosing and treating pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. Increasing Choices in Dermatology Helping patients understand their skin conditions is an important part of our approach to dermatology. This year, we led a variety of activities around the world. In Taiwan and Singapore, Mylan hosted educational workshops on the “atopic march,” the progression from atopic dermatitis to allergic rhinitis and asthma. In China and Thailand, we helped support eczema master classes for more than 1,000 participants. In Sweden, we provide a comprehensive dermatology website to help educate patients on a variety of skin conditions and in Greece, we created a website to assist parents of children with atopic dermatitis. In addition, to support continuing education for dermatologists, Mylan provided a grant to the Interactive Derma Academy which was attended by more than 250 doctors from Europe, South Africa, the Philippines, Thailand and Russia. We also continued our efforts to expand the availability of over-the-counter dermatology products such as our EndWarts® PEN. We currently have marketing approvals forthis pen applicator for the self-removal of warts/verrucas in 20 countries and submitted it for approval in several more in 2018. Innovating to Help Cancer Patients In 2018, we helped increase access to biosimilars for cancer patients in several areas around the world. In the U.S., the FDA approved our biosimilar Fulphila®, codeveloped with Biocon. Fulphila is the first alternative, more affordable treatment option to Neulasta®. This product has been submitted for approval in 47 additional countries. To support those with breast cancer in lowand middle-income countries, we launched Hertraz®, the world’s first biosimilar for trastuzumab, in Senegal, Ivory Coast, Paraguay, Tunisia, Cameroon, Pakistan, Guatemala and Thailand. We also shared our expertise to improve cancer care in places like India, where Mylan provided standardized comprehensive patient care management and chemotherapy training to doctors, nurses and technicians. We also conducted a gap analysis for six targeted district hospitals in India to identify oncology related infrastructure upgrade requirements. As a result, all targeted districts started outpatient departments for cancer, and five out of six now provide chemotherapy treatment centers. Helping Alzheimer’s Patients In 2018, Mylan launched a transdermal patch for rivastigmine in the U.S. The generic patch is indicated for the treatment of dementia associated with mild, moderate and severe Alzheimer’s disease and the treatment of mild to moderate dementia associated with Parkinson’s disease. It was originally submitted to the FDA more than five years ago and demonstrates our continued perseverance to serve patients in this area. 1 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/cardiovascular-diseases-(cvds) 20 PATIENT HEALTH BIOSIMILARS: UNLOCKING GREATER ACCESS TO MORE AFFORDABLE CARE REGULATORY Biologics represent the cutting edge of medical science and have become the standard APPROVALS FOR of care for many devastating and debilitating diseases such as cancer, diabetes, rheumatoid BIOSIMILARS IN >65 arthritis and multiple sclerosis. Due to their complexity, biologics can be expensive and, in some cases, out of reach for patients. Enter biosimilars. According to regulatory authorities, there are no clinically meaningful differences between a biosimilar and its reference product in terms of safety, purity and COUNTRIES potency; the products are expected to offer the same therapeutic benefits. As a result, the introduction of biosimilars is anticipated to drive healthcare savings. One reason is that of the top 20 costliest drugs in the world, 12 are biologics or insulins. Of those, Mylan has nine biosimilars or insulin products on the market or in our pipeline. By offering an alternative to more costly biologics, Mylan improves access to these important medicines. Our portfolio includes many of the best-selling biologics globally and focuses primarily on the areas of dermatology, endocrinology, immunology, oncology and ophthalmology. Diabetes & Following years of innovation and R&D, Mylan offers a diverse biosimilars portfolio that Metabolism includes 20 biosimilars and insulin analogs on the market or in development. Further, Mylan has regulatory approvals for biosimilars in more than 65 countries. That’s a result of our deep experience and ability to develop and manufacture complex products as well as our strong partnerships with companies including Biocon, Momenta, Fujifilm Kyowa Kirin Biologics and Revance. In addition to launching biosimilars in several European countries and the U.S., Mylan continues to pursue efforts to provide medicines everywhere, including parts of Oncology Africa, Asia, Latin America and other emerging markets where medicine is needed most and where access is challenged. In 2018, Mylan was the first to provide a trastuzumab biosimilar in Guatemala, Thailand and Pakistan. Immunology 21 PATIENT HEALTH ADVOCATING ON BEHALF OF BIOSIMILARS The adoption of biosimilars – when originator biologics are no longer patentprotected – is necessary to ensure patients have continued access to these 2018 Achievements potentially life-saving medicines. When biosimilars are approved for use and are We worked to drive efficient regulatory approval processes and able to enter the market, competition can reduce medicine prices, meaning more timelines, remove market barriers that unfairly disadvantaged patients have access to this important therapy and health systems can procure biosimilars and dispel myths that may impede trust and acceptance. more medicine without increasing their budgets. Accomplishments included: A key strategy of Mylan’s effort to encourage the adoption of biosimilars is to • In Europe, Mylan and its trade association participated in multiengage with governments, payers, patients and other healthcare stakeholders stakeholder workshops to develop consensus education materials around the topic of sustainable access to biologic medicines. We work directly about biosimilar medicines and engaged in discussions about key and through trade associations to educate public authorities and payers about key topics impacting biosimilar utilization. components of a healthy biosimilars market. Collaboration with industry partners • In Australia, Mylan, via its trade association, worked to implement and trade associations at local, regional and global levels to raise awareness of the a government-initiated education effort to increase understanding important role these medicines can play in increasing access is core to our health and trust in biosimilar medicines. policy work. We maintain leadership roles in many of these associations and use these platforms to encourage adoption of policies that positively impact public • In Canada, Mylan and its trade association engaged with government health, including the ability to build resilient health systems that position countries to develop and implement biosimilar market policies to enhance to sustainably provide access to medicines for the long term. access. • In the U.S., we worked with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Internationally, Mylan and its trade associations engage with organizations such Services to enable more appropriate reimbursement and coding of as the WHO on issues of access to biologic medicines. Specifically, work with the biosimilars to support more equitable pricing incentives and offered WHO has included engaging in debate over a biological qualifier for standardization potential solutions via comments to administration proposals that of biologic naming, the initiation of a pre-qualification pilot for biologic medicines would support increased uptake of biosimilars and decrease the cost and the WHO Similar Biotherapeutic Product guidance. Mylan’s focus has been of prescription medicines. on ensuring that global standards and guidelines set by the WHO are focused on ensuring access to high quality biosimilar medicines. To highlight our global mission of access and affordable care and educate about biosimilars, we also launched an international Biosimilars Without Borders campaign. Despite the number of originator biologics coming off patent and the significant potential for healthcare savings in all parts of the world, there are numerous policy and market-related barriers that can delay biosimilars from entering the market and getting to patients. It is our hope that through strong collaboration and education initiatives biosimilars will continue to gain stakeholder trust and demonstrate the clear impact they have in positively affecting the overall health of the global population. 22 PATIENT HEALTH Fighting Infectious Diseases Thanks to modern medications, patients with infectious diseases like HIV/AIDS, hepatitis and tuberculosis who receive the proper care can lead long and healthy lives. However, preventing and diagnosing the diseases and ensuring patients have access to life-saving medications, especially in low-and middle-income countries where the burden is most prevalent, are still global challenges. Mylan takes pride in our history of leadership in this area and continually seeks opportunities to do more. A Leader in the Battle Against HIV/AIDS Mylan continues to be a leader in the battle to eliminate HIV/AIDS by providing access to high quality and affordable antiretrovirals (ARVs) in more than 100 countries. We Mylan has been first to market for In 2018, are currently the largest supplier by volume of ARVs to lowand middle-income approximately 50% of new HIV Mylan manufactured countries1 at costs significantly lower than those charged by brand companies.2 This year, we’ve made additional strides in offering important new options for treatments for lowand lowermiddle-income countries approved ~5 BILLION patients. We entered into a partnership to supply rapid diagnostic tests for self-testing by the U.S. FDA’s PEPFAR program. ARV tablets & capsules in lowand middle-income countries and achieved FDA tentative approval for a oncedaily, fixed-dose combination of dolutegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide in developing countries. In the U.S., the launches of Symfi®, Symfi Lo®, Cimduo® and efavirenz support our global commitment to expand access to affordable care. The Mylan team also drives important conversations among healthcare, community ~40% of the ~22M HIV+ patients3 & of the world’s HIV+ children and policy experts to encourage innovative solutions for improving the lives of those living with HIV/AIDS and to end the epidemic. For example, last summer Mylan was ~60% on treatment depend on one of a major industry sponsor of the world’s largest HIV/AIDS conference in Amsterdam our products with the International AIDS Society – the first time ever that a generics pharmaceutical company played this role. Progress Toward Preventing New Infections Preventing the transmission of HIV is key to ending the epidemic. In addition to supporting multiple prevention awareness campaigns around the world, we manufacture medicines used for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), for certain countries, taken by HIV-negative people used to reduce the risk of contracting the virus. We are also the supplier in the U.K. for the National Health Service’s PrEP Impact Trial, the largest oral PrEP study to date. 1 https://clintonhealthaccess.org/content/uploads/2016/10/CHAI-ARV-Market-Report-2016-.pdf 2 https://msfaccess.org/sites/default/files/HIV_Brief_SpotlightOnAccessGaps_ENG_2017.pdf 3 http://www.unaids.org/en 23 PATIENT HEALTH Building Manufacturing Capacity in Africa Helping the World’s Smallest Patients Approximately 20% of all people living with HIV reside in South Africa. The As any caregiver knows, getting babies to take medication can be extremely difficult, country also accounts for 15% of new infections and 11% of AIDS-related especially if it is a bitter-tasting syrup. To help address this issue, Mylan developed a deaths annually.1 In an effort to increase access to life-saving ARVs, Mylan sweet-tasting, pediatric-friendly option for HIV-positive infants that can be dissolved agreed to acquire Ascendis Health’s manufacturing facility in Isando, near in a child’s water or food as part of their HIV regimen. In 2018, we received tentative Johannesburg, where we plan to create a state-of-the-art manufacturing FDA approval for first-ever Lopinavir/Ritonavir 40mg/10mg oral granules, a pediatriccenter for ARVs. In addition, Mylan will train the local team to adopt global friendly ARV for HIV-positive infants. We also plan to submit 4 in 1 oral granules to standards in critical areas of science, technology and manufacturing the FDA for approval through the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief processes. The manufacturing center will also create local employment (PEPFAR) program. If approved, this product will be another first of its kind for children opportunities. Our commitment to the African continent also currently living with HIV. includes a manufacturing facility in Zambia, as well as manufacturing capabilities through local partners in Kenya and Botswana. Adding Convenience and Affordability Through Multi-Month Packs Mylan continues to support the use of multi-month packs for HIV patients. These packs are cheaper on a per-pill basis and more convenient, reducing the need for patients to travel for prescription refills. In its 2018 guidance to countries, PEPFAR identified adoption of multi-month prescriptions as part of the minimum requirement for continued PEPFAR support. Bringing Diagnostics to Lowand Middle-Income Countries Making diagnostics more available to patients is essential to moving toward the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) treatment targets of 90/90/90 (see chart below). Our agreement with Atomo Diagnostics to commercialize Mylan’s first-ever HIV self-test in lowand middle-income countries is a critical step in helping hard-toreach populations know their HIV status. The test allows individuals to screen themselves in their own homes with a single drop of blood obtained from a fingertip. Mylan Supports the UNAIDS Targets for HIV:2 • By 2020, 90% of all people living with HIV will know their HIV status • By 2020, 90% of all people with diagnosed HIV infection will receive sustained antiretroviral therapy 1 http://www.unaids.org/en/regionscountries/countries/southafrica • By 2020, 90% of all people receiving antiretroviral 2 http://www.unaids.org/en/resources/909090 therapy will have viral suppression 24 PATIENT HEALTH Focusing on Awareness, Prevention and Treatment for Hepatitis One of the major barriers to effectively treating hepatitis B and C around the world is that many patients are In 2018, Mylan provided unaware they have the disease due to limited education about the condition and lack of access to quality hepatitis B and C treatments screenings. To help combat this problem, Mylan launched multiple campaigns in some of the hardest-hit countries, for more than 350,000 including India, Egypt, Thailand and the Philippines. In addition to offering free screenings and consultations, the campaigns promote the importance of screening, disease management, treatment options and the steps needed patients in lowand to increase a patient’s adherence to treatment. Mylan has also developed new partnerships such as those with middle-income countries and the governments of Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast and Cameroon to launch hepatitis B and C programs which bundle supported free hepatitis screenings treatment and diagnostics, facilitate screening programs and build patient and provider awareness. in countries such as Egypt and India Moving forward, we hope to significantly increase the number of patients reached by Mylan’s products by participating in expanded government programs. We will also continue working with multilateral agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme and UNAIDS. To further support access to hepatitis C (HCV) treatment, Mylan has applied for WHO prequalification for a number of HCV direct-acting antivirals and is awaiting approval. Partnering to Treat Tuberculosis In September 2018, the U.N. held the first-ever High-Level Meeting for Tuberculosis. This established tuberculosis as a global priority, garnering commitments from all over the world to scale up programs to fight tuberculosis (TB), Mylan is among the leaders which kills more people annually than AIDS. in products listed on the WHO list of prequalified Drug resistance poses a serious challenge to treating TB. South Africa and India are considered by the World Health products, with 68.2 Organization (WHO) as among the highest-burden countries for multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and TB/ HIV co-infection, with more than 150,000 estimated new cases of MDR-TB/rifampicin-resistant TB in 2015 alone.1 Prequalification allows for U.N. procurement and To provide more MDR-TB patients with access to treatment, Mylan has been granted a license from Otsuka accelerated registration Pharmaceuticals to prioritize access to Deltyba® in South Africa and India. We further agreed to extend commercial processes in lowand rights and registration responsibilities to many other high MDR-TB burden countries. Looking forward, Mylan middle-income countries. is assessing ways to reduce the cost of treatment to make it more accessible. We are also exploring additional partnerships to further support the development and delivery of better, faster-acting and affordable TB treatments. In 2018, Mylan became the first company to receive Fighting the Flu Virus WHO prequalification for flucytosine 500 mg, an In Europe alone, seasonal influenza causes between 4 and 50 million symptomatic cases each year.3 To achieve orphan drug used for the a higher level of protection against multiple strains of the virus, in 2018, Mylan launched Influvac® Tetra in Europe, treatment of cryptococcal Australia and New Zealand. In addition, we are sponsoring a European initiative with other partners to increase flu meningitis. awareness and educate the public on the importance of vaccinations. 1 World Health Organization. Global tuberculosis report 2016. WHO/HTM/TB/2016.13 2 https://extranet.who.int/prequal/content/prequalified-lists/medicines, as of 2.1.19 3 https://ecdc.europa.eu/en/seasonal-influenza/facts/factsheet 25 PATIENT HEALTH INNOVATING FOR ACCESS In 2018, Mylan completed 168 At Mylan, we invest in science and believe that innovation market submissions in more than 120 is key to expanding access to medicine. We continually review our product portfolio, manufacturing network and countries. This included 98 products supply chain to ensure our products help address unmet in emerging and expansion markets. needs while supporting our mission. For these reasons, it is not uncommon for us to be among the first to manufacture difficult-to-make generic versions of drugs. YUPELRI (revefenacin) inhalation solution, a new chemical entity (NCE) and novel drug approved in 2018, is one Our work to develop complex generics such as glatiramer example of how we are further extending our ability to acetate for the treatment of multiple sclerosis and Wixela™ impact patient outreach, prescription compliance and InHub™, a generic to the brand-name respiratory drug access. The approval of YUPELRI represents a key Advair®, are two such examples. We also place a strong milestone in advancing and expanding our scientific emphasis on the delivery of complex injectables and expertise regarding respiratory care. YUPELRI provides biosimilars. Two examples include Fulphila, a biosimilar Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) patients in to Neulasta®, for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia (fever in patients with low white blood the U.S. with access to a nebulized, long-acting muscarinic Rest of World* antagonist (LAMA) therapy that offers consistent 24-hour cell counts) and Hulio, a biosimilar to Humira®, often used 600 products in development lung function improvement with the convenience of onceby patients diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn’s disease and psoriasis, among other conditions. daily dosing delivered through any standard jet nebulizer. 1,620 products pending approval 2018 was a year of significant scientific achievement for YUPELRI was developed in collaboration with Theravance Mylan. Many years of work culminated in our ability to Biopharma, and is just one example of the important role Europe* expand our portfolio to treat non-communicable conditions collaboration can play in increasing access. Additional 200 products in development such as diabetes, cancer and a variety of women’s health Mylan partners in 2018 included: Biocon, Fujifilm Kyowa concerns along with medicine to treat infectious diseases Kirin Biologics, Momenta and Pfizer, to name a few. 730 products pending approval such as tuberculosis, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS and malaria. In addition to new chemical entities, Mylan R&D is also In 2018 we: focusing on developing new delivery devices. In 2019, North America* • surpassed our goal of 500 regulatory filings around while we continue our core generic drug development, 340 products in development the globe, we will be leveraging our internal capability to develop 220 products pending approval additional complex and differentiated products. Focus • received more than 900 global product approvals, and areas will include not only devices, but biosimilars, complex • completed 11 drug master filings. A drug master file injectables, topicals and other important products as we (DMF) contains detailed information on a new API continue to identify unmet needs and create solutions to molecule that will be used in a new Mylan medicine. address them. *Products taken from internal data and rounded 26 PATIENT HEALTH OUR RESPONSE TO THE U.S. OPIOID EPIDEMIC Over the course of Mylan’s history, we have worked to help address some of the world’s most pressing public health problems. The ongoing opioid crisis is no exception. Mylan fully recognizes the scope of this issue and is committed to doing our part to help in the fight against opioid addiction, abuse and misuse. Regarding Mylan’s presence in the U.S. opioid market, the company has a limited role. We supply approximately 1.1% of opioid-containing drug products sold, according to 2017 IMS data. Mylan’s opioid portfolio consists of generic products and one branded product that is not part of the national discussion on opioids because it is an intravenous anesthesia medicine administered only by healthcare professionals in a surgery-center setting for which patients do not receive prescriptions. Mylan is not promoting or marketing any of its opioid products. However, given our leadership position within the generic pharmaceutical industry in particular and our extensive scientific capabilities, we are committed to finding ways to be a part of the long-term solution to this challenge. In 2014, Mylan launched a generic, injectable, single-vial version of naloxone, a product that is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of opioid depression induced by some natural and synthetic opioids, as well as for diagnosis of suspected or known acute opioid over-dosage. In the summer of 2016, Mylan launched a multiple-vial version of its generic naloxone injectable, thereby increasing supply for customers, physicians and other providers seeking additional inventory of this important therapy. Mylan’s injectable naloxone products are primarily used by hospitals. Today, Mylan’s naloxone presentations are the lowest price options in the overall naloxone market, which includes auto-injectors and prefilled syringes. Mylan stands ready to continue to provide reliable supply and access to this important product, including through a commitment to develop an auto-injector drug-device combination for naloxone. In April 2018, the company announced plans to leverage its world-class scientific platform to develop a novel delivery for meloxicam, a non-opioid pain medication, and we remain committed to bringing this product to market. Promoting the development of non-opioid pain treatments is one of the many areas the FDA is focused on as part of its efforts to address this growing public health problem. Mylan’s portfolio includes the fentanyl transdermal system, which is a generic version of Johnson & Johnson’s branded fentanyl patch product, Duragesic™. Mylan’s fentanyl transdermal system is indicated for the management of pain in opioid-tolerant patients, severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative options are inadequate. Mylan’s generic patches utilize a matrix technology in which the fentanyl is incorporated into the adhesive layer of the patch. Accordingly, Mylan’s patches have no drug reservoir containing fentanyl gel. Mylan’s matrix patches are among the products containing the least amount of fentanyl needed to deliver the labeled dose. At the time of its approval, Mylan’s matrix technology design represented an important innovation for the product. Mylan recognizes that fentanyl is a big part of the national opioid crisis. Importantly, however, lawful fentanyl products such as Mylan’s fentanyl transdermal system have been broadly acknowledged by federal authorities as not being responsible for the current fentanyl crisis. In its 2017 National Drug Threat Assessment Summary, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration concluded that “illicitly-produced fentanyl is responsible for the current fentanyl epidemic.” Mylan further recognizes that there has been focus on payments made by drug manufacturers to third-party advocacy groups and professional societies. Former Senator McCaskill issued a report on February 15, 2018, on this topic that positively differentiated Mylan, finding that the company is “[a]t the other end of the spectrum” from the other companies whose payments were examined because Mylan made only de minimis payments, and to only one of the 14 third parties cited in the report. Moreover, Mylan continues to cooperate with separately disclosed government inquiries that it has received. Mylan is also fighting the opioid epidemic by taking seriously the need to safeguard against diversion and abuse of opioids. We have internal practices designed to detect suspicious orders and prevent the sale of opioid-containing products where there may be a risk of diversion. We remain dedicated to working with key stakeholders across the spectrum of opioid-related issues to continue to identify avenues to help bring an end to this public health challenge. 27 PATIENT HEALTH ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY ARE OUR HIGHEST PRIORITIES We know that what we do directly impacts the health and well-being of patients. As a result, protecting patients and consumer health by ensuring the quality and safety of our products is at the heart of how we operate across our network. From product Mylan partnered with the development to making or sourcing raw materials to producing finished dosage forms, every step of our development, manufacturing and monitoring processes is grounded in this commitment. European Parliament and Council of Ministers to develop Developing Quality Products its current pharmacovigilance Quality begins at product development. We employ a team of highly-trained scientists and technical professionals with extensive legislation. The legislation led experience in the pharmaceutical industry to develop each product formulation and to identify the specific processes and technologies used to manufacture our products. All our applications are subject to a robust regulatory review before a product to the implementation of Good can be brought to market. We monitor the performance of our products after approval and identify and implement any changes Pharmacovigilance Practice, necessary to ensure quality. Significant changes also are subject to review by regulatory agencies. or GVP, within the European Ensuring Product Safety and Preventing Risk Union. We also worked on Our Pharmacovigilance (PV) program, coupled with a global policy on product safety, guides Mylan’s approach to ensuring the International Council for patient care and safety in relation to the use of our marketed products. In line with applicable global legislation, we have a crossfunctional team of medical and scientific professionals that support a global pharmacovigilance system that reports our risk/benefit Harmonisation of Technical assessments to global health authorities. Requirements for Pharmaceuticals Our Product Safety and Risk Management (PSRM) department is a key component of our program and is responsible for for Human Use (ICH) committee conducting internal and external audits along with ensuring that the personal health information of those participating in our clinical that redefined electronic standards trials is carefully safeguarded. It is subject to external audits and inspections from health authorities around the globe. for collecting and reporting safety Mylan’s Corporate Product Safety Committee provides a forum for the periodic and ad hoc evaluation of newly emerging safety information regarding our products. Potential safety signals are assessed and evaluated through our corporate safety governance data worldwide. structure and new information is communicated in a timely manner to healthcare professionals, patients and health authorities. Mylan currently has more than 300 risk management plans and associated interventional measures designed to ensure all of Our active support to develop Mylan’s products are used safely and effectively. harmonized legislation and We conduct training that complements Mylan’s policy on Pharmacovigilance Training Standards which defines training curriculum, guidelines helped facilitate frequency, effectiveness measurements and documentation and other requirements. PSRM employees are assigned professional development training courses based on individual experience. In 2018, we completed 25 PV audits and submitted more than smooth implementation for both 1,600 safety reports. the regulatory authorities and the pharmaceutical industry with Mylan has company-wide policies and management procedures to beneficial impact for the protection ensure product quality and safety across our operations. of public health. 28 PATIENT HEALTH Quality Manufacturing Working with Health Authorities We are committed to maintaining high standards at all our facilities and ensure regular, comprehensive oversight of our entire manufacturing network. In addition We constantly review our products, to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), we apply all other applicable quality Training for Continuous processes and facilities throughout our guidelines and practices, including, for example: Eudralex, Falsified Medicines Improvement network and work closely with external Directive, ICH Quality Guidelines, WHO GMP, Food and Drug Administration Our Global Operations Training health authorities to ensure transparency Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA) and the EU Excipient Risk Assessment for program is a harmonized global with emerging information, including ascertaining GMP for excipients of medicinal products for human use. We use a learning process that provides shortages, adverse event reporting of other Regulatory Intelligence and Knowledge Management Dissemination Program to consistent and effective training manufacturers’ products, development better inform, evaluate and implement regulatory updates, industry trends and to assure access to and of new scientific and testing criteria and internal knowledge. delivery of knowledge to Mylan evolving regulatory and manufacturing operations personnel. This expectations everywhere we operate. We Risk assessment is central to our approach to ensuring quality in our facilities program continues to provide continuously learn from these interactions around the world. We promote regular self­inspection of our sites and conduct oversight and governance to as scientific, technology and regulatory annual audits. Our Quality Council Program drives appropriate quality coordinate and standardize expectations continue to evolve. management action by tracking quality issues; analyzing metrics to identify trends, training requirements, content, issues and risks; examining key performance indicators; and providing clear techniques and training and accurate data analysis. In 2018, we expanded our self-inspection auditor delivery methods to continually certification program across all of our operations to further strengthen site selfstrengthen our corporate learning In 2018, global health regulation. culture while ensuring that authorities conducted role-specific and periodic GMP Externally, we apply an audit schedule based on business prioritization, cyclical training programs are compliant OVER 120 audit requirements of facilities, key launches and historical regulatory inspection performance. In 2018, we completed 610 quality and GMP audits at our suppliers' with regulatory requirements both REGULATORY regionally and globally. and 41 quality and GMP audits at our own facilities. INSPECTIONS of our more than 40 manufacturing facilities Maintaining a High Quality Supply Chain around the world. Our global supply chain is strategically designed to support the continued growth of our business and to protect the quality and safety of our diverse and increasingly complex products. Approximately three years ago, Mylan initiated a program to implement state-of-the-art technology for supply chain planning and building new competencies. Today, the majority of the program is deployed and Mylan is more closely connected across its global operations. This enables us to update and share information in real time, allowing us to leverage capacities and resources across key functions such as commercial, warehousing and manufacturing. The new technology will support more optimal planning along our entire supply chain. We hope this will help us not only better serve customers and patients in the future but also Please see Mylan’s 2018 Annual Report on Form bolster inventory management and logistics. 10-K for more information. 29 PATIENT HEALTH Fighting Falsified Medicine Quality and product safety expectations are escalating globally from a variety of USING SERIALIZATION TO SECURE stakeholders. There is now a greater emphasis on companies taking responsibility for their supply chains, data integrity and quality assurance, priorities Mylan has embraced for many OUR SUPPLY CHAIN years. Serialization is a process that helps companies obtain valuable Falsified medicine – medicine that is sold as authorized, authentic medicine but in fact information about the products they sell, and where they are made contains ingredients of bad or toxic quality or dosage – continues to be an issue for the and shipped. It is fueled by myriad government regulations that pharmaceutical industry. Beginning in 2010 and continuing through 2018, we made require pharmaceutical companies to track their products along the significant investments in packaging and information technology to enhance product supply chain and verify their authenticity. The goal of serialization is safety. By lowering the likelihood that falsified products will enter our supply chain, we are to ensure that medicines reaching consumers are not counterfeit, helping ensure access to high quality medicine. Global policies have been established to stolen or contaminated. govern validation, operations and product security. New and updated procedures have also been implemented across all manufacturing sites to drive consistency in packaging, In the U.S. all products packaged on or after Nov. 27, 2018, must management and distribution of serialized product. Among these are processes to track be serialized under the Drug Supply Chain Security Act; a deadline and trace serialized products. An internal product safety group helps monitor the supply of Feb. 9, 2019, was set for the European Union under the Falsified chain to help ensure it is not breached. Medicines Directive. Our quality, regulatory and serialization teams In 2019, we will continue to build out our technology, aggregation and distribution are also ensuring that similar requirements for other countries are capabilities designed to comply with the requirements of the European Union Falsified met. Mylan is working closely with industry groups such as the Medicine Directives. We’ll also continue to work with our U.S. suppliers to verify returns RxGPS Alliance, a group of multinational pharmaceutical supply of serialized product. Lastly, we’ll continue to build out our aggregation and distribution chain stakeholders who have a common interest in advancing capabilities and encourage our supply chain partners to share serialized product data. global alignment of drug serialization and tracing requirements to harmonize various standards among countries. Serialization efforts include technology that places a serialization Our serialization project has mark, known as a 2D data matrix, on products. In addition, Mylan involved installation of new works with contract manufacturers to ensure the products they equipment on our nearly 200 make for us also include this identifying mark. Eventually, this serialization process will lead to aggregation, which places a unique internal packaging lines, as code on shippers of our products. This code will associate data for well as work with hundreds of each individual product packaged within it. other manufacturers who are Once the 2D matrices are added, our work continues. The large part of our supply chain. amounts of data created by serialization must be maintained and processes must be established so that Mylan can identify and manage procedures associated with individual units like product picking, packing, shipping, sampling, returns and destructions. 30 PATIENT HEALTH Addressing Supply Supporting Appropriate Use Constraints of Medications AUTOMATED DOSE DISPENSING Helping patients use medicines Mylan understands and appreciates appropriately and adhere to prescriptions Automated dose dispensing (ADD) is the dispensing of one or more different the importance for individuals with lifeare crucial factors in improving health medicinal products into a chain of pouches. One pouch contains either threatening allergies to have immediate and well-being around the world. one, some or all units of medicine an individual patient needs to take at a access to epinephrine auto-injectors. Mylan promotes the appropriate use particular date and time. In 2018, the manufacturer of EpiPen® of medicines and has several initiatives (epinephrine injection, USP) 0.3mg and aimed at educating patients on medical EpiPen Jr® (epinephrine injection, USP) conditions and ways to better manage 0.15mg Auto-Injectors experienced them. interruptions in production. We support online portals, websites and As the distributor, Mylan has taken a mobile applications that offer features number of steps to alleviate the situation, ranging from tracking symptoms including: to reminding patients about refilling • expediting shipments upon receipt, prescriptions. In addition, some digital solutions provide real-time guidance • working closely with the manufacturer for healthcare providers to help them to stay informed of anticipated understand a patient’s overall status. shipments and maintaining regular dialogue with health authorities to Mylan also supports individual dose provide frequent updates on supply dispensing across several European status, countries to increase therapeutic adherence and reduce medication errors, • establishing a dedicated Customer which is particularly important for elderly Relations team to successfully find the patients taking multiple medications. product for patients and caregivers Dose dispensing not only helps an who need assistance, and individual patient use medication correctly, it also assists caretakers and • coordinating with the manufacturer healthcare professionals in managing and health authorities on extending medications more effectively. the expiration dates of specific lots of EpiPen® 0.3mg Auto-Injections. In addition, Mylan continues to adapt its packaging to include symbols and We are continuing to collaborate closely pictograms that illustrate dosage with the manufacturer to support their schedules to make it easier for patients efforts to increase production and resolve to take the right doses of medicines at the situation. the right time. For information on our pricing model, see page 61. 31 PATIENT HEALTH Conducting Responsible Clinical Research Mylan conducts clinical trials in many regions of the world as part of making treatments It is our policy to abide by the principles of Good Clinical available to patients. Clinical investigators conduct careful screening and selection Practice (GCP) as defined in the Declaration of Helsinki of patients according to criteria outlined in Mylan clinical study protocols, which are and the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical developed for every clinical trial. Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) At the center of our clinical investigations is our Quality Management System (QMS). framework and implemented in international laws, directives and It includes procedures that address internal processes associated with drug development as well as processes for overseeing and auditing outsourced activities completed by regulations, which promote patient safety and protect patient our vendor partners. In 2018, 59 GCP audits were performed across our own and rights throughout the study lifecycle. partner sites. The QMS also includes detailed procedures regarding the development, review, approval, implementation and confirmation of the informed consent process. Informed consent documents are written in a manner that allows potential trial participants, regardless of reading skills and local language, the ability to make an informed decision, considering risks and benefits of trial participation. Local ethics committees review and approve informed consent forms prior to patient participation in a clinical study. The clinical investigator ensures that patients understand the informed consent document prior to participation in the clinical study. The QMS further provides guidance on assessing risks associated with the various aspects of clinical development, such as study design, vendor selection, site selection and patient populations. Procedures in the QMS also address the publishing of Mylan clinical trial data in publicly-accessible registries, as required by global regulations to promote transparency. Mylan’s governance councils and quality committees oversee the conduct of clinical trials and partner with internal and external experts and investigational sites to promote patient safety and data integrity across our clinical development programs. In addition, we use quality councils, governance boards and independent data monitoring committees when appropriate to support quality, safety and protection of participants in our clinical development programs. We do not conduct animal testing unless it is required by national regulation. Mylan is committed to the “3 R” approach (Replacement, Reduction and Refinement) with respect to ethical animal testing. Facilities performing animal testing on our behalf are required to comply with regional scientific procedures for laboratory animal science. These facilities use and/or are approved by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC). Mylan’s Global Operations Audit team performs regular audits on all parties to ensure compliance. 32 EMPLOYEE HEALTH 02 Better Employee Health CHAPTER SNAPSHOT Key 2018 Accomplishments • Received an 88% global response rate to our global employee engagement survey with 80% of employees saying they are proud to work at Mylan • Reached a 97% integration rate of our employees into one global source of workforce information, allowing for enhanced data analytics, consistent reporting of talent data and improved manager access to data Current Challenges • Striving to achieve an even more diverse and inclusive workplace to gain broader perspectives, drive innovation and support our efforts to attract and retain the right talent for our business today and in the future Future Opportunities • Implement action plans resulting from the global employee engagement survey at every site to ensure Mylan remains a great place to work • Continue to build comprehensive succession plans for critical roles across geographies and create future bench strength 33 EMPLOYEE HEALTH Mylan impacts the lives of millions of patients each year. Our passionate and talented global workforce of approximately 35,000 is fundamental in bringing our mission to life. Around the globe, our people understand how they as individuals are critical to expanding access to high quality medicine. In return, we offer outstanding benefits and compensation and partner with them to plan for their continued professional development and growth. OUR PROGRESS IN 2018 Global Integration Successfully integrating employees from acquisitions gives Mylan the opportunity to deepen our talent pool, further strengthen our culture and take new approaches to how we do business. Last year we completed the integration of most employees from the Meda and DPT Laboratories acquisitions into many of our global processes and systems. Now, 97% of our employees are operating under one HR information system. As an integrated organization, this centralized source of workforce information makes it easier to review data holistically so we can make informed decisions that benefit the business and our people everywhere. Mylan surpassed the average first-year participation rate of comparable companies (78%), with more than 88% of employees Engaging Our Employees participating in the survey globally. We understand that employees who know they are being heard are more likely *IBM Watson to feel connected, engaged and motivated to do their best work. Their insights and experiences are valuable as Mylan continues to evolve. That’s why in 2018, we initiated a global employee engagement survey to better understand the needs, insights and unique experiences of our employees. The survey was also Employee Survey Highlights an opportunity to collect input from employees who joined Mylan as a result of acquisitions. 81% see a clear 86% think 90% agree that 75% say they are link between Mylan sets clear Mylan supports extremely satisfied The results affirmed that our people are committed to our organization and their work and performance ethical behavior with Mylan as a mission. When asked, 70% said they would go above and beyond in their the company’s standards for and practices place to work roles to support the company. This global engagement score (70%) is based mission quality on employees’ satisfaction, interest in continuing to work at Mylan, pride in the company and willingness to recommend Mylan as a great place to work. Based on the survey, employee development, process efficiency and two-way With this survey also came more than 40,000 free-response comments. communication were identified as priorities for global action planning in 2019. Anonymous feedback was circulated to our leadership team for additional Leaders at all levels of the organization held meetings in 2018 to review and discuss review, consideration and discussion. their teams’ results. Employee feedback will be used to design action plans for more than 100 sites in all. Progress in 2019 will be measured using smaller pulse surveys. 34 EMPLOYEE HEALTH BUILDING AND REWARDING TALENT TALENT How a company manages its people plays a crucial role in recruitment and retention. Mylan has a strong track record for attracting and retaining high performers in their fields. In the coming year, we will continue to find ways to expand our talent PRINCIPLES pool with individuals who are a good fit for Mylan and develop new programs that allow us to reward our people and ensure we are helping them achieve their goals. • Hiring with rigor is a must. We connect with the right talent every time. We look at Recruitment internal talent and encourage Mylan continues to be an attractive employer globally and last year we hired approximately 4,000 people. Attracting and unconventional career moves. retaining talent early in a career is foundational to our recruiting approach. In 2018, we offered student opportunities in which more than 230 participated worldwide. Students received feedback and opportunities to network. • Building talent is the responsibility of every leader. Learning and Development • We invest management Learning never stops at Mylan. We give employees the tools they need to reach their full potential and support continuous energy in assessing talent and learning. We strongly believe, however, that some of the best learning happens when employees step out of their comfort potential. zones to grow professionally and personally. Through informal and formal mentorship and coaching, employees are challenged to learn and grow. We also use a learning management system, MyUniversity, for online education. • Employees own their careers. In 2018, our leadership team began work on a global framework designed to enhance professional growth and development. • Professional development is Programs currently exist at a regional level; our M-EDGE and M-LEAD offerings in India are good examples. M-EDGE gave required for everyone – not just more than 3,000 employees training on excellence, communication and collaboration skills, while M-LEAD helped future a select few. leaders further develop emotional intelligence, understand the importance of teamwork and define their personal brand. Approximately 240 employees participated in M-LEAD in 2018. • Successors are identified for all critical roles. To help our managers enhance their leadership skills and develop their teams, in 2018 Mylan designed training to help them deliver quality feedback. Work will continue in 2019 with this group to refine their coaching skills. Throughout 2019, all • Diverse perspectives drive employees and managers will be encouraged to have open, honest conversations to set development goals that innovation. support continued growth. Number of course completions in MyUniversity in 2018: 2.9 million Please see Appendix for additional data. 35 EMPLOYEE HEALTH Performance Management Employee Recognition We know a strong focus on performance sustains our company and motivates Planning began in 2018 to expand our workforce. It’s why employees set annual performance objectives that align global programs that celebrate employee with key business priorities. accomplishments. In 2018, we introduced Mylstones, a Mylan program Performance is based not only on what the employee achieves but how they achieve that recognizes employees celebrating it in relation to Mylan’s Leadership Expectations of Lead, Learn, Teach and Perform major service anniversaries worldwide. with the right Attitude. These Leadership Expectations provide clear guidance for Additionally, there are a number of what is expected of our people and in fact, when asked in the engagement survey, regional recognition efforts of which we 88% said they have a clear understanding of what is expected of them. are proud. In India, programs range from appreciation letters from leaders to formal recognition of work that complements Looking ahead, we are moving to an even more robust, Mylan’s mission and values. In Europe, year-round approach that encourages coaching and continuous our leadership team sponsors the BRAVO (Building Results by Adding Value to feedback, emphasizes development and includes employee Others) Award each year. This award is discussion on career aspirations. designed to share best practices from different departments and recognize successful initiatives. Compensation In 2019, we will implement a global recognition initiative that puts the spotlight on We have a competitive compensation framework that balances shortand longemployees’ achievements and success. Employees will be encouraged to nominate term incentives to effectively retain and reward talent. It includes performance-based peers or teams. Those recognized will receive meaningful rewards and incentives. rewards in addition to base salary, both of which are designed to incent the continued development of our business, recognize achievements, create shareholder value and encourage behaviors expected of leaders. During the annual compensation review Adapting Our Workforce process, Mylan evaluates total compensation and employee performance. This As part of our efforts to complete the integration of employees from acquired includes review and remediation of discrepancies by gender, if needed. Looking ahead, businesses, we continued our work to ensure we had the right people in the right we will continue to ensure our compensation programs are competitive, harmonized roles at the right time. We also took very seriously the learnings from inspections of and fair. our facilities by the FDA and other health authorities and, where necessary, adjusted staffing to better complement our manufacturing needs. Employees impacted by Succession Planning restructuring efforts were offered severance packages typically exceeding legally required severance pay and benefits, including outplacement assistance to help With the support of the Mylan Board, our leadership team began formalizing its bridge them to subsequent employment, and always in compliance with local laws succession planning with regard to critical global positions. Our work in 2018 and practices. included a review of key roles to be included in succession planning and a review by senior leaders of potential internal candidates. Succession planning is ongoing and throughout 2019, we’ll continue to identify successors and create development plans that will position these candidates for success in their next roles at Mylan. 36 EMPLOYEE HEALTH “ INVESTING IN EMPLOYEE vary by country, we offer a variety of health and wellness activities including bike to work schemes, WELL-BEING I firmly believe it’s not enough for just annual health checks, family days for employees and subsidized gym memberships among others. In the women to help women. We need our fathers, As a healthcare company, we believe a healthy lifestyle U.S., Mylan offers a wellness program that focuses “ can significantly impact the well-being of our people. We brothers and sons to respect and empower on helping employees improve their physical activity offer a variety of generous benefits that are customized women as equals if the world is to make and nutrition and relieve stress. We also encouraged to the needs of our employees around the globe. These employees to take charge of their financial wellness any meaningful progress. may include retirement plans, health insurance, childcare, through our 401(k) Plan, Health Savings Account and preventive health screenings, immunizations and other a 529 College Savings Plan. In 2018, we expanded – Heather Bresch benefits that enable our people to take charge of their or introduced additional benefits in the U.S., including personal and financial well-being. enhancements to bereavement time off, vacation, parental leave and assisted fertilization. Discrimination, harassment of any kind and retaliation While approaches may vary from location to location, are strictly prohibited. We educate employees on our Mylan is working with employees to identify ways equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination we can help our people balance life priorities policies as part of our mandatory annual Code of and improve workplace flexibility. Technology is Business Conduct and Ethics training. a great start. It enables employees to use their work time efficiently, connecting, collaborating and communicating with colleagues without the need When asked in the 2018 employee to travel and spend time away from family and engagement survey, 79% of loved ones. employees said they fit well into Mylan’s culture. CREATING A WELCOMING WORKPLACE Diversity and Inclusion Recognizing Freedom of Association Mylan recognizes and respects the rights of employees Well-Being Around the Globe Differing perspectives and life experiences make to have access to representation and collective It’s important our people remain healthy and at their our business stronger. Our people reflect the bargaining. Around the world, we have a significant best. We encourage employees to participate in our flu communities where we work as well as the number of employees in manufacturing, commercial vaccination effort and take full advantage of employee populations we serve. We are committed to fostering and corporate functions who are represented and assistance programs that provide support to employees a culture of inclusion, integrity, dignity and mutual covered by collective agreements. We engage with facing emotional challenges. respect. We are an equal opportunity employer that employee representatives globally and strive to maintain embraces what makes our people unique. productive relationships with them and all employees. Mylan provides a number of well-being benefits for our employees in India including annual health checkups, free Please see Appendix meals and transportation, and subsidized interest rates for housing. For our colleagues in Europe, while activities for additional data. 37 EMPLOYEE HEALTH SAFETY IS EVERYONE’S RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to the safety of all We cultivate an environment that Driving Safely employees and believe that everyone encourages our people to speak up and Road injury is one of the top 10 causes must do their part to promote a work play an active role in making workplace of death globally1 and distracted environment in which we play a role in safety a priority. Our injury-prevention driving is one of the leading causes our safety and that of our colleagues. strategy promotes the identification of vehicle incidents. In 2018, we Mylan’s Global Health and Safety Policy, and correction of potential hazards and conducted campaigns aimed at reducing along with our Environmental, Health the Incident Prevention Opportunity distracted driving for our commercial and Safety (EHS) Management System (IPO) Program encourages employees and manufacturing employees in North and Technical Standards, set minimum to identify potential hazards and act to America and our European commercial requirements for health and safety correct them as soon as possible. Our teams. Additionally, in India, we launched programs and practices. Serious and Fatal Incident Prevention Mylan’s Caguas, Puerto Rico, facility a “No Helmet, No Parking” initiative (SFIP) Program identifies potential took a direct hit from Hurricane Maria in We have rigorous programs in place to in order to stress the importance of 2017. Because of strong partnerships and situations that could create a more severe ensure a safe and healthy workplace wearing a helmet for employees who proactive emergency preparedness, our outcome and proactively addresses these for all Mylan employees, contractors drive motorcycles to work. Lastly, we plant suffered minimal damage. The work conditions with effective controls. we did to support the Caguas community and visitors. Examples include but are launched a new EHS mobile app to our and quick turnaround to resume production not limited to emergency response, commercial teams in North America and was highlighted by our insurance partner, FM incident prevention, contractor safety, Preparedness Counts across Europe. The app provides teams Global, in its publication in 2018. occupational toxicology, industrial easy access to EHS information such as Incidents and natural disasters can hygiene, process safety, EHS training product safety data sheets, our incident happen anywhere and at any moment. and regulatory compliance. reporting system and Mylan’s 24/7 We strive to keep our facilities resilient security hotline. Along with the launch of and secure, especially those vulnerable In 2018, we had seven new sites the app, we upgraded our EHS Incident to natural disaster. Risk engineering and become OHSAS (Occupational Health Management System to better track emergency response planning are vital and Safety Assessment Series) 18001 automobile and injury related incidents components of our EHS programs and certified, bringing our total to 12 within our commercial teams. In 2019, across our operations we have well(approximately 27%). Additionally, two we are planning to launch the mobile Mylan’s API Units 2 and 10 in India received trained emergency response teams and of our India API locations received the app to our commercial teams in our the Sword of Honor from the British Safety technology to respond quickly should an Five Star Occupational Health and Safety ROW region. Council for excellent health and safety incident occur. When a natural disaster management standards. Designation and the Sword of Honor strikes, Mylan and its partners are at the from the British Safety Council, one of ready to protect our sites and resume the world’s leading health and safety production as soon as possible, always organizations. keeping safety top of mind. Mylan’s Global Days Away, Restricted 0.39 cases per This is 61% below or Transferred (DART) Rate in 2018 *per U.S. Bureau of Labor and Statistics 100 employees industry average* 1 Source: Global Health Estimates 2016: Deaths by Cause, Age, Sex, by Country and by Region. 2000-2016 Geneva, World Health Organization; 2018 38 Environmental Health 03 Better Environmental Health CHAPTER SNAPSHOT Key 2018 Accomplishments • Committed to the AMR Industry Alliance’s Common Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework • Increased our CDP Climate Change disclosure score and submitted our first CDP Water Security response Current Challenges • Balancing quality product manufacturing requirements with efforts to reduce our environmental impact • Finding ways to reduce water consumption and increase reuse while maintaining the integrity and quality of our manufacturing process Future Opportunities • Continuing to promote site-based initiatives to reduce our impact on natural resources • Future goal setting and science-based target setting 39 Environmental Health Strong Environmental Principles Responsible environmental stewardship and promoting safe, sustainable operations is a priority for Mylan. Guided by our Global Environmental Policy and the principles in our companywide Global Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Management System, our teams work systematically and continuously to identify ways to minimize our impact on the environment by improving energy and water usage, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and improving waste management. An Integrated Approach to helps ensure compliance with applicable that water is a scarce resource in some Environmental Management regulations in the countries where we of the communities where we live and Our facilities are equipped with operate, in addition to filling gaps where work and are committed to working Our Global EHS function is integrated air emission control devices as certain regulations may not exist and proactively to protect water resources across the organization and reports driving continuous improvement. and continue to improve our water required to manage regulated into the Chief Operating Officer, who management practices and systems. chairs Mylan’s EHS Governance air pollutants. Examples include We monitor and track many elements of Our teams work to identify opportunities Committee and oversees EHS our environmental performance allowing to improve water management within high-efficiency dust collection, programs, performance and initiatives. us to manage data, oversee results our highly regulated industry, which often HEPA filtration, electrostatic Working collaboratively with operations and identify risks and opportunities. We presents many restrictions and limitations and business unit leaders, the EHS routinely conduct assessments precipitation, primary and related to items such as reuse of water in team leverages technical expertise and on-site audits, including reviews production. secondary condensers, multi-stage across multiple disciplines, including of our data, systems and programs. environmental management, health and Twenty – or approximately 45% – of Wastewater from all of Mylan’s filtration and recirculation systems, safety, industrial hygiene, occupational our manufacturing sites are ISO 14001 operations undergoes treatment prior process scrubber technology and toxicology, training, process safety certified for environmental management to discharge to the environment and, regenerative thermal oxidizers. and systems. systems. in India, multiple sites apply zero liquid discharge technology that eliminates Mylan’s Global EHS Management discharge. Mylan maintains all System is based on companywide Conserving Water and applicable permits and authorizations principles that provide a framework of Managing Wastewater for wastewater discharge with governing performance expectations with respect authorities and complies with all local Water is an essential component of to our employees and external partners. discharge limits. pharmaceutical manufacturing. A Our technical standards establish global high quality water supply is critical to minimum operating requirements for ensuring that all aspects of production a variety of safety and environmental Please see Appendix meet Mylan standards. We recognize activities. Implementing these standards for additional data. 40 Environmental Health Production requirements of our operations – coupled with local regulations and infrastructure – guide the type of water and wastewater management systems and processes we utilize. Due to these requirements, a significant amount of water is rejected as part of the purification processes and is discharged as wastewater. We are focusing efforts on how to improve this process and identify options to reuse this water. We also continue to implement technologies to manage and reduce the amount of wastewater and effluents from our processes. We commissioned a new zero liquid discharge (ZLD) plant at one of our Bangalore, India, facilities bringing our number of ZLD sites to 10. We also made additional upgrades to effluent treatment plants at our other facilities in India. In 2018, we partnered with a garment maker in India to supply them with clean water from two ZLD plants for use in their facility and processes, helping to decrease the amount of water they require from the local municipality. To ensure our ZLD-equipped plants continue to operate effectively, we conducted independent, third-party assessments in 2018 of two of our ZLD facilities in India. Further, we use tools from various non-governmental organizations (NGOs), such as the World Resources Institute, to help perform water risk assessments. Withdrawal and discharge permits are maintained at all sites as required, and all operations sites are periodically audited to ensure compliance with local regulatory and internal standards. ZERO LIQUID DISCHARGE (ZLD) SYSTEMS ZLD systems are wastewater treatment 3 The remaining liquid is subjected to evaporation technologies – the heart of ZLD processing. More non-potable plants that eliminate water is harvested. Dried solids are effluent discharge into collected for disposal. the environment. Instead, all wastewater is treated 1 Wastewater is collected and treated in and repurposed back into various types of tanks. Microrganisms break down impurities. Solids and non-potable applications liquids are separated. in our facilities, reducing water usage and 2 significantly reducing The resulting wastewater is filtered multiple times using reverse-osmosis technology. Up to 90% of environmental impact. the water treated can be recycled for non-potable uses, such as boilers or cooling towers. 41 Environmental Health Waste Reduction One of the many ways we strive to lessen our environmental impact is through appropriately managing and reducing WASTE REDUCTION hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated from our scientific practices, manufacturing processes, maintenance INITIATIVES activities and administrative functions. • Laboratories at our Ten of our current manufacturing sites have achieved zero landfill status. manufacturing and R&D sites located in Morgantown, W.Va., (U.S.) reduced hazardous Mylan’s companywide EHS standards, along with industry regulations, govern specific handling, treatment, storage and wastewater generated from disposal of all waste. Waste treatment methods are selected based on the type of waste and treatment requirements. laboratory glassware rinsing We strive to use recycling, reuse and energy recovery options, including waste-to-energy facilities, cement kilns and by 50% fuel-blending facilities where possible to treat waste. Throughout all our operations, we are committed to reducing waste through responsible use of resources, increased • In 2018, our API units in Vizag, recycling, reuse of materials and initiatives dedicated to waste minimization. Across our sites, we recycled, reused India, began recycling bromide or repurposed 26% of total waste generated and 44% of total waste generated was sent to various energy recovery solution totaling over 4,000 cubic facilities. More than 95% of our pharmaceutical waste is diverted from landfills to incineration or energy recovery facilities. meters We continue to strive to reduce or eliminate the amount of waste sent to landfills and are looking to increase our number of zero landfill sites. We encourage our patients and consumers to dispose of unused or expired products or waste • Reduced hazardous waste materials in accordance with local regulatory requirements. generated from effluent treatment plants (ETP) at two locations in India by more than 1,000 tonnes Improving Packaging Processes since 2016 At Mylan, we continuously evaluate ways to make all our processes more efficient while reducing materials. This includes our product packaging operations. In 2018, a team at our facility in Confienza, Italy, worked with a supplier to modify the design of the outer packaging of pump dispenser bottles for Saugella Girl and Babygella, a hygiene products line produced from natural plant extracts. The new design will reduce the use of plastic wrap per bottle by 88%. They also created a new, more efficient packaging process for these products that will begin in early 2019. Mylan has also moved toward building a more sustainable future by undertaking cartonless packaging in its ARV business. Cartonless packs help eliminate traditional cardboard, allowing more bottles to be packed in each shipper while reducing the total volume of goods by an average of more than one-third. Cartonless packaging also adds value throughout the supply chain in the form of reduced freight volumes which help in optimizing valuable storage space in warehouses, distribution centers and health clinics. The Global Fund has estimated that Please see Appendix switching to cartonless packaging reduces the cost of annual treatment by $1.80 per patient. for additional data. 42 42 Environmental EnvironmentalHealth Health MINIMIZING PHARMACEUTICALS IN THE ENVIRONMENT (PiE) As a pharmaceutical company and member of the global community, resulting from the pharmaceutical manufacturing process, which is Mylan is committed to caring for the environment and promoting attributed to less than 2% of the overall contribution.2 responsible manufacturing by taking steps to minimize the environmental impact of our operations and products, while also balancing our need to While gaps remain in the scientific link between pharmaceuticals in the produce high quality, life-saving medication. environment and human health risk, we are committed to reducing pharmaceuticals discharged from our manufacturing operations. The primary pathways for pharmaceuticals entering the environment from human use are by normal patient excretion and improper disposal Mylan’s approach to addressing and minimizing the potential impact of of medicine by consumers,1 in addition to the use of pharmaceuticals pharmaceuticals in the environment (PiE) from our own manufacturing is in agriculture. A significantly smaller contribution stems from emissions based on a wide range of activities and governance: RISK AND IMPACT EVALUATION RISK REDUCTION AND CONTROL ENGAGEMENT AND POLICY Mylan conducts environmental risk Mylan minimizes discharges of active Mylan supports and works to promote evaluations of its products to assess pharmaceutical ingredients from scientifically-based efforts to address a wide range of environmental operations through enhancements in PiE through initiatives of regulators, risk factors. Mylan also assesses equipment, containment and cleaning stakeholders and industry to close its manufacturing processes and processes. We continue to monitor gaps and share best practices. We wastewater treatment facilities to potential emissions to the environment actively engage in industry associations ensure that adequate systems and from our operations and implement and working groups to advance policy controls are maintained. appropriate controls if necessary. and effective solutions on PiE. Working Together to Fight Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Mylan is a proud member of the AMR Industry Alliance. In addition to board membership on the Alliance, Mylan is also a member of the organization’s manufacturing work group, partnering with industry leaders and companies on AMR strategies. We supported Alliance initiatives including the Common Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework in 2018. This represents the industry’s effort to provide a common methodology to assess potential risk from antibiotic discharges and take appropriate action when necessary.3 1 Caldwell, D.J. (2015) Sources of Pharmaceutical Residues in the Environment and their Control, from ‘Pharmaceuticals in the Environment’, 2015, 92-119 Editor(s): R E Hester, R M Harrison. Royal Society of Chemistry, London, UK. 2 BIO Intelligence Service (2013), Study on the environmental risks of medicinal products, final report prepared for Executive Agency for Health and Consumers, pp. 46-47 3 https://www.amrindustryalliance.org/shared-goals/common-antibiotic-manufacturing-framework/ 43 Environmental Health Climate Change and Energy We are committed to responsible energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions management through strategic energy sourcing and on-going improvement of our energy management systems. We continuously evaluate and identify opportunities to lower our energy demand usage and decrease GHG emissions. We continue to work toward reducing our absolute total GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) as part of our work to support responsible manufacturing efforts, the U.N. Global Compact and SDG 13 for Climate Action. Many of our sites completed energy management projects this past year such as making equipment improvements, installing LED lighting and purchasing renewable energy. Our manufacturing site in Merignac, France, was certified to ISO 50001, bringing our total to eight sites globally-certified to the ISO Energy Management standard. We continue to identify opportunities to phase out certain ozone-depleting substance (ODS) refrigerants and upgrade equipment at many facilities. In Dublin, Ireland, our Damastown oral solid dose facility replaced an older chiller with a unit that is more efficient and uses a refrigerant that is not an ozone-depleting substance. We also purchased 72 million kilowatt hours of renewable energy from local renewable energy suppliers, an increase of approximately 30% since 2017. 2018 CDP Climate Change and Water Scores Looking forward, we are evaluating a longer-term science-based target for our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. A AEngagement with CDP B Mylan 2018 Mylan began participating in the CDP Climate Change disclosure program in (climate & water) B2017. In 2018, we also submitted our first CDP Water Security response, as well Mylan 2017 C (climate) as became an official CDP Supporter. Nearly 7,000 disclosure responses are Csubmitted to CDP globally. Mylan received a score of B(management level D designee) for both our Climate Change and Water Responses in 2018, improving our Climate Change score and achieving a Water Security score above the sector Daverage. We are proud of our efforts to promote the importance of sustainable Mylan 2016 No Response (F) manufacturing. Our engagement with CDP reflects our commitment to the strategies and actions associated with good environmental management and our CDP Scoring Levels desire for continuous performance improvement. Leadership (A/A-): Implementing current best practices Management (B/B-): Taking coordinated action on water and climate issues Awareness (C/C-): Knowledge of impacts on, and of, water and climate issues Please see Appendix Disclosure (D/D-): Transparent about water and climate issues Non-Disclosure (F): Companies who are requested to disclose their data and for additional data. fail to do so, or fail to provide sufficient information to CDP to be evaluated. 44 GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH 04 Better Global Public Health CHAPTER SNAPSHOT Key 2018 Accomplishments • Continued to advocate for policies that break down barriers to access across the globe • Facilitated improved understanding among regulators of the causes of drug shortages to define policies that will help enable supply Current Challenges • Structural issues in the U.S. healthcare system that hinder patient access to more affordable generics and biosimilars medicines • Potential for inclusion of intellectual property (IP) provisions in trade agreements that would lengthen the time for generics and biosimilars to reach the market Future Opportunities • Continue to lead discussions on health reform and biosimilar policy with governments and health authorities around the world • Take a leading role in ensuring policies focus on long-term health system strength and do not sacrifice patient access to medicine 45 GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH Global Public Health Good health is a precursor not only to individual well-being but also to the well-being of communities and nations around the world. It impacts socioeconomic status, productivity and the ability of each member of the world’s population to contribute to the greater good. Escalating healthcare costs, aging populations and the rising incidence of non-communicable diseases, coupled with lingering issues around infectious diseases, are among the global public health challenges we face today. Populations in lowand middle-income countries face added difficulty as access to preventive care, healthcare providers, diagnostic equipment and medicine is often limited or non-existent. Sustainable access, regulatory requirements, IP barriers, (NGOs) to affect change and enhance health through and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) are among the key the provision of new and affordable medicine. Mylan continues to have some of the most issues Mylan is addressing as we partner to help solve Some of our key global partners include UNAIDS; approvals through PEPFAR, enabling us to global health challenges. We understand that our industry plays a critical role in improving health and Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria; PEPFAR be a leader in making high quality medicine we relentlessly advocate for policies and progress that (President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief); the accessible and affordable. enable us to affect positive change. Clinton Health Access Initiative; the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the WHO. We also work directly with regulatory bodies and trade associations health leadership, including the WHO. Additionally, Establishing Partnerships that to provide constructive input, raise awareness and Mylan experts worked with the WHO on the Make a Difference propose solutions to challenges experienced by the development of a drug shortage policy by providing generics and biosimilars medicines industry. insight on vulnerability in the global supply network No single company, entity or government can and the economic underpinnings of drug shortages. address the issue of global public health on its own. We actively participate and hold leadership roles We also advocated for more generic access language Public and private partners representing the entire (including president and vice president roles) in more in two U.N. declarations on tuberculosis and nonhealthcare continuum must work together, pooling than 55 industry associations and working groups communicable diseases. expertise and resources to determine a collaborative across the globe. path forward that will best serve patients. We join Furthermore, we continued our involvement with the forces with organizations whose public health goals Over the past year, our work with the Association for International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH). complement ours, especially when it comes to Accessible Medicines (AAM) in the U.S., Medicines for The ICH brings together regulatory authorities and the raising awareness, increasing access and advancing Europe and the International Generic and Biosimilar pharmaceutical industry to discuss and harmonize industry sustainability. We’ve created strong, Medicines Association (IGBA) among other generic scientific and technical aspects of drug registration. innovative alliances resulting in shared goals, trust and biosimilar trade associations, gave us the We’ve worked closely with generic trade associations and mutual respect to develop programs, legislation opportunity to engage and educate stakeholders on globally to promote a greater role for generics at the and partnerships that improve access to high the value of generic and biosimilar medicines. We also ICH and now have experts on six ICH expert working quality medicine. We work with industry colleagues, discussed policy issues ranging from sustainability of groups, more than any other generic drug company. governments and non-governmental organizations markets to antimicrobial resistance (AMR) with global 46 GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH Overcoming Obstacles to Access SUPPORTING OUR In 2018, we continued to work to receive approval GLOBAL HEALTH on products that for many years were out of reach for patients around the world. Many of PARTNERS these products had no or very limited generic or biosimilar competition, therefore the high cost of U.S. Pharmacopeia (USP) is a these life-saving medications restricted access for globally recognized non-profit patients. We have fought to expand access around organization that develops quality the globe by developing less costly medicine in standards to help safeguard the areas such as HIV/AIDS, women’s health, hepatitis, heart disease, diabetes, oncology and respiratory. drug supply and promote access to quality medicines in more than Our achievements in improving access to biosimilar 140 countries. These standards medicines and generics through our approvals, promote public health by giving regulatory submissions and R&D pipeline regulators, the pharmaceutical demonstrate how we continue to positively impact industry and other stakeholders global public health, enabling patients to have an access to publicly-available alternative to high-cost medications and improved specifications and methods to access to these important medicines. confirm the identity, potency, purity and performance of a medicine. Advocating for Change in the U.S. Mylan supports the important We continue to advocate for changes to the current work of USP by donating scientific structural issues in the U.S. healthcare system that methods and expertise as well as hinder access to generics and biosimilars. To that end, we are encouraged by recent government drug product materials to develop proposals that strive to ensure that generic and new and revised quality standards. brand products are placed on proper formulary Mylan did so more than 50 times tiers to lower out-of-pocket costs for patients, in 2018, earning a certificate of encourage use of generics and biosimilars, as well appreciation from USP’s CEO. By as create a much-needed generic and biosimilar supporting the standards-setting tier for specialty products. We applaud these process, Mylan helps to expedite proposals and look forward to patients benefitting the development of new and revised from the U.S. system the way that it was intended. standards, which facilitates patient This will encourage generics and biosimilars and access to quality medicines and allow innovation and competition to drive each improves public health worldwide. other, which in turn creates further access to more affordable medicine. 47 GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH Addressing Trade Policy, Intellectual Property and Other Potential Barriers to Access We encourage regulators to The pharmaceutical industry is truly global – patients on one continent may depend on a medicine that was made and packaged on multiple other continents. This interconnectivity requires inclusive, responsible policies and trade agreements that encourage take practical, reasonable competition and prioritize patient needs. approaches to regulation to prevent global escalation of intellectual Advocating for Responsible Trade Policy and More Efficient Drug Approvals property protections that also may While more work needs to be done, in 2018 we helped commission three surveys on the importance of a balanced trade delay timely patient access to agreement and the impact of trade on consumers in the U.S. and Canada. Mylan has publicly spoken on why trade agreements must strike a better balance between promoting innovation and ensuring expedited access to affordable drugs. In 2018, Mylan affordable medicine. participated in a roundtable discussion in the U.S. Congress on the U.S.-Mexico-Canada (USMCA) Free Trade Agreement. In 2018, we also demonstrated to regulators across different markets the significance of allowing generics and biosimilars to use a single comparator reference product when seeking drug approvals. This approach will support approval in multiple markets, saving money and time and will be more ethical, avoiding the need to expose additional human subjects for duplicative testing. Protecting Intellectual Property while Prioritizing Patient Health We work to reduce regulatory burdens that impede access to affordable medicine, such as slow approval processes and unnecessary hurdles. While we know companies must be profitable to demonstrate shareholder value, companies must also be careful not to undermine access through prolonged patent exclusivity and IP protection. Examples of excessive IP protections include patent term extensions or provisions related to data access, market access or approval processes that make bringing generics to market overly burdensome. In 2018, we shared our concerns with authorities regarding the impact escalating IP protections can have on access. This work was done in conjunction with the International Trade Commission on the USMCA and other international bodies including the World Intellectual Property Organization, the World Trade Organization and several local stakeholders. 48 GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH Additional Global Public Health Efforts Experience tells us that companies can either stand in the way of access to affordable medicine or facilitate it. We choose the latter. By advocating on policy issues around the world, providing input to governments working to solve technical and regulatory hurdles, leading industry organizations and participating in global consultations, we are working to ensure medicines are accessible and more affordable. Here are some examples: ISSUE 2018 ACTIVITY Continued advocating to enable Manufacture for Export (MFE), which will help strengthen the global supply of medicine. Also collaborated with the Australian government to improve the country’s IP framework to ensure timely access to generic and biosimilar medicines. Worked with the Canadian Generic Pharmaceutical Association (CGPA) and Canadian officials to provide additional insight and discuss options regarding negative implications the USMCA may have on patients’ ability to access biosimilars at a reduced cost. We also participated in the CGPA/pan Canadian Pharmaceutical Alliance (pCPA) working group to develop a policy and complementary tieredpricing framework to ensure generic drugs will continue to be accessible. Worked with the Ministry of Health (MoH) in India to explore the possibility of including medicine to treat multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and hepatitis in national health programs. Successfully pioneered the launch of PrEP (Tenofivir/Emtricitabine) in Irish retail pharmacies and supported the world’s largest PrEP Access to medicine trial in the U.K. focusing on an estimated 10,000 people at high risk of HIV infection. Pre-exposure prophylaxis is a course of antiHIV medications individuals take to reduce the risk of becoming infected if they are exposed to the virus. We also supported work to implement nationally-reimbursed PrEP programs in Ireland and Germany. Contributed to a new law in Portugal. Highlights include: increased access to medicine, earlier access to generic medicine and the creation of savings for the national health system and patients. The launch of Mylan’s Glatiramer Acetate (GA) ensured improved GA affordability. In the U.K., we encouraged the reintroduction of GA in the revised National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guideline for MS treatment, facilitating ongoing NHS funding through specialized commissioning. Mylan was awarded framework tender status in England recognizing best value. Helped commission three surveys on a balanced trade agreement and its impact to consumers in the U.S. and Canada. Also, participated in a roundtable discussion in the U.S. Congress on the U.S.-Mexico-Canada (USMCA) Free Trade Agreement. 49 GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH ISSUE 2018 ACTIVITY Collaborated with the Generic and Biosimilar Medicines Association and advocated the Australian government to encourage the uptake of generics and biosimilars as a policy solution. Collaborated with the CGPA to ensure Mylan branded products and biosimilars remain accessible and affordable for patients and Use/acceptance of worked with Biosimilars Canada to provide feedback to the pCPA, resulting in the publication of the ‘Biologics Policy Directions & pCPA generics and biosimilars Negotiations’ guidance document, which is highly supportive of biosimilars introductions. Helped develop a new biosimilar position paper in Italy, asserting safety in switching between originators and biosimilars. Worked with the French government to shorten the time for receiving market authorization (MA), as part of a dedicated government Regulatory approval initiative. Also created a project that allowed the reduction of the number of pending MAs from 72 to 13. Self-tests Supported work done by the MoH to approve HIV self-tests to be sold at the pharmacy level in Germany. Preparing for Brexit The formal change in the relationship between the European Union ( EU ) and the U.K. as a result of the U.K. referendum to leave the EU ( Brexit ) brings a level of patient impact along with significant uncertainties and implications for companies, governments and society at large. Supply and distribution of life-saving medicine could be negatively impacted. Mylan is continuing to actively work with national regulatory bodies, industry associations, members of the EU Parliament and the EU Commission to promote continued regulatory alignment, safeguard smooth product transfers and ensure that medicines can cross borders. 50 GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH Partnering to Address Antimicrobial Resistance Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) continues to be a major global public health problem negatively impacting the lives of hundreds of thousands each year. For this reason, Educating to Combat AMR in 2016 the U.N. called for concerted action from governments and various business sectors to address the implications of AMR. Low-income and middle-income Mylan partnered with medical schools in India to educate residents on countries are disproportionately burdened. Contributing factors include patients’ the rational use of antimicrobial agents in managing infections. Training vulnerability to invasive bacterial illness, irrational use of antibiotics and poor on this topic is especially important in India where a high disease burden, laboratory support for clinical diagnosis resulting in overuse of antibiotics. poor public health infrastructure, rising incomes and unregulated sales of Mitigating AMR requires a holistic approach and multiantibiotics have amplified the crisis of antimicrobial resistance. stakeholder cooperation to address issues such as universal access to antimicrobials, appropriate use, surveillance, stewardship and responsible manufacturing. As a global healthcare company, we must consider the diverse needs and circumstances of patients and communities when supporting and developing measures to address AMR. Policy intended to protect patients in one region may create unintended disadvantages for patients in another. Mylan is a signatory to the Davos Declaration on combating AMR and a founding board member of the AMR Industry Alliance. The Alliance is one of the largest private sector coalitions established to provide sustainable solutions to curb AMR. It has rallied more than 100 biotech, diagnostics, generics and research-based pharmaceutical companies and associations to join forces against this issue. The Alliance measures and drives the progress of the life-sciences industry to curb AMR in four areas: appropriate use; access; research and science; and the environment. Mylan adopted the AMR Industry Alliance Common Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework in 2018 and is an active member of its manufacturing work group. We also participated in the Access to Medicine Foundation’s Antimicrobial Resistance Benchmark 2018. In addition to the AMR Industry Alliance, we engage on AMR issues through our national and regional trade associations, NGO collaborations and the EcoPharmaco-Stewardship Inter-Association Initiative, a cross-industry collaboration on environmental issues. In India, we are also engaged with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MOEF) and other agencies regarding AMR. 51 GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH 52 Community Health 05 Better Community Health CHAPTER SNAPSHOT Key 2018 Accomplishments • Donated hundreds of millions of doses of medicine to assist patients in need • Created a new global structure to more effectively coordinate our philanthropic initiatives across regions and functions Current Challenges • Scaling the coordination of our growing philanthropic efforts worldwide Future Opportunities • Continue to build an effective and efficient global philanthropic framework, tools and strategic focus 53 Community Health Supporting Communities In addition to our focus on providing high quality medicines to people who need them, we know many other factors affect someone’s ability to live a healthy life. That’s why we continually work to identify additional ways to positively impact our community. Whether through monetary contributions, product and service donations, program and event support or through our employees contributing their time and expertise to help others, our efforts are aimed at improving quality of life by responding to local needs Since Mylan was founded, and circumstances. “giving back” has been a We currently manage community initiatives based on region. For example, in India, we have a very robust program honoring the India Companies Act, which mandates that companies spend 2% of their average net profits (made during the three immediately core value and common preceding financial years) on corporate social responsibility initiatives. In the U.S., Mylan has a donations policy and committee that manages contributions. Mylan country managers oversee community initiatives in other regions in accordance with local and practice as we strive to company policies. The Mylan Charitable Foundation, an independent 501(c)(3) organization, also provides financial support to help strengthen the communities meet community education, social services and health needs, among other areas. where we live and work. Enhancing Our Commitment to Global Philanthropy for the Future As our organization has grown, we have continued to expand our reach and impact. To ensure we are making the most of our collective efforts, we are in the process of creating a new global infrastructure to more effectively coordinate these initiatives across regions and functions. To advance this work, we have begun a priority initiative to build the framework, tools and strategic focus required to form more cohesive philanthropic planning, decision-making and tracking mechanisms across our organization. The establishment of this globally coordinated philanthropic effort will be overseen by our Head of Global Sustainability. Clean Water children with disabilities Hurricane Relief 54 Community Health #FluFree women’s education empowerment Developing Life Skills First Aid ACCESS FOOD AID Medical Missions FLOOD RELIEF holiday gift donations CHRONIC ILLNESS In 2018, our community engagement efforts were as diverse as the regions we serve and the people they helped. VULNERABLE POPULATIONS The following pages highlight just a few of the ways we supported local education, health, social initiatives and First Aid CANCER other community efforts. CLEAN WATER RURAL HEALTH SANITATION DROUGHT ASSISTANCE Wellness FEEDING THE HUNGRY 55 Community Health Empowering West Virginia Children to be Curious, Active, Resilient and Engaged (CARE) through STEM In a new collaboration with West Virginia University (U.S.), Mylan committed a $5 million charitable contribution over 10 years to develop and implement a program that will expose children across the state of West Virginia to STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) and challenge traditional thinking about how STEM skills can be applied. Called STEM-CARE, it is intended to inspire West Virginia’s youth by demystifying STEM and showing children that STEM curricula and career opportunities are valuable for those who want to pursue paths beyond being engineers or lab scientists. It aims to expand a student’s vision of career possibilities and potential education tracks, whether it be a technical degree or program or an alternate form of higher education. The program’s basic tenets will reinforce that STEM skills are fundamental for solving everyday challenges, from managing personal finance to following a recipe in the kitchen, and other important life skills. Improving Sanitation and Access to Clean Water in India Improving access to clean water and sanitation is a focus for Mylan India. Of the 1.7 million people who die from unsafe water, sanitation and hygiene each year, more than 600,000 are in India.1 And according to the U.N., 30 million children there do not have access to toilet facilities in schools.2 While approximately 80% of India’s primary schools are operated by the government,3 nearly half of these schools don’t have usable toilet facilities for female students causing an alarming drop-out rate of 23%4 for adolescent girls. To help address these issues, Mylan India is implementing a comprehensive sanitation and hygiene program in schools across the states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Over the last three years, Mylan India has provided 21 toilet facilities to schools in different states under the Swachh Vidyalaya program,5 with eight multi-unit facilities installed in 2018 benefiting around 2,600 students. Mylan also provided five schools in Parwada Mandal, Visakhapatnam with reverse osmosis (RO) purification water systems. This initiative will benefit approximately 1,500 children by providing them with clean, safe drinking water. Additionally, in an effort to assist communities with proper collection of solid waste, Mylan donated garbage disposal trucks to four villages. 1 https://www.gatesnotes.com/Development/Indias-War-on-Human-Waste 3 https://www.indiatoday.in/education-today/featurephilia/story/primary-education-in-india-stats-and-challenges-303803-2016-01-14 2 http://in.one.un.org/page/sustainable-development-goals/ 4 https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/udaipur/23-girls-drop-out-due-to-lack-of-toilets-in-school-of-the-country-reveals-study/ articleshow/56490444.cms 5 The Ministry of Human Resource Development has launched Swachh Vidyalaya Programme under Swachh Bharat Mission with an objective to provide separate toilets for boys and girls in all government schools. 56 Community Health For more than 30 years, Mylan has manufactured Donated hundreds medicines in Puerto Rico, and we are committed to of millions of doses helping the territory and its citizens after Hurricane Maria of medicines to devastated the island. In 2018, the Mylan Charitable organizations such as Foundation approved a $1 million grant to SBP, a Americares, Brother’s nonprofit helping with the long-term recovery efforts Brother, Direct Relief and rebuilding of homes. To date, SBP has International, Dispensary repaired 40 homes, and with the Mylan of Hope, Health Partners Charitable Foundation’s support as a leading International of Canada partner, they are on track to rebuild 100 and Heart to Heart homes throughout 2019. International, among others, to assist those in need. Supplied boxes of allergen chambers to the Bulgarian Dermatological Society for a skin allergy initiative aimed at helping those who suffer from chronic allergic diseases. Responded to severe Sponsored the Bang Promoted AIDS drought in Australia Len Football Academy awareness and by donating funds to youth football program in prevention targeting supply farmers with Thailand for the seventh youth and vulnerable much needed hay for year in a row. The program populations around livestock. helps kids develop life the world. Work skills and encourages a included publications, healthy lifestyle. campaigns, screenings and community outreach. 57 Community Health Donated funds to help rebuild the lives and homes of those affected by flooding in Kerala, India. Mylan for Participated in marathons supporting cancer and cardiovascular disease patients, Kerala children with disabilities and women’s empowerment, among others. Hundreds of employees in Bulgaria, France, Germany, Ireland, Romania, Spain, Turkey and the U.S. joined races across the globe. #FluFree Contributed products for medical missions supported by AusViet Charity, Cambodia Vision, Philippine Australian Medical Association, Rotary Launched a flu vaccine Australia World Community Services and Youth Supported a variety campaign to increase with a Mission (Papua New Guinea). of children’s causes access and save more in Finland, Greece, lives in Ireland. #FluFree Hungary and the U.S. specifically calls on with donations such employers to support as food, first aid their employees in getting supplies, and the flu vaccine. holiday gifts. 58 Oversight and Compliance 06 Oversight and Compliance CHAPTER SNAPSHOT Key 2018 Accomplishments • Increased our engagement and dialogue with stakeholders • Added GSR to the charter of the Risk Oversight Committee of Mylan’s Board of Directors Current Challenges • Continuing to safeguard the integrity and continuity of our business as we encounter evolving regulations and requirements and advance into new geographies Future Opportunities • Utilizing our new Business Transformation office to bring additional discipline to our next phase of organic growth • Continuously improving the sustainability of our operations and those of our suppliers 59 Oversight and Compliance We continue to recognize the growing interest in GSR management, performance and transparency as the investment community and others integrate environmental and social factors, in addition to existing governance factors (ESG), into their priorities. Capital is increasingly directed towards companies that seek to realize opportunities and create value by solving societal challenges while effectively managing inherent risks. Our business model – built on access, diversification and durability – enables us to do just that. A Strong Foundation Through this rigorous process, we seek to deliver continued long-term growth and attractive shareholder returns by maximizing new products, reallocating Mylan has created a durable business model which includes significant diversification investments to drive share of economically profitable products, all while maintaining in our commercial, operational and scientific platforms with no reliance on one a competitive sourcing and manufacturing footprint. single product or geographic area. While the U.S. market remains important, we are steadily growing our business and revenues in Europe and the Rest of World. Our product portfolio, manufacturing capabilities and global operating platform enable us Stakeholder Outreach to support the needs of patients and customers around the globe. We increased our engagement and dialogue with our stakeholders in 2018. Topics of interest included pricing, quality and risk management, company Building for the Future culture and environmental impact. Our approach to supporting the SDGs was also a recurrent theme. As we look to Mylan’s future, sustainability cannot be dependent on prior success alone. Although Mylan’s next phase of evolution will predominantly be driven by organic We welcomed the opportunity to share what we believe differentiates Mylan and growth, it will require a company willing to reinvent itself in order to further build upon demonstrate why we are a relevant partner dedicated to doing what's right, not its success while keeping pace with ever-changing market dynamics. We are driving what's easy. These conversations also informed our GSR issues assessment and capital market disciplines into every segment of our business, distinguishing between related GSR oversight enhancements. value-creating and value-consuming assets. We’ve formalized that work and have established a Business Transformation office that is using a highly disciplined financial lens to unlock latent value from the assets we’ve integrated throughout the company. Net Sales by Segment 2018 Net Sales by Product Type OTC Rest of World North America Rx: Physician prescribed and marketed mostly with Rx/Bx a brand name 27% 36% Bx: Branded generics Gx: Unbranded generics OTC: Over-the-counter and consumer 37% Europe Total Revenues: $11.4B Gx 60 Oversight and Compliance Global Social Responsibility Governance Risk Management We are further integrating relevant GSR components into our strategic and Mylan is committed to operating ethically operational efforts. To support top-level commitment and visibility to GSR, Mylan’s and with integrity and seeks to apply a Head of Global Sustainability now reports to Mylan’s CEO. This function oversees holistic approach to risk management. the development and execution of Mylan’s goals on relevant GSR topics and By embedding the company’s strategic philanthropy. Additionally, a multifunctional GSR Advisory Committee comprised planning process into our ERM of senior leaders convenes monthly and supports the integration of relevant GSR processes, we identify and manage topics across the organization. To ensure top-level accountability, Mylan’s Risk risks while also identifying and managing Oversight Committee, established by Mylan’s Board of Directors in 2018, oversees opportunities. management’s efforts with respect to GSR. In 2018, we enhanced our enterprise risk Risk Governance assessment, a significant component of the company’s ERM program used We operate in a complex and rapidly changing environment and must uphold to identify and mitigate emerging and adequate oversight and processes to manage enterprise risks and support the key risks. As we conducted our first continued growth of our company. The previously mentioned Risk Oversight comprehensive GSR priority assessment, Committee was formed by our Board of Directors to support its supervision of the we took the opportunity to align the company’s enterprise risk management framework. Together with the Board’s Audit processes, allowing for the GSR priority and Compliance Committees, the Risk Oversight Committee ensures oversight of assessment to inform the enterprise management’s responsibilities to identify, assess and manage material risks, and the risk assessment and ultimately the chairs of these committees will meet at least semi-annually to discuss risk-related company’s risk profile.1 matters to ensure there is cohesive oversight by the committees on behalf of the Board. As we expand into new geographies To operationalize our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program, Mylan established – potentially with increased risk a Risk Management Team (RMT) in 2018 to identify risks and opportunities and to profiles – safeguarding integrity in evolve organizational readiness. It reports to Mylan’s Executive Governance Team business conduct is critical. Mylan and includes many of Mylan’s most senior leaders as well as Mylan’s Head of Global has well-established procedures to Sustainability and Head of Global Internal Audit. identify, mitigate and monitor risks as part of expanding our business. More specifically, risks associated with expansion into new geographies is an element of our ERM program which is leveraged by Internal Audit in determining areas over which it will perform audits. Please see Mylan’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K 1 For more detailed information about the risks and uncertainties associated with our business activities, see our Annual for more information. Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2018. 61 Oversight and Compliance Ethical Marketing and Promotion Mylan’s Standards for Interactions with Healthcare Professionals (HCPs) instruct employees on proper behavior Mylan employees often interact with when engaging with HCPs. The guidelines are grounded in Mylan’s companywide standards and take into members of the healthcare community consideration local laws and regulations. Compliance with the standards is mandatory for any member of Mylan’s as part of their efforts to educate on the appropriate use and efficacy of workforce who interacts with HCPs. Mylan’s products. These interactions are important and fundamental to increasing patient access but may bring elevated risk. We have wellMylan's Balanced Pricing Model established global, regional and local policies and procedures that inform Given our long history of providing high quality, low-cost generic pharmaceuticals, we are uniquely situated to work with employees on appropriate interactions customers, payors, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other partners to find solutions and meet the needs of the with the healthcare community and patients and families we serve. We also have a strong track record of developing new products, particularly complex and requirements pertaining to drug difficult-to-formulate medicines, and are committed to making safe, high-quality products accessible to patients across all income levels. promotion and ethical marketing. Risk assessments and employee training are With respect to Mylan’s generic portfolio, we offer hundreds of affordable products all at a fraction of the price of the key components of each. We strive to equivalent brand name medicine. The prices of these drugs often decrease every year. As negotiations occur with our comply with regulations and adhere to customers or as we participate in tender programs or public/private partnerships around the globe, we will continue to do so ethical standards set forth by Mylan and based on an assessment of supply, demand, patient need and the affordability of our product, especially as it relates to the industry associations. equivalent brand name drug. Mylan’s Global Policy for the Marketing As it pertains to our brand portfolio, Mylan is committed to pricing its products in a way that reflects their value to patients and Advertising Review Council requires and providers. Mylan will endeavor to not raise the prices of our branded products more than once per year, however, we will the establishment of local procedures assess the prices of our products on a regular basis. Our aim is for any price increases to be reasonable in light of relevant factors, including current economic indicators and the state of the overall business marketplace. to ensure that all promotional materials and other commercial communications The socioeconomic conditions within each market that Mylan does business are inherently considered as part of our generic are reviewed and approved internally and brand pricing assessments, as is the importance of sustaining our ability to consistently provide patients in each market by appropriate subject matter with the quality products needed. This is reflected in our ability to provide 59 billion doses of medicine in 2018 to more than experts. The goal of the local review 165 countries and territories around the world at an average price of 19 cents per dose. procedures implemented under the policy is to ensure that all materials and communications intended for promotional or commercial purposes are In connection with its oversight responsibilities, the Compliance Committee of Mylan’s Board of Directors reviews accurate, truthful, medically/scientifically global compliance-related policies relating to pricing and/or commercialization of the Company’s products and services. sound, not misleading and compliant with all applicable marketing, legal, regulatory and medical requirements and company policies. 62 Oversight and Compliance Upholding a Culture of Compliance and Good Conduct Compliance Training Mylan’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines Everyone at Mylan – and those acting on our behalf – is personally responsible and accountable for the guiding principles on how employees and those company’s reputation and dedication to doing business with integrity. Mylan works to provide the adequate working on our behalf should conduct themselves. It procedures and guidance to support that individual responsibility. Mylan’s Chief Administrative and Compliance also informs on policies and standards while providing Officer has the operational responsibility to ensure Mylan’s Corporate Compliance Program is effective and robust high-level guidance on critical areas of the company’s and directs its day-to-day implementation. To ensure broad perspectives and independence in the Compliance business operations. Office, Mylan’s Chief Administrative and Compliance Officer reports to the Board’s Compliance Committee and the Chief Executive Officer. We require and provide dedicated training on antiKey accomplishments in 2018 include: corruption, fair competition and Mylan’s Standards for Interactions with Healthcare Providers (for employees • engaged an external consulting firm to conduct a compliance program effectiveness review, including with relevant job responsibilities). Vendors that may relevant policy documents, processes, training materials and due diligence efforts; interact with government officials on our behalf also • continued enhancement of Mylan’s employee data protection and privacy policies, processes and training receive anti-corruption training. Depending on their role, to ensure compliance with the evolving Global Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and other regulatory part-time employees and contractors are required to requirements; and take subsets of the trainings listed above. • successfully completed all year-one requirements under Mylan Inc. and Mylan Specialty L.P.’s Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (OIG) and submitted our annual report to the OIG. OUR TRAINING GOALS GOAL: Maintain and communicate Mylan’s GOAL: Maintain and communicate Mylan’s GOAL: Maintain and communicate Mylan’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Policy and train at least 90% of Fair Competition Policy and train at least train at least 90% of employees on the Code Mylan’s applicable employees on the company’s 90% of Mylan’s applicable employees on the of Business Conduct and Ethics Anti-Corruption Policy and related laws company’s Fair Competition Policy 96% 100% 96% TRAINED TRAINED TRAINED IN 2018* IN 2018* IN 2018* *Denotes percentage of employees who are not overdue on each training as of Dec. 31, 2018. 63 Oversight and Compliance Fighting Corruption and Promoting Fair Competition Training topics Mylan’s anti-corruption program is based on the elements of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and Securities and Exchange include but are not Commission (SEC) Resource Guide to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; the U.K. Ministry of Justice Bribery Act 2010 limited to: Guidance; and Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Good Practice Guidance on Internal Controls, Ethics and Compliance. • Code of Business Conduct Our Global Anti-Corruption Policy strictly forbids bribery and corruption in any form anywhere we do business. The policy defines and Ethics bribery and corruption, including facilitation payments, which are strictly prohibited even where permitted under law. Mylan has • Anti-Corruption monitoring and auditing procedures in place to identify and deter such payments. We reassess our anti-corruption program periodically and make updates as warranted. • Fair Competition, Anti-Trust and Pricing Requirements Through our ERM program, Internal Audit assesses anti-corruption and anti-fraud management over entities throughout the world • Supplier Code of Conduct from a corruption risk perspective. Size (the number of people and sales volume) and a country’s ranking in the Transparency International Corruption Perception Index (CPI) are key to informing the risk profile of an entity. Entities identified as higher risk • Standards for Interactions along with those of strategic importance to Mylan are a particular focus. Further, we monitor business activities that are deemed with Healthcare Providers an elevated risk – such as HCP interactions – through established internal processes and controls. Our procedures also address • Fair Employment Practices our business partners. and Recognizing and Preventing Harassment, Discrimination and Reporting Compliance Concerns Retaliation Mylan encourages open communication, provides a variety of channels • Mylan’s Corporate Integrity for reporting potential compliance violations and strictly prohibits Agreement retaliation of any reports made in good faith. Employees are encouraged to discuss compliance matters with their supervisor, Human Relations, • C-TPAT (Customs – Trade the Legal department, their local compliance officer or the Office of Partnership Against Global Compliance. They also can use Mylan’s Compliance Line, which is Terrorism) operated by an external party. It is available 24/7 and permits anonymous • General Privacy Overview reports in all countries in local languages where permitted by law. For • Engaging Healthcare investigating, resolving and remediating reported events, our Global Policy Professionals as on Reporting and Investigating Compliance-Related Matters outlines a Consultants, Advisory Board clear process that includes: Members and External • review of every report by our Head of Global Compliance; Speakers • a thorough, impartial and timely investigation of each report in • Records & Information coordination with Human Relations, our Legal department and other Management and Good functions, as appropriate; and Documentation Practices • fair and consistent disciplinary measures, when necessary. • General Data Protection The policy is available to all employees on the company’s intranet. Regulation (GDPR) Visit Mylan.com/GSR for more information. 64 Oversight and Compliance Ensuring Good Conduct in Partnerships External partners sometimes act as intermediaries on our behalf or in settings where special skills or expertise are required. Given their role, it’s essential these partners comply with Mylan’s ethical and anti-corruption standards and act with good judgment. Mylan’s Office of Global Compliance (OGC) identifies business partner categories that may carry higher inherent corruption and/or reputational risk. These partners, noted during the business contract drafting and approval process, are subject to a risk review depending on the aggregated risk factors assigned, as well as other Mylan compliance standards. Those identified as having an elevated risk are subject to a due diligence process including investigation and clarification of discovered legal, civil and reputational allegations or convictions. If any concerns are discovered that cannot be adequately resolved, it’s our policy that the OGC recommends terminating the proposed business partnership. Anti-corruption language, right-to-audit clauses and ethical expectations are included in Mylan contracts. Any potentially high-risk business partners undergo a due diligence review and annual monitoring. GOAL Train at least 90% of business partners who interact with government officials on Mylan’s behalf on our Anti-Corruption Policy and procedures. Percentage trained in 2018: 96% 65 Oversight and Compliance Enhancing Supplier Relationships Mylan relies on its suppliers to deliver high quality, affordable and accessible products to our customers and ultimately to patients. Maintaining good relationships helps ensure a high quality and reliable supply. In 2018, we continued to build out our Supplier Relationship Management program, focusing on preferred suppliers, to enhance long-term strategic partnerships. Looking forward, we plan to continue to enhance our list of preferred suppliers by segmenting and consolidating our supply base, further reducing risk. Mitigating Supply Chain Risk We have a robust due diligence process to better understand supplier capabilities and ensure their ability to comply with regulatory and compliance requirements. Our source selection process is governed by a Source Review Committee (SRC), comprised of a cross-functional internal team from science, legal and sourcing. This team also manages the selection of API suppliers. Mylan has a proactive risk mitigation program to protect the supply chain by strengthening supply agreements with current suppliers and qualifying alternate suppliers. We monitor performance through reporting, trend analysis and consistent business review meetings. Mylan has established escalation and cross-functional issue management processes. Sourcing teams routinely meet with suppliers to review the performance of supply and create action plans to address identified risks. For our third party finished dose formulation suppliers, we maintain an end-to-end product management approach. 66 Oversight and Compliance Expanding Sustainable Sourcing We plan to build out competency in sustainable sourcing processes and procedures across the organization. Mylan’s internal Council for Sustainable Sourcing oversees our practices and In 2018, Mylan revised its Supplier provides guidance on sustainable sourcing; sets annual goals and objectives; and develops, Code of Conduct, which can be found on implements and monitors compliance with sustainable sourcing practices and metrics. All our website, to more clearly align applicable employees must take bi-annual Supplier Code of Conduct training. with the U.N. Global Compact and We continually work to improve our operations and expect our business partners to international conventions and to promote similar principles throughout their supply chain. Mylan expects our suppliers to act in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and our Supplier Code of Conduct which communicate our expectation that provides guidance for doing business with Mylan. The Supplier Code and our terms and suppliers apply comparable standards conditions are available on Mylan.com and are referenced in our purchase orders. In 2018, throughout their supply chain. our Supplier Code of Conduct was distributed to 100% of direct material suppliers and 58% of indirect suppliers. Our intent is to increase the distribution to our indirect suppliers as we move through 2019. MANAGING SUPPLIER DIVERSITY IN THE U.S. In 2018, Mylan worked to enhance awareness of its U.S. supplier diversity program among sourcing and procurement teams across the business. Senior management met quarterly to review goals and achievements and when necessary, recommend corrective action. We have worked to build out relationships with small and diverse businesses. Mylan uses a supplier portal where suppliers are invited to register as an existing or potential supplier and provide their diversity status, certification and capabilities. This data is used during our competitive bidding process. Thanks to focused efforts in 2018, Mylan achieved its overall diversity spend business goal for 2018, with a few target areas exceeding expectations. Looking ahead, Mylan will continue to strengthen its small and diverse business engagement process by enhancing our training, reporting and enforcement programs. Internally, we expect to further highlight diverse suppliers and provide easy access to external databases for sourcing team members to utilize in the competitive bidding process. We also plan to implement an Indirect Sourcing Policy and track diversity sourcing adherence in the competitive bidding process where applicable. Visit Mylan.com for more information. 67 Oversight and Compliance Respecting Human Rights As a signatory to the U.N. Global Compact, we understand our responsibility and opportunity to support and promote the protection of human rights beyond our own operations. We do so through our core business, how we conduct ourselves and in our dealings with partners. Mylan is committed to the 10 principles of the U.N. Global Compact and respects the International Bill of Human Rights and the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organization. Mylan’s global policies and associated procedures, employee and partner training and due diligence are the foundation of our work to mitigate the risk of human rights violations. Topics critical to addressing human rights are addressed through a variety of Mylan policies including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Supplier Code of Conduct, Global Policy on Combatting Human Trafficking in Persons and our companywide EHS program. Examples include: • freedom of association, • legal compliance, • prohibition of trafficking of persons, • prohibition of forced and child labor, • handling of identity and immigration documents, • wages, • working hours, • safety in the workplace, • preventing harassment and • recruitment practices. 68 Appendix Appendix BETTER PATIENT HEALTH Our Access Key Performance Indicators As reported in 2017 GSR Report* Data per 2018 Doses sold ~69 billion ~59 billion Number of products >7,500 >7,500 Number of countries and territories reached >165 >165 Therapeutic categories 10 10 Coverage percentage of the top 10 causes of death globally N/A 90% Coverage percentage of the top 10 causes of death across N/A 77% lowand lower-middle income countries North America: 359 North America: 340 Europe: 174 Products in development by region1 Europe: 200 Japan, Australia and New Zealand: 181 Rest of World: 600 Emerging Markets: 310 North America: 267 North America: 200 Europe: 528 Products pending approval by region1 Europe: 700 Japan, Australia and New Zealand: 41 Rest of World: 1,600 Emerging Markets: 947 Types of products See page 80 Average selling price of Mylan's medicines 17 cents per dose 19 cents per dose 1 Products taken from internal data and rounded 69 Appendix Our Access Key Performance Indicators As reported in 2017 GSR Report Data per 2018 North America: 82.3% Europe: 90.3% Customer service levels globally and by region N/A Rest of World: 95.7% Global: 90.3% Percentage of lowand lower-middle income countries reached N/A 90% Doses sold in lowand lower-middle income countries N/A >5 billion Number of products on the WHO’s Essential Medicines List N/A >150 HIV/AIDS: 46 Reproductive Health: 9 Tuberculosis: 8 Number of products on the WHO list of prequalified products Influenza: 3 63 (including cross-listed approvals) Malaria 1 Hepatitis:1 Total: 681 Active partnerships or organizational memberships related to increasing access See pages 78-79 to medicines 1 Including two approvals in January 2019 70 Appendix As reported in Additional Access Data 2017 GSR Report Data per 2018 From 2013-2017, we invested more than Total investments in R&D $704.5M in 2018 $3 billion in cumulative R&D spend Number of patents filed to date ~4,000 >4,500 Number of clinical trials >100 >100 Licenses via the Medicines Patent Pool N/A 5 Percentage of the 69 FP2020 countries in which Mylan has registered its 72% 80% contraceptive portfolio (50 out of 69 countries) (55 out of 69 countries)1 Number of women and girls in the FP2020 countries that Mylan provided ~11 million ~10 million contraceptives to 1 Including FP2020 countries where Mylan’s portfolio is registered and FP2020 countries that Mylan supplies through the UN Population Fund (UNFPA) 71 Appendix BETTER EMPLOYEE HEALTH Our People As reported in 2017 GSR Report Data per 2018 Total workers: 35,560 Total workers: 35,260 Mylan’s workforce Employees: 31,828 Employees: 31,207 Temporary workers: 3,732 Temporary workers: 4,053 North America: 21.2% North America: 19.0% Workforce by region Europe: 27.4% Europe: 28.8% Rest of World: 51.4% Rest of World: 52.2% Operations: 58.0% Operations: 57.1% Sales & Marketing: 19.7% Sales & Marketing: 21.0% Workforce by function General & Admin: 13.7% General & Admin: 13.7% Scientific Affairs: 8.6% Scientific Affairs: 8.2% Under 25: 4.2% Under 25: 4.0% 25-34: 37.4% 25-34: 36.9% 35-44: 30.4% 35-44: 30.8% Employees by age group 45-54: 19.1% 45-54: 19.3% 55-64: 8.6% 55-64: 8.6% 65 and over: 0.3% 65 and over: 0.4% Average: 39.4 years of age North America: Female: 38.2%, Male: 61.8% North America: Female: 40.7%, Male: 59.3% Europe: Female: 55.3%, Male: 44.7% Europe: Female: 54.9%, Male 45.1% Employee gender by region1 Rest of World: Female: 11.9%, Male: 88.1% Rest of World: Female: 13.8%, Male: 86.2% Globally: Female: 28.3%, Male: 71.7% Globally: Female: 29.8% , Male: 70.2% All references to “workers” and “workforce” include employees and temporary workers. 1 Based on Mylan’s HR information system 72 Appendix Our People As reported in 2017 GSR Report Data per 2018 North America: 97.9% N/A Europe: 93.2% Full-time equivalent workforce by region Rest of World: 99.7% Globally: N/A Globally: 97.4% Board diversity1 Female: 36.0%, Male: 64.0% Female: 33.3%, Male: 66.7% People managers by gender2 Female: 26.0%, Male: 74.0% Female: 26.8%, Male: 73.2% % of male employees responsible for managing people 16.0% 15.8% as a percentage of total male population2 % of female employees responsible for managing people 14.0% 13.1% as a percentage of total female population2 % of senior management that is female2,3 N/A 19.1% Employee training and education ~2.5M learning activities ~2.9M learning activities % of employees included in Mylan’s performance management N/A 96.6% process4 Average employee tenure by gender2 N/A Female: 8.4 years, Male: 7.5 years All references to “workers” and “workforce” include employees and temporary workers. 1 Includes CEO Heather Bresch 2 Based on Mylan’s HR information system 3 Grade 65+ 4 Not including employees covered by collective bargaining agreements in the U.S., employees on a leave of absence and new employees 73 Appendix Our People As reported in 2017 GSR Report Data per 2018 Employee turnover rate Overall: 17.8% Overall: 16.7% Voluntary1 N/A Female: 8.9%, Male: 8.3% Involuntary1 N/A Female: 4.5%, Male: 5.9% Other1,2 N/A Female: 1.7%, Male: 2.3% New hire rate N/A Overall: 15.3% New hire rate by gender1 N/A Female: 16.3%, Male: 14.1% % employee engagement3 N/A 70.0% Health and Safety Performance* As reported in 2017 GSR Report Data per 2018 Total Recordable Incident Rate 0.51 0.53 (Recordable cases per 200,000 hours worked) Total DART Incident Rate4 0.38 0.39 (DART cases per 200,000 hours worked) Total Lost Time Incident Rate 0.30 0.34 (Lost time cases per 200,000 hours worked) Number of sites certified to OHSAS 18001 5 12 Number of sites certified to the British Safety Council N/A 2 *Data as of January 2019. Information may be restated due to the availability of additional data. Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct operational control. 1 Based on Mylan’s HR information system 2 Reasons include retirement, mutual agreement and others 3 See Chapter Two, Better Employee Health. 4 Annual incident rates are calculated per 100 employees. Assuming the average employee works 2,000 hours per year, 100 employees equals 200,000 hours worked. 74 Appendix BETTER ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH Environmental External Certifications As reported in 2017 GSR Report Data per 2018 Number of sites certified to ISO 14001 N/A1 20 Number of sites certified to ISO 50001 N/A1 8 Water Use & Discharge Summary (thousand m3) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total water supply 3,096 3,136 3,244 3,299 Total water recycled and reused 133 370 424 467 Total water discharged 1,669 1,613 1,616 1,554 Sites with zero liquid discharge (ZLD) systems 6 7 9 10 • Where applicable, prior year data have been restated due to improved data quality. • Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct operational control • Total wastewater discharge includes sanitary/domestic sewage. • Some data include estimates and may be updated at a later time when more accurate data is available. 1 In 2017, Mylan only reported on its API site certifications. 75 Appendix Water Use by Sources (thousand m3) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Municipal / Third party 3,016 3,056 3,148 3,179 On-site borewell 73 73 89 112 Rainwater 2 2 2 2 Other 5 5 5 5 Waste Management (thousand tonnes) 2017 2018 Total waste generated 56 59 Hazardous waste 36 40 Non-hazardous waste 20 19 Percentage of waste recycled or sent to energy recovery 68% 69% Significant spills 0 0 • Where applicable, prior year data have been restated due to improved data quality. • Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct operational control • Total wastewater discharge includes sanitary/domestic sewage. • Some data include estimates and may be updated at a later time when more accurate data is available. 76 Appendix Energy Purchased (GWh) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total energy purchased 542 553 568 590 Renewable energy sources 16 36 56 72 Non-renewable energy sources 526 517 512 518 Purchased Energy Intensity Ratio (GWh / million USD revenue) 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.05 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (thousand tonnes CO2e) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total GHG Emissions 706 714 727 734 Scope 1 GHG emissions 370 388 402 402 Scope 2 GHG emissions (market-based) 336 326 325 332 Total GHG Emissions Intensity Ratio (tonnes CO2e / million USD revenue) 75 65 61 64 • 2015 is base year for total GHG emissions • Scope 2 emissions are based on market-based method. • Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct operational control • Data from 2015–2018 have been adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures, in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol. • Excludes data and sources from commercial, employee travel and commutes, small administrative/lab sites, small warehouses and other business transportation • Data do not include process emissions from manufacturing or emissions from insignificant sources such as welding gases, lab gases, fire extinguishers, dry ice, etc. • All solvent combustion in air pollution control devices in Scope 1 emissions is treated as ethanol. • 2017 GHG emissions data were verified by a third-party to a reasonable level of assurance using the methodology of the GHG Protocol issued by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute. 2018 third party data verification is in progress. • Energy and GHG Emissions intensity ratios use revenue as a denominator in million USD. • Where applicable, prior year data have been restated due to improved data quality. • Some data include estimates and may be updated at a later time when more accurate data are available. 77 Appendix OVERSIGHT AND COMPLIANCE Business Ethics and Compliance Training at Mylan As reported in 2017 GSR Report Data per 2018 % business partners who interact with government officials on our behalf, trained 91% 96% on our Anti-Corruption Policy and procedures % of employees trained in Mylan’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 100% 96% (of employees assigned this training) % of employees trained in Mylan’s Anti-Corruption Policy and related laws 98% 100% (of employees assigned this training) % of employees trained in Mylan’s Fair Competition Policy 99% 96% (of employees assigned this training) 78 Appendix Collaborating to Improve Access Working with global partners enables Mylan to expand access to high quality medicine. We routinely collaborate with industry associations, global public health COMMERCE ORGANIZATIONS entities, commerce organizations, governments, non-governmental organizations USIBC (US-India Business Council) (NGOs) and others to help create better health for a better world. The following are some examples. U.S. Chamber of Commerce GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS UN Global Compact WHO (World Health Organization) INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS Association for Accessible Medicines (AAM) AESEG (Spanish Generic Medicines Association) APOGEN (Portuguese Association of Generic Medicines and Biosimilars) AssoGenerici (Italy Association of Generic Medicines and Biosimilars) BGMA (British Generic Manufacturers Association) BioWV BOGIN (Netherlands Association for Biosimilars and Generic Medicines) CGPA (Canada Generic Pharmaceutical Association) GEMME (French Generics-maker Association) GBMA (Australia Generic and Biosimilar Medicines Association) GENAS (Slovak Association of Generic producers) IGBA (International Generic and Biosimilar Medicines Association) JBSA (Japan Biosimilar Association) JGA (Japan Generic Medicines Association) Medicines for Europe Medicines for Ireland NZSMI – New Zealand Self-Medication Industry Prognerika (German Generic Association) 79 Appendix INFECTIOUS DISEASE PARTNERS PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Regulatory Affairs Professional Society (RAPS) Clinton Health Access Initiative PPSWG (Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship Working Group) Gilead Sciences Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria QUALITY AND REGULATORY AUTHORITIES International AIDS Society Drug Information Association (DIA) OPTIMIZE Consortium FDA Alumni Association and Alliance for Stronger FDA Otsuka Pharmaceuticals FDA Drug Shortage Committee UNAIDS GDUFA/BSUFA Implementation/Negotiation Teams President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) ICH (International Council for Harmonisation) St. Stephen’s AIDS Trust IPAC-RS (International Pharmaceutical Aerosol Consortium on TB Alliance Regulation & Science) UNITAID PDA (Parenteral Drug Association) ViiV Healthcare USP (United States Pharmacopeia) MANUFACTURING ASSOCIATIONS WOMEN’S HEALTH Alliance for Global Pharmaceutical Serialization United Nations Population Fund AMR Industry Alliance U.N. Every Woman Every Child initiative CII (Confederation of Indian Industries) Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Leadership Forum ISPE (International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineering) Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of Tokyo (PMAT) PRODUCT ASSOCIATIONS Consumer Healthcare Products Association NPA (Natural Products Association) 80 Appendix Mylan has more than 40 manufacturing sites in Types of Mylan Products various locations around the world. 1 REST OF WORLD EUROPE NORTH AMERICA ► Biosimilar and insulin analogs Ahmedabad, India Chatillon, France Somerset, N.J. INCREASING DELIVERY ► Respiratory Aurangabad, India Confienza, Italy Caguas, P.R. Bangalore, India Damastown, Ireland Morgantown, W.Va. ► Complex sterile products Carole Park, Australia Dublin, Ireland Rockford, Ill. Hosur, India Galway, Ireland San Antonio, Texas ► Dermatological and transdermals Hyderabad, India Komarom, Hungary St. Albans, Vermont Indore, India Merignac, France Sugar Land, Texas ► Complex OSD SYSTEM COMPLEXITY Jadcherla, India Meyzieu, France Jaggiahpeta, India Troisdorf, Germany ► Modified-release dosage forms Johannesburg, South Africa Warsaw, Poland ► OTC/parapharmaceuticals Katsuyama, Japan Mumbai, India ► High potency Nashik, India Sarigam, India ► Traditional generics Vizag, India Zambia, Africa Participation in relevant patient assistance and government-sponsored healthcare or tender programs Mylan provided patient assistance for 19 products in the U.S. in 2018; operates the Ashray program for Hep C and Hertraz patients in India and participates in various government-sponsored healthcare or tender programs around the world. Managing Political Contributions Responsibly Mylan’s Global Political Contributions and Activity Policy guides our approach to political contributions. It is overseen by Mylan’s Compliance Committee and applies to all company personnel. Only to the extent allowed by law, the company may directly contribute to political candidates and political organizations. This is relevant primarily for Mylan’s U.S. subsidiaries and Mylan’s Political Action Committee, a voluntary, nonpartisan, employee-run committee. Political contributions are made in accordance with U.S. campaign finance laws. In addition, Mylan files a quarterly report of expenses associated with lobbying the federal government2 in accordance with the U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Act. The report can be found on the U.S. Senate Office of Public Records website or the U.S. House of Representatives Office of the Clerk website. Mylan’s semiannual Political Contribution & Trade Association Memberships report is available on our website. 1 As of the publication of this report and does not include one site already announced for closure. Some locations have more than one manufacturing site. Also represents packaging facilities. http://www.mylan.com/en/company/corporate-governance 2 81 Appendix Honoring Our Commitment as a Publicly Traded Company UN GLOBAL COMPACT Mylan N.V. is listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange in New York. Its corporate 10 PRINCIPLES seat is Amsterdam, Netherlands, with its principal executive office located in Hatfield, HUMAN RIGHTS Hertfordshire, England. 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed The global headquarters of the Mylan group human rights, and THE SDGs ESPECIALLY is Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, U.S. It is at this location where the CEO and other executive 2: make sure that they are not RELEVANT TO MYLAN officers of the group carry out the day-to-day complicit in human rights abuses. conduct of our worldwide business. LABOR Mylan N.V. is managed and controlled under 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of the oversight of the company’s board of association and the effective recognition of directors in the U.K., where the board generally the right to collective bargaining, meets. Each director is elected annually by the company’s shareholders. Certain of the 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and directors’ duties, rights and responsibilities compulsory labor, are detailed in the company’s Articles of 5: the effective abolition of child labor, and Association, Board Rules and Corporate 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect Governance Principles.1 Mylan is subject to of employment and occupation. applicable rules, regulations and/or listing standards of the U.S. Securities and Exchange ENVIRONMENT Commission, NASDAQ and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 http://www.mylan.com/en/company/corporate-governance 82 Appendix GRI 102: General Disclosures* Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG UNGC Principle Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Mylan N.V. 10-13, 17-25 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 2018 Form 10-K 102-3 Location of headquarters Appendix, p. 81 Appendix, p. 80-81 102-4 Location of operations 8 2018 Form 10-K Appendix, p. 81 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2018 Form 10-K 11, 13, 17-25 102-6 Markets served 3 Appendix, p. 68-70 4-5, 13, 59 102-7 Scale of the organization Appendix, p. 68-70, 80 2018 Form 10-K 33 Appendix, p. 71-73 A significant portion of Mylan's activities are 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 6 performed by workers who are employees, and there are no significant variations in our employee figures annually. 102-9 Supply chain 12-13, 28, 30, 65-66 Significant changes to the organization and its 35 102-10 supply chain 2018 Form 10-K 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 27-30, 39-43, 60, 65-66 3, 6-7, 18, 23, 27-29, 31, 37, 39-40, 42-43, 45-50, 102-12 External initiatives 53, 62-63, 66-67 Appendix, p. 69-70, 73-74, 78-79 *Mylan’s 2018 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 83 Appendix Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG UNGC Principle 42-43, 45-50 102-13 Membership of associations Appendix, p. 78-79 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6, 8 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 6, 8, 10-13, 17-31, 33-50, 53, 59-67 Ethics and Integrity Inside front cover, 6-11, 27-28, 30-31, 35-37, 39, 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 42-43, 60-67 16 2, 5 & 10 Mylan Values 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 60, 62-63 Governance 39, 60, 62, 102-18 Governance structure 2018 Form 10-K Executive-level responsibility for economic, 102-20 6, 8, 39, 60, 62 environmental and social topics Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental 102-21 6, 8-9, 42, 45-50, 59-60 and social topics 60 Appendix, p. 72 Composition of the highest governance body and its 102-22 2018 Form 10-K committees Mylan.com/Leadership Mylan.com/corporategovernance Stakeholder Engagement 8, 59, 78-79 Community Customers 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Employees 8 Partners Patients Shareholders 36 Mylan recognizes and respects the rights of employees to representation and collective 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 3 bargaining. We currently do not keep companywide records on the percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. *Mylan’s 2018 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 84 Appendix Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG UNGC Principle 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 9, 42, 45-50, 59-60 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 8-9, 42, 45-50, 59-60 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 6, 8-9, 42, 45-50, 59-60 Reporting Practice Entities included in the consolidated financial 102-45 2018 Form 10-K statements Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer SDG UNGC Principle 9 We completed our first formal priority topic analysis in 2018 to confirm our GSR priorities based on the 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries topics of highest importance to the company and key stakeholders. We identify where impacts occur for each priority topic in the Topic Boundary section (GRI 103) of the GRI Index. 9 102-47 List of material topics Topic Boundary section (GRI 103) of the GRI Index 102-48 Restatements of information Appendix, p. 74-76 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2018, Jan. 1 Dec. 31 102-51 Date of most recent report 5/5/18 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Should you have questions or feedback, please 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report contact us at GSR@Mylan.com. Mylan's 2018 GSR Report is prepared in Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Standards, core level. 102-55 GRI content index 82-89 Mylan's 2018 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report has not been assured by a third party. 102-56 External assurance Mylan's reporting to the 2018 CDP Climate Change and Water Security Programs was verified by an external party. *Mylan’s 2018 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 85 Appendix GRI 103: Topics and Topic Boundaries* Mylan's Priority (Material) Topics Management Approach Cross-Reference Relevant External Entities Economic GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 10-13, 17-29, 45-50, 53-57, 60 Communities, Customers, Patients Environment 27-28, 31, 41, 65 Communities, Customers, Governments, Patients, GRI 301: Materials 2016 Environmental Stewardship Suppliers Oversight and Compliance Social 36, 60 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 Communities, Governments, Shareholders Oversight and Compliance GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 33-36 N/A Communities, Customers, Governments, Patients, GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 26-30, 50, 60 Shareholders *Mylan’s 2018 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 86 Appendix GRI 200-400: Standard Disclosures* Cross-Reference or UNGC Topics Disclosure Description SDG Answer Principle Economic GRI 201: Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and 201-1 2018 Form 10-K 2016** distributed Infrastructure investments and services 203-1 24, 55-57 1 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts supported 2016 10-13, 17-26, 45-50, 53-57, 203-2 Indirect economic impacts 3 60 Communication and training about GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016** 205-2 62-64 16 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 206-01 2018 Form 10-K 16 10 2016 anti-trust and monopoly practice Environmental 12, 41 Details on material types, sources and percentage GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume of renewable content, in 12 addition to the information on energy, water and waste is not provided. 43 8 GRI 302: Energy 2016** 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 12 13 Appendix, p. 76 9 Interactions with water as a shared 39-40 303-1 6 12 8 resource Appendix, p. 74-75 Management of water discharge-related GRI 303: Water and Effluents, 2018** 303-2 39-40, 42 6 12 8 impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal Appendix, p. 74-75 6 12 8 303-4 Water discharge Appendix, p. 74 6 12 8 *Mylan’s 2018 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. **Additional disclosures not related to material GRI topics 87 Appendix Cross-Reference or UNGC Topics Disclosure Description SDG Answer Principle 43 7 305-1 Scope 1 GHG emissions 12 13 Appendix, p. 76 8 43 7 305-2 Scope 2 GHG emissions 12 13 GRI 305: Emissions 2016** Appendix, p. 76 8 7 43 12 13 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 8 Appendix, p. 76 9 41 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 12 8 Appendix, p. 75 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016** No significant spills occurred 306-3 Significant spill 12 at Mylan's facilities in 2018. No significant fines and GRI 307: Environmental Compliance non-monetary sanctions Non-compliance with environmental laws 307-1 for non-compliance with 2016** and regulations 12 environmental laws and/or regulations in 2018. Social New employee hires and employee 34 401-1 88 6 turnover Appendix, p. 73 GRI 401: Employment 2016** Full-time benefits not provided to 401-2 Mylan Careers temporary/part-time employees 35 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes impacting employees, including continued employment, vary 8 GRI 402: Labor/Management Minimum notice periods regarding 402-1 across the company, as Relations 2016 operational changes determined by legislation, local and regional policies and practices, individual employment contracts, and collective bargaining agreements, as applicable. *Mylan’s 2018 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. **Additional disclosures not related to material GRI topics 88 Appendix Cross-Reference or UNGC Topics Disclosure Description SDG Answer Principle 37, 39 Occupational health and safety 403-1 Appendix, p. 73 3 8 management system Global Health Safety Policy 37, 39 Hazard identification, risk assessment and GRI 403: Occupational Health and 403-2 Appendix, p. 73 3 8 incident investigation Safety 2018** Global Health Safety Policy 36-37 403-6 Promotion of worker health 3 8 Mylan Values 37 403-9 Work-related injuries 8 Appendix, p.73 Average hours of training per year per 404-1 34 employee Programs for upgrading employee skills 34-35 GRI 404: Training and Education 404-2 8 and transition assistance programs Mylan Careers 2016** Percentage of employees receiving regular 35 404-3 performance and career development 6 Appendix, p. 72 reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Diversity of governance bodies and 36 405-1 5 6 Opportunity 2016** employees Appendix, p. 71-72 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment Employee training on HR policies or 412-2 62-63, 66-67 1,2,3,4,5 2016** procedures Operations with local community GRI 413: Local Communities 2016** 413-1 engagement, impact assessments, and 23-24, 53-57 1 development programs GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions Appendix, p. 80 16 10 *Mylan’s 2018 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. **Additional disclosures not related to material GRI topics 89 Appendix Cross-Reference or UNGC Topics Disclosure Description SDG Answer Principle 27-29 As part of Mylan's PV GRI 416: Customer Health and Assessment of the health and safety program, all products are 416-1 3 12 Safety 2016 impacts of product and service categories monitored and assessed for safety impact on an ongoing basis. GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Requirements for product and service 417-1 27-29, 61 3 12 2016** information and labeling *Mylan’s 2018 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. **Additional disclosures not related to material GRI topics 90 Appendix This document contains “forward-looking statements.” These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements about future expectations, ability to achieve future goals, and any other statements regarding Mylan’s future operations, anticipated business levels, future earnings, planned activities, anticipated growth, market opportunities, strategies, competition, and other expectations and targets for future periods. These may often be identified by the use of words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “potential,” “pipeline,” “intend,” “continue,” “ target,” “seek” and variations of these words or comparable words. Because forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: actions and decisions of healthcare and pharmaceutical regulators; failure to achieve expected or targeted future financial and operating performance and results; uncertainties regarding future demand, pricing and reimbursement for our products; any regulatory, legal, or other impediments to Mylan’s ability to bring new products to market, including, but not limited to, where Mylan uses its business judgment and decides to manufacture, market, and/or sell products, directly or through third parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an “at-risk launch”); success of clinical trials and Mylan’s ability to execute on new product opportunities; any changes in or difficulties with our manufacturing facilities, including with respect to our remediation and restructuring activities, supply chain or inventory or our ability to meet anticipated demand; the scope, timing, and outcome of any ongoing legal proceedings, including government investigations, and the impact of any such proceedings on our financial condition, results of operations, and/or cash flows; the ability to meet expectations regarding the accounting and tax treatments of acquisitions, including Mylan’s acquisition of Mylan Inc. and Abbott Laboratories’ non-U.S. developed markets specialty and branded generics business; changes in relevant tax and other laws, including but not limited to changes in the U.S. tax code and healthcare and pharmaceutical laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad; any significant breach of data security or data privacy or disruptions to our information technology systems; the ability to protect intellectual property and preserve intellectual property rights; the effect of any changes in customer and supplier relationships and customer purchasing patterns; the ability to attract and retain key personnel; the impact of competition; identifying, acquiring, and integrating complementary or strategic acquisitions of other companies, products, or assets being more difficult, time-consuming or costly than anticipated; the possibility that Mylan may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with strategic acquisitions, strategic initiatives or restructuring programs within the expected time-frames or at all; uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management, including but not limited to general political and economic conditions and global exchange rates; and inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of financial statements, and the providing of estimates of financial measures, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) and related standards or on an adjusted basis. For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with Mylan’s business activities, see the risks described in Mylan’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2018, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You can access Mylan’s filings with the SEC through the SEC website at www.sec.gov or through our website, and Mylan strongly encourages you to do so. Mylan routinely posts information that may be important to investors on our website at investor.mylan. com, and we use this website address as a means of disclosing material information to the public in a broad, non-exclusionary manner for purposes of the SEC’s Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD). Mylan undertakes no obligation to update any statements herein for revisions or changes after the date of this document, which is April 2, 2019. ©2019 Mylan N.V. All Rights Reserved. The Mylan Better Health for a Better World logo is a registered trademark of Mylan Inc.
