Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Contents Editorial Policy Editorial Policy and Contents 1 The Mitsubishi Logistics Group (the “Group”) has issued Top Message 2 this Environmental and Social Report each year since fiscal 2007 to fulfill its accountability about the effects of Introduction of Businesses 4 its business activities on society and the environment. To disclose the goals, details and achievements of its Promotion of CSR CSR activities from the perspectives of the Group’s CSR Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business 6 management, this Report describes precisely and in an Management Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. easy-to-understand manner the promotion of CSR as well Promotion of CSR for every employee; Emphasis on communication 9 as each of the seven core subjects described in the Confirmation of major CSR activities 10 “Guidance on Social Responsibility” (JIS Z 26000, ISO 26000). This Guidance is a global standard for CSR Organizational Governance established by the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) and Corporate Governance; Promoting the realization of 12 the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). our corporate philosophy and strategies Review of goals, standards, etc.; Entrenchment of the compliance of 13 Boundary of the Report and Reporting Period standards, etc.; Confirmation of the implementation process of action plans Boundary of The Report covers Mitsubishi Logistics Respect for Human Rights the Report: Corporation (the “Company”) and Group Improvement of awareness of human rights; 14 companies. Respecting human rights through business activities Reporting This Report covers our business activities for the Period: period from April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018. To Appropriate Working Environment ensure comprehensive disclosure, however, Respect for labor-management relations; Employment and the importance 15 certain relevant information regarding events that of the employment relationship; Rewarding and friendly working conditions occurred prior to and/or after this period have Ensuring the security of workers 18 been included. Human resources development and training 19 Publication Date Environmental Conservation (Previous publication date: February 2018) Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for 22 February 2019 reducing climate change (Next planned publication date: February 2020) Use of renewable resources 24 Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system 25 Reference Guidelines Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities JIS Z 26000: 2012 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) ISO Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and 26 26000: 2010 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) promotion of fair and open competition Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2012 Version) Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Sustainability Reporting Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial high-quality services 27 Guidelines (GRI Standards) Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service functions 29 Contacts for Inquiries Regarding the Environmental and Social Report Coordination with Local Communities and International Society CSR · Compliance Team, General Affairs Division, Contribution to cultural activities; Contribution 32 Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation through activities in local communities, etc. Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo Statement Supporting the UN Global Compact 103-8630, Japan Practice of the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles 36 TEL: +81-3-3278-6657 Company Profile 37 FAX: +81-3-3278-6694 You may view some of the relevant data and the reference table for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Web Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI Standards) on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site. “Extended version” http://www.mitsubishi-logistics.co.jp/english/csr/pdf/extended_version.pdf HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version “GRI Guidelines reference table” http://www.mitsubishi-logistics.co.jp/english/csr/pdf/griguideline.pdf HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>GRI Guidelines reference table Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 1 Top Message Mitsubishi Logistics Group focuses on friendly activities and engages in business activities, contributing to affluent and sustainable society. Masao Fujikura President company-owned property. Of especial note, the Introduction involvement of our logistics operations in every industry countrywide provides a key function in the Mitsubishi Logistics continues to uphold its corporate economic foundation as a highly public social philosophy, which states, “Engage in sincere and fair infrastructure not only in peacetime but also in case business activities to secure appropriate profits and of natural disasters or other emergencies. We promote steady growth, appropriately compensating continue to make the utmost effort to support the our stakeholders while contributing to the realization daily lives of people everywhere and the business of an affluent and sustainable society.” To realize this activities of our customers at every level of product corporate philosophy, the Group has stipulated the procurement, production and sales. Code of Conduct. Our Group companies work in cooperation to carry out our logistics business both in Japan and Final Year of the Management Plan (2016–2018) around the world, organically and comprehensively managing each business area through our The current fiscal year is the final year of the information network, starting with our core Management Plan (2016-2018), which started in April warehousing business, and including overland 2016. Overseas, the U.S. economy continued to transportation, port and harbor operations, and steadily recover and a moderate recovery was seen international transportation. Our real estate business in Europe. The economy in China also continued a focuses on leased buildings constructed on pick-up trend. The Japanese economy recovered 2 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 lobal environmentincere and fair he realization of an gradually as employment conditions, personal in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment consumption as well as exports steadily improved, and anti-corruption as fulfilling its social responsibility and investment in plant and equipment increased in its business activities and leading to an affluent moderately. and sustainable society. To firmly instill this stance In these circumstances, this plan is designed to throughout the entire Group, we have clarified that move forward with measures already under way, we promote CSR activities as a specific strategy in without changing the fundamental concept of the management plan, and have incorporated such pursuing the growth potential in overseas businesses initiatives in specific measures. while ensuring profitability in the domestic Our logistics and real estate business activities are businesses. deeply connected to society. To earn recognition for The management plan has defined the ideal the value of our existence as a member of society image of the Mitsubishi Logistics Group that we and continue to grow in the future, the Group needs ought to pursue as follows. to steadily implement the goals set forth in the plan. In particular, taking into account the increased demand for reducing natural disaster risk stemming from the global increase in natural disasters, we are promoting “To be a problem-solving partner of the construction of Disaster-Resistant and Ecocustomers backed up by trust and Friendly Warehouses equipped with reinforced brand power.” disaster-prevention functions and enhanced global environmental measures, as well as Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings that have similar functions. As part of this initiative, in September 2014, Initiatives for CSR management the Nihonbashi Dia Building (of which the lower floors are used as the Company’s Head Office and trunk With the establishment of our Code of Conduct in rooms) was completed. We also intend to continue 1997, we have clearly demonstrated our stance and initiatives for global environmental measures from the approach toward further enhancing our level of perspective of biodiversity. adherence to relevant laws and regulations, disclosing appropriate corporate information, addressing and resolving global environmental Conclusion issues, and providing safe, high-quality and socially As the Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues, now useful services. In addition, the Company approved and in the future, to place top priority on sincerity and and declared in May 2014 its fairness, supporting customers’ value creation based support for the UN Global on principles that give weight to the global Compact, which is a set of environment while fulfilling our responsibilities to universally accepted CSRsociety with stable growth, we ask for your continued related principles. The Company understanding and support. considers complying with internationally accepted norms Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 3 Introduction of Businesses Residences Residences Office buildings Office buildings The Mitsubishi Logistics Group provides high-quality services to Retail facilities Retail facilities support people’s affluent lives and corporate activities through the Logistics segment businesses centering on the warehousing and distribution business and the Real Estate segment businesses centering on the leasing of buildings. RealReal estate estate development development and and leasing leasing Air transportation Air transportation Warehouses Warehouses and and distribution distribution centers centers Harbor Harbor transportation transportation Domestic Domestic OceanOcean transportation transportation TrunkTrunk roomroom service service Overland Overland transportation transportation Trucking Trucking and railway and railway transportation transportation Logistics Logistics information information system system Logistics Logistics services services Warehousing and Distribution Business Overland Transportation Business We are able to meet a broad range of customized logistics needs through the In Japan, we extend and reinforce the optimal distribution system for each customer full integration of warehouses and distribution centers, which are located at through a tactical combination of our national, trunk-line transit network, which is major ports and key inland transportation areas nationwide; our transportation supported by Ryoso Transportation within the Group and excellent local counterparts, and delivery networks; and the logistics information systems that organically link and independent collection and delivery services linking local areas. We have them. In this business, fixed temperature storage and refrigerated warehouses expanded our transportation service for small-quantity, joint delivery needs especially for pharmaceuticals and fresh and processed foods are sufficiently offered in for foods and pharmaceuticals. In addition, we offer cargo feature-specific, diversified addition to ordinary warehouses for room temperature storage to ensure the transportation/delivery services including ocean freight container transportation for provision of safe and efficient storage/distribution processing/delivery services import and export cargo and the transportation of heavy goods such as plant facilities. using our original information technology and the latest facilities. Meanwhile, we Moreover, we endeavor to realize eco-friendly, safe and secure transportation services strive to reduce the environmental impact by by drawing on our information technology and promoting green management. promoting green management. Furthermore, Furthermore, with the start of the “DP-Cool” Service, a high-quality pharmaceuticals we are active in the construction of advanced delivery service with temperature control provided by Dia Pharmaceutical Network facilities that aim to coordinate with local Co., Ltd., our subsidiary that specializes in the delivery of pharmaceuticals, we strive communities under the concept of Disasterto realize the further sophistication of transportation quality. Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouse equipped with a solar power generation system and emergency power generators. One such model warehouse is Misato Warehouse No. 2, which was completed in March 2013, and another is the Seishin Distribution Center, which was completed in March 2018. 4 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Real Estate Business We are involved in the real estate business in all six major cities of Japan—Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe and Fukuoka. In addition to activities such as the redevelopment of properties based on the optimum application of each property’s features and the leasing of approximately 50 real estate facilities (offices, retail facilities and residences), totaling almost 900,000 m2 of total floor space, we are involved in the sales of condominiums. We are also active in developing Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which will help our customers enhance their business continuity and reduce their environmental burden. Air transportation Air transportation Import/Export Import/Export Overseas Overseas Shipping Shipping AgentAgent and and Customs Customs clearance clearance OceanOcean transportation transportation Harbor Harbor transportation transportation Overland Overland transportation transportation Shipping-related Shipping-related TruckingTrucking and and operations operations railway railway transportation transportation Harbor Transportation Business International Transportation Business We provide secure high-quality logistics services including In response to increasingly diversifying customers’ logistics container terminal operations for integrated containerized needs, we propose optimum transportation routes door-toshipments at all major Japanese ports, namely Tokyo, door worldwide tailored to every customer’s request by taking Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe and Hakata, to meet every advantage of our global network and a variety of transportation kind of customer need. We also offer a wide range of other means such as vessels, aircraft, railway and trucks. Meanwhile, marine shipping related services such as importing/exporting our overseas operating bases provide comprehensive logistics of vessels, ship registration, and agency operations for services such as cargo transportation, customs clearance and special ships such as oil-drilling rigs. storage of goods, as well as logistics related support services such as consulting on legal systems and procedures in the respective areas for customers who plan to launch into foreign markets. Furthermore, we intend to not be limited to transport operations but to further promote worldwide our logistics know-how, which the Company has accumulated over its history of more than 130 years. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 5 Promotion of CSR The Mitsubishi Logistics Group utilizes the “Guidance on social responsibility,” complies with the “seven principles of social responsibility”* in the practice of its social responsibility and strengthens various activities categorized under the seven core subjects of social responsibility. Each core subject is of equal priority, and is equally important. The Mitsubishi Logistics Group streamlines an integrated mechanism (with components such as philosophy, principles, policies, systems, dialogue and confirmation) to ensure that a socially responsible corporate culture exists within the Group and is conducted through the practice of CSR-based activities, aiming to increase its corporate value. * See the chart on the right. Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. Mission, Vision, Sense of Values, Principles and the Code of Conduct The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy (“Sankoryo”) The Mitsubishi Sankoryo is a managerial creed articulated by the fourth president of the Mitsubishi organization, Koyata Iwasaki. The spirit and values of this Sankoryo remain alive and current today as a basic philosophy of an internally and externally open group being shared by the constituent Mitsubishi Group companies that are independent from each other. The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy “Shoki Hoko” “Shoji Komei” “Ritsugyo Boeki” Corporate Responsibility to Society Integrity and Fairness Global Understanding through Business Strive to enrich society, both Maintain principles of Expand business, based on materially and spiritually, transparency and an all-encompassing global while contributing toward openness, conducting perspective. the preservation of the business with integrity and global environment. fairness. Code of Conduct We have established the following Code of Conduct to realize our corporate philosophy (see page 2: Top Message) based on the spirit of the Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy. Code of Conduct We engage in business activities to secure appropriate profits and promote steady growth, appropriately compensating our employees and stockholders while contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society. 1. We shall comply with laws, ordinances and rules that enable us to honestly and fairly carry out business activities without deviating from social norms. 2. We shall appropriately disclose corporate information in a timely manner to enhance broad communications with society. 3. We shall continue to have no contact or relations with any antisocial forces that might pose a threat to the public order and safety of civil society. 4. We recognize the importance of environmental issues and shall actively cooperate with diverse activities for environmental preservation. 5. We shall provide people with safe, high-quality and socially valuable services, and endeavor to conduct social contribution projects as a “good corporate citizen” while taking into account coordination with local communities and international society. (Established on December 16, 1997, and revised on August 29, 2005) Each subsidiary shall establish its own Code of Conduct in compliance with this Code of Conduct. 6 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Seven Principles of Social Responsibility Seven Core Subjects of Social Responsibility and Their Expressions in the Group An organization An organization should be Holistic Coordination with Respect for should respect human transparent in its decisions approach rights and recognize Respect for and activities that have Local Communities and Community Human Rights Transparency International Society both their importance human rights impact on society and the Involvement Human and their universality. environment. and Rights Development An organization Accountability Organizational Governance should respect Respect for An organization An organization Provision of Safe, Appropriate Consumer Labor international norms international should be Ethical should behave Observance of High-Quality and Issues Organization Practices Working of behavior, while accountable for its adhering to the norms of impacts on society behavior ethically at all these principles Useful Services Environment times. principle of respect behavior and the for the rule of law. environment. Fair Operating The An organization should An organization should Practices Environment Respect for accept that respect for Respect for respect, consider and Fulfillment of Sincere and stakeholder Fair Business Activities Environmental the rule of law is the rule of law respond to the interests of Interdependence Conservation mandatory. interests its stakeholders. (Source: Prepared with partial modification by the Company based (Source: Edited by the Company based on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)”) on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)” chart) Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group has formulated the Environmental Policy to clearly present its Group-wide stance on consideration of the global environment based on our “Code of Conduct.” Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group recognizes the importance of environmental issues, promoting activities for environmental preservation through corporate activities that are friendly to the environment while contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. 1. We comply with laws and regulations relating to the environment. 2. We endeavor for the training and enlightenment to raise the awareness of executives and employees about the environment and positively commit ourselves to environmental preservation activities with the recognition that involvement in environmental issues is indispensable to our corporate activities. 3. We strive to restrict our environmental impact by efficiently utilizing the resources and energy that are essential to our business activities, implementing eco-friendly logistics equipment and facilities, purchasing eco-friendly goods and promoting the reduction of waste volume and recycling. 4. We regularly verify our initiatives regarding environmental issues to continually improve our involvement. 5. We make the Environmental Policy known to all parties affiliated with the Group and disclose it publicly. (Established on December 29, 2006) Environmental Voluntary Plan We have formulated the MLC (Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation)-Group Environmental Voluntary Plan as “concrete guidelines” regarding the Environmental Policy to review and implement specific measures in view of “measures to cope with future tightening of regulations” and “maintaining and ensuring the competitive edge of our businesses.” The specific measures of the guidelines include efforts related to facilities and equipment such as implementation of solar and wind power generators and greening of rooftops and walls, and efforts related to handling equipment and vehicle including enforcement of idling-stop practice and eco-driving, as well as selection of environmentconscious suppliers. Based on these measures, the Group promotes Group-wide environmental measures including appropriate responses to laws and regulations. Our Declaration of Quality Our Group has formulated “Our Declaration of Quality” to be an enterprise that grows by gaining the trust of stakeholders including customers in accordance with the “Code of Conduct.” Our Declaration of Quality Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation works hard to ensure that our corporate activities help to create an affluent and sustainable society. Providing services that are safe, high quality and of benefit to society is one of the most important pillars supporting our corporate activities. It is with this in mind that we strive continuously for quality improvement. 1. We always think from the customer’s standpoint and listen to the customer with sincerity, working to provide quality services that will win the trust and satisfaction of all our customers. 2. We abide by the relevant laws and regulations, and by conducting periodic inspections and implementing improvement efforts daily in the areas of safety and quality, our Group-wide quest is to achieve constant quality improvement. 3. We value communication and endeavor to provide an energetic work environment in which each member of the Company can be motivated by sincerity and pride to strive for quality improvement. (Established on September 1, 2008) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 7 Promotion of CSR Management plan (2016–2018) (Basic Policy) The current fiscal year is the final year of the three-year Management Plan. Mitsubishi Logistics Group has formulated the following four items of Basic Policy to reinforce foundations for its growth potential and profitability. The Group intends to increase its corporate value and achieve future growth by executing each of these diverse measures in accordance with the Basic Policy. Basic Policy 1. Improve and expand our logistics business to adapt to the change of the global supply chains of customers in Japan and around the globe 2. Reinforce and expand the revenue framework of the real estate business 3. Enhance the service quality of Group services and the promotion of CSR 4. Select and concenter of management resources The outline of the management plan is as follows: 1. Ideal image The management plan has defined the ideal image of the Group to be pursued as a corporate group in compliance with the four-item Basic Policy. ( see page 3: Top Message). 2. Plan period FY2016–FY2018 (covering three years) Consolidated operating revenue Consolidated operating income 3. Performance targets (Unit: ¥billion) (Unit: ¥billion) Figures of consolidated business results (Unit: ¥billion) 300 20.0 Operating Operating Ordinary Net 250 240.0 17.5 15.5 revenue income income income* 208.7 215.4 15.0 200 12.7 12.4 Actual results 12.5 208.7 12.7 16.0 10.6 for FY2016 150 10.0 Actual results 7.5 215.4 12.4 16.1 10.5 100 for FY2017 5.0 50 Targets for 2.5 240.0 15.5 17.5 11.6 FY2018 0 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 0 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 *Referring to “Profit attributable to owners of parent” 4. Investment plan During the plan period, the Group plans to make investments totaling ¥60.0 billion (¥30.0 billion in logistics and ¥30.0 billion in real estate). Responses to Stakeholders’ In-house Decision Making Expectations Corporate governance system Stakeholders recognized by the Mitsubishi Logistics Group (Chart of corporate governance system) (Chart of stakeholders) Enhance our commitment General Shareholders Meeting to customer satisfaction, Provide ideal working earning our customers' environments while Board of Corporate Board of Corporate Independent trust through high-quality ensuring the safety and Directors Auditors Auditors Auditor logistics and real estate Customers Employees professional growth of services. the employee. Corporate Auditors’ Chamber Aim to manage internal Perform fair information strictly and Shareholders Mitsubishi Public business activities disclose information at by complying with Executive Committee (Consultative body consisting of directors Chairman of the Board President the appropriate time & investors Logistics administration laws, rules and and in the appropriate social norms. with special titles) Managing Directors manner, in accordance Group Internal Control with the law. Respective Divisions, and General Managers’ Chambers of the Head Office Committee Local Meeting Suppliers 6 branches Internal Audit CSR and Compliance Develop common communities Sincere and fair business Department Committee interests with local activities based on 56 subsidiaries (including communities as a good mutual trust. Group Management corporate citizen. Meeting 20 overseas subsidiaries) Risk Management 15 affiliates Committee 8 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Web You may view the news releases on the actual performance data on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Promotion of CSR for every employee HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version CSR & Compliance Handbook Information disclosure The Group prepared the Mitsubishi Logistics Group CSR & Compliance Handbook (63 pages in A5 format) Our IR information site is open on the Company’s Web to nurture the awareness of each site. We strive to transmit information by providing employee on CSR and compliance. “Management planning and policy,” “Stock The handbook was distributed to all information,” “IR calendar,” “Financial data” and “IR executives and employees within the information” (Flash report, Annual report and Results Group in January 2012 for their daily briefing). reference. For the convenience of foreign shareholders and We position the handbook as a investors, English-version sites are also available to starting point to help them address disclose significant information thereto. small questions and significant issues CSR & Compliance in their routine business operations. Handbook Dialogue between shareholders/ investors, analysts and top management Easy-to-understand shareholders’ meetings CSR and Compliance Awareness Survey When we hold a shareholders’ meeting, we strive to provide easy-to-understand information for the The Company and domestic Group companies provide convenience of attending shareholders by using video Web-based surveys on awareness based on the business reports with narration. Mitsubishi Logistics Group CSR & Compliance Results briefing Handbook and the Environmental and Social Report to Company holds results disseminate the understanding of CSR and compliance. briefings twice a year (May The surveys aim to increase employees’ awareness by and November) for providing occasions in which every employee thinks of investors and analysts. In familiar issues and finds the answers. addition to the explanation of the settled accounting Results briefing for analysts Training on CSR and Compliance results, the top management of the Company explains management policies and the progress of management plans, conducts As measures to address the status of compliance with the Code Q&A and transmits a variety of management information. of Conduct and any issues noted in the internal audit results, we We are active in encouraging dialogue with market players endeavor to establish good working environments by not only through transmission of the information desired by disseminating and entrenching our corporate philosophy and investors and analysts but also by integrating the feedback the Code of Conduct and promoting CSR. of useful views therefrom in our actual business judgment. As for compliance, we hold training sessions concerning compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Web You may view the materials for the results briefing on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in the IR Information page. Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors with an emphasis on training and confirmation regarding the methods for HOME>INVESTOR RELATIONS>IR Information>Presentation managing and handling relevant documents, and the obligations and prohibitions of the main subcontracting enterprise. Internal reporting system Web Actual performance data on the CSR and compliance awareness survey and the training on CSR and compliance can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” To ensure early detection of actions that violate legal ordinances or corporate regulations, as well as actions that are HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version in danger of violating such rules, the Mitsubishi Logistics Group has established a corporate ethics help line (Contact: CSR·Compliance Team, General Affairs Division) as an internal Emphasis on communication whistleblowing and consultation mechanism to reinforce compliance management. To raise the degree of recognition and encourage use of Timely and appropriate news releases the system, at the time of the “Check of the Compliance of the Code of Conduct” in December 2017 we checked whether all As the Group emphasizes the principles of social executives and regular employees of the Group were familiar responsibility such as accountability and transparency with our internal reporting system and whether they intended in organizational decision making, news releases on to use the system. Consequently, it was confirmed that almost business activities are disclosed at the appropriate time all the respondents expressed an affirmative opinion, and in the appropriate manner. suggesting widespread recognition of the system. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 9 Promotion of CSR Confirmation of major CSR activities The Group is committed to CSR activities so that socially responsible behavior will be disseminated among employees as a voluntary corporate culture. Checklist for the confirmation of major CSR activities Core subjects Tasks Objectives/Goals Promoting the realization of our corporate Organizational philosophy and strategies Reinforce CSR and compliance Governance Review of goals, standards, etc. Respect for Human Improvement of the awareness of human rights Respect human rights Rights Demonstrate every employee’s personality and competence, undertake necessary security procedures, Rewarding and friendly working conditions and support the coexistence of employees’ working life Appropriate and home life Working Environment Ensuring the security of workers Ensure the security of workers Develop competent human resources who meet the requirements Human resources development and training of global human resources and who can manage global operations Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for Further reinforce environmental countermeasures reducing climate change Environmental Preserve resources by reducing the environmental Conservation Use of renewable resources impact Implement global environmental measures from Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system biodiversity perspectives Fulfillment of Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and Reinforce CSR and compliance Sincere and Fair promotion of fair and open competition Upgrade information security management Business Activities Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial Improve service quality Provision of Safe, high-quality services High-Quality and Useful Services Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service Maintain infrastructure in case of disasters functions Coordination with Contribution to the community’s cultural activities Contribute to cultures in local communities, etc. Local Communities and International Society Contribution through donations, etc. Support to victims of disasters 10 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 We summarize hereunder the setting of “Objectives/Goals,” the planning of “Activity process” and the confirmation of “Achievements/Results” with regard to major CSR activities that are categorized under the Seven Core Subjects in accordance with the “Guidance on Social Responsibility” guidelines. Division/Chamber/ Activity process (Plan) Achievements/Results Branch and/or Group companies in charge Briefing meetings on our Management Plan held at each branch by Managing General Affairs Division Disseminate the corporate philosophy and the management plan. Director in charge of personnel and planning. Personnel Division Deliberate how to promote CSR at the CSR and Compliance Committee. Worksite meeting held every month (dissemination of our corporate philosophy and our Management Plan). Planning & Business Strive to improve the understanding of the Code of Conduct and the awareness Mar. 2018: Held the CSR and Compliance Committee meeting (for CSR promotion). Coordination Division of compliance. FY2017: Check for compliance with the Code of Conduct; Number of participants: 4,244. Other Divisions, Chambers FY2017: Compliance Awareness Survey; Number of participants: 3,494 (Web-based check). and Branches Strive to disseminate the awareness of respect for human rights among all employees by establishing a dedicated promotion system. FY2017 Human Rights Enlightenment Training held with 53 participants. Personnel Division Conduct education on human rights. Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit of creating worksites where Self-declaration once a year and interviews for appraisal conducted three times a employees can demonstrate their personality and competence. year. Execute industrial safety and health-related measures to maintain and enhance employees’ health. Conducted “Health Promotion” seminars and annual health checkups. Personnel Division FY2017 beneficiaries of the child-care leave system: 7 persons; beneficiaries of Promote a work-life balance to support the sound development of the nextthe care leave system: 38 persons. generation children. Work on industrial safety and health-related activities among operating bases Monthly convening of Industrial Safety and Health Committee. Personnel Division in an aim to prevent industrial accidents. Number of serious industrial accidents in the Port and Harbor Operation Business: Harbor Transportation Promote the prevention of industrial accidents and conduct periodic disaster zero. Business Division prevention drills and meetings in the Port and Harbor Operations Business. Branches FY2017 logistic training with 246 participants. Endeavor to develop human resources that can contribute not only to corporate growth but also to social development. FY2017: Training at the 6th year (regional employees) with 10 participants (Newly Personnel Division established) Promote the construction of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses and Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which focus on ensuring business FY2017: The existing lighting devices (around 1,640 units in total) at our Technical Division continuity in case of a disaster and considerations for the global environment. warehouses were changed to LED lighting. Branches Enhance the shift of existing lighting devices to LED lighting. P.T. Mitsubishi Logistics Indonesia We promote the implementation of large-scale solar power generation Started operation of solar power generation facilities at the MM2100 Distribution International Transportation facilities in existing facilities in line with the government’s policy of enhancing Center in Indonesia in August 2017 with an output of 100 kW, and at the Seishin Business Division the use of renewable energy. Distribution Center in Kobe in March 2018 with an output of 300 kW. Warehousing and Expand the use of environmental-friendly vehicles for company vehicles. Since Mar. 2016: The Eitai Dia Building has been certified as a “Near-Top-Level Distribution Business Division Promote the reduction of waste. Facility” under the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. Real Estate Division Technical Division Branches Conduct reforestation through volunteer activities and donations as a partner General Affairs Division of reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture. Oct. 2017: Reforestation activities held with 26 participants Tokyo Branch Yokohama Branch Hold training sessions for the compliance of the Act against Delay in Payment FY2017: Lecture for compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of General Affairs of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., and the prevention of insider trading. Subcontract Proceeds, etc.; Number of participants: 1,890 (Web-based check). Division Distribute information security questionnaires to disseminate the awareness FY2017: Newcomers’ training on Prevention of Insider Trading; Number of participants: 50. Information of security. Number of respondents to the FY2017 Information Securities Questionnaire: 3,271. Systems Division Held regular quality improvement conferences. Planning & Business Take specific initiatives for quality improvement at each of the operating sites, Quality education at monthly safety conferences and information exchanges at Coordination Division subsidiaries and affiliates. regular conferences with customers conducted. Personnel Division Reestablish our information systems for warehousing and distribution center Commendation system for improvement activities was carried out. Warehousing and Distribution operations to improve the quality of logistics. Since Mar. 2014, a new warehousing and distribution center operations system (G-MIWS) has been Business Division implemented on Branches, and the implementations were completed during the first half of FY2017. Information Systems Division Deepen people’s understanding of the logistics of relief supplies in case of large-scale disasters. General Affairs Division Pursue additional designations of our facilities as support/relief goods logistics base facilities, which Total number of designated support/relief goods logistics base facilities: 11. Warehousing and Distribution is a concept primarily advocated by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Fire prevention patrols in facilities of the Company and the Group were conducted (annually). Business Division Thoroughly implement disaster prevention measures at facilities. Technical Division Branches [Nihonbashi Dia Building] Nov. 2017: Awarded the 58th BCS Prize by the Japan Federation of Construction Contractors. [Yokohama Bay Quarter] Aug. 2017: Held the “Charity Ennichi (Street Fair).” Aug. 2017: Held the “Radio Exercise.” Held running club events (monthly) Technical Division Hold supporting events for reconstruction from the Great East Japan [Nagoya Branch] Real Estate Division Earthquake. Installed flower beds in the greenbelt near Nagoya Station. Yokohama Dia Building Hold activities that aim to coordinate with local communities and international [Osaka Branch] Management Corporation society. Mar. 2018: “DIACREST KYODAI-KUMANO,” a staff dormitory at Kyoto University, received commendation Nagoya Branch by Kyoto City as a “Contributing Business Operator to the Upgrade of the Kyoto Region.” Osaka Branch Participated in blood donation activities together with customers. Kobe Branch [Kobe Harborland] Aug. 2017: Held “Harborland Day.” [Kobe Harborland umie] Nov. 2017: Received commendation by Kobe City for life-saving using AED. General Affairs Division Raise and provide relief funds for disasters that happen in Japan and Aug. 2017: Provided relief funds for local disaster victims of the Heavy Rain Event Other Divisions, Chambers overseas. in Northern Kyushu and Branches Group companies Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 11 Organizational Governance To ensure socially responsible positive decision making, it is necessary to establish organizational processes to optimally utilize the Group’s philosophy, strategies and standards. As for organizational governance, the Group recognizes and strengthens such issues as “Promoting the realization of our corporate philosophy and strategies,” “Entrenchment of the compliance of standards, etc.,” “Confirmation of the processes of implementation for action plans” and “Review of goals and standards, etc.” Corporate Governance Basic Strategy and Detailed Strategy (Excerpt) 1. Foster a corporate culture that supports new challenges. Basic stance 2. Promote service quality improvement activities. Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation recognizes the 3. Reinforce risk management including natural enhancement of corporate governance as a significant disaster countermeasures and security measures. business issue that will enable us to carry out our social 4. Pursuit of thorough compliance by reinforcing the mission and responsibilities as a publicly listed in-house check system. company and to aim for sustainable growth and 5. Implement CSR activities based on the UN Global development. Accordingly, we are endeavoring to Compact’s 10 principles. boost corporate governance through multiple initiatives, 6. Continue to implement global environmentsuch as: enhancing the function of the board of friendly business activities. directors and board of auditors by appointing outside 7. Continue to develop technologies and facilities directors and auditors; establishing an internal control based on the concept of “Disaster-Resistant and system through drafting the rules of conduct for our Eco-Friendly Warehouses” and “Disasterexecutives and employees, setting up the Internal Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings.” Control Committee, the CSR and Compliance Committee, and enhancing an internal audit system; instituting a risk management system via the Risk Management Committee; and, finally, by reinforcing In executing the Basic Strategy and the Detailed disclosure through the early publication of financial Strategy above, the Group complies with the seven statements. ( See page 8: the chart of corporate principles of social responsibility under the Guidance governance system) on Social Responsibility. The Group companies have stipulated the Code of Conduct in line with the seven principles, and their employees strive to self-check and confirm their behavior by using the CSR & Compliance Promoting the realization of our corporate Handbook. philosophy and strategies Disseminating the corporate philosophy and the management plan (Basic Strategy) The Group has expressed the goal of “contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society” in its corporate philosophy (see page 2: Top Message) to Worksite meeting (Yokohama Branch) Worksite meeting (Nagoya Branch) make its intent of strengthening social responsibility known to every party concerned within the Group. To facilitate this goal, the Company formulated in its management plan the following Basic Strategy and Detailed Strategy (excerpt) and endeavors to disseminate it at worksite meetings and other occasions. 12 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Review of goals, standards, etc. The Audit Division keeps close contact with the corporate auditors and provides them with internal audit information to cooperate with the corporate auditors’ audits. Deliberating at the CSR and Compliance Committee (meetings held in March) To promote CSR activities in Confirmation of the implementation the Group, the CSR and process of action plans Compliance Committee was established in September 2006. Confirming the appropriateness of In fiscal 2017, the operations via internal control committee met in March and deliberated on the reports and CSR and Compliance Committee The Board of Directors of the Company resolved the “Basic revisions regarding CSR activities in accordance with the Policy on the Improvement of an Internal Control System” to Guidance on Social Responsibility, which is used as the basis for ensure the appropriate execution of duties by executives and the Environmental and Social Report, as well as on the regular employees and the appropriateness of corporate affairs. improvement of compliance based on the self-check of the Furthermore, the Company improves the systems necessary status of complying with the Code of Conduct. for ensuring the appropriateness of financial reporting and prepares and submits the Internal Control Report regarding the evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control relating to financial reporting in accordance with the Financial Instruments Entrenchment of the compliance of and Exchange Law. standards, etc. Confirming the process for bonded operations, etc., under the Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program Disseminating the awareness of The Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program, one of the AEO compliance Systems (*1), is a system for certifying managers of bonded The Group endeavors to disseminate the awareness of warehouses and bonded factories as authorized warehouse compliance based on corporate ethics in every employee operators after they meet set conditions concerning compliance through the employee’s self-check on the status of complying and other regulations. These authorizations ensure preferential with the Code of Conduct, which was formulated as the social treatment such as simplified procedures and exemptions from norms for employees in executing their duties, as well as by permit fees, etc. and the Company received approval as an thoroughly promoting training on compliance. authorized warehouse operator and further enhanced The self-check on the status of compliance previously compliance activities in customs-related processes and all other targeted the Company and domestic Group companies. Effective import/export services. In April 2016, the authorization has been from fiscal 2013, the scope of the self-check has been extended renewed, and we will continue to strive to provide highly reliable to cover overseas Group companies using English texts. and dependable logistics services for our customers. Meanwhile, the Company, Group companies Monryo Web Actual performance data on the compliance situation Transport Corporation, Keihin Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Ryoyo of the Code of Conduct may be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Transportation Co., Ltd., and Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd. acquired certification as Authorized Customs Brokers as of June HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version 2017, September 2012, June 2014, April 2017, and February 2018, respectively, under the AEO System. An authorized Business processes are confirmed via customs broker is a customs clearance internal audit operator subject to various preferential privileges, which is authorized by the The internal audit of the Company is performed mainly by the customs office to arrange for security Audit Division in accordance with the internal audit regulations management and compliance regarding and the internal audit plan. The audit operation is supported cargo. The Company strives to further by branch auditors and audit assistants positioned at Head improve the quality of customer service Office and respective branches. The purpose of the internal going forward. Certificate of AEO Customs Broker (The Company) audit is to precisely grasp the status of corporate affairs and the financial position so as to be of help for management’s *1. Systems that provide measures that ease and simplify customs prevention of fraud, errors and faults, and rationalization such procedures for business operators who have constructed cargo security management frameworks in compliance with laws and as improvement of business operations and raising operating regulations, aiming both to secure and smoothen international efficiency. The Audit Division reports the results of audits logistics security, as well as to enhance Japan’s international competitiveness. regarding the Company and subsidiaries to the management The policy for implementing and constructing AEO Systems is set team. The General Affairs Division supports the follow-up within the SAFE Framework of Standards to Secure and Facilitate Global Trade adopted by the WCO (World Customs Organization). checks on any issues noted in the audit results, if any, and Japan’s AEO Systems comply with said policy. reports the results to the management team. (Source: Japan Customs Web site) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 13 Respect for Human Rights Respecting human rights is the basis for complying with laws and regulations and fulfilling social responsibility. Regarding the respect for human rights, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as “Improvement of employees’ awareness of human rights.” The Company considers that this outsourcing can Improvement of the awareness of help more physically challenged people to work on a human rights continuous basis and play active roles in society while having independent lives. Striving to disseminate the awareness of Slogan on human rights (some of slogans Submitted to the Company) respect for human rights with every employee by establishing a dedicated promotion system Slogan on human rights (Employees’ section) The Company is committed to enlightening of human rights Don’t hesitate to show a little courage. issues among employees with the aim of creating a “positive Change yourself, and the world will change. worksite atmosphere in which every employee’s human rights are respected and personal competence and personality can be fully demonstrated.” Specifically, every year the Company offers a human VO I C E rights enlightenment course of 1–2 hours in the stratified training curriculum under the established human rights Reflection on the training promotion system. Human Rights Training In fiscal 2017 a total of 53 employees participated in the Hikaru Ishida training, which targeted new comers. Daikoku No. 1 Office, Daikoku At the training sessions, participating employees not only Warehouse B, Yokohama Branch received lectures but also exchanged views on diverse concrete examples to deepen their understanding. After undergoing the human rights training, I felt very strongly as a The Company endeavors to raise the awareness of human member of society working within a corporation that what each and rights by inviting slogans on human rights enlightenment even every employee must value the most is mutual understanding and an to loaned or dispatched staff members. In parallel with this awareness of compromise through “dialogue,” which is a technique to approach, we have established a harassment-dedicated connect people with other people. This is something I learned after counseling contact that takes initiatives to prevent or resolve being strongly impressed by the words spoken during the lecture that various worksite harassment cases. “fish cannot survive without water, and people cannot live without words,” and “inconvenience and misfortune are different.” Web Actual performance data on human rights training can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in Corporations have a “connection” with many companies and “Extended version.” people both inside and outside of their organization during the course HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social of their day-to-day business activities, and exert a great deal of Report>Extended version influence on one another. Within those relationships, people unconsciously get caught up with stereotypes and tend to interact with others on the assumption that other people see things the same Respecting human rights through way they do. But people should have an awareness that the way each business activities individual perceives, feels and sees things is different, and I learned that it is those differences that are the respect for human rights that we must value. Outsourcing works to a provider of continuous Valuing the differences among individuals will create a better employment support service, where physically working environment, and the Company will grow to become a better challenged people are working corporation. In order to prevent the damage caused by harassment, which has become a social issue, we will respect each individual and The Company outsources digitizing works of in-house actively make efforts to build better relationships with those around documents and data to Japan Church World Service, us. Going forward, I will not forget this mindset as I gain many Inc., Tokyo Itabashi Welfare Factory where continuous connections in this new environment as a new employee, and I hope employment support service is provided to physically to grow a lot as I come into contact with the diverse ways of thinking challenged people, who may have difficulties in of everyone around me. conventional work settings. 14 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Appropriate Working Environment An appropriate working environment serves to stabilize employees’ living standards, is the source of meaning in employees’ lives and is indispensable for safety and health, productivity growth, human resource development and so forth. Regarding the appropriate working environment, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as “Respect of labor-management relations,” “Employment and the importance of the employment relationship,” “Rewarding and friendly working conditions,” “Ensuring the security of workers” and “Human resource development and training.” Respect for labor-management relations employment of applicants from a long-term perspective to systematically and stably ensure human resources. We offer a wide range of opportunities to both new and Having close communications with the professional or experienced applicants by making the most labor union of the Company’s Web site and various kinds of PR media. The collective labor agreement entered into between the Status of employees (as of the end of March 2018) Company and the Mitsubishi Logistics Union stipulates the Status in fiscal 2017 responsibility of the Company and that of the union as follows on Number of regular employees the stance of labor-management cooperation. (consolidated) 4,463 Number of temporary employees (consolidated) 2,504 1. (Company’s Responsibility) The Company shall proactively strive to maintain and *Group companies have no statistical data regarding employees’ improve the working conditions and promote the average age and years of service. welfare of employees to improve the status of Number of regular employees (non-consolidated) 891 (571 men / 320 women) employees and ensure stable livelihoods. Average age (non-consolidated) 40.0 years (men: 39.7 years; women: 40.5 years) 2. (Union’s Responsibility) The labor union shall strive to maintain public order at Average years of service (non-consolidated) 16.8 years (men: 16.1 years; women: 18.1 years) the worksite and promote the working capabilities of its Number of temporary employees affiliated employees, as well as fully cooperate with the (non-consolidated) 716 Company for the growth of the Company’s business based on democratic foundations. Status of new graduate recruits Status of mid-career recruits (joining the Company in April 2018) (joining the Company between April 2017 and March 2018) University graduates 42 University graduates 6 Labor-management consultations and negotiations are Male university Male university graduates 24 graduates 4 handled at the Management Conference, which is attended by representatives of both parties. Female university Female university graduates 18 graduates 2 There are two types of Management Conference: the Central Junior college/Vocational Junior college/Vocational Management Conference, college graduates 0 college graduates 1 which is held between Head High school 4 High school 2 Office and the union’s graduates/Others graduates/Others headquarters, and the Total 46 Total 9 Operating Site Management Status of new graduate recruits retained Conference, which is held New graduate recruits joining No. of recruits retained as of between each branch and the Company in April 2015 April 2018 (percentage) each lodge. Each conference Operating Site Management Men and women total 40 37 (92.5%) meets once per month. Conference (Fukuoka Branch) Men 24 22 (91.7%) Women 16 15 (93.8%) Employment and the importance of the employment relationship Rewarding and friendly working conditions Endeavoring to ensure human resources systematically and stably Strive to improve the environment in which both while respecting equal employment opportunities and diversity employees and the Company can raise mutual values In recruiting employees, our basic policy is to respect equal The basic philosophy of the Company’s personnel policy is to employment opportunities and diversity. assist its employees to grow and improve their work-life In our recruiting activity, we have introduced an open balance and to assert that both employees and the Company entry system without making any distinction as regards the can raise mutual values through the sustainable growth of the school of graduation or faculty that takes into account the fair Company. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 15 Appropriate Working Environment To realize this philosophy, the Company endeavors to Involvement in mental health activities focusing improve worksite environments so that employees can on “prevention and recurrence prevention” demonstrate their individuality and competence to the utmost with improved motivation and better workplace environments, The Company considers it important to support every through a variety of personnel and educational systems. employee in having a purposeful life by ensuring systematic and constant care for his/her mental health. To promote mental health care in accordance with the Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit “Guidelines for maintenance and promotion of mental health of creating worksites where employees can for workers” of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, demonstrate their individuality and competence the Company has taken a variety of initiatives such as reinforcement of in-house education and training, cultivation The Company strives to improve worksite environments of dedicated staff in charge at operating sites, implementation in which every employee can fully demonstrate his/her of the stress check system following the Partial Revision of individuality and competence. the Industrial Safety and Health Act and improvement of Self-declaration system networks via collaborations with external professional According to the self-declaration system, the organizations. Company’s employees declare their satisfaction rating with their current duties and career plan among others, once a year. The declaration includes the desired conditions of their next workplace, etc., so that the VO I C E Company may pay attention not only to employees’ Having Taken Child-care Leave business duties but also to every employee’s life plan. The content of the declaration is actually used for Ichigo Otani personnel transfers and the career development Warehousing and Distribution Business Dept. A, Kobe Branch program. Evaluation and treatment of employees I took one month’s child-care leave after The Company treats employees in accordance with the birth of my second child. This enabled fair, transparent and well-received appraisal systems. me to spend quality time taking care of my two-and-a-half Direct interviews between managers and subordinates, year-old son, who had so much energy every day, and doing which are held three times a year (at the time of target the housework until my wife recovered her strength after giving setting, midyear retrospection and year-end birth. I was in the midst of setting up some new business when retrospection) are especially emphasized, enabling I asked my manager for child-care leave, but he readily agreed managers and subordinates to deepen communication to my request, and my colleagues also understood my position so I was greatly encouraged. In the future, I would like to be with each other. The evaluation results are used for an able to offer my support for my colleagues, especially men, to appropriate division of labor within the business unit take child-care leave and care leave. and advice on career planning. Execute industrial safety and health-related measures to enhance employees’ good health VO I C E To effectively fulfill its obligation of safety, which is Having Taken Care Leave required of every corporation, the Company proactively Sachiko Isomura takes initiatives to maintain and promote employees’ Trunk Room Office, Tokyo Branch health. I have a daughter who will turn four this Regular medical checkup year, and ever since I returned to work until A medical checkup is conducted once a year that now, I have received a lot of calls from her focuses on tests for lifestyle-related diseases. Although daycare due to her sudden high fevers and other illnesses. long working hours have become a social problem in Sometimes her fevers were prolonged and my husband and recent years, the Company has implemented a I would arrange our schedules so that one of us could take time framework to minimize the health risks of employees off but even then I think it was thanks to the leave care system due to a heavy workload through enhanced interview that we were able to take time off work without any problem. guidance from industrial physicians to those with long On those occasions that we took leave, we were able to working hours. look after our daughter with peace of mind thanks to the fact that everyone in our workplace was taking over our duties and Health promotion performing follow-up work. I realized that the system works Health promotion seminars are held for the purpose of because of the understanding and support of everyone in the maintaining good health and improving the lifestyle of workplace. employees. At these seminars, in addition to lectures Going forward, I think there may be times that I take care (on mental health and eating habit guidance) given by leave but I will try to work hard at my job and at child-caring experts, simple aerobics dance programs are offered without losing sight of my gratitude to everyone in my workplace. to encourage employees to engage in light physical exercise. 16 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Acquisition results for various systems Results (number of beneficiaries) System Description FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Child-care Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period until a 7 8 13 8 7 leave child becomes 2 years old. Short-time Service hours may be reduced by up to 2 hours per day for 17 18 17 22 25 regular employee nurturing a child. Nursing care Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period within one 0 0 0 0 0 leave year to take care of a family member in need of nursing care. Care leave Paid leave for nursing care of a child (up to 10 days per year). 31 27 27 29 38 Family care Paid leave for nursing care of a family member in need of 1 0 0 4 4 leave nursing care (up to 10 days per year). * The number of beneficiaries in the child-care leave and nursing care leave are calculated based on the year they started taking their leaves. Promoting the work-life balance to support the To ensure employment opportunities for the sound development of the next-generation children elderly, motivated retiring employees are provided Pursuant to the implementation of the Act on Advancement with places to demonstrate their competence of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, In terms of employment opportunities for the elderly, the Company formulated the “Ordinary Business Owner the Company has strived to guarantee the employment Action Plan” and implemented the “Child-care leave system,” of employees up to 62 or 63 years old before the the “Shorttime regular employee system,” the “Nursing care establishment of the related laws through measures leave system,” the “Care leave system” and the “Family care such as a job placement service to help them be leave system” to assist with the coexistence of employees’ reemployed by subsidiaries or affiliates and the working life and home life. Furthermore, the Company reemployment of those with expertise in certain encourages the enhanced use of annual paid vacations to business fields. reduce working hours in a year and has introduced a In response to the establishment of the relevant systematic granting system (six days per year) of annual paid laws, we established our continuing employment vacations under labor-management collaboration. system to ensure that applicants can continue to work up to 65 years old under certain criteria, and the Promoting welfare measures to help system has been applied to around 90% of those applicable. employees store up the energy to work A variety of systems are available in compliance with Improving access in the work environment to increase the three catchphrases of “Provision of security,” “Recreation” and “Promotion of residential house the employment of physically challenged people acquisition” for the promotion of employees’ welfare. There are physically challenged employees who work in diverse operations of the Company. However, as of Major welfare programs of the Company: June 1, 2017, the Company’s employment rate of said employees was 1.83%, lower than its legally mandated 1. Provision of security Retirement benefits, corporate pensions, family allowance, 2.00% employment ratio. We will continue to steadily housing allowances, condolence money, celebration of a birth, strengthen improvements of the worksite environment the ESOP (Employee Stock Ownership Plan) association, in which physically challenged persons can easily group insurance, the reserve for pension and asset formation, demonstrate their capabilities and competence, aiming multipurpose accommodation loans and the granting of company-owned houses to employees via job transfers to reach our legally mandated employment ratio as 2. Recreation soon as possible. Recreation facilities, in-house sports events (baseball, tennis and futsal), the Mitsubishi firms’ martial arts tournament, Employment ratio of physically challenged employees refresh leave (long-service and midlevel workers) June June June June June June 3. Promotion of residential house acquisition 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Reserve for house acquisition and asset formation, in-house loans and tie-up loans Number of physically challenged employees 18 17 16 16 14 14 (actual) Employment ratio (%) 2.30 2.15 2.05 2.05 1.86 1.83 In-house recreation event In-house recreation event (Basketball club) (Yohkyoku (Noh chanting) club) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 17 Appropriate Working Environment VO I C E Overland transportation: Strengthen ensuring Mitsubishi Firms’ Noh Club safety with safety measures and the prevention of accidents in the transportation field Reflection on Ryosuikai Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (an overland transportation-dedicated Yoshihiro Ohtsuka General Manager, Operation Dept., Itabashi company in charge of the overland transportation business of the Office, Tokyo Warehouse Center Co., Ltd. Company), aims to increase the security of transportation and ensure safety through concerted efforts with the recognition that ensuring As well as holding yohkyoku (Noh chanting) classes and conducting the security of freight transportation is the pillar of our business in-house tournament activities, the Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation management. In addition, fully recognizing the public nature and Yohkyoku Club is mainly active in the running of two recitals a year importance of the trucking business apart from compliance with held in spring and autumn in its leading role among the 10 clubs and relevant laws and regulations such as the Motor Truck Transportation 13 companies that manage the Mitsubishi firm’s Undo Bunka Taikai “Yohkyoku Club.” A former employee of the Company has served as Business Act and the Road Traffic Act, in Ryoso Transportation, they chairperson of Ryosuikai since 2015, and two other former employees check operations at all times from a safety viewpoint. As initiatives for are also named as officials of the club. daily accident preventive activities, they also hold safety conferences, Since joining the club in 1994 when I was in my late thirties, I conduct safety patrols and hold head office and all-branches have continued to practice diligently and, after finally being formally marketing staff conferences. Furthermore, they conduct thorough certified to become part of the Kanze School, have reached the point checks at all car-allocation bases using a high-performance alcohol from this year where I can practise naraimonokyoku, which is a higher detector unit to check at the roll call whether any crew members grade of vocal performance. Since I am already middle-aged, I can’t over-exert myself with exercise but my association with Noh theater have been drinking. allows me to perform once a year with, and under the guidance of, In addition, they implement initiatives for industrial safety and my teacher on the grand stage of the Kanze Noh Theater on the health via appropriate instructions and education given to crew basement level of GINZA SIX, and I am determined to continue to members based on the results of regular medical checkups, to which enjoy yohkyoku*1, one song at a time. tests for lifestyle-related diseases have been added, and regular I believe that practicing yohkyoku is not simply a hobby that diagnosis of the driving competence of the truck crews is conducted. passes on a classical and intangible cultural heritage, but can be applied as a tool that enables every employee, regardless of whether they are male or female or working in Japan or overseas, to smoothly Harbor transportation: Promote the prevention carry out work according to the concept of “the introduction, development, and denouement” *2. Additionally, since it is also useful of industrial accidents and conduct periodic as a breathing method and a way to stay healthy, I would like to invite disaster prevention drills and meetings. both the active generation and the post-retirement generation to further boost the activities of the club. (An employee loaned from the The port and harbor operations inevitably involve a great variety of Company) cargo handling work in association with various receipts and deliveries *1. Yohkyoku refers to the vocal chants and dialog in Noh theater that are at ports. For smooth and safe cargo handling operations, we performed unaccompanied. implemented various activities based on the countermeasures prepared *2. In “the introduction, development, and denouement,” the “introduction” starts off slowly and smoothly in the introductory part. This is then followed by the by each operating site. Furthermore, we hold regular before-work “development,” which is an interesting section full of changes as the plot develops. This is in turn followed by the “denouement,” which builds momentum meetings and monthly safety and health meetings jointly with relevant and moves quickly in the final part of the performance, tying together everything suppliers at which we analyze industrial accidents and cargo accident that has happened from the beginning, to the middle and the end. cases in order to raise awareness of safety and health and share the intent with all workers. We are making efforts to improve working environment and grasp situations by taking measures for the ever-changing environment, Ensuring the security of workers including reviewing the format of regular security patrols. In this manner, we will always look for new ways to improve safety and health, actively Striving to conduct industrial safety and health implement ordinary safety promotion activities and continue daily activities via collaborations among operating bases enlightenment activities. We believe that those efforts will help in the pursuit of prevention of industrial accidents prevent industrial accidents and Each branch has an “Industrial Safety and Health Committee” (and a ensure the safety of workers. Health Committee at Head Office) to share information with operating Specific initiatives executed bases including operation-commission and cargo-handling at the respective ports are companies to which operation summarized in the following is outsourced with regard to table. Safety and health meeting Harbor Transportation Dept., Fukuoka Branch diverse initiatives related to industrial safety and health. In addition, we strive to prevent industrial accidents by conducting safety and health education and safety patrols Industrial Safety and Health inside and outside the facilities. Committee (Kobe Branch) Safety patrol Safety patrol Harbor Transportation Dept., Fukuoka Branch Rokko Office, Kobe Branch 18 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Description of specific initiatives taken at the respective ports and results/achievements development of society by conducting himself/herself in the Description following manner. We hold a briefing meeting before the ship operations to confirm the content of the intended operation, check the work uniform including the fluorescent vests and call workers’ attention to safety (daily). 1. Keep faith in others, and conduct yourself with integrity A safety and health meeting is held jointly with the relevant suppliers and a sense of fairness. (monthly). 2. Conduct yourself autonomously. We implemented safety patrols at operating sites jointly with the relevant 3. Respond flexibly to environmental changes. suppliers (monthly). 4. Demonstrate expertise and act with a sense of creativity. (Quarterly joint patrols are conducted with the participation of superiors.) 5. Have a good teamwork spirit and cooperate with your We regularly confirm and replenish safety gear (safety belts for high-place colleagues. operations, fluorescent safety armbands, emergency stretchers, etc.). Information such as cases of accidents is shared with other operators operating at the same harbor terminal at operators’ liaison meetings, Training system etc., and the content is shared at safety conferences at our worksites The Company focuses on developing human resources that can and with suppliers. precisely respond to internal and external needs. We promote the speed limit for dedicated, in-yard trucks, which are The Company therefore strives to upgrade employees’ driven within the container yards (via the successive installation of excessive speed lamps). business skills and the organization’s strength through training by We participate in outside workshops and training sessions (as needed). service year of employment. At the same time, the Company Results/Achievements offers several training programs to raise employees’ expertise such No serious industrial accidents were reported in fiscal 2017. as management capabilities, readiness for globalization and operational capability to enable employees to acquire professional skills in response to the content of their business duties. Human resources development and training Extending the Content of the Logistics Endeavor to develop human resources Training that can contribute not only to corporate At the logistics training, the lecturers are dispatched mainly from growth but also to social development among active employees so that employees assigned to posts at logistics sites can improve their necessary expertise and skills. Ideal image of desired human resources In fiscal 2017, lectures regarding related laws, human error With the “Code of Conduct” in mind, every employee aims to measures and introduction of initiatives undertaken in the undertake a role not only in corporate growth but also in the warehousing business, etc. were held with 246 participants coming from the Company and also subsidiaries and affiliates. Furthermore, the lectures were recorded on video to develop VO I C E an environment where they can be viewed as an e-learning course in order to secure opportunities to take lectures for Measures to Ensure Safety and Security employees who are unable to attend the training. Takashi Mukuno General Manager, Sales Div., Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. VO I C E We at Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. are Reflection on the Logistics Training “Points actively committed to ensuring safety and on Compliance with Laws and Regulations in security and to transportation safety management as part of our important social responsibility. One example of this is that as a the Warehousing and Distribution Business” trucking business operator certified as an excellent safety (G mark) Miho Uhara enterprise by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Rokko Office, Kobe Branch Tourism we comply with laws and regulations. In addition, by holding safety meetings and safety patrols, including with collaborating Learning about compliance with laws and regulations in the transportation companies, we are endeavoring to establish a system warehousing and distribution business overall was an for sharing and communicating information to achieve safe opportunity for me to look back at how I have been conducting transportation and an improvement in transportation quality. my daily operations. Furthermore, on the environmental front, we obtained Green The training showed me that acquiring a crisis management Management Certification in 2005 and strive to reduce the ability makes it possible to deal with issues beforehand to environmental burden. prevent a crisis from occurring, and also showed me the way of While undertaking such initiatives, in response to the increasing thinking that compliance itself is a form of crisis management. diversification and sophistication of customers’ needs, we are But I also understood how important it is to have an awareness implementing dutyand position-based education aimed at raising of compliance as it relates to complying not just with laws and awareness of employees, and have received a favorable response regulations but also with internal rules and so forth. from customers. I would like to provide instructions to the junior employees In the future, we would like to continue various initiatives in order in my workplace about what I learned at the training in a way to provide highly reliable and dependable transportation/delivery that is easy for them to understand, and implement those services. (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation) teachings in my daily operations. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 19 Appropriate Working Environment Conducting training for young employees before their was introduced in fiscal 2016. On the day, overseas dispatches (Overseas Operations Training) representatives of each group that received the awards spoke about the areas of improvement, the points they Targeting young employees who participate in the struggled with, and how they dealt with the various young employee overseas dispatch program, we issues. provided training on deepening the understanding in The lecture was an opportunity for the participants the international transportation business. With practical to specifically understand examples of improvements in training contents including the explanation of the other workplaces, and to apply this knowledge to Company’s position and role in the international improvement activities in their own workplaces. transportation business, lecturers in-house and from Going forward, we plan to continue holding these outside build the training program to enable lectures introducing cases receiving improvement participants a smoother start for their overseas OJTs. awards. Furthermore, we proactively invite participants from the Group companies, including those overseas, and utilize this training program for the international transportation Training at the 6th year was conducted business training in the whole Mitsubishi Logistics for regional employees Group. We began recruiting new graduates as regional employees in 2012 and as these first-year intakes are Held a lecture introducing cases receiving now in their sixth year of employment with the improvement awards as part of logistics training Company, we conducted training at the 6th year for the regional employees, as we do for general employees. We held a lecture introducing cases that received For this training, in addition to lectures where improvement awards in the first year of the employees learn problem-solving techniques that can commendation system for improvement activities that be implemented in the workplace, we also established courses where regional employees, along with general employees, can understand the progress of the VO I C E Company’s management plans and consider their own Reflection on the Logistics career design. Training “Lecture Introducing the Improvement Awards” VO I C E Tsukasa Ariyoshi Ohi Cold Storage Office, Tokyo Branch Reflection on Training at the 6th Year This training taught me several examples of improvement awards given to “increase work efficiency (Regional Employee) in offices and worksites” and “prevent accidents and Akiko Yamaoka dispatch errors.” Kinjoh Office, Nagoya Branch Before the training, I had been thinking that it’s difficult to find the time while carrying out our daily At the training, various materials were presented relating duties to think about what kind of improvement activities to the case studies that we were given, and I learned we should undertake, and that the only time available is problem-solving techniques, from determining the during the small pockets of free time we each have. But cause of problems and analyzing them to proposals for during the course of the training I learned that by improvement methods, as well as thought processes. creating an improvement activities’ team and sharing Through this training, I felt very strongly that even if the opinions of those working in the offices and on the we talk about “improvements,” unless we accurately worksites, even though at first glance it seems like a verify a number of processes, we will not be able to slight detour, the end result is that it is possible to identify the cause of the problem and we will not reach engage in effective improvement activities in a short the point where we can propose an appropriate period of time. improvement method. It might be difficult to introduce the cases that won In the future, I would like to utilize what I learned in improvement awards presented at the lecture to other this training at my workplace, and strive to apply it in my offices in the exact same manner. However, I think other daily operations. offices can take those points of view and ways of thinking into account when making improvements. I also learned that increasing the efficiency of operations as a result of improvement activities provides us with more available time, which in turn enables us to work on making further improvements. I would like to take advantage of what I learned at the training to work on improving operational efficiency and safety in my own workplace. 20 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Human resources (training) systems General employee development course: Basic role: Engage in a wide variety of corporate operations as core executives who facilitate business growth and management in a variety of regions including overseas. Career ProblemCareer CSR and Health SelfCross-industrial Human skills Management Logistics Global stages solving development compliance promotion development exchange General Management Manager class Life plan strategy seminar Health promotion seminar Problem-solving Managerial practical training employee class Training for newly appointed managerial employees (Understand management skills, corporate ethics, etc.) Correspondence education Assistant Mitsubishi Marketing Association manager Management training by theme (Leadership (compulsory), labor management (compulsory), accounting Mitsubishi Shichikenkai Workshop class (compulsory), problem resolution, etc. (selective course)) Midlevel Logistics training *1 Supervisor Grade 2 training Overseas operations training *2 employees (Improve perspectives via action learning, acquire basic management skills) Young Training at the 6th year employee (Problem-solving, followership, career design, etc.) overseas Young dispatch employees Training at the 2nd year program English and (Logical thinking, global mindset, FKS, safety and health, etc. (take certain lectures in the Logistics training course)) Chinese Newcomers’ first-half training / Newcomers’ second-half training conversation (Business manners, basic knowledge on general corporate operations, courses visits to logistics facilities and real estate of the Company, etc.) Region-type employee development course: Basic role: Become familiar with and understand the characteristics or features and local business duties of a certain region in preparation for the smooth fulfillment of corporate operations. Career Health SelfHuman skills Career development CSR and compliance Logistics Global stages promotion development Senior leader Health promotion class of regional employees Life plan seminar Overseas operations training *2 seminar Leader class Correspondence education of regional Regional supervisor training employees (Confirm expected roles, leadership) Logistics training *1 Midlevel Training on regional employees employees (Discover one’s own strengths and weaknesses, improve communication capabilities) Training at the 6th year (Problem-solving, career design, etc.) Young employees Training at the 2nd year (CSR, FKS, safety and health, etc. (take certain lectures in the Logistics training course)) Newcomers’ first-half training / Newcomers’ second-half training (Business manners, basic knowledge on general corporate operations, visits to logistics facilities and real estate of the Company, etc.) *1: Major lectures for the Logistics training Registered customs specialist qualification course FKS (Fuji Logistics Kaizen System) Safety and health course Warehousing Business Act and contracting practices Laws and regulations related to trucking business and practices course Outline of warehouse storage operation Marketing for the service industry Business activities of warehousing business Outline of harbor transportation business Our information system overview and information system trend in the logistic industry Points on compliance with laws and regulations in the warehousing and distribution business Introduction of actual initiatives, etc. *2: Major lectures for the Overseas Operations Training Explanation of B/L and NVO business Import shipping agent business Export shipping agent business Overseas logistics proposals, etc. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 21 Environmental Conservation Environmental issues are not only local issues of the region where our business bases are located but are also globally interconnected. Environmental accountability is a global-level social responsibility that affects the future of people. The Mitsubishi Logistics Group strengthens such environmental issues as the reduction of CO2 emissions as a countermeasure for climate change, the use of renewable natural resources and contribution to recovery of the eco-system. Reduction of CO2 emissions as a certification registration organization Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation measure for reducing climate change (abbreviated as “Eco-Mo Foundation”). Some of our business bases approaching their 10th year renewal in March 2017 Certified under the Logistics Efficiency were commended for their many years of certification. Improvement Act *1, we are integrating logistics bases and reducing the environmental burden. 1. Certification acquisition status of the Company All offices of the Warehousing Business Division Obtaining the same certification under the following nine business Port and Harbor Operations Division plans, we made transportation and distribution systems more (Part of the container terminals of the Port of efficient by integrating logistics bases for customers who used to Yokohama and the Port of Kobe) employ multiple logistics bases, thereby reducing the number of 2. Certification acquisition status of the Group delivery trucks. By collecting customers’ freight and implementing Truck transportation business (Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., and joint delivery, we reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2), Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd.) and warehousing business contributing to a reduction of the environmental burden. (Chubu Trade Warehousing Co., Ltd., Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., and the Warehousing Business Division of Monryo Transport Corporation) 1. North Building, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 2, Osaka Branch (Started operation in November 2005) *3. The Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility 2. Sakurajima Warehouse No. 3, Osaka Branch and Ecological Transportation is a public utility (Started operation in April 2008) foundation that has been certifying and registering business operators making efforts to reduce the 3. Tobishima Warehouse, Nagoya Branch (Started environmental burden at a level exceeding the operation in November 2008) standards outlined in the Green Management 4. Misato Warehouse No. 1, Tokyo Branch (Started Promotion Manual since October 2003. operation in December 2008) Green Management Certification 5. Ibaraki Warehouse No. 3, Osaka Branch (Started Commendation for many years of certification operation in October 2012) (Kobe Branch Office) 6. Misato Warehouse No. 2, Tokyo Branch (Started operation in March 2013) 7. The extended space of Tobishima Warehouse, Nagoya We ensure compliance with the Law Branch (Started operation in September 2015) Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, etc. 8. Sapporo Warehouse, Tokyo Branch (Asahi Unyu co., ltd.) (Started operation in January 2018) *2 As a “Designated Business Operator” under the Law 9. Seishin Distribution Center, Kobe Branch (Started operation in March 2018) Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, the Company is obliged to reduce per-basic unit energy use more than 1% on an annual average on a mediumto long-term basis at *1. The Logistics Efficiency Improvement Act (Act on Advancement of Integration and Streamlining of Distribution Business, implemented on October 1, 2005) facilities we own and rent. Moreover, we submit a regular The purpose of this law is to promote operations conducive to efficient report on energy saving and a mediumto long-term energylogistics and reducing the environmental burden by integrating logistics bases saving plan to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. and conducting transportation, distribution, storage and logistics processing comprehensively. Business plans under this law are approved as a The values we reported to the Ministry in fiscal 2017 (the comprehensive efficiency plan and supported by the authority. actual results for fiscal 2016) show that our energy-saving In addition, the same law has been amended in May 2016 in view of further integrating and streamlining the logistics industry with the concern of labor measures resulted in about 5% reduction of per-basic unit shortage. Aiming to support measures such as modal shift and cooperative energy use compared with the base year fiscal 2012. We are delivery that are conducted by cooperation of related parties including logistics companies and shippers, it became effective in October 2016. also striving to reduce CO2 emissions at our real estate *2. Distribution center operations using an Asahi Unyu co., ltd. facility; therefore, facilities subject to the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental the warehouse is certified under the names of both companies. Security Ordinance. Through obtaining the Green Management Certification, Web The actual results of our environmental conservation efforts and our total CO2 emissions reduction directive under the we are promoting environment-friendly business activities. Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” The Group obtained the Green Management Certification *3, which pursues profitability and environmental conservation by HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version promoting environment-friendly business activities from the 22 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Conducting compliance with the Act on Rational We are promoting solar power Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons generation. According to the “Act on Rational Use and Proper In line with the governmental policy of enhancing the use of Management of Fluorocarbons *4,”it is required of users that renewable energy to cope with global warming and other inspection on commercial refrigerators and air conditioners issues, the Company is promoting the adoption of large-scale etc. using fluorocarbons (Class 1 specified products), or solar power generation facilities at its warehousing facilities the report of the leakage amount of fluorocarbons from the using the Renewable Electric Energy Feed-In-Tariff (or fixedaforementioned products when it exceeds a specified level. price purchase system of electricity from renewable energy). The Company is appropriately responding to the law by In fiscal 2017, solar power generation facilities were preparing the systems and operational guidelines related to completed and started operation at the MM2100 Distribution inspection and leakage control. In addition, in fiscal 2017, Center in Indonesia (started operation in August 2017, 100 the Company’s calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons kW) and at the Seishin Distribution Center in Kobe (started was 910.7 [t-CO2], which was below the level of 1,000 operation in March 2018, 300 kW) for a total output of 400 kW. [t-CO2] that is subject to reporting leakage amount to the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (the minister having jurisdiction over the warehouse industry). The Eitai Dia Building has acquired certification as a “Near-Top Level Facility” under the Tokyo *4. Overview on “Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons” (implemented in April 1, 2015) Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. The Act requires users (owners, in general) of “Class 1 specified products” (commercial air-conditioners, refrigerators and freezers, The Eitai Dia Building has been certified since fiscal 2015 etc.) to implement “simple inspection of all specified products” and “periodic inspection by a person with specialized knowledge.” as a “Near-Top Level Facility” under the Tokyo Metropolitan Furthermore, it also requires users to report the calculated leakage Environmental Security Ordinance, Green Building Program amount of fluorocarbons if the amount exceeds the specified level of 1,000 [t-CO2] per year. for “Top-Level Business Facilities in Measures Against Global Warming” certification system. *5 Actual data of the calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons may Web be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” The “Certified Top-Level Business Facilities in Measures Against Global Warming” are “business facilities that have HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social made outstanding progress in the implementation of Report>Extended version measures against global warming” recognized by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government as offices complying with the Implementing eco-friendly loading equipment standards designated by the Governor of Tokyo under the in the Harbor Transportation Business Division Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. Under the mandatory targets for reduction in overall In accordance with the Environmental Voluntary Plan, the greenhouse gas emissions and an emissions trading Company has preferentially implemented transfer crane, program, less stringent reduction targets are applied for the a type of eco-friendly loading equipment, at the Nanko certified facilities. *6 C-9 terminal in Osaka Although the Eitai Dia Building, which was completed in Branch. We downsized 1991, is quite aged, the proper renovations, renewal and the engines and power maintenance of the facilities and equipment were highly generators, resulting in a evaluated and certified as a Near-Top-Level Facility in fiscal 35% decrease in CO2 2010, and a Top-Level Facility in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2015, emission compared to the governor has strengthened the standards, and conventional models. demands regarding environmental consideration have Transfer crane increased. However, through updating the air-conditioning heat source for computer rooms to a high-efficiency Promoting renewal of the existing lighting system version, conducting performance verification to LED lighting to achieve significant energy saving. (commissioning) of the adopted facilities and equipment and continual improvement of the building management in To save energy and reduce CO2 emissions with regard to the cooperation with the tenants of the building and a building lighting systems inside the Company’s warehouses, we are management company of the group, we were certified as a promoting renewal of the existing lighting systems nearing Near-Top-Level Facility again. the end of their lives, to high-efficiency lighting equipment. At other facilities of the Company as well, we will In fiscal 2017, a total of about 1,640 existing lighting continue to make aggressive efforts to further reduce the units were renewed to LED lighting at 11 facilities, including environmental burden by promoting renovations and Aomi Warehouse No. 1, Tokyo Branch; Ibaraki Warehouse renewals of facilities and equipment to environment-friendly No. 1, Osaka Branch; and Chuo Futo Warehouse, Fukuoka versions, and improving management and operation. Branch. *5. By annually reporting on conformity with the certification standards to A reduction of approximately 1,250 thousand kWh in the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, the certification will be extended electric energy, which corresponds to approximately 2.5% of up until fiscal 2019. the annual electric energy consumption at the Company’s *6. The mandatory targets for reduction in overall greenhouse gas emissions for Top-Level Facilities are reduced by half and those for warehousing facilities, is expected by renewing the existing Near-Top-Level Facilities by a quarter. lighting to LED lighting (8,600 units in total). Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 23 Environmental conservation Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. obtained Green We are promoting environmental conservation not Management Certification in its trucking only at our operational sites but also at our offices. business, striving for environmental conservation. Promotion of summertime and wintertime Addressing environmental issues energy saving For trucking business operators, addressing We strove to save energy by participating as a Group in environmental issues is one of the highest priorities. the Cool Biz campaign during the summertime (May Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (“Ryoso through October 2017), which calls for offices to set their Transportation”) has obtained the Green Management air-conditioning thermostats basically at 28˚C, as well as in Certification at all six of its branches (seven operational the Warm Biz campaign during the wintertime (November bases) starting in 2005, striving to reduce 2017 through March 2018), which calls for offices to set environmental burden. their air-conditioning thermostats basically at 20˚C. In fiscal 2017, Ryoso Transportation improved gas In addition, as a year-round initiative, we strive to save mileage by 10.3% compared with fiscal 2006. energy including by reducing the number of lights in use Specifically, in their efforts to promote eco-driving to to the extent not detrimental to operation and switching improve gas mileage and reduce emissions of air off OA equipment when not in use. pollution substances, they are conducting vehicle Promotion of Green Purchasing of stationery inspections and maintenance with their own high and other office supplies standards. They also adopt low-pollution vehicles that When the Group companies purchase office supplies, we meet the latest restriction regulations for gas emissions. not only consider quality and price but also choose products with less environmental impact—Green Promotion of “Green Purchasing” Purchasing. Ryoso Transportation is also striving to purchase products and services with less environmental burden. At Ryoso Transportation, they are aggressively Use of renewable resources purchasing retread tires, *7 eco-stationery, etc. *7. A retread tire has new rubber pasted on a used base tire, thereby A Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly restoring the tire’s original functionality. Warehouse completed and started operation. C  hange of total gas mileage at all operational sites of Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2017) (Unit: km/L) We completed and started operation of the Seishin Distribution Center in Kobe (4 floors above ground, Fiscal year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 floor area: 60,000 m2), a Disaster-Resistant and EcoVehicles for Friendly Warehouse, in March 2018. The Center is the business 2.45 2.53 2.59 2.63 2.58 2.59 Company’s first facility to be equipped with ramps use (100.0) (103.1) (105.6) (107.5) (105.5) (105.7) giving trucks access to every floor. Fiscal 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year Vehicles for 2.52 VO I C E 2.48 2.53 2.62 2.65 2.70 business (102.9) (101.3) (103.4) (107.0) (108.2) (110.3) The 60,000 m2 Disaster-Resistant use and Eco-Friendly Warehouse Parentheses indicate index numbers setting the mileage for fiscal 2006 as 100.0. 114 Masayuki Watanabe 112 110.3 Technical Dept., Kobe Branch 110 108.2 107.5 107.0 108 105.6 105.5 105.7 The Seishin Distribution Center in Kobe, for 106 103.1 102.9 103.4 which I was in charge of the overall facility construction, is a 104 102 100.0 101.3 Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouse with the largest 100 floor area among the Company’s warehouses. Built on solid 98 ground, it is also our largest anti-seismic warehouse employing a 96 seismic-isolated structure. The basement floor where the seismic 94 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal isolation equipment is installed is designed to be viewed by year) visitors, and many of the visitors find that the sight of the multiple seismic isolation rubber parts and dampers is overwhelming. We are promoting environmental conservation For lighting, we installed around 1,400 LED lighting units in the Center, which, when compared with conventional fluorescent with regard to information system equipment. lights, means that the amount of electric energy that can be In adopting information system equipment including reduced annually is equivalent to the usage by approximately 60 servers and PCs, we select models that use less households. I feel that the concept of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly energy. Warehouses is becoming increasingly important for large-scale facilities where the volume of items stored and the amount of electric energy used is high. 24 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 (1) Main Disaster Prevention Functions Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system a. Seismic performance We have created a seismic-isolated structure with the installation of seismic isolation equipment (129 units of Conducting reforestation through volunteer seismic isolation rubber, 46 elastomeric sliding bearings activities and donations as a partner of and 48 oil dampers) in the basement of the entire reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture warehouse, including the ramps, to improve seismic performance. To address the global environment from the perspective of b. Power outage countermeasures preservation of biodiversity, we participated in a partnership Emergency power generation facilities (420 kVA, program of reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture and initiated operates for 24 hours after outage) have been installed related activities in April 2011. to prepare for a power outage. In October 2017, the sixth reforestation activity was held (2) Main Environmental Performance in the prefectural forest by Tanzawa Lake. Participants a. Solar power generation system included 26 executives and employees from Head Office, The solar power generation facilities installed on the Tokyo Branch and Yokohama Branch, and with the roof with an output of approximately 300 kW will instructions from the Kanagawa prefecture certified forest reduce annual CO2 emissions by around 160 tons. instructor and the support from the Prefectural Water Source b. LED lighting Environment Conservation Division, we performed tree In addition to installing thinning works and took a walk along the mountain trails. LED lighting Participants were divided into four groups, and in throughout the entire accordance to safety instructions, they thinned trees by building, we use hand. motion detectors for During lunch time, the instructor gave a talk on nature common area lighting conservation, which helped participants increase the to save energy. LED lighting awareness of environmental issues. c. Air conditioning load reduction We are giving consideration to energy saving by adopting high-efficiency air conditioners for office air conditioning equipment, and total heat exchangers for ventilation equipment. d. Low-E glass We have adopted thermal-insulating, high heatinsulating multi-layered glass (Low-E glass) that increases the reflectance of far infrared rays and achieves a high heat-insulation performance. e. CASBEE We have achieved Rank A certification with CASBEE Participants (Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency) as the result of initiatives such as introducing an energy conservation system. We are using the electric car i-MiEV manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors Corporation. As one measure under the Environmental Voluntary Plan that the Company formulated, we are using electric cars that emit no CO2 exhaust for some of our company vehicles. When introducing electric cars, we consider the use of various subsidies for electric cars and the Walking along the mountain trails completion status of the relevant infrastructure including high-speed charger equipment for adopting such cars. In fiscal 2017 vehicles came up for renewal as well, following the revision in the number of company vehicles in use, the number of vehicles decreased, but 23 electric vehicles are now in use in our head office and all branches. Web The data on the status of using electric cars can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version Thinning works Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 25 Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities We earn trust from society by fulfilling our responsibilities regarding ethical activities. By conducting fair and open competition in our activities, we can showcase our compliance to society. To fulfill our sincere and fair business activities, we recognize the issues of appropriate management of information and compliance with laws and regulations such as the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. and the insider trading prevention law and strive to establish a foundation of trust from society. Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition attacks via e-mail (targeted e-mail virus attacks), we and promotion of fair and open competition conducted training and education on cyber-attacks for executives and all employees, and raised their awareness of information security in daily operations. We conduct training concerning compliance with Actual performance data on execution of questionnaire Web the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract with regard to Information Security can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Proceeds, etc. and the prevention of insider trading. HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social In March 2018, we conducted training concerning the Act Report>Extended version against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., covering the Company and its domestic Group companies. A total of 1,890 employees who are in charge of implementing Management of Information Security the aforementioned Act and related associates from each 1. Security of customer information (personal division attended the training and learned the purpose of the information) law, the scope of applications, responsibilities and prohibited 2. Security of intellectual property rights matters using related questions on our Web site. In February 3. Confidentiality obligation 2018, we conducted training related to the prevention of 4. Compliance with laws and regulations, obligation insider trading for a total of 50 newcomers and verified their of compliance with regulations and penalties understanding using related questions on our Web site. 5. Management of information assets 6. Formulation of security measure standards Web Actual performance data of the training concerning thorough compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract (Development standard, management standard, Proceeds, etc. and prevention of insider trading can be viewed on outsourcing standard) Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” 7. Monitoring and supervision HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social 8. Protecting systems from computer viruses Report>Extended version 9. Access authority control 10. Information security education We focus on information security to provide high-quality and secure services for customers. Management of Network Security 1. Management of connection to ML-net (In-house To provide the best services for our customers, the Company network) formulated various rules related to information systems. We 2. Rules for e-mail use have disseminated our information security policy to all 3. Rules for dispatching information executives and employees. 4. Rules for connection with networks outside the To ensure the smooth business activities of the Company, Company we formulated specific compliance matters as to the use and management of our in-house network. Also, we appoint a LAN manager from each branch’s information system section Also, part of the operations of the Tokyo Branch trunk and OA promotion staff from the relevant section of each room office and Dia Systems Corporation (our subsidiary to division that uses the network, ensuring safety and the develop and manage our information system) both acquired effective use of our in-house network. ISO27001 certification, an international information security In fiscal 2017, we conducted a web-based questionnaire management system standard, and receive periodic with regard to information security in August 2017 (answered evaluation by a certifying organization-approved third-party by 1,709 persons from the Company), and in September organization, thereby attesting to our efforts to improve our 2017 (1,562 persons from Group companies) thereby raising information security. the awareness of information security among the cumulative 3,271 people who answered the questionnaire. Furthermore, in fiscal 2017, as a measure against cyber26 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services To fulfill our mission as a logistics and real estate business operator relied on by society, we intend to promote measures to focus on disasters to continue to provide socially and environmentally useful and high-quality services and maintain service functions even during emergencies. Provision of socially and environmentally complete operational documents and share information beneficial high-quality services on various measures. We will continue to aim to enhance customer satisfaction. We will continue to promote the improvement of Each operating site and affiliated company quality, aiming to be a company that enhances conducts specific quality improvement measures. the quality of our customers’ products. To offer high-quality services, the Mitsubishi Logistics Group The Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues to promote conducts daily efforts to improve the quality at each its various efforts tenaciously to improve the quality of operating site and affiliated company. The content and services to get acknowledged by customers as a results of such efforts are horizontally developed across the constantly reliable partner. Group. Some of these measures are as follows. We aim for high quality from the customers’ perspective. Measures taken by Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd. To become a corporation that is continuously chosen by customers, we conduct business activities based on ideas and actions from the customers’ perspective. To achieve customer satisfaction, we have broadened the framework of quality enhancement to include the quality of operations, business duties and the Near-miss Case corporation itself. Moreover, to ensure trust from Business Improvement Committee Studies customers, we will build on our efforts at ensuring good quality to become a corporation that can boast Measures taken at divisions or branches and Group companies “quality” as its strength. Divisions or Branches Content of measures Our Quality Declaration has been disseminated. and Group companies We put up an “Our Quality Declaration” notice at each Warehousing and Held meetings attended by managers from all the worksite, distributed the “Our Quality Declaration” Distribution operating bases to share information on improvement Business Division of quality. cards to all employees of the Mitsubishi Logistics Determined issues on operational procedures by Group and explained about it during stratified trainings, Tokyo Branch monitoring the interior of warehousing facilities. etc., to further disseminate the information. ( See Yokohama The 4S Activities Promotion Committee patrolled the warehousing page P7: Our Declaration of Quality) Branch facilities and made evaluations on each checklist item. Promoted 4S activities in all work places. The Promotion We connect employee satisfaction to customer Kobe Branch Committee checked the status of implementation every satisfaction. month and conducts commendation. To offer high-quality services to customers, we regard Sairyo Service Compilation of a forklift operating manual, instruction using Employee Satisfaction (ES) as an indispensable element. Co., Ltd. the manual, and information sharing of near-miss cases, etc. We strive to enhance the motivation of each employee. Kyokuryo Conducted a safety patrol inside the premises every Warehouse month to prevent accidents, and held hygiene measure We believe that creating a good work environment Co., Ltd. meetings to prevent heatstroke in summer. where employees can engage in business activities Shinryo Koun Provided technical training to improve workers’ with confidence and contact customers with a smile Co., Ltd. technical capability. will eventually lead to Customer Satisfaction (CS). Mitsubishi Logistics Improved and implemented the human resources China Co., Ltd. development system at all the Group companies in China. Shanghai Collected accident-related information at each division The Warehousing Business Division has Linghua Logistics and department, analyzed the tendencies and gave Co., Ltd. feedback to all managerial employees. quality management groups. Yokohama Dia Collected information on complaints from customers Building Management through outsourced companies and shared the At the Warehousing Business Division, for the purposes Corporation information at meetings with the tenants. of maintaining and improving the quality of business Striving to improve service quality by establishing the activities of the entire Division, the Head Office and all Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd. Business Improvement Committee and conducting branches have a quality management group. We improvement proposal activities Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 27 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services We held a forklift competition in In addition, as the system is open to anyone who Shanghai. engages in the Company’s business including suppliers, it is designed to enable each worksite and Shanghai Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd., which is team to come together and join the improvement engaged in the warehousing and transportation activities. business, held a competition for its workers on Sunday, In the second half of fiscal 2016, 42 groups (314 April 23, 2017, where they competed to demonstrate people) participated and in fiscal 2017, 48 groups (286 their forklift driving skills. About 50 participants, people) joined the activities. In fiscal 2018, we are including from the head office administration expanding the scope to include affiliated companies, departments, actively took part in the competition, and expect even more groups to participate. Their enabling workers to reconfirm basic forklift operations. wide-ranging themes included not only the activities It was an extremely meaningful event from the within warehouses such as review on the operation perspective of accident prevention, and also gave flow lines and improving storage efficiency, but also participants a great deal of opportunity to cultivate business improvement and streamlining of clerical work mutual friendships. in offices. Going forward, we will take initiatives to prevent The administrative side of this system provided accidents, and aim to improve quality. support as needed to help each group thoroughly analyze problems, identify the causes and perform We commend improvement activities that efficient improvement activities. Although being small, by continuing company-wide will lead to service quality improvement efforts, the activity may produce great results. To have and streamlining of business processes. the improvement activities ingrained in our corporate culture, we will operate the system while sharing The Company introduced a commendation system for activity examples in the Group with the use of an improvement activities with an aim to vitalize the internal database and in-house journal. voluntary improvement activities in July 2016. Under this system, each group sets its own theme, performs improvement activities based thereon, and the award is given once a year to the group that particularly contributed to the service quality improvement and streamlining of business processes. VO I C E Improvement activities (Fukuoka Branch) Reflection on the Forklift Competition Liang Jun Chang Manager, Equipment Dept., Shanghai To further improve the quality of logistics operations, we Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd. adopted the G-MIWS (a new information system related to On Sunday, April 23, 2017, we held a warehouse storage operation and delivery center operation). forklift competition at our head office warehouse. The themes of the competition this time With the aim of providing a high-quality logistics service were skill and safety, but we also added elements to integrating nationwide and overseas logistics, the make it fun for the contestants by including work based Company has developed G-MIWS (Global Mitsubishi on actual warehouse operations, such as carrying balls Intelligent Warehouse System), a new warehousing and filled with water and intersecting with other forklifts. distribution center system, and completed its Company executives, including general managers installation at all domestic locations. of the company, gave speeches at the beginning of the The “G” of “G-MIWS” signifies “global,” aiming to competition, and we also received greetings from the expand the Company’s logistics business to integrate forklift manufacturers who sponsored the event. A total nationwide and overseas logistics, which was included of 70 competitors participated in the individual and in the Basic Policy of the Management Plan. Our group categories, filling the venue with excitement as system is available in English and Chinese for overseas they waged their fierce battles. The event was a great use and is designed to be effective in standardizing success, culminating in the top three prize winners operations, improving service quality and reducing receiving their awards at the end of the competition. costs. By exporting various types of logistics-related As a result of the competition, the forklift operators data, we will analyze operations, formulate sales became enthusiastic about improving their skills, and their teamwork also became stronger. The event also strategies, provide useful information for customers’ attracted the attention of China’s online media, including decision making in a timely manner and provide even people.cn and NetEase, which helped boost the higher-quality logistics services than ever to fully company’s image. (Group company of Mitsubishi support customers’ business development from the Logistics Corporation) aspect of logistics. 28 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 VO I C E minimize human and material damage that affects corporate Reflection on Improvement Activities management and restore the normal operational structure quickly. Especially, with an Shohei Takasawa aim to become disasterHarbor Transportation Dept., Fukuoka Branch resistant in software and hardware, we have For the improvement activities for which I acted as a leader, we made improvements to the developed “Disasterworkplace environment at Tosu Warehouse, Resistant and Eco-Friendly where I was assigned, and worked to ensure that it became a Warehouses,” “Disasterwarehouse where the office staff and the workers could work with a Resistant and Eco-Friendly Seismic isolation equipment of the Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly sense of security. At first glance, it appeared to be clean, and safety Office Buildings.” Warehouse (Seishin Distribution Center, Kobe) rules, including forklift speed limits, seemed to be displayed in order within the warehouse. But going around the warehouse and carefully identifying areas to be improved contributed to the creation of a more To fulfill our corporate social responsibility, we intend to: secure and safe environment. 1. Ensure the safety of employees, their families and Additionally, because the office staff and the workers all came related people; together to work on the improvement activities, communication in the 2. Preserve corporate facilities (e.g., the Company’s warehouses, entire workplace improved and work efficiency also improved as a buildings and facilities) and the freight received; and result of the active exchange of opinions. 3. Strive to quickly restore and continue operation. Although I was a newcomer, by acting as a coordinator for the improvement activities, I was able to ascertain the detailed operations To respond to trust in our corporation from society, we will: taking place within the warehouse with my own eyes. From now on, I 1. Strive to avoid adverse effects to stakeholders would like to utilize this experience to undertake my work with an (customers, shareholders and business partners), and awareness of making improvements. 2. Contribute to the quick stabilization of local communities. Conducted training for earthquake VO I C E measures Initiatives Following the During February and March 2018, we conducted training for Installation of the G-MIWS System earthquake measures at the Nagoya, Osaka and Fukuoka Yosuke Arakawa branches. The training was based on a scenario reflecting the Information Systems Development characteristics of a large-scale earthquake expected to cause Dept., Information Systems Div. major damage to the locations of each branch. It considered the initial response, mainly during the period from the We completed the installation of G-MIWS at all 46 locations in occurrence of the earthquake until the following day, and summer 2017, and are currently engaged in follow-up work for users. For these follow-up activities, we are promoting the more effective use confirmed aspects such as the timely and appropriate of G-MIWS by introducing optimum functions for users’ operations verification and reporting of the damage situation, and explaining the effective usage of the system. communication between branches and offices, the role of At the same time, we aim to improve the level of service and each branch and office, and the centralization of information. ensure greater work efficiency by reviewing the operations of each Web Implementation performance data from the training for office based on past improvement cases and know-how, etc., and by earthquake measures can be viewed on Mitsubishi standardizing operations across all offices. Logistics’ Web site in the “Extended Version.” Even when we engage in work that we normally take for granted, HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social there are more than a few cases where efficiency can be further Report>Extended Version increased by approaching the work from a different angle. Training for earthquake measures Going forward, I would like to explore the possibilities for further improving work efficiency using G-MIWS together with everyone in our office. Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service functions Nagoya Branch Osaka Branch We are working on crisis-preventive measures and measures to focus on crises promptly and effectively in case of such occurrence. The basic purpose of our crisis management measures is to predict various crises that can seriously affect corporate management, prevent such crises and, in case of occurrence, focus on the crisis quickly and effectively to Fukuoka Branch Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 29 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services VO I C E communication system with local fire stations and Reflection on the Training conduct periodic fire drills every year in preparation for the occurrence of fire. Through continuing such for Earthquake Measures measures and initiatives, we will strive to provide highly Wataru Hasegawa reliable services for our customers. Sakurajima No. 2 Office, Osaka Branch I participated in the training so that I would be able to make an appropriate initial response in the event of a large-scale earthquake. During the training, the situation changed moment by moment and I was overloaded with the gathering and reporting of information. I found that in a situation where time and methods of communication are limited, it is very difficult to get an overall picture of what is happening and to respond calmly. As well as verifying the issues that I learned from this training, I want to focus on my daily duties with a constant awareness of disaster prevention. Fire prevention patrol Reinforcing the emergency and disaster measures system As an emergency measure, we implemented largescale disaster measure training with mandatory employee participation. The training involved use of a mobile phone safety confirmation system, going or coming to a work site by walking and checking restoration procedures from disaster damage, etc. In addition, communication training on the use of transceivers was conducted monthly in the Group companies to acquire the knowledge of its use, so as to strengthen the disaster measures system. Moreover, by increasing the number of offices implementing the Earthquake Early Warning system, we strive to promptly collect information needed to ensure employees’ safety. Fire drill We are strengthening our information system crisis Transceiver (MCA radio) Earthquake Early Warning System management structure to focus on disasters and other crises. To ensure continuous use of the information system Taking measures to prevent fire and even during an emergency, we established a disaster respond to the occurrence of fire. countermeasures center in the Kansai region to back up data and implemented a duplicate information In February 2017, a fire took place at the warehouse of system for our in-house network and the Internet a major mail order company. The warehouse was for environment. In addition, in-house use, and was not a commercial warehouse as the Company has stipulated in the Warehousing Business Act. However, formulated a manual all the commercial warehouses received a heads-up focused on information from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and system disasters and Tourism that governs the warehousing industry. The other measures as Company, even before this incident, had been countermeasures taken conducting thorough employee education, enhancing during operation of such security, and, upon constructing a warehouse, taking systems against fire preventive measures from the aspects of structure information system Disaster countermeasure center in and facility. In addition, we have established a constant accidents and failure. the Kansai region 30 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 The Company’s 11 facilities are support/relief goods logistics base facilities By creating a reliable communication system for use in disasters, designated by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. we are endeavoring to gather the information required in the event of an emergency so that tenants of the buildings can use it with The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, learning confidence. from its reflection on the Great East Japan Earthquake, held an advisory conference from September to December 2011, attended by experts, logistics business operators and people related to In-house firefighting crew for our leased buildings industry organizations, among others, to compile the “Basic concept received commendation by a fire station on the support/relief goods logistics system,” which aims for the Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., a management company for the Company’s efficient and smooth delivery of support/relief goods to afflicted areas leased buildings, is working to strengthen and enhance the disasterat the time of a disaster. prevention system companywide. Every year the company participates The General Manager of the Warehousing and Distribution in the In-house Firefighting Review Committee, whose role is to Business Division of the Company assumed a position as a improve the results and techniques of in-house firefighting activities at committee member representing warehousing business operators, operating bases. Last year, the Review Committee awarded a prize to requested by the Ministry, and actively commented from the the security team at Nihonbashi Dia Building, which won the title for perspective of a warehousing business operator. These discussions the third consecutive year, while their women-only security team came concluded with the shared recognition that for the delivery of in second in the women-only category. Tokyo Dia Building won in the support/relief goods at the time of a disaster, it is essential to fully security services category and was runner-up in the non-specific utilize the expertise and facilities of private logistics operators. applications category. MCC Mitaka Building was runner-up in the type In fiscal 2011, 395 private facilities nationwide, mainly in the 1 fire hydrant (firefighting planning crew) category. Kanto, Tokai and Tonankai regions, where a large-scale earthquake In the future, we are committed to giving the building owners and is foreseen in the near future, were designated as support/relief tenants a sense of safety and security by continuing trainings in goods logistics bases, including the Company’s seven facilities preparation for disasters. located in the Kanto, Tokai and Hanshin regions. In fiscal 2012, two other facilities of the Company (in Fukuoka and Saga) were newly designated as relief supplies and material facilities. In fiscal 2013, two other facilities of the Company (both in Aichi Prefecture) were newly designated as relief supplies and material facilities which brought the number of the Company’s facilities to 11. We will thoroughly prepare to fulfill our public role as a warehousing business operator so that each of the designated facilities of the Company can function well during a future large-scale disaster. Tokyo Dia Building In-house Review Committee (MCC Mitaka Web Data on our 11 facilities designated as support/relief Firefighting Crew Building) goods logistics base facilities can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social VO I C E Report>Extended version Actively Participated in the In-house Firefighting Crew Competition Hiryu Machida Nihonbashi Dia Building Management Office, Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd. What is important with in-house firefighting when a disaster Daikoku Warehouse B, Yokohama Rokko Warehouse E, Kobe Branch occurs is how quickly the initial response can be made, and Branch whether the firefighting crew can grasp the state of the fire and any human casualties, minimize the damage, and hand Creating a disaster communication the situation over to the professional firefighters. For this reason, management office staff train daily in case system in our building leasing business of an emergency. The In-house Firefighting Crew Competition, which Until now, emergency communication between the leased building demonstrates the results of the trainings, looks at what management offices in the Tokyo metropolitan area and the happens from the time the crew rushes to the scene assuming Company, and emergency communication between those offices a disaster has occurred, to when it hands the situation over to and Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd. head office, which is a management the professional firefighters. The in-house firefighting crew of company for the Company’s leased buildings, utilized a telephone the Tokyo Dia Building Management Office, of which I was a communication network. However, based on the assumption that part, was able to place second because we were able to telephone lines become overloaded during large-scale emergencies, demonstrate what we had learned in our daily training. we introduced the Disaster Information Communication System Going forward, I will continue my training and would like (D-DICS) jointly with Dia Buil-Tech , using Internet networks that are to undertake my duties with an awareness that we ourselves not prone to overloading even during emergencies. are protecting the buildings we manage and the tenants inside (Started operation in September 2017, initially covering 24 leased them. (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation) buildings in the Tokyo metropolitan area.) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 31 Coordination with Local Communities and International Society To contribute to the development of local communities and international society, we must focus not only on the site where our business base is located but also understand our relationship with society and recognize our common interests with society. To maintain harmonious relationships with local and international societies, we will contribute to cultural activities and health services and make donations. HIDENOBU ARAKI (hollyhock.inc) Contribution to cultural activities co-hosted a marathon race with the U.S. forces. In “Yokohama North Dock SAKURA RUN” held in April 2017, and in “Yokohama North Dock FALL RUN” held We conducted a charity auction and a in November 2017, over 1,000 runners joined each charity fair. event, thereby deepening our cooperation with the local community through sports. We aim for our At the Yokohama Bay Quarter, the Company’s facilities to coexist with local communities through such commercial real estate facilities in Yokohama, we held initiatives in the future as well. our charity fair on Sunday, August 20, 2017. On this eighth charity fair, popular traditional fair games such as shooting games and yo-yo fishing were enjoyed by three generations of people. The event has become a regular occurrence in the school summer vacation season and is gaining popularity every year among the families who live in the community. This year, revenues from the event exceeded the previous year’s, and were donated to the Great East Japan Earthquake relief fund via the Japanese Red Cross Society. We will continue to hold the events that can entertain visitors, aiming to make a facility indispensable to the regional community. Running club event Contribution through activities in local communities, etc. We conducted tree planting events in China and Thailand. Charity fair As part of our CSR activities in China, a tree planting event like last year was conducted on Saturday, March Cooperating with the local community 3, 2018, in collaboration among Mitsubishi Logistics through sports. China Co., Ltd., Shanghai Lingyun Global Forwarding Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Lingyang Global Forwarding Co., At “Yokohama Bay Quarter,” as its facility storefront Ltd., Shanghai Branch, Shanghai Linghua Logistics falls on the starting point of “Yokohama Marathon,” a Co., Ltd., and Fuji Logistics (China) Co., Ltd. civic marathon, we have hosted a monthly running club Also in China, Beijing Global Express Co., Ltd. held event since September 2014 with the aim of a tree planting event on Thursday, May 4, 2017. contributing to the local community and bringing As part of our CSR activities in Thailand, tree excitement to the marathon event. In 2017 that marked planting activities were conducted on Saturday, the fourth year of this event, the “lunch club,” which October 28, 2017, as part of the program for the was a new project we started whereby all of the annual company trip hosted by Mitsubishi Logistics participants ate lunch together at the restaurant in the Thailand Co., Ltd. A total of 135 employees of the facility after the training session, proved popular and company joined the activities. had about 50 civic runners participate every month. These events helped the employees and their In addition, through this club operation, “Yokohama families in each country to understand the significance North Dock” U.S. Army base also situated in of making a social contribution and enhance their Kanagawa-ku of Yokohama City contacted us, and we environmental awareness, and provided an opportunity 32 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 outside work for them to interact with each other to We are cosponsoring Diamond Cup Golf build friendships. as a community contribution. Participating companies within the Mitsubishi Group cosponsored a notable golf tournament, Diamond Cup Golf, which contributes to local communities and helps nurture junior golfers through charitable activities. Valuing the underlying concept and purposes of this tournament, the Company cosponsored this event as one of the participating companies. Tree planting in Beijing Installed flower beds in the greenbelt near the Nagoya Station Our Nagoya Branch responded to the request from the Meieki Development Council, made up of landowners around Nagoya Station, to install flower beds to liven up and bring color to the front of the Nagoya Station owned by Nagoya City. Since fiscal 2011, we have been contributing to the Tree planting in Thailand beautification of the environment in front of the Nagoya Station by planting flowers two times a year in spring and autumn. We conduct social contribution activities as a member of the Mitsubishi Group and participate in the Mitsubishi Social Contribution Liaison Council. As a social contribution activity within the Mitsubishi Group, we donate to academic and charitable enterprises and conduct various volunteer activities. Also, as a member of the Mitsubishi Social Contribution Liaison Council made up of the companies within the Mitsubishi Group, we report on our related activities The flower bed in spring/autumn and exchange information. <Contents on the signboard of the flower bed of hospitality> This flower belt is managed by VO I C E the help of flower supporters with the aim of creating a Reflection on Tree community with lots of flowery Planting Activities colors. Man Huanhuan The flower bed of hospitality Human Resource & General Affairs Dept., Beijing Global Express Co., Ltd. Nihonbashi Dia Building received the As a company welfare event, 19 employees of the company BCS Prize participated in tree planting activities at Happy Valley in the Huairou District in Beijing on Thursday, May 4, 2017. Nihonbashi Dia Building received a special award in the 58th Unfortunately, it was a day of a heavy yellow-sand BCS (Building Contractors Society) Prize sponsored by the storm but we worked in pairs, sweating as we used a Japan Federation of Construction Contractors, the awards shovel by turns to dig the ground and carefully plant the ceremony for which was held on November 17, 2017. The seedlings. We cannot wait for these seedlings to quickly business planning, the design, works and completion of the grow to become large, leafy trees that enrich the hearts of building, as well as the maintenance management that the local people. Beijing is proactively promoting greening as a way to followed ensured the continuity of the landscape and history improve the natural environment, and there are many by preserving and reproducing the former Edobashi Building, places where these kind of events are taking place a historic architecture selected by Tokyo Metropolitan throughout the suburbs. This was one such activity, and I Government, and this led to the high acclaim. think that it was a good opportunity for each and every one The BCS Prize is an award given to recognize excellent of the participants to understand the significance of making domestic buildings, and was founded in 1960. Tokyo Tower a social contribution and acquire that awareness. (Group and the Kasumigaseki Building are among past recipients, company of Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation) and in 2012, the Company won the award for Yokohama Bay Quarter and Yokohama Dia Building. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 33 Coordination with Local Communities and International Society Received commendation by Kyoto City as a Contributing Business Operator to the Upgrade of the Kyoto Region. Management by the Osaka Branch of DIACREST KYODAIKUMANO (Sakyo Ward, Kyoto City), a dormitory for Kyoto University staff, has been recognized as playing a role connecting dormitory residents with the region, thereby contributing to the formation of local communities, and in March 2018 it received commendation by Kyoto City as a Contributing Business Operator to the Upgrade of the Kyoto Region. Members of the local residents’ association that recommended the Company attended the awards ceremony, Bon-odori dance and the certificate of commendation was presented by the Mayor of A human life was saved using an AED at Kyoto. We will continue to Kobe Harborland umie contribute to the formation On the evening of November 2, 2017, a customer of local communities suddenly collapsed while shopping at Kobe Harborland through these types of umie after suffering cardiopulmonary arrest. A security initiatives. guard of Kobe Dia Maintenance Co., Ltd. (Group The awards ceremony company of Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation), who was contacted by a tenant employee who noticed that something was wrong, worked with some nearby visitors to conduct cardiopulmonary resuscitation using AED. After then being treated by rescue crews, the customer survived. This rapid initial response was recognized by Kobe City, which presented the Hanadokei Award, a citizen’s award of Kobe City, to umie and other related parties. We have been holding regular life-saving trainings for security guards, tenant employees and others involved in the building management at umie since its DIACREST KYODAI-KUMANO opening. In the future, we will continue to use the trainings to teach the method of using AED and Harborland Day was held at Kobe to deepen the understanding of Harborland cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and work to create facilities that In the Kobe Harborland district, where “Kobe Harborland customers can use with umie,” the Company’s commercial real estate facility in confidence. Certificate of Kobe, is located, we hold a street market and other commendation events under the name “Harborland Day” every year in August. Together with everyone involved, the Company makes it a day of fun for the entire district. On the 2017 Harborland Day (August 11 and 12), which was the ninth such event, we held the Harbor Bon-Odori Dance for the first time as part of the 25th commemoration of Harborland in its plaza. On the day, the “HARBOR Ondo,” a song for Bon Odori created especially for this day, was performed for the first time and many visitors enjoyed dancing to the music. We also organized food stalls with residents in the neighborhood condominiums as a way of interacting with the local residents. Harbor Bon-Odori Dance was enjoyed by many Award ceremony people and we decided to hold the event again in 2018. We will continue to contribute to the rejuvenation of the region together with local related parties and the local residents. 34 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 VO I C E We participate in local cleanup Lifesaving Using AED activities. Protected a Customer’s Life Our operating bases nationwide also participated in Katsumi Uchida local cleanup activities voluntarily. In addition, our General Manager, Security Dept., Kobe Osaka Branch participated in the local blood donation Dia Maintenance Co., Ltd. activities together with our customers in spring and autumn. We will strive to contribute to the local Since many customers visit Kobe Harborland umie, where communities by continuing these activities. the company is in charge of security services, we work hard on our daily operations to provide safety and security. On this occasion we were able to successfully save the customer’s life by using one of the AEDs, and I feel that the ability of employees to respond as a result of the in-house trainings, onsite training, and fire drills, has led to the protection of the customer’s livelihood. Knowing that the customer’s life was saved as a result of this rapid sequence of cooperation that started when the security guard who was contacted by the management company rushed to the scene, checked the customer’s condition, used the AED and requested an ambulance, gives me the greatest happiness. In addition to the commendation from Kobe City, the company’s security guards who performed the life-saving Cleanup activities at the Head Office treatment also received the Chairman Award from the Hyogo Prefecture Security Business Association. Going forward, we will continue in our aim to improve the quality of security guards as we strive for the safety and security of facilities. (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation) We hold radio exercise events at Yokohama Bay Quarter At the Yokohama Bay Quarter, the Company’s commercial real estate facilities in Yokohama, for eight Blood donation activities at Osaka Branch days during the school summer vacation season in August, radio exercises were held at the main plaza. 2017 marks the fourth year of organizing this event, all managed by employees of Yokohama Dia Building Management Corporation. Despite the early start at 7 o’clock in the morning, the number of participants have increased year by year, including senior couples living close by, small children with their parents before work. We had more than 450 people attend over the eight days this year. In the future, we would like to bring further excitement to the region as a shopping mall close to the community. Radio exercises Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 35 Statement Supporting the UN Global Compact The Group promotes its CSR activities pursuant to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. Practice of the UN Global UNGC’s 10 principles Compact’s 10 principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of The Group agreed to adhere to the UN Global internationally proclaimed human Human Compact (hereinafter “UNGC”) and endorsed approval rights; and Rights in May 2014. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not The UNGC is a voluntary complicit in human rights abuses. corporate responsibility initiative for businesses that Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the are aiming for sustainable freedom of association and the growth as a responsible effective recognition of the right to member of society. The UNGC collective bargaining; asks companies to voluntarily Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of participate in creating a global forced and compulsory labor; framework to take creative Labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child leadership. labor; and At the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in 1999, Kofi Annan, then SecretaryPrinciple 6: The elimination of discrimination in General of the United Nations, proposed that respect of employment and companies should observe the 10 principles in the occupation. areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption to solve various problems that could Principle 7: Businesses should support a occur due to internationalization and the global precautionary approach to expansion of businesses. In July 2000, the UNGC was environmental challenges; launched at the UN Headquarters in New York. As of Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote May 2018, approximately 13,000 companies and Environment greater environmental organizations around the world were members of responsibility; and UNGC. Principle 9: Encourage the development and Based on its “Code of Conduct,” the Group will diffusion of environmentally friendly strive to practice the UNGC’s 10 principles as a good technologies. member of international society. Principle 10: Businesses should work against Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Web Global Compact Network Japan’s Web site http://www.ungcjn.org/index.html 36 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Company Profile (As of March 31, 2018) Company name Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Head Office Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan Establishment April 15, 1887 Capital ¥22,393 million Revenue (fiscal 2017) Consolidated: ¥215.4 billion Non-consolidated: ¥148.6 billion The number of employees 4,463 of the Mitsubishi (excluding 51 workers on leave to work outside the Group, 1,306 temporary staff and 1,198 Logistics Group employees on loan/dispatched from outside the Group) The number of 891 employees of the (excluding 140 employees on leave to work for other companies, 122 temporary staff and 594 Company employees on loan/dispatched from inside and outside the Group) Branches Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, Fukuoka Major Businesses Logistics Warehousing; trucking; port and harbor operations; international transportation; marine freight transportation; customs clearance; development, sales, management and administration of logistics information systems; etc. Real Estate Buying, selling, leasing and management of real estate; contracting of construction work, its design and supervision; operation of parking lots; etc. Companies in the Consolidated subsidiaries (51 companies) scope of Tohoku Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Sairyo Service Co., Ltd., Dia Pharmaceutical Network Co., Ltd., consolidation Tokyo Dia Service Co., Ltd., Dia Systems Corporation, Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Unitrans Ltd., Keihin Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Touryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics Co., Ltd., Tokyo Juki Transport Co., Ltd., SII Logistics Inc., Fuji Logistics Operations Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics Support Co., Ltd., Kinko Service Co., Ltd., Chubu Trade Warehousing Co., Ltd., Meiryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Ryoyo Transportation Co., Ltd., Kyokuryo Warehouse Co., Ltd., Hanryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Shinryo Koun Co., Ltd., Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Monryo Transport Corporation, Hakuryo Koun Co., Ltd., Seiho Kaiun Kaisha, Ltd., Saryo Service Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics America Corporation, Mitsubishi Warehouse California Corporation, Mitsubishi Logistics Europe B.V., Fuji Logistics Europe B.V., Mitsubishi Logistics China Co., Ltd., Shanghai Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd., Shanghai Qingke Warehouse Management Co., Ltd., Shanghai Lingyun Global Forwarding Co., Ltd. Fuji Logistics (China) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Dalian F.T.Z.) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Hong Kong Ltd., Fuji Logistics (H.K.) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Thailand Co., Ltd., P.T. Mitsubishi Logistics Indonesia, P.T. Dia-Jaya Forwarding Indonesia, Fuji Logistics Malaysia SDN.BHD., Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Yokohama Dia Building Management Corporation, Chubo Kaihatsu Co., Ltd., Nagoya Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Osaka Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Kobe Dia Maintenance Co., Ltd., T’ACT Co., Ltd. Subsidiaries and Affiliates Accounted for by the Equity Method (3 companies) Nippon Container Terminals Co., Ltd., Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., Jupiter Global Limited Financial Data Business results (Consolidated) (Unit: ¥billion) Assets (Consolidated) (Unit: ¥billion) Operating revenue Operating income Ordinary income Total assets Net assets 250 15 20 500 300 294.5 463.1 276.8 215.4 12.7 435.3 208.7 12.4 16.0 16.1 250 200 12 400 15 200 150 9 300 10 150 100 6 200 100 5 50 3 100 50 0 0 0 0 0 2016 2017 (fiscal year) 2016 2017 (fiscal year) 2016 2017 (fiscal year) 2016 2017(fiscal year) 2016 2017(fiscal year) CSR·Compliance Team, General Affairs Division Nihonbashi Dia Building 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan TEL: +81-3-3278-6657 FAX: +81-3-3278-6694 Extended version The following are some data related to the Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018, which was collected at the end of fiscal 2017. Environmental conservation Environmental conservation activity data (by business) *Basic unit denominator (figures from Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, etc.) uses figure that have strong correlations with each business. Unit Basic unit denominator CO2 emissions Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 CO2 emissions basic unit Thousand m2 <Floor area> 1,424 1,439 1,444 Warehousing and distribution Thousand t-CO2 34.1 35.0 33.9 business kg-CO2/m2 23.9 24.3 23.5 Thousand tons <Handling tons> 28 18 44 Harbor transportation t-CO2 7 8 9 business kg-CO2/thousand tons 246.8 440.3 203.2 Million km <Total transportation distance> 3.9 4.4 4.1 Overland transportation Thousand t-CO2 3.5 3.8 3.6 business kg-CO2/thousand km 889.3 861.5 881.4 Thousand m2 <Operational area> 716 710 681 Real estate business Thousand t-CO2 41.1 40.4 38.4 kg-CO2/m2 57.4 56.9 56.3 CO2 emissions Thousand t-CO2 78.7 79.2 75.9 Environmental conservation data (by usage, by emission type) Water use (water supply, sewage) Electricity use Fuel use (City gas, LP (Liquefied Petroleum) gas, kerosene, heavy oil, diesel oil, gasoline) Heat use (Heated water, cold water, vapor) (Thousand m3) (Million kWh) (Thousand GJ) (Thousand GJ) 1,000 960 919 200 200 100 851 75.3 73.7 69.5 750 150 138 137 134 150 75 99.0 104.0 100.2 500 100 100 50 250 50 50 25 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal year) 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal year) 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal year) 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal year) CO2 emissions Waste emissions (tons) Waste emissions (m ) 3 (Thousand t-CO2) (Thousand tons) (Thousand m3) 100 4 20 78.7 79.2 75.9 75 3 15 1.9 2.1 2.0 50 2 10 4.7 25 1 5 2.3 1.9 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal year) 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal year) 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal year) *Calculation standard Volume related to electricity, fuel and heat uses, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator from the warehousing and distribution business, the harbor transportation business and the real estate business are based on the reported values in the Company’s report based on the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. The international transportation business is included in the warehouse and distribution business, given the small number of operating sites. Although the overland transportation business is not under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, fuel, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator were calculated for one of the Company’s major trucking subsidiaries based on the standard in the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. Business sites for the harbor transportation business were restricted to two places where the Company is in charge of transportation referenced to the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. For electricity usage and CO2 emissions, the reported amounts for the Company’s subsidiary in the logistics business (the one company under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy) were added. The CO2 emission volume was calculated based on the electricity, fuel and heat volume used under the standard of the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. For water use, the volume of water used by the Company is indicated. The waste emission shows the volume of waste emitted by part of the Company (excluding the real estate business, etc.) and by some of the Group companies. * Note Erroneous figures of “Waste emissions (tons)” and “Waste emissions (m3)” in Fiscal 2016 in the previous report have been corrected. Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance Large Status of using electric cars (units introduced) scale companies CO2 emissions Unit: t-CO2 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Emissions Total number 14 19 22 26 26 24 23 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 of cars in use (5) (5) (3) (4) (0) (0) (1) standard Tokyo Dia Buildings 33,531 26,607 24,419 29,820 28,170 * Note Erroneous figures of the number of units introduced in Fiscal 2014 and the numbers of cars used in Fiscal 2014, Fiscal 2015 and Fiscal 2016 in the previous reports have been corrected. Eitai Dia Building 10,132 5,341 5,227 6,508 6,119 Ohi Cold Storage Office 4,394 3,620 3,100 2,197 2,197 Calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons Unit:t-CO2 Total 48,057 35,568 32,746 38,525 36,486 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Reduction 12,489 15,311 9,532 11,571 Leakage 1,027 468 910 amount romotion of CSR Number of persons participated in awareness surveys aimed at disseminating the corporate ber of news releases Unit: case philosophy and better understanding of CSR and compliance. Unit: persons Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements istics 2 2 6 Awareness surveys concerning l Estate 0 0 1 CSR and compliance 5 5 8 In-house 1,462 1,458 1,426 R 3 3 2 Domestic Group companies 1,848 1,807 1,869 er 4 5 3 Total 3,310 3,265 3,295 al 14 15 20 rganizational Governance ber of persons participated in check aimed at dissemination wareness of compliance Unit: persons Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 achievements achievements achievements ck on status of compliance Code of Conduct n-house 1,416 1,421 1,499 omestic Group companies 2,684 2,745 2,671 verseas Group companies 79 81 74 otal 4,179 4,247 4,244 espect for Human Rights ber of persons participated in human rights enlightenment course issemination of awareness of human rights Unit: persons Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 achievements achievements achievements man rights 48 49 53 ghtenment course ulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities ber of persons participated in compliance lecture for prevention Number of persons participated in compliance lecture for the Act against sider trading Unit: persons Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. Unit: persons Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements ouse 44 49 50 In-house 757 757 801 Domestic Group companies 1,143 1,047 1,019 ber of respondents to information security questionnaire Total 1,900 1,804 1,820 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 achievements achievements achievements ber of questionnaires conducted Twice Twice Twice mber of respondents 2,978 2,887 3,271 rovision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services ber of persons participated in training for earthquake measures Support/relief goods logistics base facilities Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Area used for Year/month of achievements achievements achievements Block Branch Facility name transportation of construction February, support/relief goods cution period — — March 2018 Tokyo Aomi Warehouse No. 1 1997.6 1,000m2 Nagoya Branch, Kanto Daikoku Warehouse B 1988.1 1,000m2 ce — — Osaka Branch, Yokohama Daikoku Warehouse C 1994.4 1,000m2 Fukuoka Branch Kinjoh Warehouse 1994.5 1,000m2 Total of mber of participants — — Tokai Nagoya Tobishima Warehouse 2008.11 1,000m2 around 70 Honjoh Warehouse 1992.1 1,000m2 Osaka Sakurajima Warehouse No. 1 1998.3 1,000m2 Kinki Rokko Warehouse D 1988.1 1,000m2 Kobe Rokko Warehouse E 1993.10 1,000m2 Chuo Futo Warehouse 1995.10 1,000m2 Kyushu Fukuoka Tosu Warehouse 2003.4 1,000m2 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2018 Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Environmental and Social Report 2018 GRI Standards reference table (Lists mainly “Core” options) General Disclosures Disclosure Reference Disclosure contents Contents number page number 1. Organizational Profile 102-1 a. Name of the organization. 37 Company Profile a. A description of the organization’s activities. Introduction of 102-2 b. Primary brands, products and services, including an explanation of any products or services 4~5 Businesses that are banned in certain markets. 102-3 a. Location of the organization’s headquarters. 37 Company Profile a. Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it has 102-4 37 Company Profile significant operations. 102-5 a. Nature of ownership and legal form. 37 Company Profile a. Markets served, including: i. geographic locations where products and services are offered; 102-6 37 Company Profile ii. sectors served; iii. types of customers and beneficiaries. a. Scale of the organization, including: i. total number of employees; ii. total number of operations; Company Profile 102-7 37 iii. net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); Financial Data iv. total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity; v. quantity of products or services provided. a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. d. Whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are 15 Status of employees 102-8 not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by 37 Company Profile workers who are not employees. e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a 102-8-b and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. a. A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the Introduction of 102-9 4~5 organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services. Businesses a. Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including: i. Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, 11 Openings of MM2100 and expansions; Distribution Center in 102-10 ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and 24~25 Indonesia and Seishin alteration operations (for private sector organizations); Distribution Center in iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with Kobe suppliers, including selection and termination. 12~13 Organizational Governance 102-11 a. Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary Principle or approach. 27~31 Provision of Safe, HighQuality and Useful Services a. A list of externally-developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 36 Statement Supporting 102-12 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. the UN Global Compact a. A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, and national or international 102-13 − − advocacy organizations. 2. Strategy a. A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or 102-14 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its 2~3 Top Message strategy for addressing sustainability. 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 a. A description of the organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior. 6~7 Promotion of CSR 4. Governance 8 Corporate governance a. Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance system 102-18 body. 13 CSR and Compliance b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics. Committee Disclosure Reference Disclosure contents Contents number page number 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 a. A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. − − 102-41 a. Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. − − 7 Seven Principles of Social Responsibility 102-42 a. The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage. 8 Responses to Stakeholders’ Expectations a. The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 102-43 by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was − − undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including: i. how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through 102-44 − − its reporting; ii. the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. 6. Reporting practice a. A list of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 102-45 37 Company Profile b. Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. An explanation of the process for defining the report content and the topic Boundaries. 102-46 b. An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining 1 Editorial Policy report content. 102-47 a. A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report content. − − a. The effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports, and the reasons for such 102-48 − − restatements. a. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic 102-49 − − Boundaries. 102-50 a. Reporting period for the information provided. 1 Editorial Policy 102-51 a. If applicable, the date of the most recent previous report. 1 Editorial Policy 102-52 a. Reporting cycle. 1 Editorial Policy 102-53 a. The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 1 Editorial Policy a. The claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, either: 102-54 i. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards; Core option’; − − ii. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option.’ a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards); 102-55 − − ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. a. A description of the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If the report has been externally assured: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has and 102-56 − − what has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; ii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Management Approach Disclosure Reference Disclosure contents Contents number page number General requirements for reporting the management approach a. An explanation of why the topic is material. b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of: i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has − − caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary.
