SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 2 / 35 Contents About the report ................................................................................................................................... 5 Scope ............................................................................................................................................................................ 5 Reader’s guide .............................................................................................................................................................. 5 Introduction ...........................................................................................................................................6 President’s statement .................................................................................................................................................... 7 Company profile ........................................................................................................................................................... 8 Sustainability in Radiometer ........................................................................................................................................ 10 Our sustainability priorities ....................................................................................................................................11 Sustainable Development Goals ............................................................................................................................12 Our sustainability strategy at a glance....................................................................................................................14 People .................................................................................................................................................. 16 Environment and climate ................................................................................................................ 22 The society around us ...................................................................................................................... 26 Accounting principles ....................................................................................................................... 32 Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 3 / 35 About the report Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 4 / 35 About the report Scope Communication on Progress This report is the Communication on Progress (COP) of Radiometer under the United Nations Global Compact initiative. Third parties, such as distributors, are not included in the reporting unless otherwise stated – i.e., in relation to our Code of Conduct, which applies to our distribution channels too. With this progress report, we would like to express Radiometer’s continued support to the UN Global Compact initiatives, the 10 fundamental principles and the Sustainable Development Goals. Danish Financial Statements Act This sustainability report also covers the statutory reporting requirements on Corporate Social Responsibility and the gender composition of management as prescribed by section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report covers the twelve-month period ending on December 31, 2018. Reader’s guide The report is divided into four main chapters: an introduction focusing on our materiality process and sustainability priorities and three themes representing the main pillars in our sustainability strategy (People, Environment & Climate and the Society Around Us). For each theme, you will find an indication of the relevant Sustainable Development Goals, the relevant sustainability priorities and an overview of main policies, actions, results and plans for 2019. In this overview, you can see where to find information on the report requirements that apply to us: Reporting requirements Where to find it Communication on Progress, UN Global Compact President’s statement of continued commitment Page 7 Actions, plans and outcomes: Human rights (Principles 1-2) Page 28 Labor conditions (Principles 3-5) Page 18-21 Environment (Principles 7-9) Page 23-24 Anti-corruption (Principle 10) Page 27 Danish Financial Statements Act, §99a Business Model Page 8-9 Policies, key risks, KPIs and results: Social and employee conditions Page 18-21 Environment and climate Page 23-24 Human rights Page 28 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Page 27 Danish Financial Statements Act, §99b Gender composition in management Page 20 Danish Financial Statements Act, §13 Accounting principles Page 33 Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 5 / 35 Introduction Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 6 / 35 President’s statement Welcome to our 2018 Sustainability Report, a report I’m especially excited to share this year. If you’ve read our previous reports, you’ll notice that we’re no longer using the term “CSR report.” This move reflects the journey we began this past year. While some will argue that the terms are interchangeable, we believe that ‘sustainability’ better reflects our change in mindset. It’s a new approach to how we do business, which means that the content of the report not only looks back at our responsible conduct, but also communicates with you on how we want to contribute to sustainable development in the future. Defining our sustainability priorities For Radiometer, sustainable business goes beyond compliance, and we’re committed to continuously improving our business. Thus, we conducted a materiality assessment in 2018 to be able to work more strategically with sustainability and focus our efforts on where we can make the biggest positive impact and contribute to the fulfillment of the Sustainable Development Goals. During the materiality process, we defined five key priorities: Employee satisfaction, Diversity and inclusion, Energy consumption, Product end-of-life, and Customers’ sustainability priorities. You can read more about the process and our plans on page 10. Organizational changes Another difference between this current and the previous reports is that the HemoCue organization is no longer part of our report. Starting in 2018, HemoCue began to report as a separate Operating Company under Danaher, similar to Radiometer. You’ll see the change reflected in the key figures in our company profile as well as in some of the results on the following pages. Our commitment to Global Compact Since 2010, we’ve committed to the United Nations Global Compact and the 10 principles for corporate sustainability. With this report, I want to reconfirm our support to the initiative and our continued work to improve our policies and actions according to the 10 principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Best regards, Henrik Schimmell President and CEO Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 7 / 35 Company profile Our Mission & Vision Our vision This is who we are and the essence of why we come to work Improving global healthcare with reliable, fast and easy every day. patient diagnoses. Our mission At Radiometer, we never take care for granted. To help caregivers make diagnostic decisions that save lives Every day, over half a million blood samples are tested around the world using Radiometer equipment – that’s six It’s a matter of pride and humility for us that the information samples a second. Every year, millions of lives are touched our solutions provide can be the difference between life and by the information our solutions provide, and this is why we death. strive to be our very best every day. Only by understanding the needs of our caregivers, can we develop the right products and solutions to fulfill our vision of improving global healthcare. Worldwide turnover $800m 3,500 Direct representation in 30 + countries employees worldwide Research & Development and More than Production facilities in Denmark, Finland, Poland, 100 distributors India, Switzerland, and the covering the rest of the world USA Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 8 / 35 Above all, we help save lives Our solutions We develop, manufacture and market Ownership Radiometer is part of Danaher Corporation solutions for blood sampling, blood gas analysis, (NYSE:DHR) and we have a shared vision of realizing life’s transcutaneous monitoring, immunoassay testing and potential. We are part of the diagnostics platform, offering related IT management systems under the ABL, AQT, TCM, a broad range of analyzers, consumables, software and AQURE, PICO, CLINITUBES and QUALICHECK brand names. services used to diagnose diseases and make treatment decisions in pathology labs, hospitals and other critical care settings. Being an operating company in Danaher, we share the Code of Conduct, which is applied across the corporation. In addition, Danaher leads other compliance related activities centrally. You can read more about this in Pioneers Founded in 1935 and headquartered in the following chapters. Copenhagen, Denmark, we are a pioneer in blood gas testing, introducing the world’s first commercially available blood gas analyzer in 1954. DBS Our lean culture The Danaher Business System (DBS) is our proven system for achieving success at Danaher. It drives every aspect of our Worldwide Impact Hospitals, clinics and laboratories culture and performance. We use DBS to guide what we do, around the world use our products and solutions to provide measure how we execute, and drive a continuous cycle of information on critical parameters in acute care testing. change and improvement. Our approach to sustainability – Our sustainability efforts must go hand in hand with our business strategy supporting our goals and helping us contribute to a sustainable future. With our vision of improving global health care with fast, reliable and easy patient diagnoses, our work is closely connected to Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 3. Continue reading more about how we aim to contribute to several of the SDGs through our sustainability priorities. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 9 / 35 Sustainability in Radiometer In 2018, we took a closer look at our sustainability activities. In this chapter, read how we shaped our priorities focusing on the areas with the highest importance and relevance for our stakeholders and our business, while defining our contributions to the global challenges that need solving. Our priorities Defining our material issues The sustainability area includes a long list of topics that are relevant to look at as a private company. In order to define what our top priorities for the coming years should be, we carried out a cross-organizational materiality assessment. Through a systematic process, we mapped which topics are the most important to our business, our key stakeholders and the communities in which we operate. The process has led us to identify 36 topics from which we have ranked five as our top priorities. Materiality process 2018 Identification of topics Planning and scoping Data gathering internal interviews peers analysis  Prioritization of topics Internal verification of impact and importance of topics and prioritization workshop with specialist stakeholder analysis Verification and prioritization with top internal documents and policies management laws, regulations and standards Output Output Prioritized list of 5 topics List of 36 topics with specifications of current state, risks and opportunities Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 10 / 35 Our sustainability priorities Our top priorities represent the topics which we would like to focus on during the next three years. As a responsible company that cares about our people and our surroundings, we have worked on some of them for a long time. Nevertheless, they continue to be as important as always. Others are newer to us from a sustainability perspective. We are committed to them and will lay out the road map on how to get started in 2019. In the top five, we chose not to include topics that we see as mainly compliance-related, since these topics lay the foundation for responsible and sustainable business and should always be prioritized. In the following chapters, you will see an indication of the priorities most relevant to the subjects in question. Employee Diversity Energy Customers’ Product Foundation for satisfaction and inclusion consumption sustainability end-of-life responsible priorities & sustainable business Our employees are our This topic is a top priority As a global production Our relationship with With analyzers that are • Continue striving for biggest strength, and we for Danaher as a whole. company, we undeniably our customers is vital to designed to last many compliance will only succeed if we have an impact on the our business, as rooted years, we are not a have happy, innovative and In Radiometer, we focus environment. with Danaher values. company contributing • Maintain group motivated employees. especially on gender When they talk, we much to the throwaway Code of Conduct diversity in management, Though we proactively listen. culture of today. That is why we can never but in the long term, we follow all rules and • Ensure data security lose sight of our employees want to expand the scope regulations, we also want Our aim with this Nevertheless, we work in a fast-paced, resultsof our concrete actions to to do our part in fighting priority is to be more to prolong the lifetime oriented environment like support our broader policy climate change. As a first proactive in customers’ of certain products, and ours. on equal treatment. step on this journey, we sustainability-related we also continuously chose to actively reduce focus areas in order focus on phasing out Read more about what Read more about this our energy consumption. to respond to their hazardous chemicals. we do to ensure the topic in the People section. sustainability demands engagement and well-being Read more about this in the future. In 2019, we will examine of our employees in the topic in the Environment how to work more People section. and climate section. A first step will be systematically with further analysis of product end-of-life customers’ demands from a sustainability and plans. perspective. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 11 / 35 The Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) address the challenges that the world faces and guide us towards a more sustainable future through specific targets. Therefore, defining our top sustainability priorities naturally included looking at the SDGs to see where we can contribute to global sustainable development. While our activities contribute to a broad number of SDGs, we chose to single out the ones where we either are making or can and want to make the biggest difference in the long term. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 12 / 35 Our SDGs Our Sustainability Priorities Goal 3 is about ensuring healthy Goal 5 is about providing women Goal 8 is about ensuring job lives and promoting the welland girls with equal access to opportunities and decent being at all ages. education, healthcare, decent working conditions for the whole work, and representation in working-age population and With our vision of improving global political and economic decisionabout creating quality jobs that health care with reliable, fast and making processes. stimulate the economy while not easy patient diagnoses, we are harming the environment. truly living goal number 3 and Our management team has a special especially target 3.4 that aims to focus on ensuring equal access to Offering good jobs that provide reduce premature mortality from positions, development opportunities opportunities for our employees non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and management roles at all levels. and ensuring the well-being of our through prevention and treatment. We believe diversity is fundamental to employees are fundamental to our driving a successful business. business. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 13 / 35 Our SDGs Our Sustainability Priorities Goal 12 is about doing more and Goal 13 is about taking action to Goal 16 is about ensuring efficient doing better with less, including combat climate change and its and transparent regulations, the promotion of resource and impacts. strengthening the rule of law, energy efficiency, sustainable reducing corruption and bribery infrastructure, and providing As with goal number 12, we believe and promoting human rights. access to basic services. all large-scale companies can do their part to combat climate change. For As a company deeply committed As a production company, we us, reducing our energy consumption to ethical business practices and have a responsibility to support the is a natural action to focus on now. compliance, we have procedures to advancement of this goal. For us, the train our employees in our Code of next step will be to dig deeper to see, Conduct, detect any non-complaint where we should focus our efforts. and unethical behaviour, and manage our channel partners. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 14 / 35 Our sustainability strategy at a glance In this model, you can see how it all ties together – from our mission and the work we do to our sustainability priorities and our vision of how we want to improve global healthcare. In 2019, we will continue to work on our strategy and ensure that each sustainability priority has both shortand long-term targets. Vision Improving global healthcare with reliable, fast and easy patient diagnoses. People Environment The society Employees, customers & climate around us and patients Sustainability priorities Foundation Patient safety / Regulatory compliance / Code of conduct / Data security Anti-bribery & corruption / Clear communication Values Quality / Innovation / Constructive diversity / Respect for people / Customer oriented Mission To help caregivers make diagnostic decisions that save lives. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 15 / 35 People Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 16 / 35 People Our employees are at the heart of our work. Supporting the engagement and well-being of our employees is of the highest priority in Radiometer. There is no doubt that having capable and motivated employees is key to our success. Likewise, the safety and treatment of patients and our relationship with our customers are fundamental to how we run our business. Our SDGs Priorities Employee Diversity Energy Customers’ Product Foundation for Satisfaction and Inclusion Consumption Sustainability End-of-Life Sustainable Priorities Business Reporting requirements Danish Financial Statements Act §99a, Social and employee conditions Danish Financial Statements Act §99b, Gender composition in mangement UN Global Compact COP, Labor conditions Patients If you ask our employees why they come to work every day, a lot of them will likely point out the difference we make for patients around the world as we help caregivers make diagnostic decisions that save lives. Patient and user safety is a natural and important part of our work, and we’re proud to be recognized for our thorough compliance processes and regulatory affairs excellence within Danaher. Guided by our quality policy “Quality First – Always”, we pay special attention to the quality assurance of our products, solutions and internal processes, recognizing that if we cannot deliver the expected and necessary quality to our customers on time, it will have a negative impact on patients globally. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 17 / 35 Employee engagement Every year we conduct an engagement survey to measure our employees’ work satisfaction and generate insights and data to improve continuously as an employer. We are proud to have highly engaged colleagues who elevate Radiometer to become the best possible workplace. In September 2018, an impressive 92% of our total employees made their voice heard through taking our engagement survey, with several subsidiary sites reaching 100% participation rate. With regard to the result, we achieved an engagement score of 69% for the third year in a row excluding our sister company HemoCue who used to be part of our results. The 2018 results will be the basis for our engagement action plans and activities carried out in 2019. Though 69% is an impressive result, our goal is to raise the engagement level to 71% in 2019 to ensure that we continue to improve as a workplace and create the best conditions for our employees. Existing Policies Actions and results in 2018 Planned activities for 2019 Local employee policies Global focus on supervisor effectiveness Global, local and team-specific action plans and training of managers based on the 2017 based on the 2018 results. engagement results. Local action plans carried out on all sites. Increased employee benefits at the headquarters in Denmark. New well-being initiatives launched in Denmark. Development Developing our people equals developing our business. In Radiometer, we support our managers in formulating development plans and in conducting regular career conversations to understand the aspirations of our employees and guide them. Well-being We care about creating conditions that make it possible for everyone to have a good relationship and balance between work, family life, and leisure. We are a company with big ambitions and high expectations, and that means we work hard to deliver to our customers. Though all associates in Radiometer have a responsibility to create, maintain and develop a safe, healthy and open working environment, managers have a special responsibility to do so and are empowered to take action. To best support our leaders, we increased our focus on preventive actions to reduce and avoid stress starting in the Danish organization. Existing Policies Actions and results in 2018 Planned activities for 2019 Local employee policies, Introduced tools and models to guide Evaluate usage and effect of managers’ including work-life Denmark-based managers in identifying signs tools and models. balance policy. of personal or work-related stress among Roll out tools among employees in Denmark. themselves and their employees. Consider global applicability of tools and models. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 18 / 35 Diversity and inclusion We know that a diverse and inclusive workforce is not only the right thing, it is good business. Therefore, we are highly committed to creating and sustaining an inclusive and bias-free culture. Our policies and actions in this area are prioritized at the highest level of our organization and in Danaher with specific targets to increase the number of women and, in the US, people of color across the organization. Women in Management In 2018, we saw good progress on our target to increase the number of women in management, and we’re working hard to increase this trend in the coming years. While women represented the majority of our top management in 2018, and we have an even distribution of men and women in our total workforce, women are still underrepresented in our management teams overall. Consequently, our diversity policies and actions are aimed at increasing the number of women in our management funnels. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 19 / 35 Gender Distribution in Gender Distribution, Top Management All Management Levels Percentage % Percentage % 60 100 55 55 50 72 45 45 67 66 40 50 20 33 34 28 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016* 2017* 2018 Women Men Women Men *Please note that the gender distribution at all management levels, unlike the 2018 numbers, includes HemoCue in 2016 and 2017. Our top management consists of our President and Vice Presidents who lead the company on a daily basis. On our Board of Directors consisting of five members, excluding the employee-elected members, we have a distribution of 40% women and 60% men. Existing Policies Actions and results in 2018 Planned activities for 2019 Danaher Code of Increased gender diversity in career framework Drive action in below-mentioned plan. Conduct, Diversity categories Professional, Management and and Inclusion Chapter Executive. 12% of managers trained in “Building Radiometer Equal Inclusive Leaders.” Treatment Policy Joined the Diversity Council. Among the activities in the council, three of our female Radiometer Diversity leaders participated as role models in the and Inclusion Action Plan campaign #LeadtheFuture that aims to inspire female leaders of the future. Our gender diversity action plan at a glance: 2019 Targets Increase percentage of women from 38% to 40% in career level Professional (P) and Manager (M) Increase percentage of women from 38% to 39% in emerging leaders funnel and Danaher Senior Leader funnel Main pillars Infrastructure Talent Talent Training Inclusion and Metrics Acquisition Management Main pillars Analyze gender Develop Increase Train leaders Increase internal splits per function guidelines nomination and employees and external and share data to get equal of females to in “Growing communication with leadership representation of leadership and Inclusive Teams”. on diversity, teams on a men and women development inclusion and regular basis. in our candidate programs through female leaders. pools for existing talent internal, external management and university processes. recruitment. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 20 / 35 Health and Safety Providing a healthy and safe working environment is fundamental to Radiometer, and while the Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) organization drives most projects, we all share the responsibility on a daily basis. This year our largest site and headquarters in Brønshøj, Denmark, with more than 1100 employees working in R&D, production and various staff functions, won Danaher’s “Most Improved EHS Program Europe” award. This award recognized the long list of initiatives we carried out within environment, health and safety in 2017-2018. Existing Policies Actions and results in 2018 Planned activities for 2019 Danaher Initiated development of a global EHS policy Develop and implement the global EHS policy Environment, Health for Radiometer. for Radiometer. & Safety (EHS) Policy Introduced various EHS and LEAN tools aimed Increase awareness and engagement in at engaging associates at all levels of the occupational health and safety among organization in occupational health and safety associates by expanding the use of activities at our global manufacturing sites. collaborative and empowering EHS tools and systems. Customers Customer-centricity is one of our core values. The focus is to continuously improve products, services and processes as to add value to the everyday of our customers, simplifying and enhancing their experience of what it is to be a Radiometer customer. This value is tied to sustainability. Our customers have a natural concern for patient treatment, safety and compliance. However, an increasing number of customers is also asking Radiometer about policies regarding e.g. the environment, energy and waste reduction. Therefore, we believe our customer-centricity and sustainability focus are intertwined and we will dig deeper into current and future customer sustainability priorities in the coming year. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 21 / 35 Environment and climate Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 22 / 35 Environment and climate As a global production company, we are committed to operating with respect for the environment and climate. Our SDGs Priorities Employee Diversity Energy Customers’ Product Foundation for Satisfaction and Inclusion Consumption Sustainability End-of-Life Sustainable Priorities Business Reporting requirements Danish Financial Statements Act, §99a, Environment and climate UN Global Compact, COP, Environment Environmental performance As we continue to grow, so does our production set-up. Therefore, we are very mindful of our impact and are determined to improve our environmental performance continuously as expressed in the Danaher Policy for environment, health and safety. We identified generation of waste, use of hazardous chemicals and energy consumption as our significant environmental aspects to limit and avoid risk of negative impact. As a first step in our ambition to contribute to Sustainable Development Goal number 13 on climate change, we have initiated a roadmap to lower the energy consumption of our operations. We have not identified any significant risks of our business having adverse impacts on climate change, nor have we identified risk of climate change affecting our business. As we had some challenges with our data management systems in our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) organization in 2018, we can unfortunately not confirm the fullness of the data shown in this chapter. However, this is a focus area of 2019, where we will work on our action plan to further reduce our energy consumption. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 23 / 35 Energy Consumption Generated Waste 25000 1000 900 20000 800 700 15000 600 500 10000 400 300 5000 200 100 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Estimated Megawatt Hours (MWh) Estimated Metric Tons Existing Policies Actions and results in 2018 Planned activities for 2019 Danaher Environment, Commenced work on developing a global, Finish and roll out the global EHS policy. Health & Safety (EHS) Radiometer specific, EHS policy that includes Conduct an Energy Kaizen to identify Policy policy statements on climate actions. where and how we can reduce the energy Substituted hazardous chemicals for various consumption at the Danish headquarters. less hazardous chemicals in our selected Improve the gathering and quality of manufacturing processes. energy data. Introduced various EHS and LEAN tools Launch the second round of energy audits aimed at engaging associates at all levels of of our European facilities under the EU Energy the organization in minimizing waste, prevent Efficiency Directive. spillage and be environmentally conscious. When feasible, continue the substitution of hazardous chemicals. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 24 / 35 Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 25 / 35 The society around us Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 26 / 35 The society around us As a company operating in over 130 countries, we have a responsibility to ensure that our business does not have a negative impact on the societies that surround us, but that our presence can contribute to sustainable development in the countries and regions in question. Our SDGs Priorities Employee Diversity Energy Customers’ Product Foundation for Satisfaction and Inclusion Consumption Sustainability End-of-Life Sustainable Priorities Business Reporting requirements Danish Financial Statements Act, §99a, Human rights Danish Financial Statements Act, §99a, Anti-corruption and bribery UN Global Compact, COP, Human rights UN Global Compact, COP, Anti-corruption Anti-corruption, integrity and compliance Doing business with integrity is not up for discussion in Radiometer – nor in Danaher as a whole. We expect everyone to live the principles of our Code of Conduct and speak up if they observe unethical or illegal behavior. As a large, global company, we will from time to time face risks of corruption-related behavior. We acknowledge that corruption poses a considerable obstacle for economic and social development around the world as well as it impedes business growth, escalates costs and poses serious legal and reputational risks to a company. We consider corruption to be a constant significant risk to our company and it needs to be addressed every year. Based on a corruption risk assessment, we apply ongoing monitoring and specific audit activities on high risk markets as well as ensure anti-corruption training for our associates and apply a thorough due diligence of our partners. In 2018, Radiometer and Danaher took further strides to ensure the ethical conduct of our associates and partners. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 27 / 35 Existing Policies Actions and results in 2018 Planned activities for 2019 Danaher Code of Implemented the new Danaher Code of Launch new and improved audit and Conduct Conduct, replacing our Standards of Conduct. monitoring programs. Assessed existing audit program led Continue the compliance training program by Danaher. and the communication on the importance of completion and implementation. Developed new audit program ensuring regular audits of Danaher Operating Companies’ sites based on risk-assessment. Online compliance training in the Code of Conduct combined with tailored, in-depth, face-to-face training of specific groups such as management, newcomers, and sales and marketing associates. 92% percent of our employees, who are required to take our online compliance training, completed all of their training. Noncompletion directly affects the performance review of the employees in question. Human rights As communicated in our Code of Conduct and our current Sustainability policy, we are committed to respecting everyone’s human rights and dignity, and we support international efforts to promote and protect human rights. As a signatory member of the United Nations Global Compact, we participate actively in the Human Rights working group of the Global Compact Network Denmark as part of our efforts to manage potential and actual adverse impacts of our business. In our last Human Rights assessment, we did not identify any salient human rights issues. Nevertheless, we are aware that risks of adverse impacts can arise. You can read about our responsible procurement procedures below and our work with the wellbeing of our associates and work-related human rights risks in the People Section. Existing Policies Actions and results in 2018 Planned activities for 2019 CSR policy and Revised Sustainability policy and commenced Roll out updated Sustainability policy. Danaher Code of update on Human Rights. Conduct New Human Rights chapter in the Danaher Code of Conduct. Responsible procurement Our commitment to responsible procurement and supplier relationships is included in the Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct, and it explains our expectation that our suppliers comply with all applicable laws and regulations within integrity and compliance, labor and employment and environment, health and safety. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is supported by our governance procedures in Radiometer and across Danaher. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 28 / 35 Our continued growth requires a solid and responsible supplier base. The integration of responsible procurement is done through Radiometer’s Supplier Base Management process. We continuously monitor our supplier base and work together with them to make a difference. Channel partners In Danaher and Radiometer, we take a systematic approach to ensuring that our channel partners comply with our Code of Conduct. The process includes screening of new partners and regular training and follow-up processes all monitored through an online system. Depending on the risk level of the country in question, we determine the scope and detail of the investigations that are all carried out by a third party. Speak up! We value an open and honest working environment where employees know that we will deal with any compliance concerns in a fair and transparent manner. Our Speak Up! program is the reporting mechanism that allows all employees in Danaher to raise their concerns via a dedicated telephone line or via our company intranet. Employees can raise their concerns anonymously if they prefer to do so and can be sure that we track and investigate all cases. All companies operating on a global scale will from time to time experience misconduct from employees or business partners. Recognizing this fact, Radiometer has set a target of one speak-up case per 100 employees, which reflects the medical device industry benchmark. In the chart below, you can see the development in cases over the last three years, which we believe shows that we are increasingly improving in terms of fostering an open working environment where all employees globally can raise concerns without the fear of retaliation. This year we received 31 reported cases in total – this includes both substantiated reports and non-substantiated reports. Speak-Up cases can include: Financial cases: Unfair competition / revenue recognition / improper payments / gifts / fraud HR cases: Management or supervisory competence / behavior / retaliation / harassment Other cases: Conflict of interest / customs/import/export issues / quality and regulatory affairs issues Reported Speak-Ups (Substantiated and non-substanciated reports) 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2016 2017 2018 Series 1 Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 29 / 35 Interaction with healthcare professionals As a company and leader within the diagnostics industry, we interact and collaborate with health care professionals across the world. Healthcare professionals receive our promotional materials, provide user feedback for our development processes and can submit requests for educational grants, donations and sponsorships. Our collaboration with healthcare professionals is instrumental to our ability to provide innovative, reliable and user-friendly products and services. Needless to say, it is important to us that the collaboration is done in a transparent way. All interaction with healthcare organizations and professionals must respect the medical profession’s ability to make independent decisions regarding treatment of patients. Moreover, under no circumstances can there be any interaction with the purpose to influence healthcare professionals by offering them undue or improper advantages in order to promote a sale or the use of Radiometer’s products. Radiometer tracks and reports all collaboration in accordance with existing global disclosure requirements. As reporting requirements increase worldwide, so does Radiometer’s focus in this area, and we continue to work to enhance our reporting procedures. Sponsorship: Contributing to the fight against sepsis As few people outside the medical field are aware of sepsis and the signs, symptoms and treatment of this potentially fatal condition, an important part of the fight against sepsis is raising awareness. Therefore, we were proud to sponsor the 2018 World Sepsis Congress, an online and free event of 17 sessions designed to raise awareness about sepsis across the world. To further build awareness about the importance of early diagnosis among health care professionals, we also sponsored a scientific supplement on sepsis, written by leading experts in the field and featured in the publication Hospital Healthcare Europe. Existing Policies Actions and results in 2018 Planned activities for 2019 Global Donations Policy Developed and implemented a new Grants, Offer more training in the procedures for & Grants, Donations Donations and Sponsorships Procedure to responsible interaction with healthcare and Sponsorships ensure that the transfer of values will not professionals. Procedure and Danaher create improper influence on healthcare Code of Conduct professionals. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 30 / 35 Supporting our communities Germany: In 2018, we formulated a new Global Donations Policy Running for change Radiometer in Germany participated defining the scope for our charitable donations. We have a in, and donated to, various charity runs raising money for long tradition of supporting our local communities. Some of causes such as children’s hospitals, vulnerable families, and the causes we supported in 2018 included: people suffering from severe diseases. Denmark: Japan: Holiday Help Christmas can be a difficult season for Ogyaa Donation Fund Radiometer in Japan donated to economically challenged families. Every year in December, the “Japan-Mother Ogyaa Donation Fund.” The vision of the the Danish Red Cross grants “Holiday Help” to families who Ogyaa Fund is to save and help disabled children in Japan. need a little financial support for the holiday season. Last One of the main objectives for the fund is to raise public year, 59 families in the Tingbjerg-Husum community close to awareness about mentally and physically disabled children. our headquarters received Holiday Help in the form of gift certificates to a grocery store. We made a donation to cover National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center all the families that the Red Cross expected to support in our Radiometer in Japan made a donation to support the community in 2018 through the Holiday-Help program. rebuilding of the center that was partially destroyed by the earthquake in Osaka in June 2018. The Night Ravens in Husum and Tingbjerg An NGO of volunteers with the purpose of increasing the feeling Poland: of security in the neighboring streets of Radiometer’s Stargard Rescue Lab Radiometer in Poland funded headquarters, Husum and Tingbjerg streets, at night. professional equipment needed in the non-profit rescue lab that just opened its doors. It is the second of its kind Igne:oya Design workshop for women: An initiative that in Poland and raises awareness about the importance of aims to create a social space for women new to the Danish knowing first aid while offering free first aid training. society. United States: Brønshøj Football Club A club with a long history as the Medical mission Radiometer America donated products social gathering point for people of all ages in the area of to the Texas Children’s Hospital’s medical mission trip to Brønshøj. In 2018, we supported with participation fees for Santa Cruz, Bolivia, and to the medical tent of Wisconsin vulnerable children. Hospitals and Clinics in the Ironman Triathlon in Madison, Wisconsin. Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 31 / 35 Accounting principles Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 32 / 35 People Engagement score The general engagement score is calculated based on the responses to the four questions that are closest related to engagement within the total survey. Gender distribution Top management percentage of men and women at VP level or above. Board of Directors percentage of men and women in the Board of Directors, not including employee-elected members. Environment and climate Energy Estimated energy consumption (MWh) at production sites and on-site offices, excluding transport. consumption Waste generation Waste from production sites in metric tons. The society around us Speak-up cases All reported cases (substantiated and non-substantiated cases). Radiometer Sustainability Report 2018 33 / 35 OUR MISSION We help caregivers make diagnostic decisions that save lives OUR VISION Improving global healthcare with reliable, fast and easy patient diagnoses Contact Katrine Rørdam katrine.roerdam@radiometer.dk +45 38 27 33 96
