Communication on Progress Prepared on: November 20, 2019 Prepared for: UN Global Compact United Nations 801 2nd Ave., 2nd floor New York, NY 10017, United States A venture capital firm registered in State of Pennsylvania, USA #5980417 1515 Market Street #1200, Philadelphia, PA 19102 Phone (267) 535-5508 Email: info@wctipartners.tech – www.wctipartners.tech Page 1 on 14 To our stakeholders WCTI Partners, Inc. is a venture capital firm headquartered in Philadelphia, PA since 2016 that provides investment advisory and management services to private and public investors. The world has changed and the transformations have been accelerated during the past few years. I believed in a new world based on innovation, creativity, co-working with socialbenefits and wanted our company to be part of this. We are therefore walking with entrepreneurs to the development of more than just their own business. OUR PURPOSE IS TO INVEST IN INNOVATION IMPROVING THE WORLD POPULATION’S WELL-BEING. WCTI Partners focuses on direct investment into technology startups and SMEs involved in our main sectors as global innovation, medtech, cleantech and impact venture at seed and early stages mostly in the United States and Europe but with no geographical restriction. WCTI Partners targets companies with high potential growth based on their know-how, patents and quality management. I am pleased to confirm that WCTI Partners reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Didier Dippe, Chief Executive Officer Page 2 on 14 Summary HUMAN RIGHTS (principles 1, 2)................................................. 4 1. Assessments, policy and goals 2. Implementation 3. Measurements of outcomes LABOUR (principles 3, 4, 5, 6)....................................................... 5 4. Assessments, policy and goals 5. Implementation 6. Measurements of outcomes ENVIRONMENT (principles 7, 8, 9) .............................................. 6 1. Assessments, policy and goals 2. Implementation 3. Measurements of outcomes ANTI-CORRUPTION (principle 10) .............................................. 7 1. Assessments, policy and goals 2. Implementation 3. Measurements of outcomes FURTHER ENGAGEMENTS ........................................................ 8 1. Co-working and free-consulting 2. Women education and entrepreneurship in developing countries APPENDICES: Self-assessment in management..………………………….10 Page 3 on 14 HUMAN RIGHTS (principles 1, 2) 1. Assessments, policy and goals The respect of the proclaimed Human Rights is essential in the WCTI Partners’ management and partnerships. To pretend to have a positive impact on the world, we must be certain for a profitable business that this code of conduct’s primary basis is highly fulfilled by all of our stakeholders. 2. Implementation All our invested companies has to signed up a statement of non-abusive general treatments (human-rights, security of employees, control of their providers, environmentally friendly …) just before the investment statement’s signature. About Human Rights, the statement will be improved thanks to our work for this report, with the followings: • Respect of the proclaimed World Human Rights for its employees and salaries. • Make sure that its providers know and comply with the world proclaimed Human Rights for its employees and salaries, if not signed. However we recognize two failures in our system: • The statement is declarative • Our clients are mostly at the seed and early stages of their business and certain of these are composed by less than 10 employees whose are from the board committee or from the general management. We think nevertheless we can influence their development by creating a synergy between them. WCTI partners’ goal is to contribute to create several innovative hubs in partnership with European universities. We will buy business offices so: • some of our clients will work in a similar environment, they could support and control each other (peers control); • the proximity with great institutions whose holding the Human Rights principles as universities and scientific world could influence our clients in their organization. 3. Measurements of outcomes WCTI Partners visits each of its clients’ business offices to control several business points during the required audits (due diligence and monitoring). To speak with employees, explore the site and read the HR report are ones of the auditing steps. Page 4 on 14 LABOUR (principles 3, 4, 5, 6) 4. Assessments, policy and goals From our strategy: « Through regular dialogue with key general partner relationships, WCTI Partners’ portfolio advisors work to systematically and proactively source attractive new coinvestment opportunities. » « WCTI Partners is currently settling innovative centers in the Philadelphia, PA (USA) and in Paris, France. These centers will offer workspaces and support services such as administrative services and access to a scientific committee and its laboratory to accommodate startups and SMEs and provide them a professional and digital environment. This innovative center has indeed set up a webmarketing agency to help them in their communication processes. » 5. Implementation WCTI Partners is board member of all his invested companies providing our ongoing support and expertise in leading companies (as well as human resources and global organization, financial plan…) Besides, WCTI Partners has established a strict process to select companies in which potential investors may invest and their leaders with who we work. It is based on facts, evidences, numbers, current market, ethical and public and environmental policies, esteemed impact on the society, etc. And we make sure that at least three different experts have examined carefully the deal, in addition to the chief executive. 6. Measurements of outcomes Portfolio managers’ reports and auditing’s reports are constituting the « database » of our measurements. WCTI Partners plans to acquire portfolio management software to generate tendencies and occurrences and gathered figures for strategic decision-making. The WCTI Partners’ strategy will include a balance goal in each area portfolio to let business owners more equality chance to become our partner. This strategy will initiate new measurements in our deal recruitment process to rebalance it according to ESGs. Page 5 on 14 ENVIRONMENT (principles 7, 8, 9) 1. Assessments, policy and goals From our strategy: « Since 2016, WCTI Partners’ management decided to focus only in direct investment in startups and SMEs involved in four main sectors described earlier and to settle first innovative center in Paris, France. » The notably cleantech (a shortened form of « clean technologies ») portfolio is composed by innovative environmentally friendly companies. These ones attempt to increase performance, productivity and efficiency by minimizing negative effects on the environment. 2. Implementation In our four areas and to value each deal, WCTI Partners brings together a scientific committee and experts whose all are largely recognized by their peers as well. We encourage moreover our salaries and partners to print few documents, and promote electronic files sending or secured sharing platform online. When it is necessary, we print our documents on both sides and in black and white as far as possible. Besides, WCTI Partners does not own any photocopier, nor printer. The company has also established frequent videoconferences instead of frequent meetings to contribute to reduce the greenhouse gas emission. We begin to put on our signature the « think before printing » message and encourage our partners to do the same: 3. Measurements of outcomes Concerning the Cleantech portfolio, the value of deals is based on environmentally friendly criteria: • Proof of concept: the innovative cleantech product is working. • Proof of market: the innovative cleantech product has a social and environmental purpose, a market exists for selling it. • Quality of management: a good governance of the company which includes the respect of Environment, Human Rights, Non-abusive Labour and Anti-Corruption. The next version of our statement (signed by our clients) will include those four precise areas. Page 6 on 14 ANTI-CORRUPTION (principle 10) 1. Assessments, policy and goals « WCTI Partners set investment procedures executed by portfolio managers, consultants, advisors and senior executive officers: • Senior analysts under supervision of portfolio advisors select and assess targeted companies based on internal investment criteria. WCTI Partners has developed strong relationship with consulting firms for auditing and assessing selected projects; • An Advisory Board consists of key experts and opinion leaders in the targeted sector(s) indicate outlines of their investment recommendation and then provide advisories and followups upon the Investment Committee's decisions. The members of this board has been regularly selected based upon their skills, roles and experiences in a determined field; • The Investment Committee approves or disapproves the investment operation based on analysis from senior analysts, portfolio advisors and from the Advisory Board's recommendation; • Our legal advisors will implement legal compliance. WCTI Partners is working with several law firms specialized in mergers and acquisitions, leverage buyout and private equity transactions. » 2. Measurements of outcomes Internal reporting procedure: each deal manager, expert and adviser have to report all their measurements and decisions to the Investment Committee. Page 7 on 14 FURTHER ENGAGEMENTS 1. Coworking and free consulting WCTI Partners thinks that investing in a company is more than just making money and believes in the environmental and social impacts investments can generate. We are currently running a skills sponsorship program with two Endowment Funds offering our following skills: • Fundraising • Event organization • Management • … and more In return WCTI Partners supports this alternative investment way by integrating it in its strategy (e.g. the following point). 2. Women education and entrepreneurship in developing countries Next year WCTI Partners will take a step toward more responsible actions with a new investment type: an endowment fund. Indeed, WCTI Partners is committed to participate to a new program developed by the endowment fund. The aim is to promote the women education and entrepreneurship in developing countries around the world. Besides, this program is currently developing long-term partnership with international organizations (e.g. YWCA). Page 8 on 14 Appendices: Self-Assessment in Management As a new member of UNGC organization, WCTI Partners complies with UNGC’s ten principles and management processes, and is currently enclosing them in its internal rules. Therefore we decide to emphasize our self-assessment in management in order to: • show to our stakeholders our previous achievements, • build an action plan of the company’s continuous improvement in management processes for the next year. ASSES MA.1.A. Regulatory compliance MA.1.A.1. The company complies with all relevant local and national legislation related to issues covered by the Global Compact principles in the country in which it operates. This includes legisYes lation relating to human rights, occupational health and safety, labour rights, environmental and anti-corruption. MA.1.A.2. The company has obtained the necessary permits and Yes authorizations to operate from the relevant authorities. MA.1.A.3. The company has an ongoing dialogue with the relevant local/national authorities about any unsettled issues raised by the No authorities e.g. following a site visit. MA.1.A.4. The company complies with international conventions Yes and agreements relevant for the company operations and activities. MA.1.A.5. The company has a systematic approach in place to ensure it keeps informed of new regulations, e.g. using compliance Yes monitoring processes and gap analysis. MAIN QUESTION : Does the company comply with all relevant Yes regulation on issues covered by the Global Compact principles? MA.1.B. Assessment of risk, opportunity ad impact MA.1.B.1. The company takes an integrated approach to identifying and assessing risk, opportunity and impact, taking into account: Yes human rights; occupational health and safety; labour rights; environmental and anti-corruption issues. MA.1.B.2. The company has processes in place to ensure periodic identification and assessment of the risk, opportunity and impact of Yes its business operations and activities, based on a review of sound data and a deep understanding of emerging trends. Page 9 on 14 MA.1.B.3. The company has a method for prioritizing the most significant risks, opportunities and impacts, including the individuals Yes who are most likely to be affected. MA.1.B.4. When designing new operations or activities, the asYes sessment of risk, opportunity and impact is included. MA.1.B.5. The company ensures that all information on the potential risks, opportunities and impacts of its business operations are N/A* shared and accessible to potentially affected individuals or communities. MAIN QUESTION: Does the company identify and assess the risk, opportunity and impact of its operations on issues covered by the Yes Global Compact principles? *This is not applicable because of our confidentiality principle. DEFINE MA.2.A. Policy MA.2.A.1. The company has a written policy covering respect for human rights, occupational health and safety, labour rights, enviF/A ronmental and anti-corruption issues. MA.2.A.2. The company's policy has been approved by top manF/A agement. MA.2.A.3. The company's policy includes a commitment to meetF/A ing local legal requirements and international standards. MA.2.A.4. The company's policy includes a commitment to makYes ing continuous improvements in performance. MA.2.A.5. The company's policy includes contributing to local Yes* community development. MA.2.A.6. The results of the assessment of risk, opportunity, and impact are reviewed by senior management and inform the develYes opment of company sustainability goals, strategies, and policies. MAIN QUESTION: Does the company have a policy statement in Yes line with the Global Compact principles? *We work with the City of Philadelphia to support the local community. Page 10 on 14 IMPLEMENT MA.3.A. Decision making and management MA.3.A.1. The company has appointed a senior person(s) responsible for policies and plans related to issues covered by the Global Yes Compact principles. MA.3.A.2. The company has defined and communicated roles and responsibilities with regard to issues covered by the Global ComF/A pact principles. MA.3.A.3. The company has documented procedures to enable decisions to be made regarding issues covered by the Global Compact F/A principles MA.3.A.4. The company prepares action plans describing the activities, time frames, responsibilities and means to address impacts Yes and/or reach targeted improvements. MA.3.A.5. The company monitors its procedures and instructions Yes to ensure they are applied correctly e.g. via internal audits. MA.3.A.6. The company can document continuous improvement F/A of its performance e.g. via key performance indicators (KPIs). MA.3.A.7.: The company promptly records, investigates and remediates any serious accidents or extraordinary impacts/events that Yes occur. MA.3.A.8.: The company has a company-wide management system that is certified by a third party and/or operates in accordance No with sector specific codes and standards. MAIN QUESTION: Do the company's decision-making processes and management systems include issues covered by the Global No* Compact Principles? *We do not have management systems yet. We recognize that some efforts have to be made about our management processes regarding the Global Compact Principles. MA.3.B. Worker involvement MA.3.B.1. The company's workers are familiar with the company F/A* policy covering the Global Compact principles. MA.3.B.2. Company workers are aware of the issues that are most significant for the company operations and activities, and know Yes what is expected of them. MA.3.B.3. The company regularly trains workers involved in activities that have, or could have, adverse impacts to ensure they are Yes aware of risks, requirements and agreed procedures. Page 11 on 14 MA.3.B.4. Company workers are informed of progress towards objectives for issues relevant for the company operations and activiYes ties. MA.3.B.5. Workers are encouraged to suggest ways in which the company can improve its performance relating to issues covered Yes by the Global Compact principles. MA.3.B.6. The company stimulates responsible behaviour using incentive schemes that include objectives on issues covered by the No Global Compact principles. *The general management will communicate about it during his presentation of his 2019 annual report to its employees, stockholders and partners. MA.3.C. Suppliers and business partners MA.3.C.1. The company has defined minimum requirements and communicates these in writing to new and existing suppliers and Yes business partners. MA.3.C.2. The company has policies and procedures for managing Yes and monitoring the performance of suppliers and business partners. MA.3.C.3. The company has conducted an assessment to identify which of its suppliers and business partners have the greatest risk No* of negative impacts. MA.3.C.4. The company provides training on procedures and Yes standards for relevant management and procurement staff. MA.3.C.5. The company's procurement practices, such as prices, delivery times and internal incentive structures, encourage imF/A proved standards at suppliers and business partners. MA.3.C.6. Where necessary, the company collaborates with individual suppliers and business partners to implement continuous imYes provements. MA.3.C.7. The company collaborates with other companies to promote improved standards amongst its suppliers and business partYes ners. MAIN QUESTION: Does the company promote issues covered by the Global Compact principles in its interactions with suppliers and F/A business partners? *The policy of WCTI Partners is to work positively, in a win-win relationship with its partners. We are working with them to a continuous improvement. Page 12 on 14 MA.3.D. Community development MA.3.D.1. The company donates time, in-kind or financial contributions to the local community e.g. education and training, cultural Yes* and infrastructure development. MA.3.D.2. The company takes action to realize local and/or national development goals following consultations with the local Yes community. MA.3.D.3. The company can demonstrate the impacts of its contribution and how these are aligned to the company's core and strateF/A gic issues. MA.3.D.4. The company takes action in support of broader UN goals and issues, such as the UN Millennium Development Goals Yes (MDGs) on combatting HIV, promoting education and women's rights. MA.3.D.5. The company seeks to contribute to community development by entering partnerships with a range of stakeholders, inYes cluding UN agencies, governments, civil society, labour, and other non-business interests. MAIN QUESTION: Does the company positively contribute to Yes community development? *WCTI Partners provides skills-based sponsorship to two endowment funds. MA.3.E. Grievance mechanisms MA.3.E.1. The company has a written procedure for how concerns No and complaints are received, processed and settled. MA.3.E.2. Information about how to use the procedure; what concerns/complaints can be reported; and how concerns/complaints No are processed and resolved, is clear and easily accessible. MA.3.E.3. Workers, including temporary and contract workers, can submit concerns/complaints regarding the company's activities Yes and impact without threat of retaliation by management or other workers. MA.3.E.4. Customers and external stakeholders can submit concerns/complaints regarding the company's activities and impact Yes without threat of retaliation by company management. MA.3.E.5. Individuals or representatives of the local community can submit concerns/complaints regarding the company's activities Yes and impact without threat of retaliation by the company. Page 13 on 14 MA.3.E.6. There is a committee responsible for hearing, processing, and settling concerns/complaints, and includes representF/A atives of the concerned/complaining party in the committee. This could be workers, community or consumer representatives. MA.3.E.7. A worker lodging a concern or complaint is allowed to participate in hearings held with respect to that concern/complaint F/A and is informed of the outcome of the resolution process. MAIN QUESTION: Does the company have a trusted procedure for hearing, processing and settling internal and external conNo cerns/complaints? About grievance mechanisms, WCTI Partners’ policy is to adapt the process case-by-case. COMMUNICATE MA.4.A. Stakeholders MA.4.A.1. The company identifies stakeholders who affect or can be affected by the company's activities, products and services e.g. Yes a person, group, organization, authority. MA.4.A.2. The company communicates progress openly about how issues covered by the Global Compact principles are managed, including performance results as well as forward-looking inforYes mation on strategy and management approach, challenges, and dilemmas. MA.4.A.3. The company regularly engages in dialogue with stakeYes holders to keep up-to-date with stakeholder expectations. MA.4.A.4. The company communicates openly about how issues covered by the Global Compact principles are managed including Yes challenges, dilemmas, success and failures. MA.4.A.5. The company's communication on progress and other performance reporting on issues covered by the Global Compact N/A* principles is publically available and communicated to external stakeholders e.g. via the company's and Global Compact website. MAIN QUESTION: Does the company communicate progress on F/A** the Global Compact principles with stakeholders? *This is not applicable because it’s our first COP, and so not publicly available. **We will communicate about it during our 2019 annual report event for the first time. Page 14 on 14
