SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 2 At a time when democracies are facing challenges on a scale not experienced since the end of the Cold War, we are reminded of the importance of preserving peace and stability. Nammo remains committed to pursuing niche technologies that deliver not only on the requirements of today, but help our customers take on the challenges of tomorrow. Nammo is an international aerospace and defense company headquartered in Norway. With 2,435 employees across more than 30 sites and offices in 13 countries, the company is one of the world’s leading providers of ammunition and rocket motors for both military and civilian customers. Nammo Group operates five business units: Commercial Ammunition, Small and Medium Caliber Ammunition, Large Caliber Ammunition, Shoulder Fired Systems, and Aerospace Propulsion. 80 percent of Nammo’s revenues are derived from national armed forces and national defense industries. Nammo is a significant player in the European demilitarization market, and we are specialized in offering safe and environmentally friendly dismantling, recycling or destruction of old or obsolete munitions. In terms of corporate responsibility, Nammo continues to address three focus areas chosen from the ten principles of the UN Global Compact: These three areas are: environmentally friendly technology development and manufacturing processes the work against corruption in all its forms empowering women Compact (UNGC). In our opinion, we meet the requirements of the UNGC Active Level. This report is prepared in accordDuring 2018, Nammo has focused on strengthening the ance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Core Level. company’s supply chain management. A new version of the Supplier Conduct Principles has been developed, focusing In 2018, Nammo Group’s revenues were NOK 4.9 billion, on implementing the 10 UN Global Compact principles profits before tax 331 million and our company tax amounted throughout the supply chain. Several procedures and due to 91 million. diligence processes have been improved in order to further strengthen the control of selected third parties. Nammo AS is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. We regard this report to be our Morten Brandtzæg Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global President & CEO 3 CORRUPTION Nammo’s reputation is one of the company’s most valuable Nammo will continue to focus on raising such awareness assets. To protect the Group’s reputation, it is necessary to during 2019. Another training program was based on a series build a strong company culture from the inside. Openness and of diverse dilemmas and was used to train key individuals transparency are key to combating corruption. Nammo has within the companies. a zero tolerance for bribery, and we have in place an anticorruption manual. All employees must abide by the Ethical Newly acquired companies shall all follow a 100-Day Program, Code of Conduct and follow national anti-corruption laws. which is an introduction program to Nammo’s company culture, The company ensures that such responsibility flows down the Code of Conduct and an interactive workshop with a set the supply chain where this is required. of different ethical dilemmas to be discussed and presented. The training shall be accomplished within the first 100 days During 2018, several types of ethics related training programs after the acquisition. This is part of our general risk managehave been implemented. The e-learning compliance program ment when acquiring new companies. has been updated with the aim of raising the general awareness level of ethics, anti-corruption and information security There were no incidents of corruption or anti-competitive among Nammo employees. This training reached around behavior reported in 2018. 1,700 employees with a completion rate of 88 percent. 4 LABOR Nammo operates in the explosives industry and handles The share of females in Nammo’s work force remains stable energetic materials. Health, Environment, Safety and Security at around 25 percent. We are working actively through training (HESS) is the highest priority and constantly on the manageand recruitment campaigns to enhance the gender balance. ment’s agenda. HESS matters shall always have the highest Encouraging female University graduates and women with other priority even if there is a conflict with other business objectives. relevant backgrounds to join Nammo continues to be prioritized, The Group’s policy is evaluated annually. All accidents or nearand we strive to motivate women to apply for management accidents involving employees are reported and corrective positions. We are working actively to address this challenge. actions are taken. Accident and near-accident reporting is evaluated to identify trends and develop preventive measures We strongly support freedom of association and collective to aid in the reduction of total accidents and near-accidents. bargaining and we deem that there is low risk for Nammo’s Monthly reports are collected from all sites. own operations. However we have identified a higher risk in our supply chain. When it comes to child labor, we consider All Nammo employees engaged in the handling and storage this as a low risk level in our own operations.As risks may of potentially hazardous substances receive annual physical be higher in the supply chain, we expect all suppliers to check-ups to monitor for any changes that could result from comply to our Supplier Conduct Principles which is supported working in proximity of such substances. This is part of Nammo’s by our Modern Slavery Act Statement. The statement is also efforts to safeguard occupational health and safety. to combat forced or compulsory labour, even if there is a low risk of such incidents in Nammo’s own operations. 5 ENVIRONMENT Nammo has a direct impact on the environment through its Nammo has established diligent processes for supplier production and testing of ordnance products and services, environmental assessments. We require all our suppliers to consumption of paper and energy, waste management, comply with our Supplier Conduct Principles. The principles procurement and use of transport. All main Nammo sites are founded on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles, are certified in accordance with ISO 14001, or they are as well as our Ethical Code of Conduct. operated in compliance with similar environmental standards. We require that our suppliers minimize their negative In 2018, no audits focused solely on environmental issues, environmental impact and that they continuously improve however, environmental issues were reviewed as an agenda their environmental performance. Furthermore, we make topic during the annual HESS (Health, Environment, Safety and our suppliers commit to ensuring that their operations comply Security) audit at each of Nammo’s sites. Our HESS directive with all applicable environmental legislation and prevent and requires all sites to update improvement plans and report mitigate environmental and health risks (hazardous materials, any nonconformities. All Nammo sites must comply with the radiation, etc.). REACH regulations (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals). REACH impacts our US entities Concerning compliance with environmental legislation, as well. This means that sites adhere to relevant requirements, Nammo Group experienced no violations in 2018. and prepare to change any chemicals that are to be phased out. In parallel with this effort, we continuously search for more environmentally friendly solutions in our daily operations. 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Nammo operates in a challenging industry, and is committed According to Nammo’s Supplier Conduct Principles, suppliers to respecting and protecting human rights in all its operations. must support and respect the protection of internationally We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Suppliers and partners are proclaimed human rights and make sure that we are not expected to adhere to standards which are consistent with complicit in human rights abuses. Nammo’s ethical requirements. Specifically, our Ethical Code of Conduct emphasizes maintaining a work environThe Arms Trade Treaty (ATT) was adopted by the UN General ment free from all forms of unlawful discrimination and Assembly to regulate international trade in conventional arms harassment. Decisions and terms of employment must be by establishing the highest international standards, and to based on objective, job related criteria in accordance with prevent and eradicate illicit trade and diversion of conventional the principles of equal opportunity. Nammo will not tolerate arms. The treaty contributes to international and regional any form of harassment based on race, color, religious peace, security and stability, reducing human suffering, and affiliation, national origin, citizenship, age, gender, sexual promoting cooperation, transparency and responsible action orientation, marital status, disability or any other such among the international community. discriminating factors. All Nammo’s production facilities are located in signatory Even in countries without a legal prohibition, Nammo does countries to the ATT, but not all these countries have ratified not permit the purchase of sexual services in connection the agreement. Nammo supports the initiative of the ATT and with work or assignments for the company. In this way, believes that to follow up the implementation of the treaty, Nammo contributes to combating human trafficking – it is important that the defense industry also takes part in the a violation of human rights. future dialogue on an equal footing with non-governmental organizations. By January 2018, 94 countries had ratified At Nammo, there were no reported incidents of discrimination the ATT and 130 states had signed the treaty. resulting in legal verdict in 2018. 7 GRI INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2018 REPORTING Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Nammo AS 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Web: What we do and services 102-3 Location of headquarters Raufoss, Norway 102-4 Location of operations Web: Who we are – Locations 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report: page 42 Web: Who we are – About us 102-6 Markets served Web: Who we are – About us 102-7 Scale of organization Employees: 2 435 as of 31.12.18 Operations / products: Web: Who we are About us / Web: What we do Net sales / Revenues: NOK 4 920 million Total equity: NOK 2 688 million Total debt: NOK 3 396 million 8 GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2018 REPORTING Organizational profile (continued) 102-8 Information on employees Total number of employees, by gender*: and other workers Female: 605 (35 temporary) Male: 1830 (76 temporary) Total number of employees, per region*: Germany: 170 (5 temporary) Canada: 0 (0 temporary) Switzerland: 10 (0 temporary) USA: 593 (59 temporary) Spain: 189 (36 temporary) Australia: 1 (0 temporary) Finland: 330 (2 temporary) India: 1 (0 temporary) Sweden: 288 (4 temporary) Ireland: 21 (2 temporary) Norway: 790 (0 temporary) UK: 42 (3 temporary) There are no significant variations in employee numbers during the financial year. No significant work in NAMMO is performed by workers who are not employees. *All numbers are from 31.12.2018. Nammo aims at providing complete reporting on this disclosure in the future. 102-9 Supply chain Nammo’s supply chains include suppliers of raw materials and components, sub-contractors, and providers of various services. Most of our suppliers are located in Europe and North America. A few suppliers are located in Asia. Local suppliers are to be used if competitive and, as an example, Nammo Raufoss makes purchases worth more than NOK 100 million locally every year. Each of the Group’s legal entities and business units are responsible for undertaking appropriate due diligence on their respective suppliers to ensure that they only do business with suppliers who meet the Group’s ethical standards. The revision of the Supplier Conduct Principles started end of 2018 and a new edition was implemented during first quarter 2019. The Supplier Conduct Principles require our suppliers to adhere to the Group’s Ethical Code of Conduct and business standards, and specifically address the requirement for undertaking business in compliance with modern slavery and human trafficking legislation. 102-10 Significant changes to the Annual Report: pages 4-7 organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle NAMMO AS is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and is therefore committed or approach to complying with the precautionary principle. 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact Web: Who we are – About us – Ethics, vision and values 102-13 Membership of associations Web: Who we are – About us – Ethics, vision and values Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision Nammo Group Sustainability Report 2018. maker Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, standards, principles Annual Report: page 2 and norms Web: Who we are – About us – Ethics, vision and values Governance 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report: pages 48-49 9 GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2018 REPORTING Stakeholder analysis 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Analysis 2018 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Nammo recognizes the right to organize for all employees. At Nammo Raufoss AS (the largest subsidiary in the Nammo Group), 90% of the employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements (683 out of 760). In Nammo Group, approximately 80% of the employees in Europe are covered. In other jurisdictions, Nammo does currently not have data on the degree of unionization among employees. 102-42 Identifying and selecting In Nammo, we continuously assess the potential impact and views of different stakeholders stakeholders. The 2018 Stakeholder analysis was conducted on the basis of an assessment of salient stakeholders. See Stakeholder Analysis 2018. A thorough analysis of Nammo’s stakeholders will be conducted in the fall of 2019. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder We initiate dialogue with our stakeholders, including national regulators, the political engagement community, political youth organizations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), local community and defense administrations in the countries where we operate. Nammo will increase its focus on developing and distributing content and materials that provide a wider audience with accessible and relevant insights into our company and the industry in general. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Analysis 2018 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Annual Report: pages 48-49 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Annual Report: page 11 Boundaries Nammo AS follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard for sustainable reporting. A materiality analysis has been conducted to prioritize which topics to include in the report. An updated materiality analysis will be conducted in the fall of 2019. Results will define report content and topic boundaries for future reporting. 102-47 List of material topics Sustainable economic performance Business ethics & anti-corruption Health, safety & security Labour rights Environment Responsible supply chain Diversity and equal opportunity 102-48 Restatements of information No significant restatements 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes 102-50 Reporting period 2018 102-51 Date of previous report 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point info@nammo.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance This report has been based on the GRI Standards: Core option. with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index nammo.com/nammosustainability2018 102-56 External assurance External assurance is not practiced for the Sustainability report. 10 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES ECONOMIC GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2018 REPORTING Management approach for economic standards and disclosures 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Annual Report: pages 8-14 and its boundary. 103-2 The management approach Annual Report: pages 48-49 and its components. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated Nammo Group and distributed Value generated Revenues: NOK 4 920 million Value distributed: Payroll expenses: NOK 1607 million Other operating costs: NOK 2950 million Net interest cost: NOK 33 million Other financial income: NOK 2 million Income taxes: NOK 92 million Paid dividends: NOK 90 million* Value retained: NOK 150 million *Dividends paid to shareholders as proposed by the Board of Directors. All numbers refer to the Nammo Group and the 2018 financial year. 11 ECONOMIC (continued) GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2018 REPORTING Economic performance (continued) 201-1 Direct economic value generated Value generated (revenues): NOK 4,920 and distributed 2% 3% 2% 1% 32% 60% Payroll expenses (32%) Income taxes (2%) Other operating costs (60%) Paid dividends (2%) Net interest cost (1%) Value retained (3%) Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption No incidents reported in 2018. and actions taken Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive No legal actions reported in 2018. behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 12 ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2018 REPORTING Management approach for economic standards and disclosures 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Annual Report: pages 8-14 and its boundary. 103-2 The management approach and its components. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the Nammo Group will provide complete reporting on this indicator in its organization 2019 Sustainability report. Water and effluents 303-3 Water withdrawal Water withdrawal: 1215 megaliters. Nammo does not currently break down total water withdrawal by different sources or by freshwater vs. other sources, or assess water stress. Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) Nammo Group will provide complete reporting on this indicator in its GHG emissions 2019 Sustainability report. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Nammo Group will provide complete reporting on this indicator in its GHG emissions 2019 Sustainability report. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) 3 747.9 metric tons C0 2e. This figure includes the majority of Nammo’s GHG emissions air travels during 2018. Nammo Group will provide complete reporting on this indicator in its 2019 Sustainability report. Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environNo violations of environmental laws in 2018 for Nammo Group companies. mental laws and regulations Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened We require our suppliers to be compliant with our Supplier Conduct Principles and using environmental criteria the Nammo Ethical Code of Conduct. The principles are founded on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles, the International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions, and Nammo’s Ethical Code of Conduct. 13 SOCIAL GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2018 REPORTING Management approach for economic standards and disclosures 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Annual Report: pages 8-14 and its boundary. 103-2 The management approach and its components. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Lost-Time Lost-Time LostAccidents occupational diseases, lost days, Injuries Injury Workday without Sick and absenteeism, and number (LTI value) 1 (LWD value) 2 days off absence 3 of work-related fatalities Nammo Group 27 6 69 97 3.7% 1 LTI Value 2 LWD Value 3 Sick absence Number of work-related accidents Number of days off due to Measured in percentage with recorded absence extending work-related accidents and/or of normal working hours beyond the day the accident occurred work-related illnesses (not including overtime work) per million working hours per million working hours All Nammo employees engaged in the handling and storage of potentially hazardous substances receive annual physical check-ups to monitor for any changes that could result from working in proximity of such substances. Nammo Group will provide complete reporting on this indicator in its 2019 Sustainability report. Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Governance bodies: and employees Women Men Board of Directors 3 6 Group Management 3 10 Age: < 30 Age: 30–50 Age: 50+ Board of Directors 0 2 7 Group Management 0 3 10 Nammo aims at providing complete reporting on this disclosure item in the 2019 Sustainability report. 14 SOCIAL (continued) GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION 2018 REPORTING Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and No incidents resulting in legal verdict reported in 2018. corrective actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which Nammo Group regards that there is low risk of violations of the right to freedom the right to freedom of association of association and collective bargaining in our operations. Higher risk is anticipated and collective bargaining may in our supply chain. be at risk Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Nammo Group regards that there is low risk of child labor in our operations. significant risk for incidents Higher risk is anticipated in our supply chain. of child labor Nammo has published a Modern Slavery Act Statement (web) and requires its suppliers to comply with the Group’s Supplier Conduct Principles. Forced or compulsory labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Nammo Group regards that there is low risk of forced or compulsory labor significant risk for incidents in our operations. Higher risk is anticipated in our supply chain. of forced or compulsory labor Nammo has published a Modern Slavery Act Statement (web) and requires its suppliers to comply with the Group’s Supplier Conduct Principles. Supplier social assessments 414-1 New suppliers that were The Group performs regular audits of the supply chain in order to control flow-down screened using social criteria requirements from prime contractors. Sole source and other suppliers considered critical to the Group’s business are subject to a bi-annual self-assessment questionnaire. During 2019, selected suppliers will be audited with review of compliance to the Supplier Conduct Principles and how the flow-down is handled through the supply chain. Nammo is committed to cooperate with suppliers to ensure that they have appropriate ethical and responsible policies and practices in place, and to support them in closing any gaps the self-assessment may identify. A global framework of improved third-party risk management is under development at the Group level. Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and No incidents of non-compliance resulting in fines reported in 2018. regulations in the social and economic area 15 Photos: Gettyimages (cover). Matthias Tillen / unsplash (page 2). Vidar Nordli-Mathisen / unsplash (page 4). Wolf Vandierendonck / unsplash (page 6). Ilyass Seddoug / unsplash (page 7) Nammo AS P.O. Box 142 NO-2831 Raufoss Norway www.nammo.com
