Responsible Business Report 2018 Contents Introduction 1 IHG at a glance 2 Highlights from 2018 3 Doing business responsibly 4 Responsible business targets 5 Chair statement 6 Chief Executive Officer’s review 7 Our approach to responsible business 8 Stakeholder engagement 9 Partnering for progress 10 UN Sustainable Development Goals 11 Acting responsibly within our business Our culture 13 Governance 14 Our approach to risk management 16 Responsible attitudes and ethics 17 Responsible procurement 18 Making IHG a great place to work 19 Valuing diversity and inclusion Our hotels 21 Safety and security 22 Developing our hotel colleagues 23 Carbon and energy 24 Water 25 Waste 26 Sustainable hotel solutions 27 IHG Green Engage system Our communities 29 Providing access to skills and education in hospitality 30 Supporting communities when disasters strike 31 Colleague involvement Performance 33 Our performance Cover image Hotel Indigo Singapore – Katong. The entrance to the hotel brings guests into a ‘secret garden’, as they walk beside a living wall into the main courtyard. Acting not only as a design feature to the hotel, the wall shields the lobby from solar radiation and heat, reducing the demand on the hotels cooling system. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 Introduction IHG at a glance With thousands of hotels in more than 100 countries, our purpose is to provide True Hospitality for everyone. We are one of the world’s leading hotel whatever their needs. Focused on highFrom the shared values we promote and companies, with a clear purpose to provide growth industry segments and geographies, the culture we create, to how we operate True Hospitality for everyone. By recognising our strategy involves strengthening our and grow our business and contribute to and respecting people and creating great established brands and addressing gaps in our local communities, we have clear experiences, we offer hotel brands that are our portfolio; building and leveraging scale; procedures, policies and programmes loved by millions of guests and preferred developing lifetime guest relationships; and in place to guide us. by owners. Through our global reach, delivering revenue to our hotels through the we ensure True Hospitality also extends lowest-cost direct channels. Our partnerships with third-party hotel to our people, the environment and local owners and suppliers are crucial to our communities all around the world. Underpinning our purpose and strategy, the success, and we work with a range of reputation of IHG and our brands, and our stakeholders to identify and prioritise With our asset-light business model, we ability to deliver long-term superior opportunities to further improve our manage and franchise hotel brands and shareholder returns, is a clear commitment approach and effectiveness. grow our business by ensuring we have to responsible business. the right offer for both guests and owners, Our scale Our brands We predominantly franchise our brands Mainstream to, and manage hotels on behalf of, third-party hotel owners; our focus is therefore on building preferred brands and strong revenue delivery systems. Total hotels (rooms) in the IHG System 5,603 (836,541) 2017: 5,348 (798,075) Franchised hotels (rooms) Upscale 4,615 (576,979) 2017: 4,433 (552,834) Managed hotels (rooms) 965 (253,566) 2017: 907 (242,833) Owned, leased and managed lease hotels (rooms) Luxury 23 (5,996) 2017: 12 (3,871) Total hotels (rooms) in the pipeline 1,859 (270,948) 2017: 1,655 (244,146) IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 1 Introduction Highlights from 2018 FTSE4GOOD Human Rights Campaign’s annual Corporate Equality Index 100% IHG is a constituent of the FTSE4GOOD index score on the Human Rights Campaign’s annual Corporate Equality Index in the US for the fourth consecutive year Diversity and Inclusion Board Launched our Diversity and Inclusion Board led by our CEO and other IHG Senior Leaders Three-year targets launched as part of our $67m commitment to responsible business in costs avoided by our hotels using the DJSI IHG Green Engage™ system London and Delhi Launched water stewardship projects in London IHG crowned industry leader for sustainability in and Delhi the 2018 S&P Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 86% 2.2% average employee engagement score 139,000+ colleagues involved in community reduction in our carbon footprint per occupied room impact activities United Nations Global 3.1% reduction in water use per occupied room Compact IHG is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact Top 10 Hampton-Alexander review listed IHG as one of 13,531 the top companies in the FTSE 100 for female representation among our senior leadership Global Best Six countries Employer Aon-Hewitt Global Best Employer for two people provided with skills and improved We supported hundreds of colleagues following 12 natural disasters, across six countries, through the IHG Colleague Assistance Fund employability through IHG® Academy in 2018 years running IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 2 Introduction Doing business responsibly Our commitment to operating our business responsibly underpins our entire strategy and the reputation of IHG and our brands. The actions we take as a business – be it We work with our partners to ensure the This report sets out our overall approach in our daily operations, how we grow our actions we take continue to be effective, to responsible business, which we explore brands, or the steps we take to protect the and we support important initiatives both under three key pillars: our culture; our environment – increasingly shape how IHG regionally and globally, including the UN hotels; and our communities. Within these is perceived by important stakeholders. Sustainable Development Goals to build a pillars, we show our progress against our This can range from how attractive IHG is fairer and more sustainable world. 2018-2020 responsible business targets, as an employer to a decision to invest in in the areas of environmental sustainability; our company or brands, or whether a guest We are proud of our commitment to growing community impact; our people; and chooses to stay in one of our hotels. our business in a sustainable way that responsible procurement. delivers long-term value for shareholders At IHG, we understand how crucial it is to and owners, and we’re passionate about operate with integrity and rigorous high using the incredible reach of our hospitality standards, and to grow our business in a way industry to be a force for good. To that positively impacts on our environment consistently achieve these things, we and local communities. recognise the need to take time to evaluate and adapt our approach, and we are actively To ensure we achieve this, our responsible reviewing the areas we feel IHG can have the business commitments are closely aligned biggest impact in. to our purpose of providing True Hospitality for everyone, our strategy, and they are felt in all aspects of our operations, including the expectations we place on our suppliers and third-party hotel owners. Our culture Our hotels Our communities We pride ourselves on a respectful and From our direct hotel operations, to our We understand that our success and the responsible culture, which guides our relationship with owners and our supply well-being of those who work in and around decisions and how we work, and underpins chain, we consider the entire hotel lifecycle our hotels are closely linked, and we seek our purpose to provide True Hospitality for when looking at how to best operate opportunities to be a force for good. everyone. responsibly. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 3 Introduction Responsible business targets We have engaged with internal and external stakeholders to define our responsible business targets for 2018-2020. We will collaborate with colleagues in our owned, leased, managed and franchised hotels and corporate offices around the world to deliver these targets in the years to come. Environmental sustainability 6-7% Six projects Reduce carbon footprint Launch two water stewardship per occupied room. projects per year. Community $3,000,000 impact Contributed to community impact projects around the world. 30,000-40,000 100,000 Individuals provided with hospitality Colleagues involved in IHG’s global skills training through the IHG Academy. community impact activities each year. Our Increase female people representation Increase number of females working in General Manager and Operations roles in managed hotels. Increase diversity Employee engagement Increase diversity in terms of gender and Track and report employee engagement nationality or ethnicity of IHG Senior Leaders. each year. Responsible Increase ethical procurement supplier awareness Roll out new training for corporate colleagues and hotels1. Increase supplier audits IHG green criteria Increase supplier risk profiles and Increase suppliers that meet audits for preferred suppliers. IHG green criteria2. 1 Measured by the number of Ethical Supplier e-learning completions for corporate colleagues and take-up of the Responsible Procurement Toolkit for hotels. 2 Measured by the number of suppliers completing an additional questionnaire on their green credentials in addition to the Vendor Code of Conduct. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 4 Introduction Chair statement Patrick Cescau Chair W elcome to IHG’s 2018 Our Code of Conduct, policies, programmes We’re proud of our achievements to date. Responsible Business and approach to corporate governance From helping over 47,000 people develop Report, which illustrates ensure we are nurturing a culture of shared skills and training through our IHG Academy, the importance we place values and expectations with colleagues, to reducing our carbon footprint per on operating with integrity owners and suppliers. Further, our occupied room by 15% between 2012 and with our colleagues, third-party hotel responsible business targets keep us 2017. We have made good early progress owners, partners, investors and the local focused on specific goals in areas of against our broader 2018-2020 targets, and communities in which we work. As well environmental sustainability, community we are focused on going further in 2019. as exploring the approach we take, this impact, our people, and procurement. report also charts progress made against our formal 2018-2020 responsible In all these aspects, we know our work is business targets. never done. There is always a need for education, action and collaboration. We IHG has always been an ambitious company, continue to engage with key stakeholders to with a strong track record of successfully ensure our actions meet their needs, and in delivering against our commitments for all 2018 we have taken steps to review our Patrick Cescau stakeholders. Underpinning our financial and strategy and identify where we can have the Chair operational performance is a deep-rooted greatest impact. A key focus in 2019 will be culture of clear ethics and governance led by further developing this work to think about the Board; close trusted partnerships with the long-term steps we need to take as a our third-party hotel owners; and a passion responsible business. among colleagues to do the right thing and care for others. Within a travel and tourism industry that accounts for 1 in 10 jobs globally and These values form the bedrock of IHG’s touches many lives, there are lots of purpose to provide True Hospitality for opportunities to make a difference. As IHG everyone, and they require us to have a grows, so does our ability to positively robust and comprehensive approach that impact others – whether through creating ensures our responsible business jobs, promoting skills and education, helping commitments are aligned to our strategy our hotels manage natural resources and and felt in all aspects of our operations. their environmental footprint, or by being there for our communities. We focus on three areas: the culture we create; our hotels, guests and third-party Partnerships are crucial to our work. As a relationships; and our local communities. franchisor and manager of hotel brands, we This reflects the interests of all our work closely with our hotel owners and their stakeholders, who increasingly follow the teams to embed our responsible business decisions we take to grow and operate our approach, and within our communities we business, the working culture we create for support charities doing incredible work colleagues, and the commitment we make globally in the areas of disaster relief and to defining and delivering on a broader building hospitality skills. social purpose. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 5 Introduction Chief Executive Officer’s review Keith Barr Chief Executive Officer A t IHG, we make sure our building on our clear commitment to wish to support, and we were very proud to commitment to responsible respecting the human rights of all those see almost 140,000 colleagues get involved business sits at the heart of our that work with us, we helped develop and during its first year. company – from our operations, publicly commit to a new set of Principles on policies and programmes, to the Forced Labour, launched by the International Whether it’s the culture we’re building at expectations we place on colleagues, Tourism Partnership (ITP). We also continued IHG, or the work we do with our hotels and owners and partners to uphold our values to underline how important diversity and in communities, it is important to all of us and help deliver our purpose of providing inclusion is to a global company like IHG, by that we do things in the right way. We were True Hospitality for everyone. establishing a D&I Board. The Board, which proud to be named an industry leader in I chair, will oversee a wide range of initiatives sustainability in 2018 for a second Whether an investor, a third-party hotel designed to ensure we have the groups, consecutive year on the S&P Dow Jones owner, a guest or one of more than tools and resources needed to give voice to Sustainability Indices, alongside being 400,000 colleagues, our ability to operate different perspectives and backgrounds, and listed as a constituent of the FTSE4Good in a sustainable and transparent way is of help us grow successfully as a business. Index. IHG was also named in the Hampton increasing importance to them and to the Alexander Review’s top 10 of FTSE 100 reputation of IHG and our brands. With a With so many hotels around the world, we companies for female representation global estate of more than 5,600 hotels are also focused on the many practical across our Executive Committee and their and a presence in over 100 countries, this actions we can help our owners and their direct reports. requires a robust and comprehensive teams take to ensure we operate and grow approach that allows us to operate and grow in a way that both respects and protects the We are committed to keeping responsible in the right way, and seize opportunities to environment. Using our IHG Green Engage business at the heart of our approach, make a broader positive difference. system, we reduced our carbon footprint per evolving and adapting as the world occupied room by 2.2% in 2018, and we also changes, and ensuring the actions we take In 2018, we made some important structural pledged to remove plastic straws from our continue to be effective. I’d like to thank all changes to our business that together with a global hotel estate by the end of 2019. We colleagues, owners and partners for their series of strategic initiatives will help us grow made more important progress during the commitment to this important area. at an even faster pace. It is a great testament year in areas like water as well, with two new to colleagues and our owners that during stewardship programmes launched in this time we have still continued to make London and Delhi. good progress against our 2018-2020 Responsible Business Targets, and Aside from our own business, we also successfully introduce a new True Hospitality recognise the potential positive impact we for Good programme that will strengthen can bring to our communities by building Keith Barr the good we can do for local communities. skills and education in hospitality, and Chief Executive Officer helping people prepare for and recover Clear policies, standards and informative from disasters around the world. More training on key issues help ensure we embed than 13,531 people improved their chances the right culture at IHG, and in 2018 we saw of employment through our IHG Academy colleagues complete more than 180,000 in 2018, and we also launched a new e-learning modules on topics from human programme for communities and charitable rights to our Code of Conduct. In recent giving, True Hospitality for Good. The years, we have collaborated with peers on programme gives our colleagues greater key issues across the industry. In 2018, involvement in the IHG charity partners they IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 6 Introduction Our approach to responsible business In developing our approach to responsible business, we consult our stakeholders to determine the issues most important to them and IHG. We know that our colleagues, guests, hotel Our materiality matrix owners, investors and other stakeholders We use a materiality matrix to embed our want to engage with a company that has responsible business priorities with IHG’s strong values, a respect for everyone strategic approach and our principal risks and a commitment to looking after our (see page 15). We consider the areas where communities and the environment in which we can make the greatest positive we work. We pride ourselves on a special contribution and the matrix, together with culture that achieves just that, underpinning stakeholder feedback, helps us identify our our purpose to provide True Hospitality responsible business targets. for everyone.  more information on our business For strategy see IHG Annual Report 2018. Culture 1 Responsible procurement 4 2 Responsible attitudes and ethics 5 3 Human rights 13 4 Safety and security 5 Cybersecurity and 3 information governance 14 16 6 Governance 1 7 Diversity and inclusion 7 8 9 8 Labour rights 11 2 9 Employee well-being 6 Hotels 10 Sustainable food and beverage 17 11 Waste 10 Importance to stakeholders 12 Biodiversity 13 Water 15 14 Energy and carbon 12 Communities 15 Employee volunteering 16 Community investment Low Medium High 17 Disaster preparedness and relief Relevance to IHG IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 7 Introduction Stakeholder engagement Regular dialogue with a wide range of stakeholders important to our business ensures we can be confident that we are identifying areas where our actions can deliver the greatest impact. We regularly consider the steps we can Initiative (WDI), MSCI and Sustainalytics. In Owners take to further embed a culture of 2018, we were listed on the S&P Dow Jones We continue to evolve our culture of responsible business; to protect the Sustainability Indices for the second responsible business through engaging reputation of IHG and our brands; and to consecutive year and we continue to be a with third-party hotel owners. Partnering promote and instil the right practices and constituent of the FTSE4GOOD index. with them, we identify the issues relevant approach at hotel and supplier levels. to them and are taking the necessary steps Colleagues to mitigate against these. We engage with Shareholders There are a number of ways we engage them through regular meetings, surveys Our shareholders are placing an increased with our colleagues, including conferences, and regional conferences. emphasis on environmental, social and our intranet, in-house publications, Town governance issues. We engage with them Halls and blogs. We stay close to important Guests and corporate clients through a variety of mechanisms, topics such as well-being, workplace Increasingly consumers are making including our Annual General Meeting, diversity and inclusion, remuneration, sustainable choices in their purchasing meetings with IHG Senior Leaders and learning and development and societal and decisions. Through our ‘A Greener Stay’ Board members, our Investor Relations environmental issues. We measure employee programme, IHG® Rewards Club members team, investor presentations, and by engagement through our bi-annual survey, who stay two nights or longer can forgo writing to them directly. We welcome their Colleague HeartBeat, and corporate, their housekeeping, reducing their energy engagement and over the course of 2018 managed hotel and customer reservations and water usage associated with linen have provided data and insights by office employees are invited to take part cleaning. Demonstrating a strong track engaging with several organisations and their average score was 86%; 11% above record of sustainability to our corporate including the Workforce Disclosure Aon’s top quartile benchmark. clients is important with almost 60% requesting key responsible business data relating to our carbon, energy, and water consumption and waste diversion. Academic institutions IHG is a thought leader within the travel Colleagues and tourism industry. We regularly Industry Guests and collaborate with academic institutions associations corporate across the globe to share best practice clients and contribute to the development of responsible business solutions for the whole industry. Suppliers We have a complex supply chain and work with thousands of suppliers who share our commitment to our responsible business agenda and ethical standards of business. Our Vendor Code of Conduct sets the requirements, principles and practices that IHG has adopted and the standards Suppliers Owners we set are the minimum under which IHG suppliers are expected to operate. NGOs, government and community organisations We collaborate with a number of organisations and governments to develop Academic Shareholders policies and initiatives to embed our institutions culture of responsible business across IHG. NGOs, government Industry associations and community Across a number of associations, we take organisations a leading role in working groups to share best practice and promote responsible business practices across the industry. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 8 Introduction Partnering for progress We participate in a number of public-private forums and are engaged in several strategic partnerships spanning the areas of human rights, employability and disaster relief. Human rights Memberships and industry associations Business for Social Responsibility We partner with industry bodies and change and make meaningful progress (BSR) membership organisations to support towards the UN SDGs. We are members of BSR is a global non-profit organisation positive change, including: the disaster relief working group, bringing with a network of 250 member together like-minded companies to companies, who together build United Nations Global Compact develop a cross-sector collaborative sustainable business strategies and In 2010, we became a member of the approach for disaster preparedness solutions. Through our partnership United Nations Global Compact. We are and response. and participation in the Human committed to aligning our operations, Rights Working Group, we leverage the culture and strategies with its 10 Global Business Travel Association organisation and network’s collective universally accepted principles in the (GBTA) experience and expertise to develop areas of human rights, labour, GBTA is the world’s leading business travel our approach to responsible business. environment and anti-corruption. and meetings organisation, with over 9,000 members. GBTA and the GBTA International Tourism Partnership (ITP) Foundation deliver world-class education, IHG was one of the founding members of events, research, advocacy and media to Employability the ITP, which convenes the world’s a network of travel professionals. IHG is leading hotel companies for combined represented on the Sustainability Goodwill Industries International action on youth employment, water, Committee, which is committed to We collaborate with their network of 161 carbon and human rights. We work with engaging and educating the business community-based agencies in the US industry peers to share knowledge travel community to find a balance and Canada to provide skills and resources, develop policy and between people, planet and profit. It aims development and employment implement programmes which have to balance the social, economic and opportunities to disadvantaged and a positive social, economic and environmental impact of their members’ underserved individuals. We also environmental impact. IHG is part of business travel programmes. In 2016, in partner with Goodwill in several the ITP’s Water, Carbon and Human Rights partnership with GBTA, we took a leading locations through our IHG Academy. working groups. role in developing sustainability benchmarking tools that support travel Over the years, IHG has worked with other Youth Career Initiative (YCI) buyers to assess their managed travel ITP members to develop measurement YCI supports young people who are and sustainability programmes. initiatives for carbon and water, and to unlikely to have a viable route into develop policies and guidance to hotels legitimate work without external help. on human trafficking. In 2017, IHG Global Sustainable Tourism Council IHG branded hotels work with YCI in collaborated with ITP members to (GSTC) many countries to offer skills training develop and launch the ITP’s 2030 Goals The GSTC established and manages and increased employability through for Sustainable Development, helping the global sustainable standards with the aim our IHG Academy. sector make a positive contribution to the of increasing sustainable tourism UN’s SDGs and to the COP 21 climate knowledge and practices among public agreements. In 2018, IHG helped develop and private stakeholders. a new set of Principles on Forced Labour, Disaster relief which we have publicly committed to. American Hotel & Lodging Association (AH&LA) CARE International UK Business in the Community (BITC) AH&LA provides focused advocacy, CARE – the ‘Cooperative for Assistance We joined BITC in 2009 and work with communications support and and Relief Everywhere’ – is one of the other members to develop best practice educational resources for the hospitality world’s largest aid agencies. It has to manage environmental resources and industry. Representatives from IHG serve expertise in humanitarian assistance make a positive impact in the communities on the Board of Directors, the advocacy and disaster relief. We work with CARE where we operate. cabinet, the Sustainability Committee, to develop best practice in disaster and he AH&LA Career Development preparedness and relief to support We are part of the BITC Global Goals Sub-Committee amongst other communities, colleagues and guests leadership team, working with other working groups. in need. international businesses to drive positive IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 9 Introduction Supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out a series of global ambitions to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. In support of this, IHG has identified the specific goals we feel we can make the greatest contribution towards. Goal 2018 highlights Our approach We launched two water stewardship projects in London and In 2016, we undertook a comprehensive water risk assessment Delhi to help us identify key issues where we can develop and that has helped us identify where to focus our six water apply water innovations that can be replicated in other water stewardship projects. stressed locations. In 2018, we achieved a 3.1% reduction in water use per occupied room. We offered quality work experience to 13,531 people through With tourism generating one in 10 jobs globally, we are uniquely our IHG Academy. positioned to help more people into employment and deliver local economic impact through our entire estate. Our learning and development strategy ensures that we continue to invest in our colleagues, helping them reach their potential whilst delivering an exceptional guest experience. Listed by the Hampton-Alexander Review in the top 10 of Our colleagues represent many cultures, religions, races, sexual companies for female representation across our Executive orientations and backgrounds and our diversity and inclusion Committee and their direct reports. strategy reduces any potential equalities. To help grow our strategy, we launched our Global D&I Board, led by our CEO and 100% rating in the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality IHG Senior Leaders. Index – making IHG a best place to work for LGBTQ equality for the last four years. Our hotels globally implemented 7,825 IHG Green Engage Our online sustainability platform, the IHG Green Engage solutions. system, enables our hotels to operate more sustainably through solutions they can implement in property to report and manage their carbon, energy, water and waste. When it comes to our local communities, we work with our hotels to ensure that they are prepared and able to play an active role in the event of a disaster, ensuring our local communities can get back on their feet. During 2018, our Procurement and Cost Efficiency (PaCE) We have established a Strategic Supplier Management Office team built a responsible procurement team to help drive our (SSMO), which works with our strategic suppliers to maximise responsible business agenda through our supply chain. realised supplier value and minimise risk through effective supplier relationship management. In partnership with the IHG Owners Association, we launched the Renovation Donation Initiative to reduce the amount of Through our Greener Stay programme, we reward our loyalty materials reaching landfills, and support the important work of members who defer housekeeping services. Hotels can operate non-profit organisations in the local communities, including more efficiently by reducing energy and water use, as well as workforce development and hospitality skills training reducing the use of chemicals in the housekeeping process. programmes. In 2018, we reduced our carbon footprint by 2.2% per Our online sustainability system IHG Green Engage occupied room. recommends 200 Green Solutions that help our hotels and offices to reduce their energy, water and waste. Named industry leading for a second consecutive year in the 2018 S&P Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. Our hotels and offices using IHG Green Engage sustainability platform avoided costs of $67 million. Our franchise business model means that working in We continue to collaborate with industry associations, NGOs, collaboration with our hotel owners and teams is an government and community organisations to embed our essential part of how we embed our approach to programmes and to deliver positive change. responsible business across our hotel estate. Through our longstanding membership of the International Working with the IHG Owners Association, we can Tourism Partnership (ITP), we collaborated with industry peers implement new processes to help our hotels operate to develop collective solutions to key sustainability challenges. in a more sustainable way. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 10 Introduction Acting responsibly within our business Our approach to responsible business underpins our entire business strategy and impacts all aspects of our operations, from our corporate offices through to our hotels and the communities in which we operate. Our culture Our hotels Our communities We pride ourselves on a respectful and From our direct hotel operations, to our We understand that our success and diverse culture, which is central to delivering relationship with third-party owners and the well-being of those who work in our purpose of providing True Hospitality for our supply chain, we consider the entire and around IHG branded hotels are closely everyone. As a global organisation operating hotel lifecycle when looking at how linked. We care passionately about making in more than 100 countries, with over to best operate responsibly. Working a positive contribution to the many 400,000 colleagues, we recognise the with our hotel teams and owners, we’re communities in which our brands operate; importance and benefit of ensuring our focused on developing talented teams, protecting colleagues and people in times of workforce embodies the communities in reducing the environmental impacts need, and helping to provide employability which we operate. Our policies and of operations, and regularly reviewing opportunities for those furthest from work. standards set out our position on social, our safety and security standards in IHG environmental and ethical issues. We ensure branded hotels. that our expectations are clear to all that we work with, be that colleagues, owners, investors or suppliers, and that we operate our business in a fair and robust manner. 1. Design and development IHG branded hotels are designed and developed in innovative and responsible ways to be at the heart of their communities. 2. Procurement We aim to source goods and services in sign and deve 1. De lop a responsible way. As our franchised me nt and managed hotels are owned by independent third-party owners, these al hotels are typically responsible for 6. Re ment managing their own independent supply ne w ure chains. In certain cases, IHG provides a oc centralised procurement option for hotels. Pr 3. Operations IHG responsible 2. Our hotels are operated to manage environmental impacts and enhance business approach across the hotel 5. S ale s a positive impact on the local economy and local people, whilst also focusing on the safety and security of colleagues lifecycle and guests. nd di s ns 4. Marketing t ri ti o We enhance the reputation of IHG and bu ra its brands by delivering responsible ti o n pe O 3. hotels our guests want. 4. M 5. Sales and distribution a r k eti n g We manage key relationships in the business-to-business, transient, leisure, and speciality markets to attract guests to our hotels who value responsible business practices. 6. Renewal Hotels renew, recycle and reuse materials wherever possible. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 11 Our culture We know that our colleagues, guests, hotel owners, investors and other stakeholders want to engage with a company with strong values, a respect for everyone and a commitment to looking after our communities and the environment in which we work. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 12 Our culture Governance Our culture of responsible business begins with strong leadership and the highest standards of governance. Our Board leads our governance framework, which supports IHG’s culture, our values and our commitment to doing business responsibly. Our culture Board Audit Corporate Nomination Remuneration Executive General Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Purposes Committee Committee Committee key Disclosure Committee Board Committees Management Committees Board governance The Remuneration Committee: reviews Our Management Committees The Board is responsible for ensuring all aspects of executive remuneration, The Executive Committee: has leadership through effective oversight and reviewing trends across the industry and responsibility for implementing operational review of the Group’s activities. setting executive remuneration policies, decisions. Day-to-day management of the which are designed to incentivise and business is delegated to the Chief Executive Supported by its principal Committees (the retain talent to support the delivery of Officer and the Executive Committee. There Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination our long-term strategy. is clear delegation and oversight from the and Remuneration Committees), the Board Board to the Executive Committee, which sets the strategic direction of the Group and The Corporate Responsibility Committee: strengthens decision-making across key aims to deliver sustainable shareholder value provides direction, oversight and advice to areas of the business. for the long term. the Board on the Group’s corporate responsibility objectives and strategy, The General Purposes Committee: The Audit Committee: monitors the including its environmental impact, social attends to business of a routine nature effectiveness of the Group’s system of and community impact, human rights with parameters set by the Board or an internal controls and risk management considerations and stakeholder engagement. appropriate committee. framework, the Group’s risk appetite, and the integrity of the Group’s financial reporting, Please see the corporate governance The Disclosure Committee: ensures proper whistleblowing and regulatory compliance. section on the Company’s website for the procedures are in place for information schedule of matters reserved for the Board, disclosures required pursuant to UK and US The Nomination Committee: reviews which sets out those matters that are not accounting, statutory or listing requirements. and considers the size, structure and delegated by the Board to its Committees, composition of the Board and its and the terms of reference for each Board Committees, giving due regard to Committee, which set out their respective ongoing succession planning, and roles and responsibilities in more detail. makes recommendations to the Board. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 13 Our culture Our approach to risk management We continue to assess our risk management system, ensuring it remains appropriate to support our growth ambitions and decision making in line with our appetite and tolerance for risk. Strategy and risk Risk appetite IHG’s appetite and tolerance for risk is Our culture Our strategy, business model and the way IHG’s risk appetite is visible through the further articulated and implemented through we do business present a number of risks nature and extent of risk taken by the Board our governance committees, structures, and opportunities. There are risks we are in pursuit of strategic and other business policies and targets we select, as well as in willing to take, and areas where we have objectives. This risk appetite is cascaded development guidelines for new hotels. In less tolerance for uncertainty. The Board is through the goals we set, our Code of 2018 the Board and Board Committees again ultimately accountable for the effectiveness Conduct, decisions we make and how we reviewed many of these aspects directly of our risk management and internal control allocate resources and it evolves with the through their meetings and discussions of systems, and is supported by the Audit strategy of the organisation. Examples of principal risks, and through their close Committee, Executive Committee and how we articulate our risk appetite are oversight of IHG’s organisational changes delegated committees, who oversee our risk included in note 22 to the Group Financial and the portfolio of growth initiatives. management system to ensure that risks and Statements of the IHG Annual Report and opportunities are appropriately identified Form 20-F; see page 144. and managed to an acceptable level in relation to IHG’s appetite and tolerance for risk. Our risk management system Risk in culture Our risk management system is fully integrated with the way we run the • Our tone, attitudes, ethical values and policies. business through our culture, processes, • Our governance and committee structures. controls and reporting, and is reflected in our strategy. The Risk and Assurance function is responsible for the support, enhancement and monitoring of the effectiveness of this system and focuses Risk in process and control management on culture, process, control, monitoring • Three lines of defence – comprised of: (i) day-to-day activities that identify and reporting. and manage risks; (ii) our functional specialists, such as our Business Reputation and Responsibility teams; and (iii) independent assurance. • Strategic risk planning. Risk monitoring and reporting • Risk and performance monitoring. • Principal risk reporting (see page 26 of the IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018). IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 14 Our culture Our approach to risk management continued IHG’s principal risks, uncertainties environment (for example trade wars, and Assurance team provides support and Our culture and review process environmental and climate-related matters) intelligence on emerging threats and will Our risk profile remains dynamic – we which creates inherent uncertainties to our continue to provide advice to management continue to face inherent uncertainties linked performance and prospects. on procedures for risk identification and to a challenging external environment. mitigation and control. The focus on executing our strategy at a Our efficiency programme to realise savings faster pace emphasises the importance of Our principal risks remain structurally for reinvestment, organisational changes and the steps we take to consider risk explicitly as similar to those reported in previous years. focus on strategic initiatives have part of decision making. During 2018 this has We continue to highlight uncertainties also required us to evaluate and evolve our been supported by the continued relating to our growth agenda and conclude risk management system to maintain an development of IHG’s risk culture and that the potential impact of Brexit on IHG is appropriate level of control within our governance processes, including review not likely to have a material impact on our levels of risk tolerance. of the delegation of authority, and overall strategy or operations although, as Throughout 2018 the Risk and Assurance communication of revised leadership with other external factors, this is considered team has co-ordinated assessments of the behaviours and performance management as part of routine operational risk principal risks facing the Group, including processes, which continue to reflect the management and resilience planning. The those which would threaten its business principles of our Code of Conduct. The impact of a potential movement in the value model, future performance, solvency or implementation of organisation and process of sterling is articulated in note 22 of the liquidity and reputation. These risks are changes creates inherent risks of disruption Financial Statements in the IHG Annual formally reviewed with the Group’s Directors to control routines and accountabilities, and Report and form 20-F 2018; see page 145. on a bi-annual basis and considered in more these have been actively considered The Group’s asset-light business model, detail through the activities of the Board by management teams. diverse brand portfolio and wide and Committees. The review of our principal Frequent senior leadership discussions geographical spread however contribute to risks this year again focused both on the throughout the year, and our more structured IHG’s resilience to events that could affect internal and external risk environmnent. We strategic programme management specific segmental or geographical areas. have included factors relating to third parties and financial planning processes, have also IHG’s  principal risks are supplemented across many of our risks, reflecting the included regular ‘pulse checks’ of emerging by a broader description in the IHG increasing importance of our relationships risks requiring management attention. These Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 with partners to our growth ambitions. We are considered both in the context of on page 26 to 30. have also considered within our approach to individual initiatives, and at an aggregated financial planning, a separate risk responding level, as part of resilience planning. The Risk to an increasingly volatile macro-economic Risk trend and speed of impact Principal risk – assessment of trend and speed of impact We assess whether the risk area is stable or dynamic in its impact and/or likelihood Speed of potential impact (inherent risk trend), and the rate at which More gradual Rapid there could be a material impact on IHG if unmanaged or managed inappropriately. • Channel management and technology • Cybersecurity and information The trend and speed of impact are • Accelerate growth governance summarised in the diagram (on the right). • Programme and project delivery • Preferred brands and loyalty Dynamic • Leadership and talent Inherent risk trend • Macro external factors • Legal, regulatory and ethical compliance • Safety and security • Financial management and control Stable systems IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 15 Our culture Responsible attitudes and ethics We take steps to ensure that there is a culture of responsible business across IHG and that our employees act with integrity. Code of Conduct Ethical concerns The findings from the assessment will be Our culture The bedrock of our culture is our Code of It is extremely important that our people used to help us continue to develop our Conduct, (Code), which sets out our feel comfortable reporting ethical concerns. human rights programme. commitment to operating honestly and with To facilitate this, we have a confidential Training the highest ethical standards. Our Code reporting channel which provides A standalone human rights e-learning principles help us to act responsibly at all colleagues with a means to share any module is available, which contains more times and set out the value we place on ethical concerns they may have. Colleagues detailed information on our overall approach being trusted by our guests, those who do are made aware of this through regular to human rights and how to spot signs of, business with us, the communities we work internal communications, as well as through and help combat, modern slavery and in and by our colleagues. It provides an a dedicated website, ihgethics.com. human trafficking. This forms the foundation introduction to our key global policies, Regular reporting on the channel is of our human rights training and we continue including anti-bribery, diversity and provided to our Board. to focus on ensuring our frontline facing inclusion, environment, confidential colleagues at corporate and hotel level have reporting and human rights. The Code is Human rights access to this material to ensure they are reviewed annually by the Board to ensure it We understand the importance of ensuring better placed to identify any potential risks. reflects and responds to changes in the that the human rights of all those that work In 2018, close to 45,000 colleagues external environment and ensures our with us, whether directly or indirectly, are completed the training. We also have culture supports our purpose and strategy. protected, and we passionately promote this additonal training materials available In 2018, we published our refreshed Code, on behalf of the industry as a whole. to colleagues across all our hotels. updated our Code e-learning module, and reiterated where colleagues can go for Our commitment to respecting human rights Identifying risk further details and guidance. All colleagues is made clear to colleagues as soon as they We are aware of the risk that major sporting working in IHG corporate offices, reservation start working for IHG through the Code of and other events can bring and by working centres and managed hotels must comply Conduct and Code of Conduct e-learning closely with colleagues in operational support with the Code and the policies and module. This is reinforced through the IHG roles, we utilise hotel communications procedures it refers to. The principles, spirit Human Rights Policy and brand standard, channels to ensure our colleagues are fully and purpose of the Code of Conduct are which requires all IHG branded hotels to informed on the risks of modern slavery. We also relevant to IHG franchised hotels who adopt our Human Rights Policy or an have continued this for major sporting events share our commitment. equivalent policy. in 2018, for example, in preparation for the 2018 football World Cup in Russia. Risk assessment Anti-bribery In 2018, we undertook a human rights Industry collaboration Bribery and any form of financial crime, impact assessment across IHG’s operations In 2018, along with industry peers, IHG including improper payments, money covering our supply chains, hotels and helped develop and publicly committed to laundering and tax evasion or the facilitation corporate offices. In line with expectations a new set of Principles on Forced Labour, of tax evasion, are not permitted at IHG of the UN Guiding Principles, the launched by the International Tourism under any circumstances. This also applies assessment included: Partnership (ITP) at the Global Forum for to any agents, consultants and other service Responsible Recruitment and Employment • Saliency mapping – assessing actual and providers who do work on IHG’s behalf. in Singapore. potential risks of IHG’s operations against Our Anti-Bribery Policy sets out IHG’s internationally recognised human rights, zero tolerance approach to bribery and including the International Bill of Rights Modern Slavery Statement corruption. It is applicable to all IHG and International Labour Organisation In February 2019, we published our employees, directors and our managed Core Labour Standards; and 2018 Modern Slavery Statement. hotels and is accompanied by a mandatory • Gap analysis – review of IHG’s existing To view our statement, visit anti-bribery e-learning module. Our Gifts policies and processes to determine ihgplc.com/modernslavery and Entertainment Policy is also part of our the degree to which identified risks approach to anti-bribery and corruption. are being managed. The policy was updated in 2018 following a review of our thresholds and reporting requirements. As a member of its Business Integrity Forum, IHG participated in Transparency International UK’s Corporate AntiCorruption Benchmark in 2018. IHG is using the feedback and results from this exercise to identify areas for improvement and development in its anti-bribery and corruption programme to continue to help mitigate risk. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 16 Our culture Responsible procurement Responsible procurement considerations play a key role both in our supplier selection process and how we conduct business with our existing suppliers. Our approach Responsible Our culture In response to our complex supply chain, we procurement have dedicated corporate responsibility and procurement functions, a Supply Chain Risk Council, and oversight from the Chief 2018-2020 targets Financial Officer. This approach supports Supply chain IHG’s focus on working with partners and Increase the percentage of supplier suppliers who share our commitment to our risk profiles and supplier audits for responsible business agenda and ethical IHG preferred suppliers. standards of business. Our Vendor Code of In 2018, we partnered with the British Conduct, available in 42 languages, sets out Standards Institute (BSI) for an end-tothe requirements, principles and practices end risk profiling, assessment and audit that IHG has adopted to promote ethical programme. The assessment was rolled conduct in the workplace, safe working out to all IHG Marketplace suppliers. conditions in the supply chain, treatment of persons with respect and dignity, and Increase ethical supplier awareness environmentally responsible practices. Roll out new training for corporate and These are the minimum standards under we developed this by partnering with the hotel colleagues. which IHG suppliers are expected to British Standards Institute (BSI) and have We have developed a mandatory operate. In total, as at December 2018, 2,809 established an end to end supplier education programme on responsible suppliers have signed the Vendor Code of assurance programme, the aim of which is procurement and this was launched in Conduct. The Vendor Code of Conduct is to gain insight into risks associated with January 2019. currently being reviewed and updated, with IHG’s supply chain specifically focusing on a new version planned for launch in 2019. corporate responsibility. The programme Green criteria will give us a greater understanding of our Increase the percentage of suppliers suppliers and supply chain. that meet IHG Green Criteria. Policies and training In 2018, we updated our Global Procurement New suppliers being onboarded to our We have developed a green criteria Policy, which now includes clear guidance procurement system are required to that is now included with our BSI for corporate colleagues on how to spend complete due diligence questionnaires, supplier assessment programme. responsibly. Alongside this, we continue to which require adherence to the UN Global For  further progress in detail against develop training materials for our corporate Compact Principles on human rights, labour, all of our 2018-2020 targets, please colleagues to educate them on our wider environment, and anti-corruption. see our Performance pages: 33 to 36. responsible procurement agenda, as well as supply chain risk. These training materials Diversity in the supply chain Our supply chain will include mandatory virtual training and As a global organisation operating in more Our supply chain activities are split into two bite-sized dedicated informational tools than 100 countries, we recognise the broad categories – corporate supply chains covering specific elements of risks and importance and benefit of ensuring our and hotel supply chains. Our corporate opportunities that are important for workforce fully represents the communities supply chains cover procurement for our colleagues to be aware of. in which we operate. At IHG, we celebrate corporate offices and mainly focus on items For the fourth year, we continue to leverage difference and encourage diverse thinking such as technology and professional our automated procurement system across and perspectives, and we seek to select services. Procurement of goods and many of our large corporate offices. This suppliers who share the same mindset. services at hotel level covers all items helps to improve central visibility of our required for operating a hotel, such as food Our spend with diverse suppliers in the US corporate suppliers and increases coverage and beverage, furniture, cleaning products, was $71 million vs $66 million in 2017. and involvement of our central procurement linen and electrical goods. team in managing and monitoring our supply As our franchised and managed hotels are chain. In 2018, we increased the proportion owned by third parties, these hotels are of corporate spend that is managed through typically responsible for managing their own this system by 5%, further enhancing independent supply chains. In certain cases, oversight and visibility of our corporate IHG provides a centralised procurement site supply chain. for hotels. For example, for our hotels in the Americas region, we maintain IHG® Supply chain risks Marketplace, which is a platform that We previously commissioned external enables managed and franchised hotels in providers to undertake supply chain audit the region to purchase goods and services pilots covering each of our current operating directly from IHG preferred suppliers. regions in higher risk locations. In 2018, IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 17 Our culture Making IHG a great place to work Being a responsible business cannot be achieved without the support and active engagement of colleagues all around the world. the future. In 2018, we launched a new • 22,518 General Managers and (in the Our Our culture toolkit to support individuals navigate their US predominantly) other hotel workers people careers. And we’re investing in our who work in managed hotels, who have Leadership Development programmes, contracts or letters of service with IHG including Leading Others and Career and whose costs are borne by those hotels. 2018-2020 target Insights, to ensure we are developing the Engagement next generation of leaders. Track and report employee engagement each year. Employee engagement In 2018, IHG achieved an average Understanding how our employees feel is engagement score of 86%. important to us. Twice a year, we measure For  further progress in detail against this through our employee engagement all of our 2018-2020 targets, please survey, Colleague HeartBeat, and ask for see our Performance pages: 33 to 36. their feedback about how we can make IHG an even better place to work. In 2018, We are a people business. Whether IHG achieved an average engagement score someone is a guest staying in one of our of 86%. Our results garnered recognition hotels, an owner investing in our brands, from AonHewitt as a Best Employer, or they are joining us as a colleague, their benchmarked against industry scores. choices are shaped by our people. The As we franchise 82% of our hotels globally, experiences we create, the services we offer, we do not employ the majority of our the opportunities we afford. A diverse and colleagues. When our entire Group’s estate inclusive culture enriches all of this, and it is taken into account, more than 400,000 plays a critical role in how we work better people work across IHG branded hotels together, growing our business and and corporate offices. Of those employees delivering on our purpose of providing directly employed by IHG, as at True Hospitality for everyone. 31 December 2018: Guiding us all is a set of everyday values, • 7,598 people globally (including those in which shape the way we work and provide our corporate offices, central reservations a strong sense of shared purpose. offices and owned hotels (excluding those in a category below)), whose costs were borne by the Group; • 5,214 people who worked directly on behalf of the System Fund and whose costs were borne by the System Fund; and Do the Aim Show right thing higher we care Celebrate Work better difference together Attracting, rewarding and developing talent We took steps in 2018 to evolve our talent practices and enhance our Room to Grow promise. We launched our new approach to performance, and initiated frequent check-in conversations, giving our people more opportunities to gather feedback on their performance, and discuss development and career aspirations. We are also establishing forums to help identify and retain top talent, and add rigour to our succession planning, ensuring we are developing a diverse pipeline of talent for IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 18 Our culture Valuing diversity and inclusion As a global organisation operating in more than 100 countries, we recognise the importance and benefit of ensuring our workforce embodies the communities in which we operate. • For the past four years, we’ve achieved UK Gender Pay Gap Report Our Our culture a 100% rating in the Human Rights UK legislation requires that all UK companies people Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index – employing at least 250 people publish making IHG a best place to work for differences in average hourly pay and LGBTQ equality. bonus pay between their male and 2018-2020 targets female employees; the proportion of men • The 2018 Hampton-Alexander Review, Diversity and women receiving bonuses; and the for a third successive year, listed IHG Increase diversity in terms of gender proportion of men and women in each in the top 10 companies for female and nationality or ethnicity of IHG quartile of the organisation’s pay structure. representation across our Executive Senior Leaders. Committee and their direct reports. In accordance with these regulations, In 2018, we increased the percentage we publish an annual UK Gender To help us go further in this space, we of women represented in the senior Pay Gap Report. launched our Global D&I Board in 2018, leadership population from 37% to 38%. led by our CEO and other senior leaders. Download our latest UK Increase female representation Working with Accenture, we surveyed Gender Pay Gap Report. Increase number of females working in colleagues to understand the barriers female General Manager and Operations roles colleagues face in progressing in hotel in managed hotels. General Manager roles and corporate senior leader roles. These insights are shaping In 2018, we increased the percentage several initiatives prioritised by IHG’s D&I of females in General Manager and Board around further strengthening its Operations roles from 22% to 24%. culture of inclusion; increasing the diversity For  further progress in detail against of its leadership and talent; and putting all of our 2018-2020 targets, please the right decision-making processes see our Performance pages: 33 to 36. around its actions. We are committed to a continual review of Our colleagues represent multiple our practices and polices such as reducing nationalities, as well as the many cultures, bias at all levels in our hiring processes, and religions, races, sexual orientations, reviewing flexible working processes and backgrounds and beliefs that make the policies. We have signed up to the Diversity world such an interesting place. We in Hospitality, Travel and Leisure Charter, a celebrate difference and diverse thinking 10-point action plan that ensures diversity as part of our purpose to provide True and inclusion not only remain a priority but Hospitality to everyone. Lean In Circles that we openly track progress towards our In October 2018, at our global We understand the importance of having a goals. And we support the United Nations headquarters, we hosted an event culture that values and promotes diversity LGBTI Standards for Business, which focuses in partnership with our Lean In Circles and inclusion, and we take pride in ensuring on tackling discrimination against lesbian, on the topic of diversity. We invited our colleagues feel this in their working gay, bi, trans and intersex people. external speaker June Sarpong, a environments. We also recognise how Created through grass root efforts from our well-known British TV broadcaster crucial this is to attracting, building and people across the organisation, several and passionate advocate for diversity, retaining the talent we need to continue Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) have to speak to colleagues about the growing our business at pace. Colleagues been launched over the past few years at importance of diversity and inclusion, expect it. Around 30% of millennials have IHG. Most notably, our Lean In Circles – and why we should all care about left a job for a more inclusive culture small groups created to provide professional this subject. elsewhere, and two-thirds of people growth opportunities for women through think about diversity when deciding mentoring, networking, outside speakers where to work. and more – have garnered great interest. In recent years, we have implemented Today, across all of our regions, hundreds several successful programmes across IHG of female colleagues have joined circles which have helped build high levels of and many are also participating in colleague engagement and seen IHG mentoring programmes. recognised externally: Colleagues in our Atlanta corporate office • We’re a highly-rated employer, and when it also have a number of ERGs and forums for comes to how colleagues feel, nine out of LGBTQ colleagues, African American, 10 people think we value diversity and offer Hispanic and early-career professionals a work environment that’s open to and in 2019 we will launch these groups individual differences. to more markets globally. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 19 Our hotels Our hotels and colleagues are focused on bringing our great brands to life for millions of guests all over the world. As well as creating the right experience, we’re committed to creating safe, inclusive environments for everyone, and taking active steps to help our hotels measure and manage their impact on the environment. As a predominantly managed and franchised business, we work hand in hand with our hotel owners to make sustainable choices and take opportunities to do things differently. Working this way is important to our colleagues, guests, partners and investors, and we take seriously issues such as climate change, water scarcity, utility consumption and waste management. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 20 Our hotels Safety and security We believe in the importance of providing a safe and secure environment for all colleagues, guests and visitors. We take the safety and security of guests, Our team of global intelligence specialists colleagues and visitors to IHG branded use an intelligence-led, threat-based security hotels very seriously. We manage safety and approach to monitor the risks and threats security through a global management posed to our hotels and to set the system that includes Brand Safety Standards mitigations and policies to address these. and a suite of risk guidance, training and Risks include terrorism, changing political toolkits that are available to all hotels. landscapes, digital security and natural disasters. Our well-tested crisis management IHG employs a team of global risk specialists system enables us to bring the necessary to co-ordinate and monitor a safety and skills and expertise together so that we can security management system. This system is quickly direct resources and support exactly designed to provide an appropriate level of where it is needed worldwide. control to mitigate against a systematic issue with safety and security in our managed and In a climate where the risk of data, credit franchised hotels. card and cybersecurity breaches are a serious threat, it is everyone’s responsibility IHG hotels are encouraged and supported to at IHG to safeguard information under our build greater levels of risk maturity, beyond care, to follow legal requirements and Our hotels mandated levels of safety (Brand Safety comply with IHG’s information security Standards), through access to a large range and personal data policies, standards of guidance, tools and training resources and procedures. available to all hotels via IHG’s Global Risk online learning centre. In 2018, we launched updated training to colleagues on handling information responsibly, and we continue to enhance our privacy programme to address evolving privacy requirements and best practice, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation. The Board and Audit Committee regularly reviews information security controls and the risk landscape, including updates on previous incidents. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 21 Our hotels Developing our hotel colleagues We provide everyone with the tools to develop in their roles and feel supported in their work. Our colleagues are the ones who bring our brands and purpose of True Hospitality for everyone to life, build relationships with guests and work with hotel owners to drive performance. MyLearning, our learning platform, is available to all hotel colleagues in multiple languages and across digital platforms. It gives people the chance to track their personal learning journey, and allows managers to easily review progress. We offer hotel colleagues True Hospitality Service Skills training. Guests can expect a consistently great experience delivered by colleagues trained in True Attitude, True Confidence, True Listening and Our hotels True Responsiveness. We also have a global online learning platform for all hotel General Managers (GMs) called Fuse. This brings our network of GMs together in an online social community General Manager Learning Events The events are an opportunity for General to share best practice, seek advice and Every year, over 300 General Managers Managers to come together to learn and complete professional development across our EMEAA region attend a series share best practices, building on their courses. GMs can also access a range of Learning Events, hosted by our capability to maximise performance and of other resources from onboarding Business Unit Managing Directors and balance the needs and expectations of curriculums and learning plans to specific, Learning & Development teams. multiple stakeholders. flexible online learning modules. Each year, a new cohort of hospitality graduates join our Future Leaders programme. Through a two-year programme, we embed and develop exceptional talent within IHG working across our Operations, Finance and Revenue Management functions. On completion of the programme, the graduates take on managerial positions across IHG. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 22 Our hotels Carbon and energy As a global business with hotels in more than 100 countries, we believe our biggest contribution towards cutting greenhouse gas emissions will come from changing our own behaviour. Environmental sustainability 2018-2020 target 6-7% Reduce carbon footprint per occupied room. In 2018, we reduced our carbon footprint by 2.2% per occupied room. For  further progress in detail against all of our 2018-2020 targets, please see our Performance pages: 33 to 36. InterContinental® Madrid Dow Jones Sustainability Index Our hotels The Green Team at InterContinental® The Dow Jones Sustainability Index, We believe the best approach to reducing Madrid have been on a journey to in collaboration with RobecoSam, and managing carbon emissions comes implement a number of innovative highlights businesses that show from working with all our hotels to make a carbon and energy initiatives across the outstanding performance in tackling difference, rather than by purchasing carbon hotel aimed at reducing their utility the biggest social, environmental and offsets. costs and consumption. From replacing economic issues in their industries. In their boilers, upgrading to new energy 2018, IHG was named industry leader Between 2013 and 2017, we reduced our efficient air-conditioning refrigeration for a second consecutive year in carbon footprint per occupied room by units to installing LED lighting across RobecoSam’s Resorts & Cruise Lines 15% (against a 2012 baseline), achieving the hotel, the team and their owners industry group, which includes hotels, our five-year target. As part of our 2018have reduced their carbon footprint resorts and cruise lines, and the highest 2020 targets, we are committed to further by over 60%. score in the industry on its Corporate reducing the carbon per occupied room Sustainability Assessment. IHG ranked by 6-7%. To help us achieve this, we set first for several criteria, including our hotels individual carbon reduction equipment and cleaning products are the environmental criteria, human rights targets, and we support them with best highest carbon emitting categories in our and stakeholder engagement. practice guidance and practical solutions operational supply chain. To further build The results of the survey are published to help ensure we succeed together. on this, in 2019 we will work closely with on the Bloomberg professional Utility costs are the second biggest key emitters to contribute to a shared platform, making them accessible to expenses to our hotels and lighting accounts positive impact. investors and other stakeholders. for up to 40% of a hotel’s total energy consumption. Installing LED lighting We’re proud of the engagement with solutions is a low-cost, high-impact action our hotels in this important area, and we for our hotels to action through the IHG continue to work to promote carbon Green Engage system. reduction with all our hotels globally. To further reduce our environmental footprint, we are working to understand the carbon emissions in our supply chain. In 2018, we commissioned stage one of our agenda, which identified that food and beverage, outside services, consultancy, IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 23 Our hotels Water We recognise the risks our business and local communities face from water scarcity and pollution, and are taking steps to ensure this precious resource is managed sustainably. Inn Chengdu – Century City East Tower by Environmental 12%, as a result of actions taken as part of sustainability the water stewardship programme. Building on this pilot, we want to launch six 2018-2020 target more stewardship projects by 2020. The first of these was in 2018 in London, UK, where 6 projects we partnered with the Rivers Trust, a UK-based non-governmental organisation. Launch two water stewardship projects London is included in the world’s top 10 per year. most likely cities to run out of water and according to the Greater London Authority, In 2018, we launched water stewardship the city is pushing close to capacity and is projects in both London and Delhi. likely to have supply problems by 2025 and For  further progress in detail against serious shortages by 2040. The London all of our 2018-2020 targets, please project has provided us with vital learnings see our Performance pages: 33 to 36. and helps reduce the exposure of our hotels Water stewardship tool to water related risks. We engaged our Following the success of our first water Our hotels colleagues in the programme through stewardship project in London, and in Water stress impacts over 40% of the global tailored education and the opportunity to partnership with the Rivers Trust, we population and is anticipated to rise further, volunteer and help to clean local waterways. have developed a tool to enable all of according to the UN. More than 1.7 billion our hotels across the UK to replicate the of the world’s population currently live in Following analysis of our risk assessment water stewardship activities carried out river basins, where water use exceeds its and the ITP’s water risk prioritisation index, in the London project at a local level recharge, and the problem will get worse we launched our second project in Delhi , with local trusts. as the population grows. India – the world’s second most populous As part of our commitment to water city, where water shortages are becoming stewardship, we completed the hospitality a regular challenge and the quality of water industry’s most comprehensive water risk is poor and unfit for human consumption. assessment in 2016. Encompassing our In conjunction with seven IHG branded entire global estate of open and pipeline hotels, we have partnered with the Center hotels, this means we can identify risks for International Projects Trust (CIPT), a related to both water quantity and quality, non-profit organisation based in Delhi and put in place tailored water stewardship and an affiliate of Columbia Water Center, action plans to apply best practice and the Alliance for Water Stewardship, to techniques for each of our hotels, identify key issues where we can develop particularly those in water-stressed areas. and implement small scale innovations that can be replicated in other water The IHG Green Engage system provides our stressed locations. hotels with a comprehensive guide to water-saving technologies and processes, recommending nearly 30 Green Solutions devoted solely to water. Typically, more than 40% of the water used in a hotel is from showers, toilets, taps and kitchens, but installing low-flow taps, toilets and shower heads, helps to reduce water consumption. The localised nature of water-stress means we need to embed initiatives at a local level, which led to the launch of our pilot project in Chengdu in 2017. Four hotels developed tailored water implementation plans and went beyond water efficiency, collaborating with environmental NGO Chengdu Urban Rivers Association (CURA), and members of the local community to protect the freshwater resources of Chengdu. In 2018, these hotels continued their water stewardship journey and are seeing impressive water reductions. The InterContinental Century City Chengdu reduced its water use by 21% and Holiday IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 24 Our hotels Waste We have a responsibility to minimise waste across all our hotels, preserving our environment for future generations. The IHG Green Engage™ system provides In our Americas region, we are introducing guidance to IHG branded hotels on how bulk-size bathroom amenities across our to manage their waste and through the tool Holiday Inn Express®, Staybridge Suites® and we encourage hotels to create a waste Candlewood Suites® brands. Our EVEN® management plan that sets out how they are Hotels and avid™ hotels brands have going to handle, store and dispose of waste, included bulk-size amenities since they were both on and off-site. launched, and Kimpton® Hotels & Restaurants began rolling them out in 2017. We have begun to map out the biggest areas of waste within our operations, identifying Working with Clean the World in the ways to reduce, re-use and recycle to ensure Americas and Soap for Hope in Asia, we are diverting as much waste from landfill increasingly our hotels are choosing to as possible. recycle soap and guest room amenities, so that new soap bars can be distributed to Across 11 IHG branded hotels, we have communities in the developing world, partnered with Winnow to trial their helping them reduce the risk of disease. innovative Winnow System. Using their smart meter technology, it makes it quick Renovation Donation Initiative Our hotels and easy to record exactly what and how Plastic straws At a time when many IHG branded much food is being wasted in our kitchens. In 2018, IHG committed to remove singlehotels are introducing new design Providing both real-time and regular use plastic straws from our global estate by concepts to meet evolving guest reporting, our kitchen colleagues can easily the end of 2019. As a global brand standard, expectations, we launched the identify how much produce they are we will be eliminating annually an average of Renovation Donation Initiative in 2018, disposing of and what the cost is of doing 50 million straws from our hotels. Laid in partnership with the IHG Owners so. These vital insights have allowed our end-to-end, the straws we remove would Association. colleagues to make improvements through span some 10,500 kilometres – stretching IHG branded hotels in the US and careful menu planning in their hotels and as from New York to Tokyo. Canada undergoing renovations or a result have seen a reduction on average of property improvements can donate 20% in their food wastage. furniture, fixings and equipment to NGOs. The shared commitment will reduce the amount of products and materials going to landfill, whilst supporting the work of our charity and NGO partners in the local communities, including workforce development and hospitality skills training programmes. Piloted in 2018, the programme will roll out in 2019. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 25 Our hotels Sustainable hotel solutions We encourage our hotels to use sustainable products and to source goods and services locally wherever possible. In line with our sustainability solutions, we Food and beverage want to futureproof our supply chain by Our restaurants and bars are an integral assessing the products we use the most part of the service and experience we offer throughout our business. This work includes to our guests. With a wide variety of dining setting out a strategy to reduce our waste options available across our hotel brands, impact, whilst looking for the sustainable we are focused on sourcing our produce solutions of the future which have a smaller sustainably and ethically, meeting our environmental footprint. guests’ expectations. By 2020, we are committed to 90% of our Carpets top seafood products being sustainably We have been working with our supplier sourced. Included in this commitment is the Ege carpets to trial carpets using a yarn prohibition of shark fin being served in our produced from recycled plastic bottles and hotel bars and restaurants. We have also fishing nets. In 2018, we ran a trial of the committed to sourcing 100% cage-free eggs carpets in eight of our Europe-based hotels, throughout our US, Canadian and European using four tonnes of 100% recycled yarn and hotels by no later than 2022, and across all Voco sustainable bedding we hope to increase the offering to more our hotels globally by 2025. Our hotels As part of our commitment to properties in 2019. increasing our spend with green suppliers, in 2018 we started to source Filtered water bedding for our voco™ hotels from We have been rolling out an initiative to allow Trendsetter, a supplier which has a our hotels to remove plastic water bottles commitment towards the environment from meetings and events, in favour of and ethical responsibility. They provide reusable glass bottles. In the summer of filled goods such as pillows and duvets 2018 in the UK and Ireland, we piloted the that have 100% recycled plastic filling. EcoPure Waters’ filtered water system to As a voco brand standard in the launch provide an alternative solution to plastic of our first three voco hotels, we have bottles. Of the 27 hotels that took part in the already diverted more than 140,000 pilot, the indication is that each month they plastic bottles from landfill and the are filling 1,400 750ml water bottles in factory’s energy usage is from 100% meeting and catering areas. We will be certified renewable sources. encouraging more of our hotel estate to adopt the system in future. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 26 Our hotels IHG Green Engage system Providing our hotels with the tools they need to operate in environmentally-friendly ways through our Group-wide, online sustainability platform. IHG Green Engage provides our hotels with We work with third parties to align the IHG more than 200 Green Solutions, helping Green Engage system to their requirements, them manage and report their use of energy, and through the platform, and many of our carbon, water and waste, and minimise hotels pursue additional third-party their overall utility costs and environmental certification, including TripAdvisor’s impact. We make it a global standard for GreenLeaders, Green Globe and all hotels to utilise the platform and we Green Key Global. recognise their progress through four levels of certification. Supporting travel buyers We know that sustainability is important The system works to: to our corporate clients. Every year, more • Provide hotels with action plans and targets travel buyers ask for information about the to reduce their impact on the environment. environmental footprint of our hotels, so that • Set and track property-specific reduction they can make more sustainable choices in goals for carbon, energy, water and waste, their travel procurement. In 2018, almost and demonstrate potential cost savings 60% of our business accounts asked for A Greener Stay this information, such as carbon footprint Our hotels associated with a plan. Guests staying in our hotels for more and waste diversion rates, using the Global than one night can elect to participate • Use data to provide customised Business Travel Association (GBTA) corporate in A Greener Stay, a programme where environmental performance benchmarking, responsibility module. guests can opt out of housekeeping taking into account hotel location, brand and outfitting. We have continually enhanced our ability to services in return for IHG® Rewards inform travel buyers. The IHG Green Engage Club points. As a result of this initiative, • Feed a hotel’s IHG Green Engage system system automatically reports this information guests are encouraged to make more certification status to our booking channels about each of our hotels to corporate clients environmentally conscious decisions to allow guests to make more informed that ask for it. We report our environmental when travelling. The programme helps decisions about where they stay. performance data to EcoVadis and the CDP hotels to take action towards reducing To ensure the quality of participation in the Supply Chain programme for carbon and their environmental footprint with less IHG Green Engage system, hotels that reach water. We also report to the RobecoSAM water and energy needed and a any level of certification undergo a thirdof which we are the industry leader on reduction in waste. party assurance process, administered by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Deloitte. In addition, our environmental performance data is independently verified through Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA), in accordance with ISO14064 – 3:2006. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 27 Our communities We are proud that our hotels are very much at the heart of communities around the world, and we take pride in ensuring our purpose of providing True Hospitality for everyone is felt beyond the everyday operations of our business. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 28 Our communities Providing access to skills and education in hospitality Around the world, we work to have a positive impact on communities by creating jobs, stimulating local economic development, and helping create more sustainable communities through hospitality skills training. The hospitality industry accounts for one in IHG Academy Community 10 jobs globally and we’re passionate about Through our IHG Academy programme, we impact the opportunities it can offer people. We are are working in our local communities and committed to providing access to unique with academic partners to offer work opportunities to build and develop experience in hotels or corporate offices. 2018-2020 target hospitality skills, helping those in need Our aim is to help develop a pool of skilled, regain employment or spark the beginning motivated and engaged people capable of 30,000-40,000 of a new career. Working collaboratively with our NGO partners, we can focus on providing the great kinds of experiences you’d expect in an IHG branded hotel. In Individuals provided with hospitality supporting those furthest from employment 2018, 13,531 people benefited from the skills training through the IHG Academy. to reach their potential. programme in 70 countries worldwide. In 2018, 13,531 people benefitted from IHG Academy. For  further progress in detail against all of our 2018-2020 targets, please see our Performance pages: 33 to 36. Our communities IHG Academy Hotel Takeover Association for Persons with He was given the opportunity to develop In February 2018, IHG branded hotels in Special Needs life skills and build friendships at work, the UK took part in the IHG Academy In Singapore, we have been working whilst being able to do something that he Hotel Takeover, a week long initiative with the Association for Persons with really likes – meeting new people and that offered hospitality students the Special Needs (APSN), which provides learning new things. Importantly, the opportunity to gain valuable work support for adults with learning opportunity has given Firdaus the ability experience to supplement their studies. disabilities to provide work experience to support his family, and feel proud to More than 1,000 students participated opportunities through our IHG Academy work in a role he loves. in 31 hotels, undertaking a variety of programme. One beneficiary is Firdaus, roles from General Manager to who works as a Kitchen Porter at Functions Manager and Head Chef. InterContinental Singapore. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 29 Our communities Supporting communities when disasters strike We have a proud history of helping local communities and our colleagues in times of need. Okayama Hanoi California Florida Baguio Manila Nha Trang Kerala Lampung Lombok Supporting colleagues in times of need Our communities a disaster is a critical time and our Across the year, we supported 685 In 2018, we responded to 12 natural colleagues often need additional colleagues in times of need through a disasters in 10 locations, across six funds to help them obtain the dedicated assistance fund that we can countries that impacted our hotel based assistance they need. activate immediately and provide small colleagues. The immediate aftermath of financial grants to help them. Just as our hotels can be a place for people The Sichuan Province, China is prone to and communities to come together in times natural disasters and in recent years has of celebration, we know they can also play been devastated by a number of a vital role in providing security and refuge earthquakes. In partnership with the when disaster strikes. We have a proud Sichuan Province Foundation for Poverty history of helping local communities and Alleviation, we have delivered a series of our colleagues in times of need, and disaster preparedness training sessions to educating people in disaster preparedness. teachers and students across schools to We continue to partner with CARE When our hotels and offices are involved help them in the province be better International UK to provide strategic in disasters, we aim to provide a consistent prepared in the event of a disaster. advice and guidance to hotels in times response, working closely with our global of disaster and to help increase our NGO partners. focus on disaster preparedness. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 30 Our communities Colleague impact Across the globe our colleagues are passionate about many local community projects, charities and NGOs, and we give them a say in how we support causes all around the world. Giving for Good month Community September 2018 saw our first Giving for “I am incredibly inspired impact Good month in support of True Hospitality by the thousands of for Good. IHG colleagues were invited to make a positive contribution to others colleagues that came 2018-2020 targets through volunteering, doing their bit for the together to join in our first environment, or doing something extra to $3m take care of their health and well-being. From the food kitchens of Atlanta and the Giving for Good month. A passion to help and care Contributed to community impact projects around the world from beaches of the UAE, to the Swiss mountains for others is at the heart of 2018-2020. and rivers of China, nearly 130,000 IHG colleagues took part in Giving for Good all we do and central to our $1.2m contributed to community impact projects in 2018. month. For every colleague that got purpose of True Hospitality involved, IHG contributed funds to one of for everyone. I am proud of 100,000 our 11 charity partners on their behalf, donating a total of $400,000 over the the dedication everyone Colleagues involved in IHG’s global course of the month. IHG’s list of charity community impact activities each year partners was specially curated to support has shown for the worthy from 2018-2020. causes that tie closely to our business, causes we supported including building skills and education in the 139,942 colleagues involved in hospitality industry and providing aid when around the world.” community impact activities in 2018. disasters strike. Keith Barr For  further progress in detail against Chief Executive Officer, IHG all of our 2018-2020 targets, please Volunteering see our Performance pages: 33 to 36. During Giving for Good month alone, our colleagues volunteered more than 125,000 True Hospitality for Good hours of their time to support worthy causes. In 2018, IHG transitioned its support from We recognise that volunteering plays an the IHG Foundation to a newly created important role in developing and retaining communities and charitable giving talent, building strong teams and a range of programme, True Hospitality for Good. other transferable skills. Building on the work done with the IHG Our communities Foundation, this programme provides colleagues in our hotels and offices with a greater say in how we support important causes around the world. Together, our aim is to work with IHG charity partners to help change lives for the better through building skills and education in hospitality, and supporting communities when disasters strike. In China, we partner with the China Soong Ching Ling Foundation to support our communities through the True Hospitality for Good Fund. Working with charity and NGO partners to make positive local change, on a global scale. Get involved! truehospitalityforgood.com IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 31 Performance IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 32 Our performance We engaged with internal and external stakeholders to set our 2018-2020 responsible business targets. Here we review our progress. 2018-2020 Targets E  nvironmental sustainability 6-7% • In 2018, we reduced our carbon footprint by 2.2% per occupied room. Reduce carbon footprint per occupied room. 6 projects • We launched our first project in London, UK, where we partnered with the Rivers • Our second project launched in Delhi, where the quality of water is poor and unfit Launch two water stewardship Trust and five London IHG hotels. The for human consumption. In conjunction projects per year. project has provided us with vital learnings with seven IHG branded hotels, we have and helps reduce the exposure of our partnered with the Center for International hotels to water related risks. As a result of Projects Trust (CIPT), a non-profit the London project, a scalable water organisation based in Delhi and an affiliate stewardship tool has been developed for of Columbia Water Center, and the Alliance the UK&I estate which connects hotels with for Water Stewardship, to identify key the UK Rivers’ Trust, which provides local issues where we can develop and river clean up opportunities. implement small scale innovations that can be replicated in other water stressed locations.  ommunity C impact 30,000-40,000 • In 2018, 13,531 people benefitted from IHG Academy. • 2,203 programmes ran across 729 IHG branded hotels in 70 countries. Individuals provided with hospitality skills training through the IHG Academy. $3m • We contributed $1.2m to community impact projects in 2018 of which we • During our Giving for Good month, for every colleague that got involved, IHG Contributed to community impact projects donated $400,000 during Giving for contributed funds to one of our 11 charity around the world from 2018-2020. Good month. partners on their behalf, donating a total of $400,000 over the course of the month. IHG’s list of charity partners was specially curated to support causes that tie closely to our business, including building skills and education in the hospitality industry and providing aid when disasters strike. 100,000 • 139,942 colleagues engaged in community impact activities in 2018. • Colleagues volunteered more than 125,000 hours of their time to support Colleagues involved in IHG’s global worthy causes around the world. community impact activities each year from 2018-2020. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 33 Our performance continued 2018-2020 Targets continued  ur O people Diversity • In 2018, we increased the percentage • We are a lead sponsor for the Increase diversity in terms of gender of women represented in the senior WiH2020 (Women in Hospitality) and nationality or ethnicity of IHG leadership population from 37% to 38%. organisation. A cross industry Senior Leaders. organisation who are working to increase female senior representation in the hospitality industry sector. • The 2018 Hampton-Alexander Review, for a third successive year, listed IHG in the top 10 companies for female representation across our Executive Committee and their direct reports. Increase female representation • In 2018, we increased the percentage • We conducted interviews with colleagues Increase number of females working in of females in General Manager and to identify unconscious biases and the General Manager and Operations roles in Operations roles from 22% to 24%. real and perceived barriers to women managed hotels. progressing into General Manager and operation roles to influence future work. Track and report employee • We measure employee engagement • Our employee engagement scores engagement each year through our bi-annual survey, Colleague garnered recognition from Aon Hewitt HeartBeat, and corporate, managed as a Global Best Employer for two hotel and customer reservations office years running. employees are invited to take part and the overall score was 86%; 11% above Aon’s top quartile benchmark.  esponsible R procurement Increase supplier audits • In 2018, we partnered with the British • On-site risk audit plans are to be Increase the percentage of supplier Standards Institute (BSI) for an end-to-end developed according to risk assessments risk profiles and supplier audits for risk profiling, assessment and audit findings. IHG preferred suppliers. programme. The assessment was rolled • Further suppliers are to be risk assessed out to all IHG Marketplace suppliers. and audited in 2019 and beyond. • Risk assessments were issued to all IHG • We are working to build risk assessments Marketplace suppliers at the end of 2018. into new supplier due diligence checks. Increase ethical supplier awareness • We have developed a mandatory education Roll out new training for corporate programme on responsible procurement colleagues and hotels. and this will be launched in 2019. IHG Green Criteria • We have developed a green criteria that Increase the percentage of suppliers is now included with our BSI supplier that meet IHG Green Criteria. assessment programme. Green criteria have been developed in line with IHG’s overall position on sustainability. IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 34 Our performance continued Other performance data Carbon footprint Carbon Footprint per occupied room (kgCO2e) 2018 26.02 2017 26.61* 2016 29.36** 2015 30.84** IHG’s total carbon footprint (tCO2) Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 2018 448,691 2018 1,979,417 2018 2,635,737 2017 443,549* 2017 1,896,581* 2017 2,535,330* 2016 426,870** 2016 1,914,276** 2016 2,708,920** 2015 438,943** 2015 1,896,344** 2015 2,689,708** Water IHG’s water use in water-stressed and non-water-stressed regions across the estate (%) Water-stressed 48% Non-water-stressed 52% IHG's water use per occupied room across IHG’s total water consumption across the global estate (m3) the global estate (m3) 2018 0.58 2018 112,729,007 2017 0.60* 2017 109,501,975* 2016 0.62** 2016 105,666,389** 2015 0.60** 2015 97,241,307** * Restated ** Data not restated as new baseline has been set (2017) for our 2018-2020 target. We calculate performance up to 15 decimal places and we have rounded to 2 decimal places in this report. We report Scope 1 , Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions as defined by the GHG protocol as follows: Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions produced by the burning of fuels of the emitter. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions generated by the electricity consumed and purchased by the emitter. Scope 3 emissions are indirect emissions produced by the emitter activity but owned and controlled by a different emitter from the one who reports on the emissions (e.g. our franchise estate) IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 35 Our performance continued Other performance data continued Waste IHG's waste per occupied rooms (kgs) Total general waste Total food waste Total recycling 2018 2.48 2018 0.66 2018 0.44 2017 2.48 2017 0.76 2017 0.47 Total composting Total waste 2018 0.08 2018 3.66 2017 0.04 2017 3.74 IHG Academy 2018 13,531 2017 13,633 2016 11,985 2015 9,287 IHG | Responsible Business Report 2018 36 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Tel +44 (0) 1895 512 000 Web www.ihgplc.com Make a booking at www.ihg.com
