This is Handelsbanken Handelsbanken has a decentralised way of working and a strong local presence. The Bank has a nationwide branch network in Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. The Bank regards these countries as its home markets. Handelsbanken was founded in 1871 and has operations in more than 20 countries. More satisfied 47 Almost 800 branches. customers than the sector average in all of our six home markets.* *Source: SKI/EPSI 2018. running with higher profitability than the average of peer banks in home markets. years About this report The Sustainability Report covers the Group as a with the ‘Core’ level of GRI Standards for sustainabilThis report describes how Handelsbanken works on whole, unless otherwise stated, and constitutes the ity reporting and was reviewed by the Bank’s external its most important sustainability topics. The Sustainstatutory sustainability reporting in accordance with auditors. See the auditor’s report on page 67. ability Report covers activities and results in 2018. the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for companies A comprehensive GRI index can be found on The ﬁrst part of the report follows the structure of subject to the reporting requirement. pages 64–66. The report constitutes HandelsHandelsbanken’s work on its material sustainability This is Handelsbanken’s ninth Sustainability banken’s Communication on Progress for the UN topics. Supplementary information and data are Report in accordance with the Global Reporting InitiGlobal Compact. provided in the part titled In-depth information about ative (GRI) guidelines for reporting. Handelsbanken’s sustainability. Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance Contents The Group Chief Executive’s comments 2 IN-DEPTH INFORMATION ABOUT Sustainability at Handelsbanken 4 SUSTAINABILITY The Bank’s concept and working methods 6 Governance, key ﬁgures and facts 49 Material sustainability topics 8 Summary of corporate governance 49 The Bank and its customers 10 Organisational structure for sustainability 50 The Bank’s role in the community 14 Handelsbanken and the Sustainable Responsible ﬁnancing 22 Development Goals 50 Responsible investment 25 Sustainability risk 50 The Bank as an employer 32 Stakeholder dialogue 51 The Bank’s business culture 38 Key ﬁgures for sustainability 52 The Bank as an investment 41 Facts: The Bank and its customers 54 Initiatives, collaborations, awards, surveys Facts: The Bank’s role in the community 54 and sustainability indexes 44 Facts: Responsible ﬁnancing 57 Facts: Responsible investment 58 Facts: The Bank as an employer 60 Facts: The Bank’s business culture 62 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Corporate identity no.: 502007-7862 Facts: The Bank as an investment 63 Registered ofﬁce: Stockholm handelsbanken.com Global Reporting Initiative indexes 64 This report is also available in Swedish. Every care has been Auditor’s report 67 taken in this translation into English. In the event of discrepancies, the Swedish original will supersede the English version. Deﬁnitions and explanations 68 1 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS Long-term relationships – our success factor For another year, Handelsbanken’s combination of personal service, local presence and excellent digital services has proven to be widely appreciated. In survey after survey, customers rate Handelsbanken more highly than our competitors – a sure sign of the effectiveness of our business model. New digital solutions allow us to make time for more customer meetings and provide more advisory services. In an age when personal service is increasingly scarce, this strengthens Handelsbanken’s position in the competition for new customers and more good business. In summarising 2018, I must say that it was a year of some turbulence in our Our combination of personal service, local presence and high-quality business environment. Falling share prices, trade war, signs of a slowdown digital services remains popular among customers. In its customer satisin the global economy, uncertainty surrounding the UK’s exit from the EU faction surveys for the year, the independent research company EPSI and declining housing prices in several of our home markets were just a few Rating (which includes the Swedish quality index SKI) found that Handelsof the factors that shaped developments in our environment. The Swedish banken’s customers are distinctly more satisﬁed than the average banking stock market went down by 11 per cent during the year and the Stockholm customer in each of our six home markets. This applies to private customstock exchange bank index declined by 13 per cent. Handelsbanken’s class ers and corporate customers alike. What’s more, in the UK and the A share was 12 per cent down. Including dividends, the share decreased Netherlands, we lead our competitors by a wide margin. This is perhaps by 6 per cent. Since the turn of the millennium, Handelsbanken’s share not too surprising: Handelsbanken is a relative newcomer in the UK and price has increased by 176 per cent, while the Stockholm stock exchange the Netherlands, markets where our business model is still perceived as has risen by 18 per cent. In spite of the turbulent business environment, and totally new and different. But even in our oldest home market, Sweden, in contrast to the negative share price performance, Handelsbanken has satisfaction among our customers rose sharply last year, and our lead made steady progress – for the 47th year in a row, we achieved our corpoover our competitors is bigger than it has been for a very long time. This rate goal of a higher return on equity than the average of our competitors. pleases me greatly – I see it as further validation that our business model Handelsbanken’s business model has been unchanged for almost 50 works in our established markets as well as in newer markets. years, with decentralised decision-making, low risk tolerance and an The winning combination of local, personal and digital has further unyielding focus on costs among its key principles. A long-term approach strengthened Handelsbanken’s position over the past year. Our customis another of our cornerstones. We believe in building long-term relationers genuinely like their bank, so they trust us with more of their business. ships with our customers, with our employees, and also with the commuOur market shares are growing, not only in our new home markets, but nities and markets where we are active. We always want to be close to also in Sweden, where we have been active for almost 150 years. the communities we call home, so we believe in a decentralised business In this context, it feels natural to invest more in IT development and in model where the local branch is the hub of the customer relationship, digitalisation, to reinforce our relevance to our customers in the future. At based on personal meetings combined with digital services and solutions. the same time, we are also making sure to safeguard customers’ access to local and personal service by maintaining our comprehensive branch networks in our home markets. Without a doubt, this gives us a clear competitive edge, particularly at a time when many other banks are drastically “ Our market shares are growing, not only in our new home markets, reducing the number of physical meeting places they offer. Access to personal service is rapidly becoming scarce throughout the banking sector, putting us on a solid footing to compete for new, high-quality customers. In other words, Handelsbanken’s market position is unique. Our custombut also in Sweden, where we have ers are satisﬁed with the care we show them and the services we offer. Digitalisation and the automation of internal administrative processes are been active for almost 150 years. ” enabling us to free up time for more customer meetings and to provide more advisory services. This gives us the right conditions for further growth. One example is the correlation between advisory meetings and new savings in our mutual funds. In Sweden, 6 out of 10 customers choose to LONG-TERM CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS increase their mutual fund savings after an advisory meeting, and in 2018 As I see it, to build long-term, positive customer relationships, we must the number of such meetings increased signiﬁcantly compared with 2017. be responsive to customers’ needs and demands, and how these change The digital advisory tool that facilitated this increase illustrates how we over time. Nowadays, most of our contact with customers takes place in invest in technology to improve efﬁciency, creating time for us to provide digital meeting places. We are constantly enhancing our digital services to better customer service and do more business. And we are continuing to ensure that customers can carry out their banking business whenever and enhance this tool, preparing to launch it in additional home markets. Other wherever they want. These services are often greatly appreciated by our examples of such investment include harnessing artiﬁcial intelligence to customers, according to independent assessments of customer satisfacreview ﬁnancial advice and digitalising the mortgage loan process. tion, which we pay careful attention to. At the same time, we do not believe that even the best digital services LONG-TERM CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY can replace the need to meet with a real live representative of the Bank A long-term approach is important not only in relationships with our from time to time – whether at a branch, by phone or a remote meeting. customers, but also in terms of our role in society. According to the major In our experience, the digitalisation of our banking services has by no rating agencies, Handelsbanken is one of the world’s most stable and means eliminated the need for personal contact. ﬁnancially robust banks. Thanks to our ability to keep credit losses at a low H AN DE L SB ANK E N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2018 2 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS level over time, we have built up a ﬁnancial strength that allows us to less our entire working lives at the Bank, which is something to be proud always be an asset to – rather than a burden on – the communities in of. For us, every employee is important, so we are highly protective of our which we operate. For example, Handelsbanken is one of the largest inclusive culture where responsibility is delegated. payers of corporate tax in Sweden. Gender equality and diversity are two of our core values. By attracting, The market research company Kantar Sifo conducts an annual survey recruiting and developing employees with different experiences and backin Sweden measuring public perception of the country’s companies. grounds, we can become an even better bank and enhance our ability to In 2018, Handelsbanken was ranked as one of the most respected comadapt to a constantly changing society. That men and women are given panies overall, and the clear leader among banks. the same opportunities to succeed and develop at Handelsbanken is nonA long-term approach and sustainability go hand in hand. So it is negotiable, and we have worked systematically over a number of years to entirely natural for us as a company to integrate sustainability into all become a more gender-equal company. We are working hard to attain an aspects of our business operations. This applies to our day-to-day even gender balance in the various professional roles, working groups and activities at our workplaces and to the development of the products units at the Bank, and we have come a long way. In Sweden, for example, and services that we offer to our customers. half of all managers are women. During the year, we continued to develop our offerings in fund and asset management and in green ﬁnancing. One example of this is the ‘sustainable multi-asset strategies’ we made available to our asset management customers in the UK. Another is the Nordic Swan Ecolabel earned by the XACT Sverige index fund, the ﬁrst of its kind to receive this certiﬁcation. Handelsbanken also issued its ﬁrst green bond in 2018. The proceeds from the bond will be used to ﬁnance customer assets and “ But gender equality is not just about numbers. It is also a matter of values projects that help counteract climate change or that mitigate its effects. Handelsbanken’s continued support for and work with international initiatives for corporate sustainability, such as the Sustainable Development Goals in the 2030 Agenda, the United Nations Global Compact and and how we treat each other. ” the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) are unwavering. They are But gender equality is not just about numbers. It is also a matter of values also completely in line with Handelsbanken’s way of working. and how we treat each other. That’s why we stressed the importance The UK is one of our largest home markets, with a nationwide network of working continuously on our core values relating to gender equality, of more than 200 branches. Handelsbanken’s volumes for lending, diversity and an inclusive culture during the year. And we will continue deposits and asset management in the UK have multiplied during the past with this work. decade. Handelsbanken is the most recommended bank among small I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues throughand medium-sized companies, according to the UK’s Competition and out the Bank who have, yet again, this year, enabled the long-term, Markets Authority. However, our market share remains small, so the successful development of Handelsbanken. opportunities for continued growth are almost boundless. In 2018, we And ﬁnally, I would like to thank all of Handelsbanken’s customers for reorganised our operations in the UK, transitioning from an international the trust and conﬁdence you continue to place in us. We will continue to branch to a subsidiary. We have thus laid the foundation for a long-term do our utmost to live up to – and hopefully exceed – your expectations presence in the country, and consequently also for the possibility of over the coming years. generating more business with existing customers and of welcoming many new private and corporate customers to Handelsbanken. LONG-TERM EMPLOYEE RELATIONSHIPS One of Handelsbanken’s fundamental values is a ﬁrm belief in each individual’s capacity to make informed decisions, and in doing so, to Stockholm, February 2019 contribute to the success of the Bank. Many of us have spent more or Anders Bouvin, President and Group Chief Executive H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2 018 3 SUSTAINABILITY AT HANDELSBANKEN Sustainability at Handelsbanken As a bank, we aim to contribute to sustainable development, chiefly through our business operations, our products and services. We have a significant responsibility, and we are committed to taking that responsibility. Responsible Responsible financing investment Environmental Responsible Responsible Local and climate employer purchasing presence impact Financial stability Low Transparent and and profitability credit losses responsible taxpayer Long-term business relationships, low risk-taking and low level. Our ﬁnancial strength helps us to avoid cost-awareness are cornerstones of Handelsbanken’s becoming a burden on society when times get tough. business culture. Thus sustainability has long been a Instead, we can positively contribute by being ﬁnannatural part of Handelsbanken’s business operations. cially stable and a responsible taxpayer. Stable ﬁnances are fundamental to the Bank’s sustainWe always want to be close to the community where ability efforts. Thanks to our strict approach to risk, over we operate, so we believe in a decentralised business time we have successfully kept our credit losses at a model where the local branch is the hub of the customer H AN DE L SB ANK E N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2018 4 SUSTAINABILITY AT HANDELSBANKEN 147 years of availability. Handelsbanken is working with the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals. SEK 1.8 in green loans granted. billion 44 of mutual fund volume % is fossil-free and managed under the Bank’s Criteria fund framework. relationship, built upon personal meetings coupled with When we lend to companies, we factor in the different digital services and solutions. The value we place on types of risk that could inﬂuence their repayment long-term relationships, with our customers and with capacity. These include sustainability risks, such as our employees, is reﬂected in a high degree of customer environmental and climate risk and their approach to satisfaction and low staff turnover. human rights. Handelsbanken also develops new Our role as a responsible employer is based on products, for example green loans to ﬁnance projects our fundamental belief in the willingness and ability that promote greener and more sustainable communiof individuals to make the right decisions. Managers ties. We also have a responsibility when we lend to and employees are jointly responsible for seeing the private individuals, to protect customers from running opportunities in one another’s differences and treating into ﬁnancial difﬁculties due to excessive indebtedness. each other with respect. Gender equality, diversity This beneﬁts the customer, Handelsbanken, and society and an inclusive corporate culture are therefore part at large. of Handelsbanken’s core values. We have great inﬂuence when we invest the funds Banking operations themselves have a relatively that our customers have entrusted to us, such as in minor direct impact on the environment and climate. mutual funds. To deliver the best possible return to our Nonetheless, striving to constantly reduce our own customers, it is vital that we invest in companies that impact is important – for both our employees and have sustainable business models and avoid companies our customers. Reducing paper use, refraining from that have a harmful impact on sustainable development. unnecessary air and car travel, and instead promoting Sustainable investment is one way for the Bank and our remote meetings using technology are good ways customers to act responsibly. to reduce our negative impact. Digital solutions help It is important for us to be receptive and open, and to us and our customers reduce our footprint in this adapt to the expectations of our customers, employees, respect, too. investors and society as a whole. Through dialogue, we And yet, Handelsbanken’s greatest opportunities to are constantly learning and can prioritise our sustainability assist and inﬂuence sustainable development are in our efforts. We must clearly convey to stakeholders how business operations – when we ﬁnance our customers’ we contribute and the role we play in society. Through projects and businesses and are entrusted to manage the products and services that we offer, we want to be customers’ assets. a link in a sustainable value chain. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2 018 5 THE BANK’S CONCEPT AND WORKING METHODS Our concept and working methods Our goal is to have higher profitability than the average of peer banks in our home markets through lower costs and more satisfied customers. Our long-term approach and local presence make sustainability a natural part of our core values. As a result, we are a bank that contributes to sustainable development. A long-term approach Long-term business relationships, low risk-taking and cost-awareness are fundamental to successful banking operations run in a responsible, sustainable manner that earns customer trust. Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher proﬁtability than the average of peer banks in its home markets. This goal is mainly to be achieved by having more satisﬁed customers and lower costs than those of competitors. Decentralised Our idea of how we should run our bank is based on trust and respect for individuals. This is why we are decentralised. This approach leads to better, quicker decisions close to the customer and encourages commitment and opportunities for our employees to make an impact and do an even better job. Organic growth For Handelsbanken to maintain high proﬁtability in the long term, growth is necessary. Handelsbanken is growing mainly because our branches are doing more business – with new customers and with all the customers with whom we have had a relationship for years. We also grow by opening new branches in locations where the Bank has not previously had operations. This organic model enables Handelsbanken to achieve growth coupled with low risk and good cost control. H AN DE L SB ANK E N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2018 6 THE BANK’S CONCEPT AND WORKING METHODS Low risk tolerance The Bank’s strict approach to risk means that it deliberately avoids high-risk transactions, even if the remuneration is high at the time. This low risk tolerance applies to all areas of the Group and is maintained through a strong risk culture that is sustainable in the long term. Satisfied customers Practically all important business decisions are made close to our customers. This contributes to better decisions and more satisﬁed customers: our customers meet the person who makes the decision – not a messenger. And that provides a sound basis for successful customer meetings – at branches and our other meeting places. Availability, simplicity and care When customers contact us, the encounter should be simple and unbureaucratic. Our customers should be able to do the same type of business with us whether we meet at a local branch or via a digital channel. That is why we are constantly working to develop and improve our availability and our digital meeting places. Meetings with customers not only entail ﬁnding a simple way to solve their everyday banking needs. We must also provide service that embodies care and focuses on the customer’s needs. The branch is the Bank At Handelsbanken, the local branch always has customer responsibility, regardless of how, where or when the customer contacts the Bank. The business is led by a manager who is responsible for all operations in their branch’s local area of operations. The branches’ independence enables them to have a very strong local presence, leading to long-term customer relationships. Short decision paths make it possible to adapt more quickly to changes in local markets and make the most of new business opportunities. We believe Handelsbanken is improving its digital offering thanks to the local presence the Bank has through its nationwide branch network. With the branch’s solid knowledge of its customers, we can produce digital solutions that live up to what our customers demand. Strong faith in employees In Handelsbanken’s decentralised way of working, our staff have great responsibility and authority to make decisions in all kinds of matters that concern our customers. This high degree of trust is based on a belief in people’s willingness and ability to continuously hone their professional skills and to seek out and overcome new challenges. Products and services A prerequisite for successful customer meetings is that Handelsbanken offers a broad range of products and services to meet the various ﬁnancial needs of its customers. Our best advice We always give the customer our best advice, without looking at what is the most proﬁtable product for Handelsbanken in the short term. Profitability before volume Employees who meet customers are paid no variable remuneration – neither in the form of bonuses nor commissions – and thus have no ﬁnancial incentive to convince the customer that a particular service or product suits them best. Nor does the Bank have requirements regarding volumes, budgets or centrally determined sales targets. Instead, the Bank measures its success in terms of customer satisfaction, cost-effectiveness and proﬁtability. By running our business more efﬁciently than peer banks in our home markets, we achieve high proﬁtability and can accordingly also keep costs low for our customers. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2 018 7 MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS Focus on essentials The Bank and The Bank’s role in Responsible Materiality analysis its customers the community financing Handelsbanken wants to be Material – High availability – Local presence and community – Responsible lending topics – Responsible lending engagement – Responsible financing a sustainable bank with a – Responsible advisory services – Financial sustainability – Sustainable products strong local presence. To – Integrity and confidentiality – The Bank’s social responsibility achieve this, we must listen – The Bank as a taxpayer closely to stakeholders’ – Inform and educate expectations and opinions – Minimise environmental and on our sustainability work. climate impact This is why we actively Read more on page 10. Read more on page 14. Read more on page 22. engage in systematic dialogue with our stakeholders, Why is this For Handelsbanken, the starting The Bank has a strong presence in the Handelsbanken’s lending must be to make sure we are getting point is always individual customers’ local community, with nationwide responsible and meet high demands material to our priorities right. In 2018, Handelsneeds. We must meet and preferably branch networks in the Bank’s six home for sound ethical standards. We we carried out a comprebanken? exceed expectations on quality, markets. We aim to contribute to the support international initiatives and hensive materiality analysis. availability and service, at the local community in the countries where we guidelines that aim to encourage It was based on a detailed branch and in our digital services. operate, such as by employing people and facilitate corporate sustainability. dialogue with our main We must consider the customer’s and paying taxes and government fees. In granting credit, we must evaluate stakeholder groups, consistfinancial circumstances when Handelsbanken is, and will continue to and assess the customer’s granting credit and advise customers be, a financially stable bank. approach to these principles and ing of qualitative in-depth based on their individual needs, We want to be a source of information guidelines. interviews and quantitative without looking at what is the targeted surveys. The about economics, markets and Climate change alters the conditions most profitable product for the Bank finance. When we inform and educate, for energy production, transport, purpose of our materiality in the short term. We must also we provide our customers with the consumption and more. Together analysis is to define the take responsibility for protecting best tools to make sound economic with our customers, Handelsbanken areas where we have major customers’ banking business, such decisions. aims to do its part in the transition to opportunities to contribute as from unauthorised access, a greenhouse-gas-neutral economy, through strict IT security. That is The Bank wants to be a leader on the to more sustainable develenvironment and climate. Our goal is to in line with the Paris Agreement. how we earn trust and a high degree opment. The Bank’s influminimise our impact on the environment of customer satisfaction. ence through its products and climate. and services, chiefly investment and financing, has Outcome – Handelsbanken’s private and – We have almost 800 local branches. – Handelsbanken arranged green increased significantly in 2018 corporate customers are more – We have broadcast more than bonds for SEK 20 billion in 2018. recent years. As a result of satisfied than the average for its 500,000 hours of financial news from – We developed technical criteria for the more detailed stakeFor key figures, sector in all six home markets. our news channel EFN. green loan products. page 52–53. holder dialogue, we have – Our digital services earn high – Stable finances can be measured by – Handelsbanken granted green grouped our material rankings in independent surveys. the capital ratio, which shows if a loans for SEK 1.8 billion. sustainability topics in – For many years, Handelsbanken bank can adequately withstand the seven areas: has had much lower credit losses risks that might arise in its operations. than its peers in the banking At year-end, the Bank had a common • the Bank and its customers sector. Credit losses corresponded equity tier 1 ratio of 16.8 per cent, • the Bank’s role in the to 0.04 per cent (0.08) of lending. meeting the capital requirements set community – In 2018, 93 per cent of Handelsby the Swedish Financial Supervisory • responsible financing banken employees in Sweden Authority. • responsible investment who are licensed to provide – For 2018, Handelsbanken’s total • the Bank as an employer advisory services on financial taxes and government fees are • the Bank’s business culture instruments completed the course estimated to exceed SEK 11 billion. • the Bank as an investment. ‘Sustainability in our investments’. – The Bank is one of the largest payers – Our operations are aligned with the of corporate tax in Sweden. EU regulations that took effect in – Total CO2 emissions in the Bank’s 2018, which strengthen protection six home markets decreased by for individuals. 5 per cent. SustainInformation security and IT security. Environment and climate. Human rights, living and working ability risk Financial crime. conditions. Environment and climate. Read more on page 50. Relevant SDGs HA ND E LS BANK E N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2018 8 MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS Responsible The Bank as The Bank’s The Bank as investment an employer business culture an investment Material – Responsible investment – Responsible employer – Counteract financial crime – Creating shareholder value topics – Sustainable products – Work environment, working – Salaries and remuneration conditions and union rights – Responsible purchasing – Employee commitment – Openness and transparency – Leadership and development – Gender equality and diversity Read more on page 25. Read more on page 32. Read more on page 38. Read more on page 41. Why is this Handelsbanken plays a key role Handelsbanken’s values and Handelsbanken’s success depends Sustainable long-term growth and material to through its assignment to manage strong corporate culture are vital to on the confidence of our customers shareholder value can only be Handelscustomers’ savings. We want to our success. Our idea of how to and society at large. This confidence achieved if the Bank simultaneously banken? generate a healthy return on savings run a successful bank is based on is based on our acting according to creates long-term value for its capital while striving for a sustainable trust and respect for the individual high ethical standards and taking customers and society as a whole. future. That is why Handelsbanken – both customers and employees. responsibility for long-term sustainable The Bank’s profitability goal is partly works to promote – in all of its development. We aim to work proacintended to offer shareholders mutual fund, asset and pension tively to prevent all criminal activity: long-term, high growth in value, management – financially, environmoney laundering, terrorist financing, expressed in increasing earnings mentally and socially sustainable corruption and other financial crime. per share over a business cycle. development in the companies in The Bank’s employees must never be which the Bank invests on behalf involved in activities that could Climate change is one of the biggest of customers. involve bribery or corruption. challenges facing our modern world. Handelsbanken wants to Climate change is one of the biggest We have a sound remuneration model. promote the transition to climatechallenges to economic development No performanceor volume-based stable, sustainable economies with and indeed humanity, and as an bonuses or other forms of variable low CO2 emissions. investor Handelsbanken aims to remuneration are paid to our executive contribute to more sustainable officers or to any other employee who financial markets. decides on credits or limits. Outcome – The number of Handelsbanken’s – External staff turnover was – Employees completed mandatory – The Bank has paid a dividend to 2018 mutual funds meeting specific 3.9 per cent in the Group. training in 2018 on ethical its shareholders every year for sustainability criteria increased – The total sickness absence rate standards and sustainability at more than 20 years. For key figures, to 44, representing SEK 311 billion Handelsbanken, including a module for employees in the Bank’s six – Handelsbanken is included in page 52–53. in total assets under management. on anti-corruption. home markets was 2.6 per cent. several sustainability indexes. – XACT Sverige (UCITS ETF) became – The proportion of managers in – The Bank continued to implement a – Average growth in equity, includthe world’s first Nordic Swan the Group who are women was code of conduct for major ing dividends and share repurEcolabelled index fund. 39 per cent at year-end. suppliers in all home markets. chases, has been 15 per cent per – Handelsbanken Asset Management In Sweden, we also began to year since 2007. The low variation – In the Group-wide work environdemand that suppliers in specific intensified its active corporate ment survey conducted in 2018, confirms the Bank’s low risk governance by participating in and sectors sign our code of conduct tolerance and is a measure of 97 per cent of participants regardless of purchase volume. voting at 136 per cent more AGMs. responded that they feel the stability of value creation. – The number of women on boards respected for who they are. – The principle of only having a – The Bank was included in where Handelsbanken Fonder fixed salary applies to more than 98 Robecosam’s Sustainability serves on the nomination committee per cent of the Group’s employees Yearbook 2018 as a ‘Sustainability increased to 39 per cent. and is applied without exception to Yearbook Member’. executive officers, all staff who decide on the Bank’s granting of – Handelsbanken issued a EUR 500 credits, and employees in the million green bond. Bank’s control functions. SustainHuman rights, living and working Human rights, living and working Financial crime. ability risk conditions. conditions. Environment and climate. Read more on page 50. Relevant SDGs H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 2 018 9 The Bank and its customers THE BANK AND ITS CUSTOMERS Handelsbanken attaches great importance to being available for our customers – being there whenever and wherever they need us. Our customers appreciate the fact that we are local, we know them and the local market, and we make our business decisions there, locally together with the customer. SATISFIED CUSTOMERS survey. In a digitalised world, the ability to achieve a For Handelsbanken, the starting point is always meetfeeling of familiarity is increasingly important, and Relevant SDGs ing individual customers’ needs. In this way we build a human relationships play a signiﬁcant role in customer trusting, long-term relationship with every customer. satisfaction at Handelsbanken. All important business decisions should be taken as These independent surveys of customer satisfaction close to the customer as possible. This contributes to show that the Bank’s consistent, constant efforts to Meeting our customers and creating better meetings with customers, better decisions and nurture long-term customer relationships work. the best circumstances possible for more satisﬁed customers. In everything it does, the Having loyal customers is just as important as having them through our business decisions Bank aims to create the best possible conditions for satisﬁed customers – the beneﬁts are numerous. generates many benefits for society successful meetings with customers. By gaining its For example, loyal customers are less likely to get disas a whole. This contributes to the healthy conditions for private entercustomers’ conﬁdence, Handelsbanken becomes their satisﬁed and change banks. In EPSI and SKI’s annual prise and entrepreneurship in goal 8 natural choice. surveys, loyalty is a key outcome associated with and promotes the economic growth customer satisfaction. There is a link between customer and development in goal 9. Our work Satisﬁed customers in all our home markets satisfaction and loyalty. Loyalty reﬂects whether to enable our customers to meet the Bank via digital channels indirectly Handelsbanken considers customer satisfaction surveys customers intend to remain with their bank, how they supports goals 13 and 8, target 8.10, very important and follows up customer satisfaction talk about their bank and whether they would recomto promote and expand access to through its own surveys as well as public ones. Each mend their bank to other people. bank and insurance services and year, EPSI Rating – which includes SKI (Swedish quality In addition to the fact that Handelsbanken’s customers financial services for everyone. index) – conducts independent customer satisfaction are very satisﬁed, the results for 2018 show that they Examples: surveys in the Nordic region and the rest of Europe. are also very loyal. In all home markets, loyalty to the Goal 8: In 2018, in Sweden we This year’s surveys showed that Handelsbanken has Bank is considerably stronger than the average for launched the ‘My expenses’ function in the private app, where private more satisﬁed private and corporate customers than the sector. This is also true in markets where Handelscustomers can review a breakdown the average for the banking sector in all of the Bank’s banken is seen as a major player, which is unique of their expenditures into categories. six home markets. In Sweden, Handelsbanken has according to the EPSI and SKI surveys. Goal 9: In a pilot project, we offered had the most satisﬁed private customers for 30 years Handelsbanken supports a research project at the customers remote meetings with advisors, by telephone or Skype, thus running, according to SKI. In recent years, the Bank Stockholm School of Economics that studies and increasing availability and promoting has extended its lead over the other three major banks, analyses the key factors in creating customer satisfaction economic growth. and over the average of the sector as a whole, with and monitors the link between customer satisfaction Goal 13: Paper communications additional gains made in 2018. Customers also gave and proﬁtability. posted to customers in Sweden have the Bank’s digital services high marks in this year’s decreased by 23 per cent since 2013. This year’s surveys showed Customer satisfaction, private customers 2018 Customer satisfaction, corporate customers 2018 that Handelsbanken has Index Index more satisfied private and 90 90 corporate customers than the average for the banking 80 80 sector in all of the Bank’s six home markets. 70 70 60 60 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Netherlands Netherlands Handelsbanken Sector average Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI 2018. Source: SKI/EPSI 2018. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPO RT 20 18 11 THE BANK AND ITS CUSTOMERS Good reputation According to the Kantar Sifo Reputation Index for 2018, based on public opinion about the most reputable companies in Sweden, Handelsbanken surpassed its peer banks. The Bank’s score of 54 is signiﬁcantly better than the sector average. The survey shows that Handelsbanken is seen as a good workplace and a ﬁnancially stable company that looks to the long term and acts accordingly. These are important factors inﬂuencing the Bank’s reputation in a sustainability context. Handelsbanken receives higher ﬁnancial difﬁculties due to excessive indebtedness, marks than its competitors in these areas. which also beneﬁts the Bank and society at large. At Handelsbanken, we do not pay performanceManaging customer complaints or volume-based bonuses or other forms of variable For Handelsbanken, it is important that customers who remuneration to the Bank’s management or to any lodge complaints are satisﬁed with how their complaints other employee who decides on credits or limits. are managed. We attach great importance to handling The principle of ﬁxed salaries applies to more than comments and complaints in a manner that inspires 98 per cent of Group employees. Nor do we have trust. The Bank takes this very seriously, and we have volume or market share goals. well-established procedures for handling such matters. The results from the EPSI and SKI surveys show that AVAILABLE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS – BOTH the proportion of complaints at Handelsbanken, for all LOCALLY AND DIGITALLY home markets combined, is below the average for the Although Handelsbanken is continuously expanding its sector. digital offering, we set a premium on human relationships – the personal touch and local presence – as we THE CUSTOMER IN FOCUS always have. Being ‘personal and digital’ is our way of We have our branches where our customers are, close describing Handelsbanken in this digital age. We invest to their everyday lives and day-to-day circumstances. in digital solutions, resulting in even better offers for We aim for as many business decisions as possible to customers and lower costs for the Bank. be taken locally, close to the customer. This creates a By combining our local presence with digital solutions, cost-effective and ﬂexible organisation, which is also we can always offer personal customer meetings with based on the customer’s needs and makes it possible full advisory services – whether the customer prefers to to adapt to local conditions and to react quickly to meet us at the local branch or through digital channels. shifts in the market. In ﬁnancial advisory services To complement advisory sessions at the branch, we provided when granting credit, recommending investhave carried out a pilot project in the savings business ments or mediating insurance, the Bank always in Sweden and Finland that offers customers the option considers the customer’s overall situation and ﬁnancial of remote meetings. Remote advisory services play a circumstances. Using this knowledge, we can provide vital role in the Bank’s local and digital business model guidance on ﬁnancing, payments or investments that is adapted to each customer’s individual needs. We focus on the customer’s needs – not individual products or “ Collaborations enable us to strengthen our services. customer relationships in a natural way. Advice from the Bank always prioritises the customer’s interests. Our advice is professional, adheres to high Handelsbanken plays an active role in the ethical standards and is provided in compliance with expanding world of international fintech. current laws and regulations. Our customers’ needs and expectations are The aim of short-term proﬁts for the Bank must take always the foundation for our actions.” second place to what can be considered sustainable Stephan Erne, Chief Digital Officer, Handelsbanken in the long term. With this as our starting point, the individual customer is protected from running into Country Group head Group organisations Branches CUSTOMER ofﬁce functions business areas and regional head ofﬁces This is how we are organised Handelsbanken’s way of working is best depicted by an arrow where all operations focus on the customer. The branches are closest to the customer and are responsible for the Bank’s customers in their local market. Each home market has its own national organisation with responsibility for the profitability of the branch operations in that country. For our customer offering to be of the highest quality, we have a number of joint business areas for the Group where product owners design and develop our products and solutions. The central head office also has Group head office functions with overarching responsibilities for various functions at the Bank. HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 12 THE BANK AND ITS CUSTOMERS Local Digital Personal and help reduce environmental and climate impact. As In its operations, a bank continuously processes Looking forward a further step to enhance availability for our customers, sensitive information about customers and customer We will continue to work the Bank has initiated a project to digitalise the Swedish relationships. Handelsbanken’s work with information on digitalising the mortgage mortgage process, enabling customers who do not and IT security focuses on availability, accuracy, conﬁprocess, enabling our customers request advisory services or need special analysis dentiality and traceability. Information and business to manage their mortgage loan transactions digitally. in Sweden to handle straightsystems must be available based on the business Customers who request advisory services or need requirements of the operations. All information must forward loan applications special analysis can meet face-to-face with a person at also be reliable, correct and complete. It should never completely digitally, from applitheir local branch, just as before, within the framework be disclosed to unauthorised persons and may only cation to loan disbursement. of our decentralised work method. be used to the extent required by the assignment. In In further developing our addition, it must be possible to determine afterwards advisory tool, we aim to ensure On the customer’s terms who has read or changed the information, when it that each customer’s sustainMost of our bank branches in Sweden are accessible was changed and which changes were made. The ability preferences are taken to customers with reduced mobility. Because our ﬁnancial sector is a critical part of society’s infrastructure. into account when investment branch network is nationwide, we can offer customers As ﬁnancial players speed up their digitalisation of advice is provided. different branches to meet their needs. services, one focus area is to ensure that we are highly In our digital meeting places, good service means resilient so that we minimise the impact of malicious that the Bank strives to provide all customers – even actors. those with a physical disability or language difﬁculty, Structured development is under way in the Bank to for example – with the same opportunities to access increase the level of awareness among employees and information and services. The available information customers concerning the threats and risks in information is easy to read, hear, see and understand whether security, through presentations, training programmes provided in print, by telephone, online or in videos and information initiatives. or meetings. Accessibility is a cornerstone in all our development work, and our efforts are based on internationally recognised standards as well as our own guidelines. Our membership in the International Association of Accessibility Professionals enables us to expand our knowledge and consequently create even better conditions for everyone who visits our “A good digital relationship also needs to be personal. digital meeting places. This membership also gives Businesses that succeed in combining a digital presence us opportunities to share our own experience with with a personal touch are rewarded with more satisfied work for increased accessibility. customers. This is a pattern we’ve observed for several INFORMATION SECURITY AND IT SECURITY years. Never before has it been more important to be It is vital that our customers have conﬁdence in the Bank’s digital services. We must ensure that the prepared to take a different approach and choose security and availability of these services are constantly your own path, and Handelsbanken has succeeded adapted to meet current threats and risks, while maintaining a high degree of customer satisfaction. in this respect.” SKI (Swedish quality index) 2018. More secure banking transactions and greater transparency In 2018, the EU issued several new regution for the individual when personal securities trading and regarding insurlations aimed at improving protection for data is processed. ance products. They also aim to make it the individual. They are also intended to • New regulations based on the second easier for customers to understand how make savings products easier to underPayment Services Directive (PSD2) are a product works and what it costs. The stand, such as through regulations that aimed at strengthening consumer progoal is for consumer protection to be enhance transparency and make infortection and improving the conditions equally strong for all types of financial mation clearer. for secure and efficient payments. advisory services. • The General Data Protection Regulation • MiFID II and the Insurance Distribu(GDPR) is intended to improve protection Directive increase protection in H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 20 18 13 The Bank’s role in the community The Bank’s role in the community As a bank with stable finances and a local presence, Handelsbanken is a responsible business in society. By focusing on our customers’ needs and managing risks so that as few customers as possible have payment ­difficulties, we contribute to economic development in the community. Handelsbanken in the Services for the local community public good Our basic concept is that business decisions are made A bank’s fundamental tasks are to manage the money as close to the customer as possible, based on local of those that wish to save and postpone their spendRelevant SDGs information. This is why we have a strong local presing, and to lend money to companies and households ence through our nationwide networks, with almost that wish to invest and spend today. Together, banks 800 branches. must also maintain an efficient, functioning payment The local branch manager is responsible for all the system, as well as manage risk. The payment systems Bank’s business in its geographical area of operations. that Handelsbanken and other banks have developed Our decentralised organisation means we are a central together are technically advanced and are characterpart of each community where we operate and we ised by a high degree of efficiency and security. ­consider it vital to contribute in various ways to those The increased use of cards and mobile apps for We are convinced that a smoothly functioning bank in the local commucommunities. ­executing payments is simplifying everyday tasks for our nity generates many positive effects, As part of the Bank’s sustainability efforts, through customers while reducing our direct environmental and promotes inclusive, long-term sustainour branches we get involved in various initiatives and climate impact. Handelsbanken also sees a growing able economic growth, and is part of a activities carried out by local associations and charities. need for new forms of services and offers connected smoothly functioning and sustainable infrastructure. This relates to goals 8 For example, the branches share their financial with digital payment solutions and has contributed to and 9. Handelsbanken is, and will expertise in courses at schools and universities, advise such development, often in collaboration with others. ­continue to be, a financially stable bank. young entrepreneurs and participate in various mentor When we pay taxes and fees and programmes. They also support various associations, employ staff in the countries where we sports clubs and local integration projects, such as by conduct operations, we are contributing to goal 16, which encourages the offering trainee positions to recently arrived immigrants. Children’s digital piggy bank building of accountable institutions at Handelsbanken Barn, a children’s all levels. Handelsbanken works conContributions to economic research and higher app launched in Denmark and tinuously to reduce its direct environeducation ­Sweden in 2018, is one way that we mental impact, thus contributing to as a bank can help parents who want goal 13. Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on a ­number to teach their children how to manage money. The app of occasions awarded grants for economic research, works like a digital piggy bank which allows children Examples: mainly through allocations to two independent research and parents to manage pocket money and set saving Goal 8: Handelsbanken funds a foundations: Tore Browaldhs stiftelse and Jan Wallanders goals together. It helps children learn about savings and ­professorial chair in accounting at pocket money in a playful way. The Swedish personal the Stockholm School of Economics och Tom Hedelius stiftelse. Together, these foundations and provides financial support to the finance magazine Privata Affärer named Handelsbanken are one of the most important sources of funding for Barn the app of the year 2018. Swedish House of Finance (SHoF). economic research in Sweden. Goal 9: Handelsbanken has launched a website and developer portal for Open Banking. In the portal, external parties can try out the Bank’s API, an Reducing our environmental application programming interface for creating innovative services for bankand climate impact ing customers. Goal 13: Handelsbanken has adopted In 2018, the Bank’s total CO2 emissions a new guideline for company cars Handelsbanken’s goal is to minimise its own decreased by 5 per cent, emissions per in Sweden which stipulates that an ­environmental impact by constantly developing its employee by 9 per cent. employee may choose a car that is environmental activities. To achieve this, we are not electric or a plug-in hybrid only in ­boosting resource efficiency and recycling, for Since 2013, the Bank’s yearly CO2 exceptional cases. ­emissions have decreased by more Goal 16: Handelsbanken’s total taxes ­example, and taking environmental impacts into and government fees are estimated at account in purchasing and travel. The Bank’s own than 7,700 tonnes. This is equivalent more than SEK 11 billion for 2018. CO2 emissions are to be reduced over time, well in line to the average annual CO2 emissions produced by 1,200 EU citizens. with the Paris Agreement. As part of the Bank’s efforts for the ­environment, we purchase carbon offsets for Since 2013, annual electricity conthe CO2 emissions that our operations generate. sumption has decreased by more For more information on the Bank’s work on its than 9,000 MWh. This is equivalent environmental impact through lending and investto the average amount of energy ment, see Responsible financing on pages 22–24 ­consumed by 420 single-family and Responsible investment on pages 25–31. homes in a year. 14 HAN D ELS B ANKEN | SUSTAINAB ILI TY RE PORT 2018 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Corporate social responsibility Responsible lending and advisory services, as well as risk tolerance, and the Bank’s strict approach to risk our efforts to satisfy customers and be an attractive means that we deliberately avoid high-risk transacemployer, all factor into Handelsbanken’s corporate tions, even if the customer is willing to pay a high social responsibility. In our own operations as well as interest rate. This low risk tolerance is maintained in our business relations with external service providers through a strong risk culture that is sustainable in and when investing customers’ funds and lending to the long term and applies to all areas of the Group. companies, we strive to prevent or limit negative impact The credit losses ratio provides an indication of how on human rights and working conditions. responsibly a bank runs its operations. When banks A bank can make a big difference through social have a negative impact on their environment, the responsibility. Financial crises through history have problems are often due to high credit losses, or an shown that if a bank does not act responsibly, not only expectation that the credit losses will rise sharply. the bank’s shareholders but also customers, employees If a bank suffers high credit losses, most of its and taxpayers can be adversely affected. stakeholders are negatively affected. For many years, Handelsbanken has had much lower Low credit losses credit losses than peer banks. In the 1998–2018 period, Aggressive selling of credits which leads to an unhealthy the average credit loss ratio at Handelsbanken was 0.05 level of household and corporate debt always hits the per cent, as compared to the average of 0.18 per cent customer hardest. At Handelsbanken, we have a low for the ﬁve other major banks in the Nordic countries. “By enhancing expertise and sharing information about how our products and services could be misused by perpetrators, we can help obstruct and prevent the sexual exploitation of children. Our collaboration in the Financial Coalition and with ECPAT means that we can make a difference in our day-to-day business, which is part of Handelsbanken’s long-term sustainability efforts.” Elisabet Jamal Bergström, Chief Communications and Sustainability Officer, Handelsbanken. Collaboration and commitment to support children’s rights For many years, Handelsbanken has participated in many The World Childhood Foundation is yet another initiative that different collaborations to promote the rights of children, the Bank supports. This organisation works worldwide to prea commitment that reflects the Bank’s principles and the vent exploitation of children. One example of local commitimportance of this issue. ment is the Bank’s Odengatan branch, in Stockholm, which Together with the children’s rights organisation ECPAT welcomes customers to an event on ‘Childhood Day’ every year Sweden, we work to obstruct and prevent payments connected and donates the proceeds to the World Childhood Foundation. with materials depicting sexual abuse of children. This is an example of how, in our operations, we can help strengthen the rights of children. Another organisation working to prevent payments for such materials from being transferred through the financial system is the Swedish Financial Coalition against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children, in which Handelsbanken has been a member since 2009. Since 2013, Handelsbanken has taken part in Global Child Forum, a non-profit foundation which serves as an independent forum to exchange best practices and stimulate discussion on children’s rights. The Forum brings together leaders from business, government, academia and civil society to collaborate on this same theme. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 20 18 15 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY TV channel EFN shares financial knowledge At Handelsbanken, we work to create the best possible ﬁve best news sites, in the Topp100 2018, by Internaconditions for our customers to make better ﬁnancial tional Data Group (IDG) publisher of Computer Sweden, decisions. We know that customers who understand CIO, Techworld and other periodicals. and are aware of their ﬁnancial situation are more EFN is where our customers are satisﬁed customers. This is why we want to be a source Since 2017, EFN has covered the Swedish economy of information for matters great and small. We give nationwide through its local editorial teams in Umeå, personal advice at our branches, answer questions Gävle, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Their goal is through social media, and via EFN we offer daily to cover the entire Swedish economy and business comupdates and a broader perspective on ﬁnancial and munity. Monitoring and being a part of the local economy social issues. and business community comes naturally to HandelsHandelsbanken’s news channel EFN.se is an indebanken. Through this initiative, Handelsbanken can genpendent source of journalism that since 2013 has been erate interest and engagement in the local community broadcasting programmes in three areas: ﬁnancial and can help boost awareness of local economic issues. news, personal ﬁnance and ﬁnancial markets. Personal ﬁnance is an area where many people EFN engages and activates may feel their knowledge is lacking. At the same time, During 2018, almost 7 million videos were played, and demands are steadily growing as to what we need to viewers spent more than 500,000 hours with EFN’s do, be aware of and know. EFN has a vital role to play content – equal to more than 50 years. On average, and offers independent guidance on economic issues viewers watch more than 70 per cent of a programme to our customers and the public. (by length), which indicates that EFN offers high quality Through news reports, in-depth programmes and and engages its audience. features, EFN explains complex subjects and relationHandelsbanken owns EFN AB via a subsidiary but has ships and highlights events around the world. EFN no control over its content. All video clips are subtitled. gives viewers the opportunity to deepen their knowledge of their own ﬁnances and of broader international issues. The service is free of charge, carries no advertising and is accessible by everyone using a computer or smartphone. Every year since 2016, EFN has been acclaimed Sweden’s best ﬁnancial news TV channel by the research company Hallvarsson & Halvarsson and Financial Hearings. EFN was named one of Sweden’s Involvement in the global community One person can’t do everything – but everybody worked with more than 100 Falun residents to “ One water container can do something. So says Henrik Ragnarsson, arrange a variety of events – from concerts, to a can purify up to 40 Branch Manager in Falun and one of the originacharity dinner, to a golf tournament and an art tors of the culture and aid project Ge vatten auction where works by local artists were sold. litres of water a day.” (Give water), which has involved large parts of Culture, entertainment and assistance have the local community in a global issue. been the common themes in this local project that was also intended to show how you can The Ge vatten project began in spring 2018. Via have fun while raising money for a good cause. its own website, a Facebook page, a music video “We had such a fantastic response, and so produced in-house and uploaded to YouTube, many have turned out and lent a hand in so and other activities, the project raised money for many ways – from our private and corporate Solvatten, a company that produces portable, customers, to the cultural association, property solar-powered containers for heating and purifyowners and the municipal energy company. ing water. One person knew somebody else, and then it “This is a vital, tangible issue that everyone can just spread,” Henrik says. understand, and Solvatten is forthright and The SEK 175,000 collected during the months transparent about where the money is going,” that the project was under way will be enough Henrik says. for about 175 water containers that can provide With the help of a wide contact network and its clean water to as many as 1,750 people in Tanzania. Henrik Ragnarsson, ability to execute large projects, the branch Branch Manager, Falun HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PO RT 2018 16 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Many branches get involved Looking forward in local activities and other EFN’s task of educating people initiatives on economic issues continues. The goal is to help people to make their day-to-day finances sustainable. We are also increasingly local: work continues with editorial teams in Stockholm, A total of 608 Gävle, Gothenburg, Malmö and initiatives and activities Umeå. The purpose of covering driven by branches local news is to stimulate interest in entrepreneurship and the business community all over Sweden. Our coverage of sustainability will also get a boost with new programmes and content Charitable purposes 57% about local, sustainable enterSports and culture 23% prise. Local business community 7% Children and schools 6% Gender equality, diversity and integration 3% Research, universities and colleges 2% Other 2% Involvement in the local community Respect, justice and care. Those are the watchworkshop and cafés, to free legal assistance “ Twenty years of words of a not-for-profit organisation that and multicultural initiatives that facilitate co-operation for works to help people at risk in Norway. It has integration. received assistance from Handelsbanken’s “This is how we help people in need in our social integration.” branch in Bergen for more than 20 years. community. We are also proud of working with such a professional and inspiring organisation,” “It started when we wanted to donate money Monica says. to charity instead of giving Christmas presents. “During the autumn, all Handelsbanken Today we partner with the organisation and, employees in Norway were able to get involved besides a fixed amount, we contribute to their in the annual telethon on Norwegian TV, with traditional Christmas concert in town,” says the money raised going to Church City Mission. Monica Vågen Nordahl, Deputy Branch The money is collected with the help of 3,000 Manager in Bergen Sentrum. volunteers and will go to efforts to create a The organisation, Kirkens Bymisjon (Church warmer and more inclusive society.” City Mission), is found in more than 30 locations across Norway and offers a broad range of activities. They do everything – from serving as a meeting place for families with small children Monica Vågen Nordahl, or a café for substance abusers, to various Deputy Branch Manager, employment initiatives such as a bicycle Bergen Sentrum H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 20 18 17 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY Economic value creation – our value chain THE FOUNDATION OF A BANK’S OPERATIONS reason, mortgage loans are ﬁnanced by covered bonds The raw material in a bank is money. The money comes of long maturity issued by Handelsbanken’s wholly from the capital that initially consists of the share capital owned mortgage institution, Stadshypotek. By always that the owners pay in when a bank is founded, but maintaining a balance sheet that is structured to safealso from proﬁts generated over time and other fundguard the Bank’s commitments to customers and ing. The funding consists of deposits and borrowing investors, Handelsbanken acts responsibly in its role from the public and money that the bank borrows in the as a major player in the ﬁnancial system. It is vital that capital markets. In the same way as a manufacturer’s banks have a solid long-term funding strategy so they process for its raw materials is relevant from a sustainaavoid running short of liquidity, a situation in which they bility perspective, important factors to consider for a might not be able to fulﬁl their undertakings to customers bank include how that bank manages its capital and with money on deposit and to other providers of funding. how it works with funding. VALUE CREATION IN 2018 Capital It is vital that a bank makes a proﬁt. Not only does the To ensure that banks are sufﬁciently resistant to the proﬁt generate tax revenue for the community and a risks arising in their operations, but also to protect return for shareholders, but a large proportion of the customers’ assets and interests, the public authorities proﬁt is reinvested in the operations. That means the have established capital requirements. These are rules bank can grow and meet customers’ future needs, for the minimum amount of capital a bank must have in such as for loans. order to run its operations. If a bank wants to meet Since 1973, in every year but three, Handelsbanken customers’ future loan requirements and be able to do has allocated part of its proﬁts to the employee-owned more business, it must have sufﬁcient capital for its proﬁt-sharing foundation Oktogonen. One condition current business volume and enough capital to continue for the allocation is that Handelsbanken meets its “ For Handelsbanken, to grow. From the customer’s viewpoint, it is particularly corporate goal. Each employee receives an equal part important that the bank has resources available in of the allocated amount. The Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing times of ﬁnancial turbulence. If a bank makes substantial foundation is described in more detail on page 61. In 2018, Handelsbanken’s proﬁt before taxes and tax is an important losses, its shareholders may have to contribute more share capital through a new share issue, which may government fees was SEK 28,9 billion. This created sustainability topic. be difﬁcult in such circumstances. One condition for value was distributed as follows: SEK 11,5 billion customers putting money in a bank is that they have in taxes and government fees, SEK 10,7 billion in We contribute to the conﬁdence in the bank. A bank that does not meet its proposed dividends, to be paid to shareholders in the community in the customers’ expectations risks an outﬂow of deposits spring of 2019, and the remaining amount reinvested when the crisis is at its peak. If the outﬂow is large, the in our operations. countries where the bank’s survival could be jeopardised. Outﬂows of savings that customers have invested in mutual funds, HANDELSBANKEN AS A TAXPAYER Bank operates, by insurance and other types of saving not used for the For Handelsbanken, tax is an important sustainability paying taxes and operations’ own funding are not as grave. Neverthetopic. We contribute to the community in the countries less, they can signiﬁcantly harm the bank’s earnings where the Bank operates, by paying taxes and governgovernment fees.” capacity, perhaps leading to problems. ment fees and by paying taxes to local tax authorities on behalf of employees and customers. Funding in capital markets For a large part of deposits, customers can withdraw money from their account at any time. But much bank lending has a long maturity – mortgage loans, for Counterexample. Funding long-term lending with short-term Rating LongShortparty risk deposits creates liquidity risks which may cause serious at 31 December 2018 term term assessment problems in the ﬁnancial system. So it is not prudent Standard & Poor’s AAA-1+ AAto fund all lending with deposits. Handelsbanken’s Fitch AA F1+ approach to funding is based on a well-structured Moody’s Aa2 P-1 Aa1 balance sheet in which long-term loans to the Bank’s DBRS AA (low) customers are ﬁnanced with stable funding. For this H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 18 THE BANK’S ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY “ Handelsbanken is the largest player in terms of lending to companies in Sweden.” The Bank’s policy for sustainability contains a section on taxes that is a starting point for work with tax-related matters in the Bank. The Bank also has guidelines for managing taxes that describe Handelsbanken’s coordinated management, governance and follow-up of tax-related matters. We maintain an open dialogue with the tax authorities in the countries where we operate. In addition, Handelsbanken adheres to the OECD Guidelines for DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE Multinational Enterprises, whose purpose is to encourDuring the most recent business cycle, Handelsbanken age and facilitate corporate sustainability. In the UK, paid dividends to its shareholders every year, while Handelsbanken has adopted the code of conduct for remaining one of the largest payers of corporate tax in banks issued by HM Revenue & Customs, the UK tax Sweden. authority. Handelsbanken also publishes a summary of the Bank’s guidelines for managing taxes, in compliINDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS ance with guidance from HM Revenue & Customs on Through its lending to companies in the Bank’s six making public corporate tax strategy. home markets, Handelsbanken helps ﬁnance growth For many years, Handelsbanken has been one of the and increased employment. Handelsbanken is the largest payers of corporate tax in Sweden. In addition largest player in terms of lending to companies in to corporate tax, Handelsbanken also pays substantial Sweden. By enabling households to ﬁnance home amounts in social security contributions and other purchases, the Bank helps them move to locations taxes. Historically, it has been the largest payer to the with better employment prospects, for example. Swedish resolution reserve (formerly the Stability Fund) The Handelsbanken Group ﬁnances almost one for the ﬁnancial system and one of the largest payers to quarter of household mortgage loans in Sweden. the state deposit guarantee scheme. Value-added tax (VAT) represents a signiﬁcant expense for Handelsbanken, because the Bank cannot recover all input VAT that it pays when buying external products and Distribution of economic value services. This is because a large part of our business is not subject to VAT, that is, the Bank’s customers do not pay VAT on ﬁnancial services. Handelsbanken’s total taxes and government fees for 2018 are estimated 50 Salaries 8.7 to exceed SEK 11 billion. In addition to the taxes relating Provision to profit-sharing to the Bank’s own operations, the Bank reports and 40 foundation including social pays substantial amounts to the tax authorities in the security costs 0.9 countries where it operates, on behalf of its customers Social security costs 3.9 and employees. 30 Suppliers 7.4 Corporate tax, net (current tax STABLE THROUGH FINANCIAL CRISES 20 and deferred tax) 4.6 During the most recent ﬁnancial crisis, Handelsbanken Fees for the Swedish resolution did not use the Swedish government’s capital support reserve 2.8 or guarantee programme. Nor has Handelsbanken 10 Dividends (refers to the year received capital support in any other country where SEK bn dividends were paid) 14.6 the Bank operates. Handelsbanken is the only listed 0 Reinvested economic value -2.8 Swedish bank that did not need to ask its shareholders for fresh capital during the ﬁnancial crisis. A well-run bank that acts sustainably and responsibly -10 has a major, positive impact on the economy in general. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 This refers to direct economic effects, such as corporate tax paid, as well as indirect effects. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 19 Responsible financing The Bank’s greatest opportunity to contribute to sustainable development is through our core business in the form of credits, investments and the services we provide. Responsible investment RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Responsible financing The greatest opportunity a bank has to influence its business environment and contribute to sustainable development is through its business operations. By means of responsible financing and lending, we can contribute to the transition of the economy and society as a whole that is needed to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. Responsible Handelsbanken respects human rights, fundamental lending principles of working conditions and environmental and climate considerations, and supports anti-corruption Relevant SDGs Lending to households and companies makes up a measures regardless of where in the world the Bank large part of Handelsbanken’s core business. The Bank operates. The Bank supports international initiatives considers it paramount that lending be based on an and guidelines that aim to encourage and facilitate Handelsbanken contributes to the assessment of each customer’s repayment capacity, corporate sustainability. In our lending we must assess Sustainable Development Goals priso we do not grant credit to customers who cannot and evaluate each customer’s stance on these principles marily indirectly, through the financial repay their loans. Weak repayment capacity can never and guidelines. services and products in our core be justiﬁed by arguments that the customer is prepared This may result in the Bank declining credit to business. Lending and financing, such as through green loans, contribute to to pay a high interest rate or can offer the Bank good companies that do not apply these principles. When goals 11 and 13. collateral. Our approach prevents individual customers assessing creditworthiness, we include factors such as from running into ﬁnancial hardship due to excessive how environmental risks affect the customer’s repayExamples: Goal 8: Handelsbanken has built up indebtedness – which also beneﬁts the Bank, the ment capacity. Such risks might include the customer a green registry consisting of credits customer and society at large. being unable to sell its product or the risk that more that finance green projects. At Handelsbanken, responsibility for the customer stringent environmental regulations on the customer’s Goal 11: Handelsbanken has financed always lies with the branch in whose area of operations manufacturing process might damage the company’s green mortgage loans for multi-family the customer is located. At branch level, responsibility dwellings for housing co-ops. repayment capacity. The branch responsible for the Goal 13: To ensure that the environfor a customer and their credits are connected. The customer assesses the credit risk. Thus the branch ment and climate are taken into conbranch responsible for a customer is also responsible also assesses how factors such as environmental sideration when a green loan is used for all of the customer’s credits. risks or the customer’s approach to human rights for financing, Handelsbanken has developed technical criteria that must will affect repayment capacity. All this is part of the be satisfied by all green loan products. PRINCIPLES WHEN GRANTING CREDIT business evaluation, the Bank’s method for assessing Sustainability is vital to the Bank’s credit policy. The policy a business relationship with a customer. states that the Bank’s lending must be responsible The business evaluation is an effective method for and meet high demands for sound ethical standards. branches to identify and assess risks. It also provides At year-end 2018, Handelsbanken’s loans to the public totalled SEK 2,189 billion; SEK 851 billion of this was credit to companies. Loans to the public Breakdown of corporate lending Private individuals 50.1% Property management Construction 2.5% Corporates 38.9% companies 70.3% Electricity, gas and water 2.4% Housing co-operative Manufacturing 3.2% Agriculture, forestry 1.8% associations 10.5% Retail 2.6% Other services 2.8% Sovereigns and Hotel and restaurant 1.1% Holding, investment and municipalities 0.5% Sea transport 0.8% insurance companies 8.9% Other transport and Other corporate lending 1.9% communication 1.7% HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2018 22 RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Sustainability overview The sustainability overview is a sector initiative developed in the Swedish Bankers’ Association to provide insight into how banks take sustainability into account when lending to corporates. The sustainability overview is published at handelsbanken.se/sustainability. good documentation for other levels in the Bank updated procedures for assessing sustainability risk Looking forward when they must evaluate credit risk and monitor that in connection with lending to companies. Our assessHandelsbanken is developing a branches are factoring sustainability criteria into risk ment and documentation of sustainability aspects assessments. cover the majority of credit limit volumes granted to green mortgage loan as part of For a long time, Handelsbanken has taken a restriccompanies in the Bank. Branches also have tools to our goal to counteract climate tive approach to risk. This risk culture and expertise on facilitate these tasks, such as access to independent change and support sustainable the part of staff is best maintained and developed in research to help them make their own assessments. cities and communities. day-to-day work and learning at the branches. A follow-up study in 2018 showed that the branches To make our approach to sustainability in the credit had accepted the procedures and that they help process clearer and more transparent, we have also branches focus more on sustainability. The wind power park in Torkkola is one of the When the wind power park was going to be “ Sixteen wind turbines most energy-efficient in Finland. The venture built, there were several potential financiers. in Torkkola generate has been financed by Handelsbanken’s branch Handelsbanken’s decentralised way of workin Vaasa and is helping the customer reduce ing, enabling rapid decisions to be made at the electricity equal to the its carbon footprint. local branch, proved decisive. energy needed to heat “That was a big advantage in this transaction, 10,000 single-family The Finnish energy company behind the wind for example when payments and guarantees homes for a year.” power park is one of many companies that were needed,” Frej says. want to invest in a sustainable manner and The transaction has also contributed to an use green financing. The company produces upswing in the local community. During the about 4 per cent of the electricity consumed year that construction was under way, until the in Finland and has long been a customer of wind power park was commissioned in 2015, Handelsbanken. about 100 jobs were created, and about 10 local “They have gone from coal-fired power to companies took part in the project. wind power and have reduced their carbon dioxide emissions by two thirds since 2010. That counteracts global warming and fits our approach to the environment,” says Frej Frej Björses, Björses, Branch Manager in Vaasa. Branch Manager, Vaasa H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 23 RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Green financing Green loans at Handelsbanken Green registry The development of new criteria and products Handelsbanken has built up a green registry, progressed in 2018, and new green loan products consisting of credits that ﬁnance green projects were launched for solar energy and multi-family that comply with the requirements and criteria dwellings. These are crucial areas for a transistipulated in Handelsbanken’s green bond tion in line with the Paris Agreement, whose key framework. When Handelsbanken’s ﬁrst elements include a renewable energy system green bond was issued in June 2018, credits and less impact from the construction and in the green registry were some SEK 10 billion, property sector on climate and the environment. distributed among the six categories below. To ensure that the environment and climate are taken into consideration when a green loan is Breakdown of credits used for ﬁnancing, Handelsbanken has develin green registry oped technical criteria that must be satisﬁed by all green loan products. Green loans totalled about SEK 1.8 billion in 2018. Green buildings 30% Renewable energy 9% Green bonds Some Sustainable transportation 21% Driven by many new borrowers, the Nordic SEK 10 bn in Prevent and monitor pollution 28% green registry market for green bonds expanded strongly in Sustainable management of water and 2018. For example, the volume issued in waste water 8% Swedish kronor reached SEK 70.2 billion, Environmentally sustainable management representing growth of almost 90 per cent. of live natural resources 4% Handelsbanken is very active as an advisor to new and existing issuers of green bonds, in formulating terms and conditions as well as in issuing green bonds. During the year, Handels“For a long time, green financing was limited to the bond banken expanded its co-operation with the market, where only the biggest players can borrow Climate Bonds Initiative, which published a money. That is why it is important that the financial Nordic market report with the support of the services sector expand access to such financing. And Bank. Green bonds are ﬁrmly established in the this is what Handelsbanken is doing with green loans. Nordic region and in 2018 accounted for about 13 per cent of total Swedish kronor borrowing We maintain a high degree of transparency and have in Swedish capital markets. clear criteria for the projects to be financed, to ensure that they contribute positively to a green transition.” Tobias Lindbergh, Head of Sustainable Read more on our website: Finance at Handelsbanken Debt Capital Markets. handelsbanken.se/sustainableﬁnance RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Responsible investment Our assignment to manage customers’ savings entails a great opportunity to contribute to sustainable development. For Handelsbanken, the objectives are self-evident: We want to generate a healthy return on savings capital while contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals. respect. We pursue the engagement process on our The starting point for all own through direct contact with companies as well as Asset management Nordic mutual fund operations are our investments in collaboration with other asset owners and through run in two separate companies. sector initiatives. Actively managed funds are offered Responsible investment is part of our core business. by Handelsbanken Fonder AB, It is an area where we have major opportunities to while index and rules-based How we engage with companies: funds are offered by Xact Kapitalinﬂuence the transition to a sustainable ﬁnancial sector. – Targeted dialogues with direct contact between förvaltning AB. In addition to ﬁnancial criteria, the investment process our portfolio managers and companies. Handelsbanken also conducts should integrate criteria related to the environment and asset management activities in the – Dialogues with other investors. climate, corporate governance and social issues. By UK through Heartwood Investment – Co-operation and sector initiatives, often through Management and in the Netherfactoring sustainability risk and opportunity into the international collaboration such as the Global lands through Optimix. All fund investment decision, Handelsbanken can offer a wide Compact, PRI or CDP. management companies are range of mutual funds and other sustainable savings, subsidiaries of Svenska Handels– Engagement through active corporate governance. pension and insurance products that meet the expecbanken AB (publ). tations of our customers and the world around us. Dialogues with companies Handelsbanken Liv In 2018, we engaged with a total of 507 1 companies Through its subsidiary HandelsA common value base banken Liv, Handelsbanken offers through dialogues on speciﬁc sustainability topics. All our investments are based on the same core values, pension solutions and other The dialogues concerned corruption, environmental insurance solutions for private which are summarised in our policies for responsible destruction, labour laws and other issues. A list of and corporate customers. investment. Consequently, all asset management is these companies is published at handelsbanken.se/ conducted on the basis of international norms and responsibleinvestments. conventions which cover the environment, human rights and working conditions, and corruption. We 1 Refers to the number of companies affected by all types have also adopted several voluntary frameworks, such of dialogue. as the UN Global Compact and the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). Examples of targeted dialogues Handelsbanken Fonder is one of four invesThree possible paths tors that, as a group, have initiated a diaInclusion, exclusion and engagement are three methods logue with a Chinese company, within the for integrating sustainability into the investment process. Climate Action 100+ initiative. The company In day-to-day operations, these methods may take has been identiﬁed as one of the world’s biggest emitters different paths, depending on whether the activity is of CO2. The purpose of this dialogue is to persuade the choosing individual companies to invest in, choosing company to reduce its negative climate impact. an index or choosing mutual funds to include in fund portfolios or insurance or pension-related offerings. Engagement through dialogue The choice of asset class and management focus may also inﬂuence the approach. OUR APPROACH TO ENGAGEMENT Environmental issues 49% Engagement is an important way for us to inﬂuence Total: Social issues 26% companies in which we are shareholders. This includes 507 dialogues Corporate governance 6% both proactive dialogue aimed at encouraging companies Overlapping areas of to improve their sustainability activities, and engagement sustainability 19% with companies which we have identiﬁed as not compliant with the international norms and conventions that we Three possible paths Inclusion Exclusion Engagement We integrate sustainability in our investment We exclude companies whose business operations We engage with companies through dialogue to influence process by choosing the right company, the are incompatible with our policies for responsible them to comply with international norms and conventions. right index or the right mutual fund, depending investment and companies which do not meet our We also take a proactive approach to influence companies on the type of asset management. specific sustainability criteria. We also exclude to improve their sustainability efforts in general or on companies whose sustainability work we assess as specific issues. Through our corporate governance work, inferior and where we consider our possibilities for we influence companies by participating in nomination influencing them in the right direction to be too limited. committees and by voting at shareholder meetings. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 25 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT SUSTAINABLE SAVINGS PRODUCTS Ecolabelled funds Funds with speciﬁc sustainability criteria In the Nordic countries, M N E N Ä R KE M N E N Ä R KE Relevant SDGs VA S VA S T T For many years, Handelsbanken has worked actively to the Swan is an ofﬁcial offer funds that adhere to speciﬁc sustainability criteria ecolabel intended to help in their investment strategy. These funds are included guide consumers to Fond Fond in the framework we call Criteria, and exclude investchoices that beneﬁt the 3101 0010 3101 0021 ments whose main activities are in controversial sectors environment. In October such as alcohol, tobacco, commercial gambling, muni2018, XACT Sverige (‘XACT Sweden’, a UCITS ETF) tions, pornography and fossil fuels.1 These funds also became the ﬁrst index fund to receive this certiﬁcation. exclude companies that are regarded as contravening XACT Sverige tracks the SIX Sweden ESG Selection Handelsbanken contributes to the international norms and conventions. The range comindex. This index includes companies with high ratings Sustainable Development Goals primarily indirectly, through the financial prises index funds, actively managed funds, ﬁxed for sustainability and excludes companies with veriﬁed services and products in our core income funds and allocation funds that have a special violations of international norms or with operations in business. In the management of investment focus. certain controversial sectors. Handelsbanken now mutual funds, pension funds and other The number of funds and the amount of capital offers two Ecolabelled mutual funds – Hållbar Energi assets, our products are clearly linked with several SDGs, such as 5, 8, 9, 11, under management in our Criteria range continue to (sustainable energy) and XACT Sverige – which both 13 and 16. grow. The Bank now offers a total of 44 mutual funds fulﬁl the Nordic Swan Ecolabel’s 25 mandatory criteria with speciﬁc sustainability criteria. At year-end, the total for exclusion, inclusion, transparency and engagement. Examples: Goal 5: Handelsbanken Fonder has assets managed in these funds were SEK 311 billion, carried out a thematic analysis of corresponding to more than 44 per cent of the total Structured investment products companies’ performance in gender fund volume, up 12 percentage points.2 In 2018, Handelsbanken issued nine structured equality. The analysis will serve as a investment products based on the 17 Sustainable basis for targeted dialogues focused 1 According to the Swedish Investment Fund Association’s on gender equality. definition, investments in a company qualify as ‘fossil-free’ Development Goals (SDGs). The investments track Goal 8: Handelsbanken’s Criteria fund only if no more than 5 per cent of company turnover is indexes that are exposed to companies that, through called Tillväxtmarknad Tema (emergattributable to such products or services. their behaviour and their products, contribute to the ing market theme) invests in compa2 SDGs. The structured products target companies with nies that specialise in microfinance, The fund volume is based on Handelsbanken’s own mutual sustainable business models. This increases the whose operations aim at enhancing funds in the Nordic market and mutual funds managed by access by small-scale businesses to Optimix. long-term growth potential while reducing the risk in financial services in emerging markets. the investment. The total value of these investments Goal 9: Handelsbanken Fonder AB Percentage of Handelsbanken’s total fund exceeded SEK 89 million. invests in companies based on select volume in the Criteria range 2015–2018 themes, one of which is infrastructure. In many parts of the world, the need % of fund volume for infrastructure is great. Infrastruc50 ture investments include roads and airports as well as education and 40 44% solutions linked to digitalisation. Goal 11: Together with a group of 30 Swedish investors, Handelsbanken 32% Fonder invested in a sustainable 29% development bond issued by the 20 World Bank. The bond will finance 17% projects and programmes for sustain10 able development in the World Bank’s member countries, focusing on 0 sustainable cities. 2015 2016 2017 2018 Goal 13: Xact Kapitalförvaltning, which provides Handelsbanken’s index and rules-based funds, has voted in favour of many shareholder proposals aimed at influencing companies to publish analyses based on the two-degree target. Xact Kapitalförvaltning has also voted in favour of shareholder proposals on reporting and targets related to emissions. Goal 16: Within the framework of joint dialogues with other investments, 25 dialogues have been conducted with companies linked to the issue of corruption. Corruption is one of the Global Compact’s four focus areas, and combating corruption is target 16.5 in the 2030 Agenda. HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2018 26 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT AND THE SDGS traditionally managed portfolios, investment in green As an asset manager and insurance bonds grew signiﬁcantly compared to the preceding company, Handelsbanken can conyear. Starting in 2018, Handelsbanken Liv is also tribute to achieving the Sustainable disclosing climate risk in its reports, including the Development Goals (SDGs). We company’s carbon footprint. strive to increase investments in companies that offer solutions to Increased gender equality global sustainability challenges, at the same time as we Gender equality is one of the goals that try to minimise the negative impact of our investments Handelsbanken Fonder AB has examined on the environment and the climate. In 2018, we more closely from an investment perspecstrengthened our thematic investing process, which tive. This relates to companies that might identiﬁes structural changes that have a long-term have operations related to women entering the workimpact on companies’ proﬁtability. In this process, force, pre-school and other educational activities, we also illuminated and strengthened links to the 2030 temporary and permanent stafﬁng, and women’s Agenda and the SDGs. ﬁnancial inclusion in the formal economy, such as through access to bank accounts, debt ﬁnancing and Climate action microﬁnance. For the ﬁrst time, Handelsbanken has During the year, Handelsbanken launched Pension published climate reports in accordance Guide, its tool for investment advisory services, which with recommendations from the Task shows the effects of pension saving based on a cusForce on Climate-related Financial tomer’s particular circumstances. Handelsbanken Liv Disclosure (TCFD). Reports have been completed also wants to spread awareness of how gender inequality for Handelsbanken Liv, Handelsbanken Fonder AB in the labour market affects a person’s pension. and Xact Kapitalförvaltning AB. The climate reports describe how each organisation takes into consideration climate change in the areas of governance, strategy, risk management, targets and metrics. One important contribution to goal 13 is to invest in solutions for a sustainable energy system. For several of our actively managed funds, energy efﬁciency has More information about sustainability in mutual funds long been an investment theme. One example is the Hållbar Energi (sustainable energy) fund, focused solely Sustainability profiles for most of our mutual funds are available online and in our on sustainability. The fund invests only in companies that mobile app, where you can read more about how the funds work with sustainability and develop or utilise methods and technologies to limit how you can select a fund based on sustainability criteria. global warming and in companies that can contribute Handelsbanken reports the carbon footprint for most of its equity funds. The carbon to more efﬁcient energy use. In 2018, Handelsbanken footprint provides more information about the companies’ environmental and climate Liv also focused on goal 13 and expanded its offering risks and helps investors understand better how the composition of a fund affects its of mutual funds that avoid investments in fossil fuels, footprint. Read more at handelsbanken.se/responsibleinvestments. from 21 per cent to 38 per cent. In Handelsbanken Liv’s Transition to more sustainable pension savings “ In 2018, the proportion of mutual funds that are offered for insurance Coming to grips with pension saving is much fund deals with financial, social and environmore important than many people believe. mental sustainability in their management products and exclude From the day that you no longer have the process. fossil fuels increased, from energy, desire or ability to work, your money “Besides financial criteria, we make demands 21 per cent to 38 per cent.” will have to last you the rest of your life. on systematic sustainability work with due consideration of international norms and “Sustainability in pension saving can mean any conventions. We also examine each fund number of things: saving in sustainable mutual management company’s own ability to intefunds, saving enough to maintain your standard grate sustainability into their asset manageof living, or creating a buffer for living expenses ment activities,” Linda says. should an accident occur,” says Linda Haraké, As a result of this work in 2018, mutual funds Head of Sustainable Investments and Markets, selected for the range had a sharper focus on Handelsbanken Life and Pension. sustainability, and the evaluation process was To simplify investing for sustainability, we expanded with an in-depth climate analysis. Linda Haraké, Head of Sustainable examine all mutual funds offered to unit-linked Investments and Markets, insurance customers to determine how each Handelsbanken Life and Pension H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 27 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Financial inclusion and microfinance Impact investing is an investment strategy Heartwood Investment Management launched globally diversithat combines returns with social benefits. Financial inclusion ﬁed sustainable multi-asset strategies in 2018. and microfinance that can help reduce global poverty are The investment strategy practises exclusion of controversial included in this strategy and are intended to increase access to sectors and inclusion based on sustainability criteria. Thematic financial services. A leading asset manager in impact investing is investments such as climate change and renewable energy are BlueOrchard, which manages one of the first commercial funds in also included. this area. Our evaluation process found that they are thorough in managing their fund, a fund with good potential for returns and a sound risk-return balance. This fund’s investments provide an opportunity for microfinance institutions to lend money to people mainly in developing countries. Through BlueOrchard’s fund, Handelsbanken’s allocation management has invested significant In September 2018, Optimix created two equity baskets with a amounts in microfinance during the past year. We continue to thematic management focus that are included in all discretionary regard financial inclusion as customer portfolios. Companies are selected based on their an interesting area where we contributions to the SDGs, with a focus on goals 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 can expand our investments. and 13. Optimix requires its external fund managers to develop their activities in responsible investment. For example, all external fund managers are encouraged to sign the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 28 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Looking at future trends Handelsbanken Fonder produces a podcast which takes listeners behind the scenes as fund managers examine connections, highlight trends and discuss their possible impact on the performance of companies and sectors. The first episode was available in June 2018. To date, discussions have dealt with topics such as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, cities of the future, investing in health and Womenomics. Investing in the Sustainable Development Goals “At the end of 2018, more The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development changes and fit well into the fund management than 80 per cent of all and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) company’s thematic investment process. actively managed equity aim to eradicate poverty and hunger and to Starting from a common global analysis, the achieve human rights for everyone. In addition, fund managers have looked at the 17 goals and and fixed income mutual they aim to accomplish gender equality and 169 targets and invest in companies that focus funds were fossil-free.” empower all women and girls, and also to on those: education, banking services for finanprotect the planet and its natural resources in cial inclusion, healthcare and climate solutions. the long term. “Perhaps the biggest issue is the enormous need for finance in general and the huge need “As investors, we naturally see investment to mobilise private capital, because traditional opportunities in the 2030 Agenda. We see that it financing – public finance and in some cases will create demand for and benefit sectors and foreign aid – will not be enough. By investing companies that provide solutions that relate to the in companies with solutions, we can play a part, SDGs,” says Karin Askelöf, Head of Responsible contribute private capital and deliver a return Investments at Handelsbanken Fonder AB. to our customers and future generations,” Karin Askelöf, Head of Investment opportunities connected with Karin says. Responsible Investments at the SDGs revolve around long-term structural Handelsbanken Fonder AB H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 29 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Some key events 2005–2009 2013 2015 The first mutual fund in the Criteria Optimix signs the UN Principles Montréal Carbon Pledge signed, an framework, Handelsbanken Sverige for Responsible Investment. initiative by which fund management Index Etisk (Sweden ethical index), companies undertake to measure and launched in June 2005. report their carbon footprint. Handelsbanken Hållbar Energi Europa Hållbarhet (Europe sustainability, (sustainable energy) launched in an equity-linked bond) launched as February 2008. Handelsbanken’s first structured investHandelsbanken signs the UN Principles ment product focusing on sustainability. for Responsible Investment in 2009. Human rights Equity and credit research Respect for human rights is essential to long-term value Handelsbanken is working to integrate sustainability in the equity and credit research creation at Handelsbanken. We support and respect that we offer professional investors who are our institutional customers. All companies the protection of human rights in our operations. face risks and opportunities related to sustainability. As ever more companies integrate The periodic screening of all mutual fund holdings sustainability in their day-to-day operations, we ﬁnd it natural to integrate sustainability includes human rights. The handling of and incidents in our day-to-day analysis. We believe it is vital for companies to monitor and manage concerning human rights affect the companies included risks and opportunities related to sustainability so they can be proﬁtable in the long as well as those excluded. They may also give rise to term. At present, the Bank publishes standardised sustainability analyses for almost engagement through dialogue or may inﬂuence voting all of the more than 200 listed Nordic companies that we follow. In these reports, at shareholders’ meetings. we survey each company’s sustainability activities and relevant risks and opportuniTwo of the conventions and principles which are ties. The Bank also collects sustainability data and related key performance indicarelevant to us are the UN Universal Declaration of tors – such as CO2 emissions, waste per unit of sales, proportion of staff who are Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on women – on an annual basis for companies it covers. We compile this data in a Business and Human Rights. sustainability database that customers have access to. HA ND EL SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 30 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT 2016 2017 2018 Mutual funds’ sustainability ratings Decision taken to transfer all international index Handelsbanken Auto Criteria launched, a fund of funds first appear on the Bank’s website, funds to indexes excluding controversial businesses. developed for sustainable saving via smartphones. in the table of fund data. The Hållbar Energi fund (sustainable energy) XACT Sverige becomes the world’s first index fund Guidelines issued regarding receives the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. awarded the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. business relations with companies Stricter sustainability criteria applied to the range Heartwood Investment Management launches with operations in fossil fuels. of mutual funds offered in insurance. sustainable multi-asset strategies. Together with the 2° Investing Initiative, HandelsOptimix creates two new equity baskets, with banken performs an initial analysis of the Bank’s companies included based on their contributions mutual funds based on a two-degree scenario. to the SDGs. Looking forward “ The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change • In 2018, Handelsbanken Asset (IPCC) has declared that we need to restrict global Management began adapting warming to 1.5 degrees to avoid devastating consemost of the mutual funds in its quences. But that demands quick action of a kind range to the criteria applied in the never seen before. As a bank and financial instituCriteria framework, efforts that will tion, we need to take the lead. We must support the continue in 2019. transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy We are making this transition sources by devising new products and services and because we believe the sectors developing our existing range.” that we exclude might well, in Kristian Bjursell, Chief Sustainability Officer various ways, work counter to the Handelsbanken Capital Markets aims of the 2030 Agenda and the SDGs and thus are incompatible with our role as a responsible investor. Handelsbanken Liv has also begun to adapt its range of mutual funds in insurance products to contribute to sustainable development in line with the climate goals of the Paris Agreement. This work will be ongoing in 2019. • In equity and credit research, the goal is to further integrate sustainability topics in research and company valuations. Another goal is for our sustainability database to grow in scope, from the roughly 95 per cent of companies we currently cover, to 100 per cent. We also aim to arrange more seminars and company presentations on relevant sustainability themes and to expand our dialogue with the companies about their sustainability strategies. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPO RT 20 18 31 The Bank as an employer Decentralised working methods and belief in the individual are integral to our corporate culture. This applies no matter where in the world Handelsbanken operates or opens new branches. In 2018, Handelsbanken had over 12,300 employees, working in more than 20 countries, and more than 40 per cent were employed outside Sweden. THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER Relevant SDGs Handelsbanken must be a company where women and men can contribute their knowledge and ability on equal terms and have opportunities to develop their leadership skills at all decision levels, goal 5, target 5.5. As an employer, we must also promote a safe and secure work environment for all our employees, goal 8, target 8.8. Examples: Goal 5: The Diversity Council includes members from the management teams in all home markets, AN ATTRACTIVE, LONG-TERM EMPLOYER Handelsbanken’s guidelines for employees are based Handelsbanken Capital Markets, Group IT and Group HR. In 2018, Handelsbanken’s values and strong corporate culture are on the Bank’s corporate culture, working methods and the Council focused on integrating vital to our success. Our idea of how to run a successful fundamental view of people. We work with one another gender equality and diversity in bank is based on trust and respect for the individual – through dialogue and trust. business planning for each country both customers and employees. The Bank’s decentraland unit. ised way of working creates commitment and opportuniCONSTANT DEVELOPMENT Goal 8: In Sweden, the mandatory work environment training for manties for every employee to make an impact on the Bank’s Handelsbanken has a well-established and structured agers and union representatives operations. Above all, working at Handelsbanken is process for the development of its operations and its was revised to sharpen its focus on about relationships with other people. It does not matter employees. One aspect of this is that all employees inclusiveness, work adaptation and how good the products or services are if the Bank does take part in their unit’s business planning process. After rehabilitation. not have the most suitable staff. When we recruit new the plan is set, each manager carries out individual employees, we seek people who share the Bank’s core planning dialogues and performance reviews with their values and want to take a large amount of personal employees, resulting in personalised action plans with responsibility and make their own decisions, people who both shortand long-term goals and activities, a means strive to put the customer ﬁrst. The goal is for employees of developing both the employee and the Bank. The to reﬂect the markets in which we operate – with different action plan is followed up continually and forms the backgrounds, skills, and work experience as well as basis of an annual salary dialogue review between different ways of thinking and solving problems. manager and employee. Employees must have the knowledge and skills they need to help our customers in the best way possible, The Wheel – the relationship between to provide advice based on customers’ needs, and to the operations and the employees comply with current policies and regulations. Before the planning dialogue and performance review, an individual competency mapping is performed based on current duties to identify any need for professional Business plan development. process Handelsbanken’s strength is derived from the Business planning combined expertise of our employees. We believe in day-to-day learning and that employees contribute to Salary dialogue PLUS developing the business, themselves personally and review CUSTOMER their colleagues. LABOUR MARKET AND CULTURAL AMBASSADORS Individual Action Employees have the opportunity to develop in different follow-up planning professional roles, to work in different areas of the Bank and also in different countries where the Bank operates. Internal recruitment helps us share our working methods The Wheel illustrates the relationship between the operations and strengthen our culture throughout the operations. and the employee’s development. Managers and employees When employees develop, the Bank develops. work together to create their own unit’s business plan each Handelsbanken continues to have low external staff year. After the plan is set, planning dialogues and performance reviews (PLUS reviews) are carried out, linking turnover: 3.9 per cent in the Group and 3.0 per cent in the business plan with each employee’s goals. As a result, Sweden. One condition for this is a healthy, inclusive every employee has an individual action plan that is work environment where each employee’s potential followed up regularly during the year and forms the basis is made the most of and everyone is able to develop of the annual salary dialogue review between employee and manager. in their tasks based on their ability and personal circumstances. HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2018 34 THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER A structured approach to management succession planning is crucial to satisfying the current and future “ I’ve gained a deeper understanding of the entire demand for managers. One of the most important operation and been able to influence things and tasks for managers at the Bank is to identify, encourage see how I can contribute to the Bank becoming a and develop new managers. To prepare prospective more attractive employer for my generation.” managers, development programmes are carried out Erik Mattsson, Hedesunda, mentor in the reverse that focus on change management and developing mentoring programme. our business model. During the year, Handelsbanken started a reverse mentoring programme in which young employees at the Bank serve as mentors to experienced managers. The purpose is to share experience as well as provide fresh perspectives and approaches to various key issues, to develop operations in the best way possible. Managers at Handelsbanken must be exemplary cultural ambassadors, which is why union representatives or employee representatives and most are recruited internally. In 2018, 96 per cent of managers. Valuable information and experiences are all managers in the Group were recruited internally. exchanged at the very early stages of pending changes For Sweden, the corresponding ﬁgure was 99 per cent. or new services, for example. Handelsbanken also has It is important that those who work at branches have a European Works Council (EWC), with representatives natural links to and good knowledge of their community from senior management and employee representatives and local market. from the countries, which serves as a forum for inforHandelsbanken has a Student Programme in mation and discussion on joint cross-border topics in Sweden and Norway aimed at young people studying the European countries where the Group operates. at university or college. The purpose is to attract and recruit young employees to support Handelsbanken’s EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIVENESS management succession and competency planning Gender equality, diversity and an inclusive corporate and to promote gender equality and diversity. As part culture are part of our core values and must be a natuof this programme, each student works at the Bank ral part of our daily work. The goal is an even gender during their years at school, takes relevant professional balance within different professional roles, working development courses and learns about the Bank’s groups and units in a work environment that enables culture, to be able to develop at Handelsbanken. each person to make the most of their skills. We trust Handelsbanken’s traditionally good relationships and and respect one another, allow and appreciate differco-operation with unions are a valuable component of ences, share knowledge and experiences, take new the culture. There is an ongoing, close dialogue between approaches and are open to new perspectives. At Handelsbanken, we strive to create a positive manager and employee, we can listen, adapt, “ Thirteen employees in work environment and to promote good health. and implement improvements in the working London and Manchester Our goal is for all our employees to feel good. environment to create a more sustainable working life,” says Kajal Sheth, Head of Retail completed their training During the year, Handelsbanken UK has Banking Compliance. in Mental Health First Aid introduced a number of initiatives aiming to “We are seeing increasing instances of during spring 2018.” improve knowledge about and prevent stressabsence for mental health-related reasons and related illnesses among both managers and are working proactively to address the underlyemployees. One of the activities is an employee ing causes. The training course is directed at training course – Mental Health First Aid both managers and employees and is a key (MHFA) – led by experts in the field. The course initiative in this area. We have also introduced is intended to increase awareness as to a system which ensures that employees have how mental health-related problems can be certified mental health first aiders to turn to prevented and managed. when needed,” explains Kajal, who is herself “To give our employees the best possible a certified first aider. conditions for them to perform, we realise that While a number of employees at Head Office we have to focus more on health and wellhave already become accredited as Mental being, not just on professional competencies. Health First Aiders, the intention is to roll out the Kajal Sheth, Head of Retail By facilitating a continuous dialogue between scheme to staff across the entire UK during 2019. Banking Compliance H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 35 THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER Several of the Bank’s managers and employees are active in various external mentor programmes and networks to contribute to activities that promote integration and diversity. Through various collaborations in Sweden, the Bank offers internships for recently arrived immigrants. Handelsbanken’s Diversity Council is a Group-wide forum for gender equality and diversity whose members come from the management teams in all home markets, Handelsbanken Capital Markets, Group IT and Group HR. In 2018, the Council focused on integrating gender equality and diversity in business planning for each country and unit. Within the Group, various initiatives are carried out to increase gender equality and awareness of how social and cultural norms affect attitudes and behavmonitor trends in gender-equal pay within the Bank. iours in everyday life. In Sweden, for example, training Managers at the Bank have a mandate and the tools to programmes on gender and gender equality are correct any differentials that are discovered. Each year, conducted periodically for members of management all salaries are mapped by the Bank to act on any differteams, HR specialists and union representatives. In the entials that have arisen. UK, there are mentor programmes to encourage more women to choose the management track. In Finland, HEALTH AND WORK ENVIRONMENT gender equality and diversity are being integrated in Handelsbanken keeps a steady focus on issues all internal management training and in orientation concerning employees’ health and the work environcourses for new employees. Handelsbanken Capital ment. Our overall goal for the work environment is that Markets has conducted several activities for managers it should enable employees to feel good, develop and and employees focused on the work environment, perform at optimal capacity. To achieve our work attitudes, culture and values. Several of these courses environment goal, we target a number of health factors. were conducted together with external partners with An ongoing dialogue between employees and their specialised knowledge. managers makes it possible to detect early signs of poor health and to ensure the work situation is sustainEQUAL PAY able in the long run. All employees are responsible for The Bank is working to rectify unwarranted pay differtheir own health and for contributing to a positive work entials between women and men. In Sweden, this work environment. progressed for several years in co-operation with the Each manager is responsible for performing regular union organisations and is now part of ordinary business work environment surveys, based on our health factors, operations. The Bank and the union organisations work with their employees and union representative or together to safeguard the results achieved and to closely employee representative. The survey questions relate to the situation in the workplace, covering the psychosocial and physical work environment, security, gender equality, diversity and inclusiveness. Health and the work environment at Handelsbanken I’m proud to work at Handelsbanken Trust Respect Yes, definitely 67% Yes, more or less 29% Pride Balance Not really 3% Definitely not 1% Feel good Develop Optimal capacity Competence Communication I feel respected for who I am Physical work environment Security Handelsbanken’s overall goals for health and the work Yes, definitely 70% environment are that employees should feel good, develop Yes, more or less 27% and perform at optimal capacity. Our efforts for the work environment focus on several health factors that are Not really 3% collectively the prerequisites for a positive, respectful Definitely not 0% and inclusive work environment. H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2018 36 THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER “Handelsbanken has a transparent and explicit zero-tolerance approach to discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment and victimisation.” The surveys provide an opportunity for all employees If an employee suspects some form of internal fraud or Looking forward to express their opinions on what is working well and other irregularity, the Bank has an established system what improvements need to be made. Each work for whistleblowing in which the employee can make a • A new platform for learning group discusses the survey results and formulates report anonymously. and professional development an annual plan of activities to improve and maintain will illuminate the connection a positive, respectful and inclusive work environment. HEALTH AND LEISURE between competency requireThe activities are integrated in the business plan and Balancing work and leisure helps foster the conditions ments and the need for profesfollowed up continually. for good health. Handelsbanken offers a large number sional development for Every country and department regularly monitors of subsidised health-promotion and recreational activicurrent and future roles at the their work environment, sickness absence rate and ties. One sports and leisure association in Sweden Bank. Part of this work is to reported incidents for all employees in a joint health and dates back to 1919 and has 4,600 members. Denmark improve the process for safety forum involving employee and employer repreand Finland have similar associations. Sweden also has planning dialogues and sentatives. As of 2017, every country and department an art association with two sections: an art section with performance reviews for both can follow up the results of completed work environ3,500 members and a crafts and design section with employees and managers. ment surveys at an aggregate level, by health factor, 2,500 members. Handelsbanken’s Historical Associa• The Bank will conduct a global by question and by gender identity. tion, whose aim is to spread knowledge about and prehealth activity focusing on In Sweden, the mandatory work environment serve the Bank’s cultural heritage, has 1,200 members. physical activity, lifestyle and training for managers and union representatives was In 2018, health and leisure efforts were stepped up recovery. revised to sharpen its focus on inclusiveness, work to expand initiatives so that they reach even more • To raise awareness of and adaptation and rehabilitation. employees. A Group-wide health network has been foster constructive dialogue In 2018, UK operations focused in particular on formed for sharing experiences, collaborating and about how we behave towards health, as managers completed training programmes co-ordinating health initiatives for all employees. one another, discussion aimed at raising awareness of how stress-related illnesses can be prevented. In addition, all employees Staff magazine materials will be produced. have access to guidance and counselling by external The staff magazine Remissan started in 1948: for, about parties, and several employee volunteers have comand by the employees of Handelsbanken. Remissan’s pleted training on mental health ﬁrst aid. task is to create a sense of community, belonging and commitment among the employees and to reﬂect the culDiscrimination and victimisation ture throughout the Group. Remissan is now a digital site, We are each other’s work environment, and how we with an Englishand a Swedish-language version, accesinteract with one another in the course of our day-tosible to all current and retired employees of the Group. day work forms our culture. Constantly striving for a respectful and inclusive culture is integral to our sysOKTOGONEN FOUNDATION tematic work environment efforts. Handelsbanken has One condition for achieving the Bank’s corporate goal of a transparent and explicit zero-tolerance approach to higher proﬁtability than the average of peer banks in its discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment and home markets is that the Bank’s employees outperform victimisation. Our guidelines, procedures and instructheir peers in the sector. In every year but three since tions clearly deﬁne the responsibilities for investigating 1973, Handelsbanken has allocated part of the Bank’s and handling such incidents. proﬁts to a proﬁt-sharing scheme for its employees. In the Group-wide work environment survey conThe funds are managed by the Oktogonen Foundation. ducted in 2018, 97 per cent of participants responded One condition for an allocation to be made is that that they feel respected for who they are. Handelsbanken meets its corporate goal. Each During the year, a sharper focus has been directed at employee receives an equal part of the allocated strengthening our procedures and guidelines in this amount, regardless of their position, form of employarea to safeguard our culture. ment or tasks. The proﬁt-sharing scheme is long term, Incidents reported are followed up regularly in each given the general rule that payments cannot begin country and department and at the Group level. With until the employee turns 60. Now, 98 per cent of the the aim of simplifying reporting and investigations and Group’s employees are covered by Oktogonen. to improve follow-up, a new system has been introFor many years, the Oktogonen Foundation has been duced for work environment incidents. If an incident one of the Bank’s largest shareholders and is therefore is reported to the national Equality Ombudsman or a represented on the Board of Handelsbanken by two corresponding ofﬁcial body, it is also followed up at directors. Oktogonen’s holding also entitles the FoundaGroup level. tion to a seat on the Bank’s nomination committee. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 37 THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE The Bank’s business culture Handelsbanken’s success depends on the confidence of our customers and society at large. This confidence is based on our acting according to high ethical standards and taking responsibility for long-term sustainable development. Corporate philosophy Conﬁdence in the Bank and our operations is based on ethical actions and high moral standards in everything we do. We believe in always being accountable. Also, by living up to our commitments – as a ﬁnancial institution, employer and a part of the local and international business community – we want to make a positive difference in the local community where we operate. Two core values are cornerstones in our business culture: trust and respect for the individual and always taking a long-term approach. These values are timeless, which makes it possible for us to adapt and develop at pace with changes in the world around us. Business ethics at Handelsbanken The values managed by Handelsbanken are extensive and it is vital that society, and also the relationship with owners and investors. The policy we do this property. We have strict demands on good administrative covers the environment, human rights and working conditions, antiorder in the Bank. By doing things the right way the ﬁrst time, we reduce corruption, money laundering, and taxes. Handelsbanken aims to the risk and cost of correcting things later. To ensure good administrative integrate ﬁnancial, social and environmental sustainability into all its order, of course, our employees must comply with the regulations and business operations. legislation that govern the Bank’s operations and we must have reliable The Bank’s success depends on the conﬁdence of customers, work processes and monitoring. employees, owners, public authorities and other stakeholders that the Banking operations are regulated and governed by extensive laws and Group is acting in a responsible manner. To maintain this conﬁdence, regulations. Handelsbanken has its own policies and guidelines as well the Group’s sustainability activities must be transparent. that govern our way of working. These also apply to our service providers. For example, Handelsbanken’s Board has adopted several Group-wide Managing tax-related matters policies on ethical standards, anti-corruption and sustainability. Also, the In addition to its policy for sustainability, which includes a section on taxes Bank’s Group Chief Executive has issued guidelines that further clarify the that serves as a starting point for the Bank’s work with tax-related matters, Bank’s approach in various areas. These documents spell out the basic Handelsbanken also has guidelines for managing taxes. guidelines for every employee. The Bank’s actions regarding tax-related matters must be responsible and transparent and comply with prevailing laws and regulations, and high Policy for sustainability ethical standards must always be observed. Handelsbanken must never Handelsbanken’s policy for sustainability was adopted by the Bank’s participate in transactions or provide products or services that may be called Board in 2016. The policy sets the direction for the Group’s sustainability into question in the light of prevailing tax legislation. The Group’s policy for activities, in terms of Handelsbanken’s approach to material topics relatsustainability and policy on ethical standards, as well as a summary of the ing to customers, the Group’s actions as an employer and business in guideline for managing taxes, are available on the Bank’s website. Handelsbanken’s policy on ethical standards means that we: • observe high ethical standards • as employees stay abreast of relevant laws and • follow laws, regulations and guiding principles regulations • support international initiatives and guidelines • deal with reports from employees who suspect • counteract financial crime internal fraud or other irregularities • treat customers with respect, such as when • protect confidentiality. providing advisory services • counteract conflicts of interest HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 38 THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE “ The work of combating financial crime is not only a legal matter but also a vital issue related to the Bank’s business, reputation and customer satisfaction. We must never be associated with fraudulent operations or risk customers or the Bank losing money.” Hannu Saari, Chief Financial Crime Prevention Officer, Handelsbanken. Efforts to prevent financial crime Handelsbanken has a Group-wide department a day in our digital meeting places, via online banking or dedicated to preventing ﬁnancial crime. An important their phone. This means that Handelsbanken needs to Relevant SDG starting point is the body of external regulations on know how our customers are using the Bank’s products combating money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing. and services and through which channels – to underHeaded by a member of the Bank’s Senior Managestand customer needs and behaviour and to be able to ment, the department works to prevent, thwart and work effectively with measures to counteract ﬁnancial We see our efforts to prevent money detect use of the Bank’s products and services for crime. laundering and terrorist financing as money laundering, terrorist ﬁnancing, tax evasion, This work demands competency and awareness. fundamental to secure and sound corruption, fraud or breaches of international sanctions. Each year, employees and managers are to complete a banking operations and thus as conThis is a prerequisite for our being able to conduct mandatory training programme on combating money tributing to goal 16, target 16.4. The Bank’s employees must never particisecure and sound banking operations. laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing. Each employee and pate in activities that could involve Handelsbanken’s decentralised working methods manager must take responsibility for reducing the risk bribery or corruption, target 16.5. and strong local presence in the community facilitate that Handelsbanken might offer services and products Examples: the building of close, long-term customer relationships. to customers who use them as part of some form of Goal 16: 95 per cent of the Bank’s This means that our staff get to know their customers ﬁnancial crime. It is also important for employees and employees and managers have and can understand their business and requirements. managers to know what to do if they suspect that the completed the annual mandatory This is also essential for maintaining effective proceBank is being used for criminal activity. training programme on combating dures, processes and systems, to minimise the risk that To bolster Handelsbanken’s work in this area, the money laundering and terrorist financing. The Bank has performed risk the Bank will be used to commit some kind of crime. Bank will continue to invest in expertise as well as new assessments in the area of financial Our customer relationships begin primarily at one of technology. crime, which includes corruption. our branches. Customers also meet the Bank 24 hours Our core values Our core values mean that we: • focus on the customer’s needs – not individual products • encourage independent decision-making • are innovative and proactive • take responsibility for our own personal development • have high ethical and moral standards • like keeping good administrative order • work together towards common goals • contribute to the development of our operations and our colleagues. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 39 THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE the customer negatively. The Bank’s policy for improper inﬂuence on a customer or supplier. Conflicts of interest, managing conﬂicts of interest provides further Each year all unit heads must review the regulacorruption, bribery guidance for the Bank’s work in this area, for tions applying to bribery and improper inﬂuence example by listing areas where conﬂicts of with their employees. The Bank’s employees and improper interest could arise in our operations. The policy must not participate in actions that may involve influence includes details on the procedure for identifying and managing conﬂicts of interest. For example, bribery or any other improper inﬂuence, either within the Bank’s operations or when they perConﬂicts of interest occur daily in society, and each year potential conﬂicts of interest, as well form other assignments outside the Bank. There the ﬁnancial sector is no exception. All employees as how they have been managed, must be are also procedures for how employees are to of Handelsbanken, regardless of where they reported by those units deemed to have a report a suspected breach of these regulations. work in the Group, are obliged to follow the greater probability of conﬂicts of interest. Such The regulations must be followed in all contexts, Bank’s regulations concerning conﬂicts of reports are made by Handelsbanken Capital such as gifts, corporate hospitality and other interest. Conﬂicts of interest must be identiﬁed Markets and by all branches outside Sweden, events. For example, employees’ business whenever they arise and avoided as far as for example. travel must always be paid for by the Bank. possible. In banking operations, there is a risk that staff Each year, the Bank performs risk assessHandelsbanken has established procedures will be exposed to situations that can be linked ments in the area of ﬁnancial crime, including for managing conﬂicts of interest with the aim of to attempts at bribery, which in turn may lead to corruption, for all countries. Corruption must preventing any negative impact on customers’ a position of dependence. Thus it is crucial that also be taken into account in the self-evaluation interests. The Bank’s regulations contain the Bank’s employees comply with laws and of operational risk that each unit must perform requirements for transparency, whereby the with the Bank’s regulations regarding bribery annually. Security reviews are also performed customer must be informed when a conﬂict of and improper inﬂuence, so that they avoid being every year and contain a training and informainterest has been identiﬁed which might affect dependent on a customer or supplier or having tion section on corruption. The Bank as a customer and our suppliers Ethical considerations are just as important whether the Bank is the customer or the provider of a product or service. We have an ongoing dialogue with our suppliers, and when making purchasing decisions we ensure that they have collective bargaining agreements, a work environment policy and a policy against giving and accepting bribes. In addition, we always consider the environment in making such decisions. A checklist helps ensure quality in the Bank’s purchases. Handelsbanken has implemented a code of conduct for major suppliers in Sweden. Results have been excellent, and most of the Bank’s major suppliers have signed the code. We see a positive link between the code, our relationships with suppliers, and their direct impact on our sustainability activities, and we continue working to implement the code in the Bank’s other home markets. The code of conduct deﬁnes the expectations we have on our suppliers and their subcontractors. Most of the expectations are based on internationally accepted standards, with the UN Global Compact as the starting point. This means that the Bank expects that our suppliers will comply with the code of conduct or corresponding standards. Suppliers should also ensure Looking forward that their employees and subcontractors comply with We will continue to work the code. on implementing a code of conduct for our major suppliers in all home markets. HA ND EL SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R EPORT 2018 40 THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT The Bank as an investment Responsible actions are essential to long-term value creation in Handelsbanken. Based on each customer’s needs, we make long-term, responsible business decisions that foster the conditions for sustainable value creation. Sustainable value creation consists of two parts: A BUSINESS MODEL THAT CREATES creating shareholder value and working to minimise any SHAREHOLDER VALUE Relevant SDGs negative impact that the business operations could In Handelsbanken’s decentralised organisation, our have on their surroundings. The former is easier to customers’ needs are at the centre. The Bank works measure than the latter. Handelsbanken is one of the on the basis of a well-tested business model that has few publicly traded banks in Europe that has generated not changed since the early 1970s. As a result of this A precondition for creating sharea positive total return for its shareholders since the decentralisation, practically all important business deciholder value is to simultaneously ﬁnancial crisis began a little over 10 years ago. Thus sions that affect an individual customer are made close create long-term value for the Bank’s Handelsbanken is one of the few banks in Europe that to the customer, at the local branch in the community customers and society as a whole. fulﬁls a basic criterion for sustainable value creation – where the customer is active. This business model has By striving for long-term, stable growth, we promote macroeconomic actually creating value. Since the ﬁnancial crisis began enabled the Bank to report proﬁtability at very stable stability and a good investment in summer 2007, Handelsbanken’s share has achieved levels over a long period. Every year since 1972, the climate (goal 8). a total return of 164 per cent. This can be compared Bank has achieved its ﬁnancial goal of higher proﬁtability Examples: with the European index for bank shares, Euro STOXX than the average of peer banks in its home markets. Goal 8: Our way of conducting bankBank, which produced a total return of -81 per cent ing operations with low risk and low during the same period. credit losses enables us to contribute to economic growth throughout the business cycle. Goal 13: The capital raised through the issue of Handelsbanken’s green bond will be used for lending to clearly definable investments that lead to low CO2 emissions and a climate-sustainable future. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 41 THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT “ Sustainable value creation consists of two parts: creating shareholder value and working to minimise any negative impact that the business operations could have on their surroundings.” Proﬁtability Low risk tolerance Proﬁtability is a keyword at Handelsbanken. For more A bank that takes a long-term approach and focuses than four decades, the objective has been to generate on customer satisfaction with the aim of achieving shareholder value – but not at just any cost. Value proﬁtability naturally has low risk tolerance. A large part creation must be sustainable. In addition to Handelsof banking operations is based on managing risk. banken’s ﬁnancial goals, the Bank aims to act as a Handelsbanken’s business model focuses on taking responsible business in society. credit risks in the branch operations and works to miniIn the banking sector, there is often a strong link mise other risks. The Bank deliberately avoids doing between ﬁnancial and social sustainability. When ﬁnanbusiness with high risk, even if the customer is willing to cial sustainability falters, there are often negative social pay a high interest rate. Handelsbanken has no sales repercussions – and vice versa. volume or market share targets. Aggressive selling of It is vital that a bank makes a proﬁt. Not only does credits which leads to an unhealthy level of household the proﬁt generate a return for shareholders and tax and corporate debt always hits the customer hardest. revenue for society, but much of the proﬁt is reinvested The Bank’s stated goal is that no credit will result in in operations. That allows the bank to meet customers’ losses. This promotes long-term value creation for the future loan requirements and generate growth in the Bank’s shareholders, too. future. HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARE – A SUSTAINABLE A long-term approach INVESTMENT Another key concept that aptly describes HandelsResearch analysts who specialise in sustainability often banken’s actions is ‘long term’. The Bank takes a draw attention to Handelsbanken as a solid investment. long-term view of its business operations and its relaThe share is included in the following sustainability tionships with customers. Handelsbanken views every indexes: Ethibel Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good, recruitment of a new employee as signiﬁcant and long OMX GES Sustainability, SIX Sweden SRI Index and term. External staff turnover is low, and all members ECPI Global Developed ESG Best in class Equity. of Handelsbanken’s Senior Management have been As in previous years, Handelsbanken participated in recruited internally, most having spent their entire worka survey of sustainable companies conducted by the ing life in the Bank. Handelsbanken favours long-term Robecosam research company. Handelsbanken was investors as shareholders. included in the Sustainability Yearbook 2018 as a These approaches intersect in Handelsbanken’s ‘Sustainability Yearbook Member’. That means proﬁt-sharing scheme Oktogonen, which is the direct Handelsbanken scored in the top 15 per cent of all opposite of a short-term bonus system. Handelsbanks in the world with respect to sustainability. banken’s proﬁt-sharing scheme is long term, given the About 30 investment banks have research analysts general rule that payments cannot begin until the who regularly monitor Handelsbanken and its shares. In employee has turned 60. In the meantime, the funds addition, Handelsbanken was in contact with sustainaare invested in Handelsbanken shares. Consequently, bility analysts from about 10 independent research the employees take the same long-term view of the ﬁrms in 2018. Bank’s business operations as other long-term shareDuring the past ﬁve-year period, Handelsbanken has holders do. generated a positive shareholder value of SEK 47 billion. Market capitalisation has decreased by SEK 10 billion, Customer satisfaction while the Bank has paid out SEK 57 billion in dividends Yet another key phrase for Handelsbanken is ‘customer to shareholders. satisfaction’. The Bank is convinced that there is a strong connection between long-term proﬁtability and customers being satisﬁed with the service they receive and the products and services the Bank offers. HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2018 42 THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT Green bond By issuing green bonds, Handelsbanken has yet The capital raised through the issue of Handelsbanken’s another means to promote the long-term development green bond will be used for lending to clearly deﬁnable of sustainable solutions by ﬁnancing green projects. investments that lead to low CO2 emissions and a In June 2018, Handelsbanken issued its ﬁrst green climate-sustainable future. Examples of this are clean bond: a ﬁve-year green senior bond for EUR 500 million. transport, sustainable forest management, green The issue was made possible by the Green Bond buildings, renewable energy and sustainable water Framework which the Bank produced during the management. spring. The Framework received a rating of ‘Dark Green At the time of issue, about SEK 10 billion in assets Shade’ – the highest possible – from Cicero, the Center were in the green registry. We expect this volume to for International Climate Research, an independent body. grow signiﬁcantly in the future. Our home markets Markets showed intense interest in the Bank’s ﬁrst already show a great need for ﬁnancing of green and green bond, which was more than three times oversustainable projects, and that demand is unlikely to subscribed. decrease in the future. SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES COMPILED BY ECPI ECPI Ethibel Sustainability Index Forum Ethibel FTSE4Good FTSE OMX GES Sustainability Nasdaq OMX/GES SIX Sweden SRI Index SIX Finance Information STOXX Global ESG Leaders STOXX H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 43 INITIATIVES, COLLABORATIONS, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES Initiatives, collaborations, awards, surveys and sustainability indexes As a member of the business community, Handelsbanken participates in many initiatives and collaborations to demonstrate our commitment and contribute through various efforts in line with our operations, and for important exchange with representatives from different spheres of society. In addition to the initiatives and collaborations presented here, which guide Handelsbanken’s efforts, the Bank also adheres to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Sustainable Development Goals, the International Labour Organization’s core conventions, and the Children’s Rights and Business Principles. INITIATIVES AND COLLABORATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT UNEP FI The more than 90 members of the initiative In 2009, Handelsbanken signed UNEP FI is a partnership between represent ﬁnancial institutions from 37 countries. the UN Global Compact, an the United Nations Environment Members undertake to implement the principles initiative aimed at companies and Programme (UNEP) and the global in their internal guidelines, processes and which advocates 10 principles ﬁnancial sector, created after the procedures for project ﬁnance and to report based on international conven1992 Earth Summit, with a mission annually on projects that have been assessed tions. These principles, established in 2000, to promote sustainable ﬁnance. or ﬁnanced based on the framework. cover human rights, labour, the environment More than 200 ﬁnancial institutions, including and anti-corruption. banks, insurers and investors, work with UNEP IIGCC to understand today’s challenges regarding the The mission of the InstituPRI environment, society and corporate governtional Investors Group Principles for ance, why they matter to the ﬁnancial sector on Climate Change is to Responsible Investand how to actively address them. Handelsmobilise capital for the lowment (PRI) was banken has been a member of UNEP FI since carbon future by amplifying the investor voice launched in 2006 and is a network of investors the mid-1990s. and collaborating with business, policymakers and service providers that work together with and investors. Handelsbanken has been a the United Nations, UNEP Finance Initiative and CLIMATE ACTION 100+ member of IIGCC since December 2018. Global Compact to implement principles for Climate Action 100+ is responsible investment. The purpose is to proa ﬁve-year-long, global, TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL SWEDEN mote responsible behaviour among institutional co-operative initiative In 2017, investors and to work for increased openness linked to the Paris AgreeHandelsbanken and awareness of environmental, social and ment. The aim is to persuade those companies became a corporate governance issues in the companies emitting the most greenhouse gases to be member of Transparency International Sweden’s in which these actors invest. Handelsbanken accountable and lead the transition to clean Corporate Supporters Forum, as part of the became a signatory to the principles in 2009. energy. The investors behind the initiative call Bank’s commitment to work against corruption. PRI has more than 1,800 signatory members, on companies to combat climate change, curb This is a Swedish business forum that serves as from more than 50 countries, with total assets emissions and improve transparency. a platform for companies to pool their experience under management of roughly USD 70 trillion. and knowledge related to combating corruption. CDP Within the PRI framework, Handelsbanken particiCDP is an independent ECPAT pates in initiatives such as the following: PRI Methane Engagement is an initiative aimed at international non-proﬁt Since 2015, Handelsbanken has increasing investors’ understanding of methane risk organisation which works co-operated closely with ECPAT exposure in global portfolios and of best practices for transparency and dialogue on companies’ Sweden, a children’s rights organifor managing risks related to methane. environmental impacts and to make such inforsation that works to prevent and PRI Sustainable Palm Oil is an initiative where PRI has acted as coordinator and formed a work group mation available to investors. More than 5,600 raise awareness of the sexual that has taken a common stand to support sustainorganisations in more than 90 countries worldexploitation of children. ECPAT is a member able palm oil. The purpose is to raise awareness of wide measure and report their environmental of a global network represented in more than these issues among investors. The work group also impacts through CDP. 90 countries. We take responsibility in our dayinitiates dialogue with companies to support the development of more sustainable methods of palm CDP acts on behalf of more than 800 instituto-day operations, such as by obstructing and oil production. tional investors; Handelsbanken has been one preventing payments connected with materials Montréal Pledge is an initiative in which asset since 2015 and reports to CDP annually. depicting the sexual abuse of children. As part owners and investment managers have undertaken of this co-operation, we also work to educate to measure and report the carbon footprint in their portfolios. Handelsbanken has been part of the EQUATOR PRINCIPLES and raise awareness of sexual exploitation of initiative since 2015 and reports the carbon footHandelsbanken children. print for most of its equity funds. A list of these funds has signed the is published at handelsbanken.se/sustainability. Equator Principles. FINANCIAL COALITION AGAINST The Principles are a framework that provides COMMERCIAL SEXUAL EXPLOITATION guidance to ﬁnancial institutions for assessing OF CHILDREN social and environmental risks in project ﬁnance. Since 2009, HandelsThe Equator Principles were formally launched banken has been a in 2003, but over the years they have been member of this Financial updated to better support members in identifyCoalition, which works to obstruct and prevent ing, assessing, and managing environmental trade in images of child sexual abuse. Memberand social risks in project ﬁnancing. ship in the Coalition means that the Bank proactively takes a stand and increases awareness of the problem in order to contribute to preventive efforts within the Coalition. HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 44 INITIATIVES, COLLABORATIONS, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES GLOBAL CHILD FORUM SISD Handelsbanken, or in some cases a subsidiary, is a Since 2013, Handelsbanken Swedish Investors for Sustainable Development member of the following trade associations. has participated in Global is a platform where Swedish long-term investors The Swedish Bankers’ Association represents Child Forum, a non-proﬁt and actors in the ﬁnancial services sector can banks in Sweden and fosters conditions so that foundation that serves as an learn and exchange best practices and experithey can provide attractive and competitive ﬁnancial products and services to households and compaindependent forum for exchanging best pracence within the 2030 Agenda. The objective is to nies. The Association works to promote the sound tices and stimulating discussion about children’s explore, from various angles and perspectives, development of Swedish banking. rights. The Forum brings together leaders from the role of the long-term investor in the 2030 Insurance Sweden the business community, the public sector, Agenda and to provide ideas and inspiration for Insurance Sweden is a trade association that strives academia and society at large to foster co-operthe way forward. to promote good business conditions for insurance companies. The association also works to achieve a ation aimed at promoting children’s rights. high level of trust for the insurance industry and to SWESIF improve awareness of the signiﬁcance of private WORLD CHILDHOOD FOUNDATION Handelsbanken Asset insurance in society. Since 2010, Management is a member UK Finance Handelsbanken has of Swesif, an independent, UK Finance was formed in July 2017 to represent the banking and ﬁnance sector in the United Kingsupported the World not-for-proﬁt forum for organisations that work dom. The association has about 300 members in Childhood Foundation, which works to prevent with sustainable investment in Sweden. Their the UK, providing credit, banking, marketing and violence against and sexual abuse of children. activities aim to increase knowledge of and payment-related services. The Foundation wants to ensure that all children interest in sustainable and responsible investSwedish Securities Dealers Association have the opportunity to develop into strong, ment. To make it easier for savers to compare The Swedish Securities Dealers Association represents the common interests of companies conﬁdent, responsible people. Its work focuses mutual funds and how sustainability is intethat conduct securities operations in Sweden. on those children who are often forgotten: children grated in their management, Swesif developed The Association’s overall goal is a sound, strong who live on the streets, in institutions or in a a sector-wide sustainability declaration for and efﬁcient Swedish securities market. family where the parents are unable to give them funds. Since 2015, most of Handelsbanken’s Swedish Investment Fund Association what children need most – trustworthy adults. funds have this type of sustainability declaration. The Swedish Investment Fund Association strives for a sound industry in the interest of savers. The For more information, see swesif.org/swesif/ Association monitors work on legislation related to PERSONAL FINANCE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE hallbarhetsproﬁlen-english. Since spring 2016, the mutual fund sector and comments on proposed Handelsbanken Asset Management has served legislation from Swedish and EU government bodies. on Swesif’s board. Swesif Handelsbanken supports initiatives to improve Swesif is an independent, not-for-proﬁt forum for young people’s knowledge of personal ﬁnance organisations that work with sustainable investment WOMEN IN FINANCE CHARTER by supporting information campaigns and conin Sweden. Their activities aim to increase knowlAs part of its efforts towards gender edge of and interest in sustainable and responsible tributing know-how. Ung Privatekonomi (‘Young equality, Handelsbanken in the investment. Personal Finances’) is a schools information UK signed the Women in Finance Norsif project that teaches Swedish upper secondary Charter, an initiative from HM Norsif is an independent association that works with school students and teachers about personal sustainable investment in Norway. The association Treasury, which means the Bank is committed ﬁnances and savings. strives to increase knowledge about and contribute to work for more gender balance in the ﬁnancial to progress in responsible investment in the ﬁnancial sector. sector and among other stakeholders. CLIMATE BONDS INITIATIVE Finsif The Climate Bonds RESOURCE EFFECTIVENESS AND Finland’s Sustainable Investment Forum is a memInitiative (CBI) is an ber-based organisation that works with sustainable THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY international non-proﬁt organisation that proinvestment in Finland. Its purpose is to increase motes investment in climate-change solutions. interest in sustainability and to encourage members to integrate sustainability in their investment decisions. The organisation aims to facilitate the mobiliDansif sation of capital in the global bond market by The Danish Social Investment Forum is an impartial developing a large and liquid market for green forum for players with a substantial interest in Handelsbanken is participating in a project bonds. responsible investment in Denmark. Its purpose launched by the Royal Swedish Academy of is to spread and exchange experiences among Handelsbanken has been active in green and Engineering Sciences (IVA) in 2018. The twomembers of the Forum and to facilitate a diversiﬁed sustainable ﬁnance for several years and been a year project aims to make Sweden a pioneer in debate on responsible investment. CBI partner since 2017. creating the resource-effective, circular society. In harmony with the Sustainable Development SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION Goals, the project aims to strengthen Sweden’s Since 2009, competitive edge in a future of limited resources, Handelsbanken while spurring co-operation and forward motion Asset Management in Sweden’s resource choices. has collaborated with other major Swedish investors on the Sustainable Value Creation project. The aim of the project is to highlight the importance of Swedish listed companies working with sustainability topics in a structured manner. To encourage, support and follow up on the companies’ sustainability efforts, Sustainable Value Creation conducts surveys and organises seminars and round-table discussions. In its capacity as one of the 100 largest listed Swedish companies, Handelsbanken has itself responded to the surveys on sustainability activities. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 45 INITIATIVES, COLLABORATIONS, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES AWARDS BEST PRIVATE BANK – FINANCIAL TIMES BUSINESS BANK OF THE YEAR AND AND INVESTORS CHRONICLE WEALTH SWEDEN’S SMALL ENTERPRISE MANAGEMENT AWARDS BANK 2018 Handelsbanken in the UK has Handelsbanken has been named ‘Best Private once again been voted Bank’ in the Financial Times Business Bank of the Year – for the eighth year and Investors Chronicle Wealth running – and Sweden’s Small Enterprise Bank Management Awards for the – for the seventh year running. The survey sixth time. The judges’ decision was based on a showed that Handelsbanken is appreciated by survey in which the readers of the magazine related small as well as large companies. The Bank their experiences and provided opinions about their achieved the highest rating in the categories: banks. customer satisfaction, quality of advisory services, service and customer treatment, SERVICESCORE 2018 electronic services and the range of products For the seventh consecutive year, and services. The survey showed that personal Handelsbanken received the service and local presence are greatly appreciaward for best service among ated in an increasingly digitalised society. banks in Sweden from ServiceFinansbarometern is one of Sweden’s largest Score. The Bank was applauded for its business independent market surveys, focusing on how model, anchored in the branch, where customers companies view their banking relationships. The feel they can talk with the person who makes survey compiles the responses of about 1,500 the decisions. ServiceScore is based on assesspersons, from companies and organisations with ments of companies in 22 sectors, by some more than 100 employees or turnover of at least 3,300 people, of the level of service that customers SEK 100 million, as well as small enterprises with feel they receive, based on their expectations. 1–20 employees. Respondents are CEOs, CFOs or other people in a position to inﬂuence the company’s choice of banking services. SURVEYS GLOBAL FINANCE SUSTAINABLE BRAND INDEX KANTAR SIFO REPUTATION INDEX 2018 Handelsbanken is one of eight The 2018 results of Handelsbanks scoring the most points Scandinavia’s largest banken on the 2018 list of the world’s annual brand study placed 11th among companies in Sweden with safest commercial banks, focusing on sustainability – Sustainable Brand the best reputation, according to the 2018 according to Global Finance’s Index™ – show that Handelsbanken enjoys a survey by Kantar Sifo, which every year asks annual ranking. The internatop position among banks in Sweden, among the Swedish public how much conﬁdence they tional monthly Global Finance reports on the consumers (B2C) as well as decision-makers have in various companies. Around 4,300 global economy and ﬁnancial and political (B2B). In these studies, 40,000 consumers and people aged 18–79 took part in the survey. issues from a global business perspective. Each 1,000 decision-makers assessed the sustainaThey answered questions about what they year the magazine publishes a ranking of the bility of each brand. expected of various companies and how well world’s safest commercial banks, based on an Based on the operating environment, people those expectations were met. evaluation of bank ratings from the credit rating and brand, the studies seek to understand why agencies Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, a brand is perceived in a certain way and how for the most recent full-year reporting period. sustainability inﬂuences purchasing decisions. SATISFIED CUSTOMERS THE SUSTAINABILITY YEARBOOK 2018 In 2018, Handelsbanken Handelsbanken is one of the most sustainable had more satisﬁed private banks in the world, according to the research and corporate customers ﬁrm Robecosam. In every year since 2004, than the average for the the sustainability analysts at Robecosam have banking sector in all of listed in their Sustainability Yearbook those the Bank’s six home markets. Thus the Bank companies they consider the most sustainable. enjoys solid customer satisfaction. EPSI Rating In 2018, Handelsbanken was included as a (Extended Performance Satisfaction Index) and ‘Sustainability Yearbook Member’, which SKI (Swedish quality index) compile, analyse means that Handelsbanken scored among the and distribute information about customer top 15 per cent of all the banks in the world satisfaction, loyalty and more aspects of the with respect to sustainability. The evaluations customer experience, such as image, perceived of the research analysts are based on an array quality and value for money. EPSI Rating and of sustainability criteria, with economic, environSKI are backed by the Swedish Institute for mental and social dimensions. Each company Quality (SIQ). Research and development receives a total sustainability rating between 0 related to EPSI’s quality surveys is conducted and 100, resulting in a ranking of all companies together with SIQ and the Stockholm School of in each sector. Handelsbanken received a total Economics. rating of 80 (new method, 77). H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 46 INITIATIVES, COLLABORATIONS, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES UNIVERSUM Young professionals ACADEMIC WORK Students In Universum’s 2018 In the 2018 Young ProAccording to CorpoCareer Barometer fessional Attraction Index rate Barometer 2018 survey, Sweden’s survey by Academic – a survey carried out young professionals Work, Handelsbanken was regarded as having by Universum, an named their ideal employers. ‘Young profesthe best reputation in the Banking and ﬁnance employer branding consultancy – Handelssionals’ refers to people under 40 with an category – at the top of its sector. The results banken was the top bank in Sweden and ninth academic background and one to eight years’ are based on more than 13,700 responses from overall among a total of 100 companies. The experience of working life. Among professionals university and college students and persons survey’s participants – business students in working in business, Handelsbanken placed with a university degree who have worked ﬁve Sweden – responded to questions about ideal 27th of 100 companies in total. years or less after graduating in Sweden. To employers and graded these based on the criteria: In this survey, too, participants responded to measure total reputation, participants were reputation and image, people and corporate questions about what a good employer is based asked to respond to the survey based on three culture, remuneration and opportunities to on the criteria: reputation and image, people parameters: the employer’s reputation in the advance, and job characteristics. and corporate culture, remuneration and oppormarket, the employer’s perceived success and tunities to advance, and job characteristics. whether or not the respondent wanted to work These two rankings show that Handelsbanken for the employer. is regarded as one of Sweden’s most attractive employers according to Universum’s surveys. SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES Handelsbanken is analysed and FTSE4GOOD STOXX GLOBAL ESG LEADERS assessed by both customers and finanHandelsbanken was also Handelsbanken is cial market players. The results and selected for the FTSE4Good included in the STOXX the assessment of the Bank show how Index during 2018. The index is Global ESG Leaders well Handelsbanken lives up to their independent and is based on index. The companies expectations. analyses of companies’ work with environmental, included in the index were selected in a process social and governance (ESG) practices. Handelsof analysis based on environmental, social ECPI banken has been part of the index since 2001. responsibility and corporate governance topics. Since the end The Index consists of three underlying indexes: of the 1990s, OMX GES SUSTAINABILITY STOXX Global ESG Environmental Leaders, ECPI has Together with GES Investment Services, a STOXX Global ESG Social Leaders and STOXX provided ﬁnancial markets with various sustainresearch company, the Nasdaq Stockholm Global ESG Governance Leaders. Handelsability indexes. Handelsbanken has been stock exchange launched a sustainability index banken is included in all three of these indexes. selected for the ECPI Euro Ethical Equity, ECPI that provides investors with a universe of Global Developed ESG Best in Class Equity and companies that fulﬁl sustainability requirements. ECPI World ESG Equity indexes. Handelsbanken has qualiﬁed for the OMX GES OMXS30 Ethical Price Index and the OMX GES ETHIBEL SUSTAINABILITY INDEX Sustainability Sweden index as well as the The Brussels-based OMX GES Sustainability Nordic index. organisation Forum Ethibel provides ﬁnancial SIX SWEDEN SRI INDEX markets with information The SIX Sweden SRI Index is a collaboration on various companies and their sustainability between SIX Financial Information and ISSactivities. Its analyses are carried out by the Ethix. The index consists of companies listed on Vigeo Eiris research company, and based on the Stockholm stock exchange that meet ISSthese results Forum Ethibel creates a universe Ethix’s sustainability criteria comprising a modern that forms a platform for sustainability products standard for social, environmental and ethical and responsible investment. Handelsbanken criteria, where the concepts of sustainability and has been included in the Ethibel Excellence responsibility are in focus. SRI screening is also Investment Register since 2004, and in applied to other indexes, such as the SIX30 SRI September 2018 the Svenska Handelsbanken Index and SIX60 SRI Index. The Handelsbanken A share was reconﬁrmed as a constituent of share is also included in these indexes. the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 47 In-depth information about sustainability CONTENTS GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES FACTS: RESPONSIBLE AND FACTS 49 INVESTMENT 58 Investment process 58 SUMMARY OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 49 Climate-related ﬁnancial disclosures 59 Principles for corporate governance FACTS: THE BANK AS AN at Handelsbanken 49 EMPLOYER 60 Recruitment and diversity-related Staff turnover 60 work by the Board 49 Constant development 60 Internal control 49 Gender equality 60 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Health and work environment 60 FOR SUSTAINABILITY 50 Sickness absence 60 HANDELSBANKEN AND THE Remuneration and beneﬁts 60 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 50 Relationships with unions 61 SUSTAINABILITY RISK 50 FACTS: THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE 62 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE 51 Compliance and conﬁrmed incidents 62 Our stakeholders 51 Policy on ethical standards 62 Materiality analysis 52 Guidelines for managing taxes 62 KEY FIGURES FOR Policy for sustainability 62 SUSTAINABILITY 52 Work to prevent ﬁnancial crime 62 FACTS: THE BANK AND ITS CUSTOMERS 54 Conﬂicts of interest, corruption, bribery and improper inﬂuence 63 Satisﬁed customers 54 Suppliers 63 Integrity and conﬁdentiality – Information security and IT security 54 Principles when granting credit 63 FACTS: THE BANK’S ROLE FACTS: THE BANK AS AN IN THE COMMUNITY 54 INVESTMENT 63 Financial aspects 54 Public limited company 63 Modern slavery and human trafﬁcking 55 Dividend 63 Economic research and education 56 Creating shareholder value 63 Direct environmental and climate CONTENT, RESTRICTIONS AND impact 56 INDEXES ACCORDING TO THE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE 64 Services for the public good 57 FACTS: RESPONSIBLE AUDITOR’S REPORT 67 FINANCING 57 DEFINITIONS AND Business relationships 57 EXPLANATIONS 68 Exposure to climate risk 58 CONTACT DETAILS HA ND EL SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2018 48 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Governance, key figures and facts Sustainability is well integrated in Handelsbanken’s working methods, and there • Policy against corruption are several central bodies that co-ordinate the work at Group level and in the • Policy for managing conﬂicts of interest subsidiaries. Various processes, such as the ongoing stakeholder dialogues, also • Policy for remuneration exist to support our work with sustainability. Handelsbanken knows that there are • Policy for suitability assessment • Policy for risk control stakeholders who seek in-depth information. This part of the report, which deals • Policy for compliance with sustainability management, presents more detailed information. • Policy on measures against ﬁnancial crime • Policy for handling customer complaints. A summary of these policies can be found in Summary of RECRUITMENT AND DIVERSITY-RELATED WORK BY THE BOARD the Bank’s Corporate Governance Report and at handelsbanken.com. corporate governance Handelsbanken’s Board has adopted a policy to promote diversity on the Board. The policy states The following is a summary of the information Selection of guidelines established by the that to promote independent opinions and critical considered most material for the Sustainability Group Chief Executive: questioning, it is desirable that the Board should Report. For more information, please see the • Guidelines for environmental impact and be characterised by sufﬁcient diversity in terms of Bank’s full corporate governance report, which climate change age, gender, geographical origin, and educational can be found on pages 45–61 of the Annual • Guidelines regarding human rights and and professional background. The proportion of Report. working conditions women on the Board of the Bank is 36 per cent, Corporate governance concerns how the • Guidelines regarding business relations with and the proportion who are nationals of a country owners directly or indirectly control the Bank, the armaments and defence industry other than the one where Handelsbanken is and how rights and obligations are allocated • Guidelines regarding business relations in domiciled is 36 per cent. among the Bank’s bodies, in accordance with forestry and farming prevailing laws and regulations. • Guidelines for managing taxes. Composition of the Board after election at the AGM Handelsbanken’s Corporate Governance Report is based on a shareholder perspective. 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Policy documents that the boards of However, there are other stakeholders interested Total number of Handelsbanken’s subsidiaries have in Handelsbanken’s corporate governance upon Board members 11 11 11 10 10 decided on: whose trust the Bank depends. These include of which men 7 6 6 7 8 • Corporate governance policy for customers, employees, and bond investors as of which women 4 5 5 3 2 Handelsbanken Fonder well as the community at large. Nationality other than • Policy for responsible investment for Swedish 4 4 5 5 3 Handelsbanken Fonder PRINCIPLES FOR CORPORATE • Policy for responsible investment at Xact GOVERNANCE AT HANDELSBANKEN INTERNAL CONTROL Kapitalförvaltning Handelsbanken’s shareholders elect the Board, All managers at all levels in the Bank have a • Policy for responsible investment at and the Board appoints the Group Chief Execuresponsibility for internal control and the Bank’s Handelsbanken Liv tive. One way in which the Board exercises its compliance. Consequently, ﬁt-for-purpose • Policy for sustainability at Handelsbanken Liv governance of the Bank is by issuing policies and instructions and procedures for the operation • Policy for sustainability at Stadshypotek instructions. It is partly through the issued policies must be in place, and compliance with the • Policy against corruption at Stadshypotek. that the Board takes decisions regarding Handelsprocedures is monitored regularly. banken’s overall risk tolerance and ensures the The Compliance function, besides being Selection of guidelines in the HR area: Bank’s ﬁnancial stability. Through these, the Board responsible for compliance, provides advice and • Guideline on alcohol, drugs and gambling also decides on the Bank’s approach in several support in regulatory matters. Internal control • Guideline on victimisation, discrimination and essential sustainability issues regarding measures and compliance work are subject to internal and harassment against ﬁnancial crime, the environment, remunerexternal risk-based auditing. • Guideline on bribery and improper inﬂuence. ation, ethics and corruption. The Group Chief Handelsbanken has an established system for Executive also exercises governance by issuing whistleblowing, which means that an employee various policy documents. The Group Chief who suspects internal fraud or other irregularities Executive issues instructions for the managers can report these to a unit outside the employee’s who report directly to him and issues guidelines, own unit. Anonymous reports are also acted some of which provide more detailed directions upon. More information to complement and clarify the Board’s policies. More information about HandelsThese documents are revised every year but can Selection of policy documents established banken’s corporate governance by the Board: is also available at handelsbanken.se/ireng. be adjusted more often when necessary. • Credit policy The site includes the following information: However, the foundation of functioning corporate • previous corporate governance reports governance consists not only of formal documents • Policy for operational risk from 2008 onwards but also the Bank’s corporate culture, corporate • Capital policy • Articles of Association goal, working methods and remuneration system. • Financial policy • information about the nomination committee These are integral with the principles, strategies, • Information policy • minutes of shareholders’ meetings from limits and targets described in policy documents • Policy for sustainability 2008 onwards. and instructions. • Policy on ethical standards H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 49 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Matters of principle relating to sustainability in involved if we are to achieve these goals. Thus the Organisational asset management are the responsibility of business community also has a crucial role to play structure for Handelsbanken’s Responsible Investment Council. The Council is represented by the Bank’s two in the long-term fulﬁlment of the goals, as stated in the implementation plan produced by the UN. sustainability fund management companies: Handelsbanken As a bank, we are an important part of society, Fonder and Xact Kapitalförvaltning. The Council’s through our strong local presence and other ways Handelsbanken’s sustainability work is decentraltask is to actively monitor trends in responsible that we contribute to the community. That ised and carried out where the Bank’s business investment, to contribute to ongoing improvement includes paying taxes and fees, employing staff, and operational decisions are made. The work is in Handelsbanken’s work in this area, and to set granting credit, offering payment solutions and co-ordinated by a Group-wide specialist function. and follow up relevant objectives. For example, providing investment services as well as other The Bank also has a Sustainability Committee, the Council decides on what actions to take when banking services. Through the Bank’s operations, formed in 2010. Handelsbanken’s Chief Sustainathe Bank sees signs of sustainability risk in the we can contribute long-term to these goals. bility Ofﬁcer chairs the Committee, is a member investments made on behalf of customers. Handelsbanken’s Sustainability Committee of Senior Management, and reports to the Group has therefore analysed the 17 goals and their Chief Executive. The Committee consists of 169 targets to determine which of these our operrepresentatives from various operating areas throughout the Group and met regularly during Handelsbanken ations should focus on and how we can integrate them in the framework of sub-areas in the Bank’s 2018, a total of six times. and the Sustainable material topics. The analysis took into account This year, a sub-committee was created under the Sustainability Committee to work on ethical Development Goals the degree of inﬂuence, both indirect and direct, the identiﬁed risks and opportunities, and the and tax-related matters. The Head of Group Tax In September 2015, the UN General Assembly Bank’s most material sustainability topics. chairs this sub-committee, and representatives adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable DevelConsequently, in the next few years we will come from different business areas and central opment. It contains 17 sustainable development focus on the following six goals: departments within the Group. The sub-committee goals and 169 targets aimed at achieving long• Gender equality is tasked with discussing and providing opinions term sustainable economic, social and environ• Decent work and economic growth on tax-related matters in a sustainability perspecmental development in order to eradicate extreme • Industry, innovation and infrastructure tive, with regard to customers and suppliers and poverty, to reduce inequality and injustice in the • Sustainable cities and communities to the Group’s own tax management. world, and to combat climate change. The 2030 • Climate action Agenda is not only a matter for governments. On • Peace, justice and strong institutions. the contrary, it is vital that all parts of society get Sustainability risk The sustainability risks identiﬁed are related to the Bank’s different roles as a lender, asset manager, service provider, purchaser or employer. Sustainability risks span areas such as human rights, working conditions, the environment, climate, ﬁnancial crime, and information and IT security. It is important to anticipate and manage sustainability risk, for both ﬁnancial and legal reasons, as well as for the Bank’s reputation. Handelsbanken’s activities for managing sustainability risk follow the Bank’s decentralised model and are aligned with the Bank’s generally low tolerance of risk. The Bank’s business operations are responsible for identifying sustainability risks and managing them. This is done within a framework of established processes for risk management. Risk areas Risk description Potential impact on Actions to minimise the risk Leading conventions and Handelsbanken guidelines Human rights, Our own operations or our business relations could Impaired reputation and Mandatory training for employees, UN Universal Declaration of living and working have a negative impact on human rights. Risks weaker ﬁnancial position. the Supplier Code of Conduct, supplier Human Rights, International conditions related to working conditions chieﬂy concern health audits, the revision and strengthening Labour Organization’s core and safety, harassment and victimisation, as well of related processes connected with the conventions, UN Convention on as union rights, reasonable wages and rights to all Group’s operations and its range of the Rights of the Child. UN employee beneﬁts as regulated by law. products and services. Guiding Principles on Business In our own operations, the risk is mainly linked to Screening, checklists, systems support, and Human Rights, Children’s the Bank as an employer and the Bank’s business documentation requirements. Rights and Business Principles, culture, such as relationships with suppliers. The UN Global Compact, UK Modern Policy documents for responsible investSlavery Act. risk might also be linked to the Bank’s investments ment and responsible credits. and lending to companies. Environment and The transition to an environmentally sustainable Increased credit losses and Develop our ability to identify, measure UN Environment Programme climate economy entails risks for companies whose operacapital costs resulting from a and manage risks connected with Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), tions are not aligned with that transition. The risks weaker ﬁnancial position the transition to an environmentally Recommendations of the Task might include changes in legislation, pricing and among the Bank’s customers, sustainable economy. Force on Climate-related Financial demand for products and services and the risk of weaker returns on the Bank’s Screening, checklists, systems support, Disclosure (TCFD), Equator increased damage to assets as a result of climate investments. Also, risk of an documentation requirements. Principles, UN Principles for change. impaired reputation. Responsible Investment (PRI). Policy documents for responsible Risks are linked primarily to the Bank’s corporate investment and responsible credits. lending and investments. Financial crime Occurrence of money laundering, terrorist ﬁnancLegal consequences, Mandatory training to raise employees’ EU legislation for anti-money ing, tax crime, various types of fraud, corruption impaired reputation. awareness, constant revision and laundering and customer due and other serious ﬁnancial crime. strengthening of related processes. diligence. These risks are chieﬂy associated with customers’ Customer due diligence, including use of the Bank’s products and services for criminal customer committees and transaction activity. monitoring. Information Potential deﬁciencies in the management of perWeakened conﬁdence, Administrative systems, such as rules In accordance with ISO 27001, security and IT sonal information and company information with economic consequences. and instructions, and technical security the international Standard of security respect to availability, accuracy, conﬁdentiality systems. Good Practice published by the and/or traceability. Continuous follow-up of events inside Information Security Forum. and outside our operations, such as via collaboration in international forums. Educate employees and customers to increase awareness of threats and risks in information security. H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 50 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS corporate social responsibility means that we live annual general meetings. In the past ﬁve years, up to the expectations of these stakeholders and shareholders representing more than 50 per cent act so as to maintain their trust in the Bank. of the votes in the Bank have participated. The Handelsbanken’s principal stakeholders are Bank provides investors, analysts, rating agenour customers, employees, owners and invescies and other capital market players with infortors, union organisations, and the community mation regarding Handelsbanken’s operations at large, which includes special interest organisaand ﬁnancial performance. During the year, the tions, public authorities and regulators, for example. Group Chief Executive, CFO and Investor RelaFor all goals selected, Handelsbanken can conThe Bank’s main stakeholder groups have been tions Department held more than 500 meetings tribute through its own operations and through identiﬁed as those who have a material impact on with equity and ﬁxed income investors. business relationships. Gender equality, decent Handelsbanken’s operations or are materially work conditions and children’s rights are a natural affected by the operations. Handelsbanken also Attendance at AGMs 2013–2018 part of our own operations. We are eager to help carries on a continuous dialogue with other stakeholder groups, such as equity research analysts, Number % accelerate their progress in the communities where we are active and the companies with trade associations, sustainability analysts, non2,000 100 which we do business. proﬁt organisations, international organisations, municipalities and county councils, suppliers, 1,600 80 With signiﬁcant lending to the property sector, we have particular responsibility in terms of suspress and media, students, and schools and 1,200 60 tainable cities, and in our corporate lending we universities. want to contribute by reducing our indirect impact 800 40 on the climate and by ﬁnancing companies at the Ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders forefront of the transition to a more sustainable Through active dialogue, Handelsbanken can 400 20 economy. The goal of peace, justice and strong better understand the expectations, opinions and institutions includes the goal of substantially demands that stakeholders have on us and on 0 0 the way we conduct our operations. This helps us 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 reducing illicit ﬁnancial ﬂows and all forms of corruption and bribery, an area where banks play make well-founded decisions and better prioritise No. of shareholders Proportion of votes our sustainability efforts in the markets where we present/represented a crucial role. operate. Union organisations Stakeholder Customers For a long time, Handelsbanken has had good The most important dialogue occurs in the meetrelationships with the union organisations, an dialogue ings that take place every day at our almost 800 important part of the Bank’s business culture. To be a responsible bank, we must listen closely local branches around the world. These meetings Union representatives and managers maintain to our stakeholders’ expectations and be receparise from our desire to grow long-term relationships a continuous dialogue about operations – such tive to their opinions about our sustainability activwith our customers. They can be face-to-face, as when changes are to be made – exchanging ities. We actively engage in systematic dialogue held over the phone, at digital meeting places or valuable information at the very early stages. with our stakeholders, to ensure that we get our on social media. By maintaining close, long-term priorities right. relationships with our customers, the Bank Society gains a better understanding of our customers’ Handelsbanken has a continuous dialogue with OUR STAKEHOLDERS expectations on our sustainability work. supervisory authorities, central banks and regulaMany private individuals, organisations and comtory bodies as well as with governments and panies are affected by how Handelsbanken acts Employees parliaments, in Sweden, the EU and the rest of in various matters. Business relationships with Employees are an important stakeholder group. the world. Increasingly, dialogue between public customers, how we act as an employer, conversaIt does not matter how good the products or serauthorities and the Bank highlights sustainability. tions with our shareholders, and all the meetings vices are if the Bank does not have the most suitThe Bank also maintains contact with non-governwith different groups are examples of stakeholder able staff. By taking part in their own unit’s annual mental organisations (NGOs). During the year, dialogues. They are affected by and affect how business planning, each individual employee can we had several ongoing dialogues with them, we conduct our operations. For Handelsbanken, play a part by contributing to and inﬂuencing the answered questions and participated in conversaoperational focus. Managers with delegated work tions and seminars to keep ourselves updated in environment responsibility are to do a work envithe ﬁeld of sustainability and to gather important Stakeholder model ronment survey with a work environment repreopinions. sentative and their employees at least once a CU year. The work environment survey is part of work Sustainability analysts TY ST C IE M done to achieve the Bank’s work environment About 30 investment banks have research SO O S goals. The results of the work environment survey analysts who regularly monitor Handelsbanken ER also serve as supporting documentation for the and its shares. In recent years, several of these local work environment plan, which makes up investment banks have supplemented the tradipart of the business plan. tional company research by also evaluating the Bank from a sustainability perspective. Another O Owners and investors increasingly prominent group are the independent U YE N SA NIO E S Handelsbanken’s shareholders are those who research ﬁrms that specialise in sustainability O W ES E TI N IN V TO R S/ PL ON S ultimately decide about the Bank’s governance. analysis. Their research analysts evaluate the RS E M ND I A AN The shareholders exercise their right to decide on Bank’s sustainability work in several dimensions. G OR matters concerning the company at shareholders’ An evaluation is usually carried out by means of a meetings. At the meetings, individual shareholders comprehensive questionnaire as well as dialogue All stakeholders have expectations of Handelsbanken. with the analyst. In 2018, Handelsbanken have the opportunity to put questions to the They all wish the Bank to be stable and responsive to their expectations. How well the Bank manages to live up Bank’s Board and senior management. Shareresponded to 10 or so enquiries, surveys and to these expectations has an impact on the continued holders show keen interest in Handelsbanken’s analyses from various international actors. success of Handelsbanken. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 20 18 51 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Suppliers impact on external parties based on an ecoincreased in importance. So we have chosen to Handelsbanken purchases goods and services nomic, environmental or social stakeholder clarify how we work with these topics by forming from many different suppliers. In the Swedish perspective. two new areas that replace ‘The Bank’s indirect operations, 72 per cent of the total volume of pur2.These questions were veriﬁed by internal and impact’. The material sustainability topics are thus chases come from more than 130 of the Bank’s external sustainability experts and Handelsgrouped into the following seven areas: several thousand suppliers. Based on the Bank’s banken’s Sustainability Committee. • The Bank and its customers Supplier Code of Conduct, we have an ongoing 3.We carried out a detailed dialogue with stake• The Bank’s role in the community dialogue with our key suppliers in which sustainaholders through qualitative and quantitative • Responsible ﬁnancing bility ﬁgures prominently. As a result of these interaction. In conjunction with this, we con• Responsible investment dialogues, we become involved, our employees ducted 14 in-depth interviews with representa• The Bank as an employer are inspired, and we improve our own – as well tives from our owners, unions, special interest • The Bank’s business culture as our suppliers’ – sustainability work. organisations and large corporate customers. • The Bank as an investment. The quantitative part consisted of group-speciﬁc MATERIALITY ANALYSIS surveys aimed at employees, private customers The results of the materiality analysis show that The purpose of our materiality analysis is to identify and corporate customers in our home markets, the Bank’s most important sustainability topics the sustainability topics where Handelsbanken’s where the stakeholders could assess how are clearly linked to our core business in the form operations have the greatest impact on external important each sustainability topic was for them of credits, investments, products and advisory parties based on an economic, environmental in conjunction with decisions and assessments services. Other key sustainability topics are or social stakeholder perspective. Applying the linked to the Bank’s operations. Almost 1,000 strongly associated with how we should continue materiality analysis, we deﬁne the most important responses were received. The large number of to run our business in a sustainable and responsisustainability topics that we must prioritise, report responses makes it possible to follow up the ble manner with our customers’ ﬁrm conﬁdence. on and communicate about. results by stakeholder group and home market. This means that we continue to work on integrity During 2018, Handelsbanken carried out a and conﬁdentiality, to counteract ﬁnancial crime, comprehensive materiality analysis based on The last time the Bank conducted a similar mateto strive for openness and transparency and for detailed dialogue with participants from our main riality analysis was 2015–2016. Based on that the Bank to be ﬁnancially sustainable by continustakeholder groups in the Bank’s home markets. earlier one, Handelsbanken grouped its material ing to run our business in a responsible manner Work on the materiality analysis progressed in sustainability topics into several areas illustrating with stability and proﬁtability in focus. three stages: where the topics had the greatest impact on the The outcome of the materiality analysis is 1.Using a business intelligence analysis, we idenBank’s operations, internally and externally. The presented on pages 8–9. The presentation tiﬁed and ranked the sustainability topics where 2018 stakeholder dialogue shows that responsible includes a description of why these topics are Handelsbanken’s operations have the greatest ﬁnancing and responsible investment have greatly material for Handelsbanken and the risks they are associated with. Key figures for sustainability Based on the materiality analysis for deﬁning Handelsbanken’s most material sustainability topics, several relevant key ﬁgures have been compiled in a table. The key ﬁgures are organised in the same way as the Bank’s material sustainability topics and grouped in seven sub-areas. Key figures for sustainability The Bank and its customers 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Customer satisfaction, private customers, SKI/EPSI index Sweden 72.3 68.9 67.6 72.4 74.3 UK 83.9 85.2 83.5 83.6 83.8 Denmark 77.8 76.8 77.7 77.7 76.5 Finland 80.1 79.6 80.1 81.9 81.5 Norway 78.1 77.5 74.2 75.8 74.9 The Netherlands 78.0 78.0 74.1 73.5 73.3 Customer satisfaction, corporate customers, SKI/EPSI index Sweden 67.7 67.5 69.4 74.1 73.4 UK 82.6 83.8 81.6 80.7 83.1 Denmark 71.8 72.3 75.7 72.2 73.2 Finland 79.1 78.7 77.5 76.4 77.0 Norway 71.5 72.5 69.9 69.7 67.6 The Netherlands 73.5 72.4 71.9 72.8 66.4 The Bank’s role in the community 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Number of branches and meeting places 779 807 819 848 831 Number of local collaborations and activities 1 > 600 > 400 > 400 Only local bank, home markets 63 66 59 68 59 Total taxes and government fees, SEK bn 11 10 8 8 8 Credit losses as a percentage of lending 0.04 0.08 0.09 0.09 0.10 Total emissions of greenhouse gases, CO2e tonnes 9 373 9 903 10 344 12 603 14 848 of which scope 1 – direct emissions 41 86 51 28 28 of which scope 2 – indirect emissions 5 238 5 587 6 328 8 527 10 264 of which scope 3 – other indirect emissions 4 094 4 230 3 965 4 048 4 557 Responsible investment 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Assets under management in Criteria funds, SEK bn 311 221 166 93 57 Criteria funds as a percentage of assets under management 2 44 32 31 17 12 Volume of ESG-screened (norm-based) mutual funds, SEK bn 398 412 ESG-screened (norm-based) funds as a percentage of assets under management 3 100 100 Total number of dialogues for engagement 507 251 140 Total volume in impact investing (externally managed fond), SEK bn 4 1.8 HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 52 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Responsible financing 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Green bonds – volume arranged, SEK bn 20.0 8.3 5.2 3.0 Green bonds – share of Swedish market for advisory services, % 36 33 36 Green loans, SEK bn 1.8 1.0 Eligible green assets, SEK bn 10.1 Equator Principles Project ﬁnancing, number of loans Category A 0 0 0 Category B 1 0 0 Category C 0 0 0 Project-related corporate loans, number of loans Category A 0 0 0 Category B 0 0 0 Category C 0 0 0 The Bank as an employer 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Average number of employees 12 307 11 832 11 759 11 819 11 692 Gender breakdown, percentage women/men All employees 49/51 49/51 50/50 50/50 51/49 Managers 39/61 40/60 40/60 39/61 37/63 Senior Management 5 34/66 32/68 29/71 22/78 25/75 Percentage of managers recruited internally, Group 96 92 93 93 93 Percentage of managers recruited internally, Sweden 99 97 99 99 100 Staff turnover, Group % 3.9 4.7 4.0 3.0 3.2 Sickness absence rate, % Sweden 3.1 3.0 3.2 3.0 2.7 UK 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.1 Denmark 1.2 1.0 1.3 1.3 Finland 2.0 1.8 1.9 1.4 Norway 3.8 3.0 3.1 3.6 3.3 The Netherlands 2.7 2.8 2.9 1.8 2.2 Number of cases reported to the Swedish Equality Ombudsman or a corresponding ofﬁcial body 0 1 0 0 0 Percentage of staff covered by a work environment survey 6 100 100 100 100 Number of employees who carried out a work environment survey 10 181 7 388 5 929 4 261 Total outcome (scale of 1–4) 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.4 for Trust 3.4 3.3 3.3 3.3 for Respect 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 for Balance 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 for Communication 3.5 3.4 3.4 3.4 for Security 3.7 3.6 3.6 3.6 for Physical work environment 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 for Competence 3.5 3.5 3.4 3.5 for Pride 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 Staff who are periodically evaluated for performance, % 100 100 100 100 Percentage of staff represented on health and safety committees 100 100 100 100 The Bank’s business culture 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Suppliers that have signed the Bank’s code of conduct (percentage of total purchased volume) 75 73 73 Percentage of employees who have completed training in ethical standards, sustainability and anti-corruption 7 Sweden 91 UK 96 Denmark 97 Finland 89 Norway 93 The Netherlands 80 Others 90 Total business travel, million kilometres 32.3 31.9 27.7 28.3 29.2 Business travel per employee, kilometres 2 703 2 782 2 437 2 483 2 591 Number of video conferences 129 616 41 260 21 382 16 446 The Bank as an investment 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Handelsbanken’s green bond, volume, EUR mn 500 Return on equity, % 12.8 12.3 13.1 13.5 13.4 Economic value creation (in accordance with GRI), SEK bn 40.1 38.0 37.7 39.8 37.7 Sustainability analysts’ assessments of Handelsbanken Robecosam – new method 8 77 77 Robecosam – old method 80 82 73 56 Imug neutral CCC 9 neutral CC 9 neutral CC 10 neutral CC 10 Sustainalytics 77 74 71 69 70 ISS-oekom C (Prime) C(not Prime) C(not Prime) C(not Prime) C(not Prime) MSCI ESG rating A A A A BBB 1 The process for collecting information about local initiatives has become more structured, which might have helped branches report more local initiatives. 2 Fund volume is based on Handelsbanken’s own mutual funds in the Nordic market and mutual funds managed by Optimix (the Netherlands), and the percentage of total fund volume refers to volume after eliminations on consolidation. The percentage for 2016 has been adjusted for comparability. 3 Refers to equity and corporate bond holdings. 4 Investments that generate measurable, positive impacts on society, combined with a ﬁnancial return. 5 Senior Management includes representatives of the business-operating units, staff functions and control functions. Senior Management also includes Executive Directors, who comprise the group of executive ofﬁcers as deﬁned in the Swedish Companies Act. 6 Information regarding the work environment surveys for 2015 and 2016 refers to Sweden. 7 Percentage of employees assigned to the training programme. 8 The method was revised for 2018. The 2017 results are those recalculated by Robecosam using the new method. 9 Non-covered bonds. 10 Covered bonds. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 53 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Handelsbanken has broad expertise in investcomplaints received from customers and were Facts: The Bank ment advisory services and complies with the found to be substantiated by the Head of Informaand its customers regulatory requirements from the EU and local supervisory authorities in all six of the Bank’s tion Security, and one was identiﬁed internally. All cases have been managed with the parties SATISFIED CUSTOMERS home markets. Handelsbanken has about 4,800 affected. This data does not include cases under Handelsbanken considers customer satisfaction employees permitted to provide investment the new General Data Protection Regulation surveys very important. Every year, EPSI Rating – advice. All are licensed to provide advisory (GDPR), introduced in May 2018. which includes SKI (Swedish quality index) – carries services concerning ﬁnancial instruments, and The Bank’s information security regulations are out independent surveys of customer satisfaction. they update their knowledge every year through based on the Standard of Good Practice developed The results of this year’s surveys show that mandatory professional training. by Information Security Forum (ISF), an organisation Handelsbanken has more satisﬁed private and corThe knowledge update for 2018 included the where most of the largest companies in the world porate customers than the average for the banking mandatory training module ‘Sustainability in our are members. The work with information and IT sector in all of the Bank’s six home markets. investments’. Its purpose is to boost expertise on security is pursued systematically, and we apply a Customer satisfaction at Handelsbanken 2018 how we work in this area, so the advisor can proprocess where risk analysis plays a central role. vide information adapted to the customer’s prefThe risk analyses employ the IRAM method (ISF’s Private Sector Corporate Sector customers average customers average erences concerning sustainability. This training Information Risk Analysis Methodology). was mandatory in 2018 for all employees licensed The conditions for IT security are constantly Sweden 72.3 66.1 67.7 63.9 UK 83.9 72.1 82.6 70.0 to provide advisory services in Sweden on ﬁnanchanging. Thus Handelsbanken needs to continuDenmark 77.8 69.9 71.8 69.8 cial instruments. ously evaluate and take a stand on new potential Finland 80.1 74.4 79.1 72.7 threats in this area. By continuously following up Norway 78.1 71.6 71.5 69.9 Development of the product offering events which occur both within and outside our The One of the Bank’s main contributions to more susoperations, it is easier to take the right action at the Netherlands 78.0 69.4 73.5 64.1 tainable development is embodied in the ﬁnancial right time. To this end, the Bank participates and Source: SKI/EPSI 2018. products the Bank offers. Thus it is vital to take collaborates in international forums. For several sustainability into account when approving new years, Handelsbanken has been a ‘listed team’ in Managing customer complaints and amended products. The process for approvthe Trusted Introducer community (a European netCustomer complaints must be dealt with correctly, ing new and amended products is based on the work for IT security) and a full member of the Forum carefully and as efﬁciently as possible. First, the Bank’s policy for products and services and of Incident Response and Security Teams (FIRST). complaint is managed by the local branch responadheres to a checklist that describes the product’s Handelsbanken also participates in FIDI Finans, a sible. If the customer decides to pursue the matcharacteristics, risks and other relevant informaforum for sharing information between the governter, each regional bank in each home market has a tion. The process is also intended to ensure the ment, the business community and other relevant designated complaints ofﬁcer. In addition, there Bank’s sustainability topics are taken into account. organisations in Sweden regarding information are complaints ofﬁcers at the Group level. Comsecurity in the ﬁnancial sector. The forum is led by plaints ofﬁcers at the Group level regularly report to INTEGRITY AND CONFIDENTIALITY the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency (MSB). Senior Management and product owners. Infor– INFORMATION SECURITY AND IT SECURITY mation about how the Bank manages complaints Work with the Bank’s information security and IT is easily available on the Bank’s websites. security involves protecting customers’ information and transactions and also the Bank’s IT Facts: The Bank’s Financial advisory services In ﬁnancial advisory services provided when grantenvironment. Information security covers adminrole in the community istrative systems, such as rules and instructions, FINANCIAL ASPECTS ing credit and in insurance mediation, the Bank as well as technical security solutions. Handelsbanken’s Annual Report contains a always considers the customer’s overall situation It is important that the Bank actively works with complete account of the ﬁnancial aspects of the and ﬁnancial circumstances. Using this knowledge, IT security to meet possible threats, and that operations, but the most important key ﬁgures we can provide guidance on ﬁnancing, payments there are procedures for managing changes in connected with ﬁnancial aspects and sustainability or investments that is adapted to each customer’s the IT environment so that no breaches occur. If are reported below and on pages 52–53. individual needs. We focus on the customer’s processing were to prove faulty, or if information needs – not individual products or services. were to be released by mistake, the conseLower credit losses When providing investment advice, we adapt quences could be serious, including weakened Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. This the proposal to the customer’s goals, interests, conﬁdence in the Bank or ﬁnancial losses. means that the quality of credits must never be savings horizon and attitude to risk. We consider it The Group Chief Executive establishes guideneglected in favour of achieving higher volume essential for the customer to understand the risk lines for information security at Handelsbanken. All or a higher margin. associated with each type of ﬁnancial instrument employees in the Bank are responsible for complias well as to have the knowledge and experience ance with the rules for protection of information, Outcome needed to invest in the product or service selected. and all managers are responsible for compliance Credit losses were SEK -881 million (-1,683). The information the Bank provides to customers with the rules in their own area of responsibility. Credit losses as a proportion of lending were 0.04 must be clear, factual and easy to understand, and Information security work is pursued in accordper cent (0.08). For the most recent 10-year period the terms and conditions for the Bank’s services ance with the ISO 27001 international standard. – that is, since 2009 – the Bank’s average credit loss must be clear and not changed arbitrarily. During This means that any risks are identiﬁed on a reguratio has been 0.09 per cent. This can be compared the year, the systems support used in Sweden and lar basis and that internal rules are produced so to the average for the other major Nordic banks Finland to document advisory services and insurthat the information is protected over time. during the same period: 0.24 per cent. ance mediation was expanded to contain more The Bank’s work with information security and information about how Handelsbanken works with IT security, as well as its management of sensitive sustainability and which products the Bank offers information, is also governed by international and Handelsbanken Group 2018 2017 with speciﬁc sustainability criteria. national legislation. Proﬁt before credit losses, SEK m 22 880 22 694 The regulations for ﬁnancial advisory services In 2018, 26 incidents (18) relating to customer Net credit losses, SEK m -881 -1 683 and insurance mediation require that all employees privacy or poor management of customer data Operating proﬁt, SEK m 22 013 21 025 who advise customers on investments and were reported. None of the reports was received Return on equity for total operations 12.8% 12.3% insurance have relevant, up-to-date skills. via government authorities. A total of 25 were Credit loss ratio 0.04% 0.08% HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 54 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Credit losses as a percentage of lending MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN Total taxes and government fees 2018, SEK 11.5 bn % TRAFFICKING Corporate tax 1.2 Handelsbanken does not accept any form of child (current tax) 47% 1.0 labour, forced labour or human trafﬁcking. It works Social security costs 18% to prevent the occurrence of these in the Group’s Fees for resolution 0.8 reserve and deposit supply chain and in other companies with which guarantee 24% 0.6 Handelsbanken has business relations. The UK Non-deductible VAT 11% Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires that certain 0.4 organisations annually state the actions that they 0.2 have taken to ensure that modern slavery and Taxes withheld for customers and employees 2018, SEK 5.4 bn 0.0 human trafﬁcking do not occur in their supply chains or in their operations. Internal instructions -0.2 Taxes withheld 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 and procedures are in place so that employees for customers 42.2% understand how to act if they are faced with Taxes withheld Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* for employees 57.8% or suspect a case of modern slavery or human * Only Swedish banks are included for the period up to and including 2000. trafﬁcking. Capital The Bank’s goal is that its common equity tier 1 Geographical information 2018 ratio under normal circumstances should exceed Fees for the by 1–3 percentage points the common equity tier Social Swedish resolution Average Operating Corporate tax security reserve, deposit number of 1 capital requirement communicated to the Bank SEK m Income proﬁt (current tax) costs guarantee, etc. Assets employees* by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Sweden 27 004 16 196 -3 829 -1 543 -1 978 2 569 641 7 270 The tier 1 ratio and the total capital ratio must also UK 6 346 1 730 -548 -204 -231 331 946 2 319 be at least 1 percentage point above the total Norway 4 260 2 244 -577 -128 -284 288 393 771 capital requirement communicated to the Bank Denmark 2 259 700 -177 -111 -107 136 549 659 Finland 2 079 768 -162 -16 -132 277 642 635 by the Supervisory Authority for the respective United States 359 101 -41 -6 473 406 66 capital tiers. Additionally, the Bank must fulﬁl any The Netherlands 889 235 -58 -38 -38 51 820 313 other capital requirements set by the regulators. Luxembourg 208 70 -18 -8 -1 35 796 52 Germany 81 -20 -2 -5 0 18 126 42 China 109 -11 -41 0 7 989 75 Outcome France 60 18 0 -2 0 3 987 6 At year-end, the common equity tier 1 ratio was Poland 42 -6 -3 0 1 128 36 16.8 per cent (22.7). The Bank estimates that the Singapore 53 4 -3 0 5 963 33 Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s common Estonia 13 0 -3 0 1 069 18 Latvia 5 -7 -1 0 447 6 equity tier 1 capital requirement at that time was Lithuania 3 -9 -1 0 206 6 15.1 per cent. The Bank’s capitalisation was thus Eliminations -1 225 934 0 within the target range. Group 43 770 22 013 -5 456 -2 069 -2 771 2 978 174 12 307 * Includes eight employees at the Bank’s representative ofﬁces, as speciﬁed on page 249 of the 2018 Annual Report. Common equity tier 1 ratio, CRD IV % The table, which is laid out according to GRI principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is 25 distributed among various groups of stakeholders. The data comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. 20 Direct economic value generated and distributed (in accordance with GRI). Economic ﬂows to and from various groups of stakeholders. 15 SEK bn 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 10 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED Customers 5 Income after credit losses and before fees for the Swedish resolution 0 reserve, deposit guarantee, etc. 40.1 38.0 37.7 39.8 37.7 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018* Value created by serving customers 40.1 38.0 37.7 39.8 37.7 * The common equity tier 1 ratio was affected when the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority moved the risk DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE weight ﬂoor for mortgage loans in Sweden to Pillar 1, Employees at 31 December 2018. Salaries 8.7 8.4 8.1 8.0 7.6 Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation (incl. social security costs) 0.9 0.8 0.9 0.8 Political independence Social security costs and other staff costs 3.9 3.3 4.4 3.7 3.4 Handelsbanken is not allied to any political parties. Cost of employees 13.5 12.5 12.5 12.6 11.8 The Bank does not provide any ﬁnancial support Public authorities and society at large to any political party, nor does it make any other Suppliers* 7.4 6.5 5.9 5.7 5.6 Corporate tax (current tax) 5.4 5.4 5.2 4.9 4.5 type of political donation. Deferred tax -0.8 -0.5 -0.8 -0.6 -0.4 Fees to the Swedish resolution reserve, deposit guarantee, etc. 2.8 2.0 1.3 1.1 1.2 Taxes and distributed economic value Government bank support received Handelsbanken wishes to provide transparent Participation in government guarantee programmes ﬁnancial reporting on how the economic value To society 14.8 13.4 11.6 11.1 10.9 generated by our operations is distributed. The Shareholders Bank pays and reports tax based on local regulaDividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 14.6 9.7 11.4 11.1 10.5 New share issue tions in the countries where it operates. HandelsTransactions with the shareholders 14.6 9.7 11.4 11.1 10.5 banken complies with the OECD Transfer Pricing Reinvested economic value (‘remaining in the Bank’) -2.8 2.4 2.2 5.0 4.5 Guidelines, such that the Group’s earnings are * Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation. taxed where value is created. The Bank also The table of direct economic value generated and distributed shows how the income generated by Handelsbanken’s operations during the prepares a country-by-country report showing year was distributed among various stakeholders. The calculation is based on the ﬁgures in the income statement and in accordance with the GRI guidelines. The distributed items in the table are based on a broader value created where salaries, depreciation, amortisation, and the Group’s earnings and tax in the countries other administrative costs (suppliers) are added to the operating proﬁt. The purpose is to show in a basic way how Handelsbanken creates value for its stakeholders and in the economic systems in which the organisation works. The table provides an overview of the direct where its operations are run. measurable monetary value contributed by Handelsbanken to its stakeholders, and thus how the Bank contributes to development in the community. H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 55 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS More information and a statement on the Handelsbanken has also funded a professorial work is progressing. Handelsbanken’s goal is Modern Slavery Act 2015 may be found at chair in accounting at the Stockholm School of to minimise its direct environmental impact by handelsbanken.co.uk. Economics and provided ﬁnancial support to the constantly developing its environmental activities. Swedish House of Finance (SHoF). We are working to achieve this by boosting ECONOMIC RESEARCH AND EDUCATION Handelsbanken also supports a research resource efﬁciency and recycling, for example, and Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on a project at the Stockholm School of Economics by taking environmental impact into account in our number of occasions awarded grants for ecowhere studies and analyses are performed on purchasing and business travel. Emissions linked nomic research, mainly through allocations to the most important factors in creating customer to the Bank’s own operations are to be reduced two independent research foundations: Tore satisfaction and also in monitoring the link over time, well in line with the Paris Agreement. Browaldhs stiftelse and Jan Wallanders och between loyalty and proﬁtability. Tom Hedelius stiftelse. Energy and carbon dioxide Together, these foundations are one of the DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE The Bank’s direct impact derives mainly from most important sources of funding for economic IMPACT energy consumption, business travel and transresearch in Sweden. In 2018, 189 grants were Systematic environmental work is continually done port as well as use of resources such as paper. We awarded for a total of SEK 215 million. at Handelsbanken to steadily reduce the environmeasure our material environmental impact in our At the end of 2018, the foundations’ combined mental impact of operations. This is monitored six home markets. These markets represent 97 capital was SEK 6,684 million. using an array of key ﬁgures that show how the per cent of the Bank’s total number of employees. ENVIRONMENTAL DATA General information Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Number of branches reporting 768 806 809 827 815 791 Total ofﬁce space reported m2 450 789 450 532 456 838 455 176 459 422 458 071 Number of employees covered by environmental data 1 persons 11 959 11 471 11 373 11 407 11 271 11 070 Proportion of total number of employees % 97 97 97 97 96 96 Emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2e) Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Emissions Scope 12 tonnes 41 86 51 28 28 47 Emissions Scope 2 3 tonnes 5 238 5 587 6 328 8 527 10 264 12 306 Emissions Scope 2 without GO electricity tonnes 9 792 9 590 10 199 10 438 11 415 12 908 Emissions Scope 3 4 tonnes 4 094 4 230 3 965 4 048 4 557 4 787 Total emissions tonnes 9 373 9 903 10 344 12 603 14 848 17 141 Total emissions per employee tonnes/employee 0.78 0.86 0.91 1.10 1.32 1.55 Emissions of greenhouse gases by source (CO2e) Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Emissions from energy use (in buildings) tonnes 5 270 5 664 6 371 8 548 10 285 12 349 Emissions from business travel tonnes 3 751 3 824 3 362 3 243 3 464 3 555 Emissions from other sources tonnes 352 415 610 812 1 100 1 237 Emissions by country (CO2e) Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Sweden tonnes 4 536 4 552 4 455 4 632 5 542 7 337 UK tonnes 2 727 3 011 3 622 5 686 5 641 4 923 Denmark tonnes 562 578 609 680 934 1 924 Finland tonnes 618 659 689 689 1 381 1 716 Norway tonnes 442 481 421 430 889 848 The Netherlands tonnes 488 622 547 486 461 394 Energy consumption Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Total energy consumption (in buildings) MWh 104 897 102 359 105 854 107 273 111 670 120 913 Electricity consumption MWh 46 361 45 914 48 048 49 716 52 404 55 694 Change in electricity consumption from preceding year % 1 -5.7 -3.4 -5.1 -5.9 1.9 Proportion renewable electricity 5 % 100 99 96 87 72 73 Total electricity consumption per employee MWh/employee 3.9 4.0 4.2 4.4 4.6 5.0 Use of heating and cooling MWh 58 537 56 445 57 806 57 557 59 266 65 220 Business travel Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Total business travel km 32 328 350 31 909 038 27 719 588 28 319 984 29 207 595 29 697 980 Business travel per employee km/employee 2 703 2 782 2 437 2 483 2 591 2 683 Travel by air km 21 872 038 21 531 214 18 034 955 17 481 188 17 797 767 18 584 368 Travel by car km 6 970 747 7 558 391 7 080 995 7 163 074 7 452 892 7 203 086 Travel by train km 3 485 565 2 819 433 2 603 638 3 675 722 3 956 936 3 910 526 Resource efﬁciency Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Base year 2013* Paper use tonnes 1 111 1 200 1 214 1 465 1 447 1 605 Paper use per employee tonnes/employee 0.10 0.10 0.11 0.13 0.13 0.15 1 Number of employees according to the definition in the Annual Report. 2 Scope 1 – Direct emissions from stationary combustion of diesel, city gas and Eo1. 3 Scope 2 – Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heating and cooling. 4 Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions from business travel, transport and use of paper. 5 Refers to electricity from wind power and hydroelectric power. * 2013 was the year when the Bank acquired its current structure, with six home markets, and is the base year for Handelsbanken’s comparisons of emissions over time. H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 56 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS We are working to minimise the CO2 emissions Total CO2e emissions CO2e emissions from energy consumption generated by our operations. For 2018, total CO2 Tonnes Tonnes CO2e/employee Tonnes MWh/employee emissions from Handelsbanken’s operations were 20,000 2.0 15,000 6 9,373 tonnes, down 5 per cent from the preceding 12,500 5 16,000 1.6 year, mainly because the Bank increased the 10,000 4 proportion of renewable electricity. Since 2013, 12,000 1.2 7,500 3 the Bank has reduced its CO2 emissions by 8,000 0.8 5,000 2 45 per cent. 4,000 0.4 2,500 1 The Bank’s electricity consumption increased 0 0.0 0 0 by 1 per cent in 2018 compared with 2017, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 mainly because the Bank is growing in the UK Emissions from energy CO2e/employee Emissions from heating Electricity and the Netherlands. The proportion of renewable and cooling consumption/ Emissions from business travel electricity is 100 per cent for all home markets. Emissions from electricity employee Other emissions Environmental activities in 2018 tions and energy companies. Emissions connected In addition to Bankomat’s ATMs, in about 565 Throughout the Bank, changes are constantly with business travel, transport and use of paper locations, our customers can withdraw cash from being made which, together, are reducing are reported within the framework of Scope 3. other ATMs that accept MasterCard and Visa. environmental and climate impact. Emissions reporting under Scope 3 is based on In addition to withdrawals, private customers Examples of actions carried out in 2018: documentation from external parties, such as can make deposits at Bankomat ATMs in 157 • The Bank adopted a new guideline for the travel agencies regarding emissions related to air locations. environment and climate change that clariﬁes travel. For more in-depth information about how Cash services are offered at 229 of our 390 its commitment to environmentally sustainable emissions are calculated, please see the Bank’s branches in Sweden. Our customers can also development in line with the Paris Agreement. reports to CDP. order banknotes online, by phone or at branches. • The Bank has adopted a new guideline for The banknotes may be picked up at Postnord company cars in Sweden which stipulates that an SERVICES FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD service points throughout Sweden. Most of employee may only in exceptional cases choose Handelsbanken continues to digitalise the Bank Handelsbanken’s card customers can also witha car that is not electric or a plug-in hybrid. and adapt to the desires and needs of our draw cash at almost 1,295 ICA shops around • The Bank continued implementation of the customers. This in turn leads to new expectations Sweden with no purchase required. Environmental checklist for branches and on our meeting places, where new digital solutions To increase availability and offer cash handling central departments which consists of concrete help simplify everyday tasks and streamline service around the clock for our customers in Denmark actions for reducing environmental impact. and prompt new services and solutions that beneﬁt and Finland, we started collaborating with exter• All employees in the Group complete mandathe Bank’s customers. nal parties so that our customers can access tory training each year on ethical standards more ATMs for cash withdrawals and deposits. and sustainability, with the environment and Digital solutions climate change as material topics. In Sweden, Handelsbanken collaborated with • The number of video conferences that could other Swedish banks to develop the Swish payment Facts: Responsible replace business travel more than doubled in service and the BankID electronic ID system. 2018 compared to 2017. Using Swish, all of our private customers in financing • In 2018, the total number of paper communiSweden can quickly and simply make payments Handelsbanken must act responsibly and with a cations to customers in Sweden increased in real time to individuals, companies, associalong-term perspective. Through responsible for the ﬁrst time since 2013, mainly as a result tions and organisations that are linked to the ﬁnancing and lending, we can contribute to of changes in regulations. Since 2013, the service. Using BankID, public authorities, organigreater respect for human rights, working condinumber of paper communications to customers sations, companies and banks in Sweden can tions and environmental and climate-related in Sweden has declined by 23 per cent. These identify individuals, making it possible to execute concerns. efforts will continue in 2019. digital agreements, orders and conﬁrmations. Handelsbanken Denmark has a distribution BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS Climate compensation agreement with MobilePay that enables our Guidelines regarding armaments and defence Handelsbanken works constantly to minimise the customers to easily make payments using their industry emissions generated by our operations. The Bank smartphones in shops, online stores and apps Handelsbanken’s guidelines for business relationalso purchases carbon offsets for the reported CO2 and with other users of the service. In Norway, ships with the armaments and defence industry emissions generated by the operations. The Bank Handelsbanken has an agreement with Vipps, state that the Bank must not have business relapurchases carbon offsets through projects with the country’s leading payment app. Customers tions with companies that manufacture or trade in veriﬁed climate beneﬁts which have been registered in the Netherlands can use iDEAL, the country’s weapons that are prohibited under international with the UN Clean Development Mechanism standard for online payments. In Finland, our conventions. This includes biological weapons, (CDM). The projects are certiﬁed under the Gold customers can use the MobilePay payment app, chemical weapons, anti-personnel mines and Standard, a certiﬁcation endorsed by more than the market leader. cluster munitions. Nor can Handelsbanken have 80 NGOs, which ensures the projects contribute In most home markets, we offer our customers business relations with companies that manufacto long-term sustainable development. 24-hour personal technical support. When their ture or trade in nuclear weapons, or with compabranch is closed, our customers in Sweden can nies that export weapons to countries under a UN Method description for environmental data also receive personal service by phone in any or EU embargo. The climate calculations were done according to of 20 different languages. Personal service by Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accountphone is also offered outside of ofﬁce hours in Guidelines for environmental impact ing and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition). other markets. and climate change Data for speciﬁc units has been used to calculate Handelsbanken has guidelines for business emissions from energy use. When speciﬁc data is Cash services decisions related to the environment and climate missing, usage is estimated using numbers from Handelsbanken is a shareholder in Bankomat AB, change. These state that, with respect to the adjacent units or energy statistics. The sources the market leader in cash handling in Sweden. companies with which the Bank has business for emission factors are generally accepted sources Bankomat AB invests in ATMs – both freestandrelationships, Handelsbanken must be aware of such as national energy agencies, trade associaing and at cash centres – throughout Sweden. and act upon the risks linked to climate change H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 57 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS and environmental damage and to corruption sustainable development. Financial, social and and human rights. The guidelines also state that Facts: Responsible environmental sustainability are taken into Handelsbanken must not directly ﬁnance new mining of coal or new coal power plants. Nor will investment account in the assessment and selection of which mutual funds to offer. Investments in mutual funds the Bank initiate new business relationships with Handelsbanken strives for sustainable development and in investment products are preceded by an companies that are either active in coal mining or – in ﬁnancial, social and environmental terms – assessment of the fund management company dependent on coal and are not working actively to in the companies in which the Bank invests on as well as the investment product. For example, ensure a transition to renewable energy production. behalf of customers. We do so based on the to be included among the mutual funds offered, Bank’s policies and on common norms set out a fund management company must have policies Guidelines regarding business relations in in international conventions and guidelines. or principles for systematic sustainability work forestry and farming and must periodically follow-up on its mutual Handelsbanken has guidelines for how the Bank INVESTMENT PROCESS funds. The range favours funds that integrate should approach business relationships in forIntegrating sustainability sustainability and proactively pursue engagement estry and farming. The guidelines specify which Criteria related to the environment, social issues and corporate governance work. aspects we must take into consideration when and corporate governance (ESG) are integrated granting credits, for example that we expect with ﬁnancial criteria to produce better background documentation for decisions in the investment Exclusion customers, suppliers and business partners to Companies that our funds exclude respect the rights of employees, minimise negaprocess. The following three methods are common starting points for this work. There are companies that do not act in line with tive environmental impact, preserve biological the values which we at Handelsbanken respect. diversity, prevent deforestation, and protect high One example of such companies are those conservation value forest. Inclusion involved in nuclear weapons and weapons that Active equity and ﬁxed income management are banned under international law. All companies Guidelines for managing taxes – selecting companies in our funds are screened periodically with the aim Handelsbanken’s guidelines for managing taxes In active asset management, analysis is paramount. of identifying companies that fail to meet internastate that the Bank must not, directly or indirectly, Finding and investing in the right companies is tional norms and conventions in areas such as participate in transactions with customers, by key. The sustainability analysis helps identify risks the environment, human rights and anti-corrupgranting credits or otherwise, which constitute in companies’ business models and helps ﬁnd tion. An appropriate course of action is then a step in tax evasion or in transactions with no companies at the forefront of the transition to determined for each fund to handle the compabusiness purpose, undertaken only to obtain tax sustainable development. Our active asset mannies identiﬁed. Our last resort for companies that advantages in conﬂict with the objective of the tax agement screens companies in two dimensions: systematically violate international norms and regulations. This also applies in relation to suppliers the company’s sustainability performance and conventions, and in which we ﬁnd no improveand other business partners. If there is doubt, the the company’s products and services. ment, is exclusion. As part of our climate efforts, Bank must refrain. our mutual funds do not invest in companies if Index management – selecting indexes more than 5 per cent of the company’s turnover EXPOSURE TO CLIMATE RISK Index management takes a rules-based derives from coal mining or more than 30 per cent At the end of 2017, Handelsbanken screened the approach in which no company analysis is done. derives from coal power generation. A list of some Bank’s lending to energy production. The results Instead, an index fund’s sustainability criteria of the companies that we exclude is available at showed that loans to energy production repre– as regards companies that are included as well handelsbanken.se/responsibleinvestments. sent only about 1 per cent of total loans to the as companies excluded – are built into the fund’s public. Of this lending, about 12 per cent was to index methodology. Thus striving to develop and Mutual funds that Handelsbanken Liv production based on fossil fuels, about 7 per cent track more indexes with sustainability criteria is a excludes to nuclear power, and about 81 per cent to energy key part of our sustainability work. One result of Handelsbanken Liv strives to exclude funds that produced from renewable sources. this work is the new Swedish index, SIX ESG invest in companies with signiﬁcant operations Selection Index, which is tracked by XACT Sverige that mine coal for combustion or generate (UCITS ETF), our exchange-traded index fund coal-ﬁred power. In addition, Handelsbanken Liv that has earned the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. avoids funds that invest in companies involved in the manufacture or distribution of nuclear Mutual fund portfolios – selecting funds weapons or weapons banned under international In our mutual fund portfolios, the asset managers law, such as cluster munitions, anti-personnel Loans to the public 2018 – Geographic breakdown do not invest directly in individual companies; mines, chemical weapons and biological weapons. instead, they invest in other funds. These fund Handelsbanken Liv’s fund selection committee Sweden 63.0% investments can include Handelsbanken’s own Norway 11.8% compiles such reviews and prepares supporting funds as well as mutual funds from external fund documentation to determine which mutual funds UK 10.7% Finland 6.4% management companies. will be included in or removed from its range of Denmark 4.8% Fund investments are selected and followed funds. Decisions are made by the subsidiary’s The Netherlands 2.2% up in a process that takes into account sustainaOther countries 1.1% Chief Executive. bility criteria at the mutual fund and fund manageTotal: SEK 2,189 bn ment company levels. Such criteria include systematic sustainability work and due consideration Engagement of international norms and conventions. Also, any Engagement through dialogue Loans to the public 2018 – Sector breakdown holdings that could be regarded as deviating from Engagement is an important way for us to conHandelsbanken’s policy – for example, concerntribute to sustainable development. This includes Private individuals 50.1% both proactive dialogue aimed at encouraging Corporates 38.9% ing weapons prohibited under international law – Housing co-operative are also followed up. companies to improve their sustainability activiassociations 10.5% ties, and dialogue with companies which we have Sovereigns and identiﬁed as not compliant with the international municipalities 0.5% Handelsbanken Liv – selecting funds norms and conventions that we respect. We Handelsbanken Liv strives to offer mutual funds pursue the engagement process on our own, that integrate sustainability in their investment Total: SEK 2,189 bn through direct contact with companies and also process and make efforts to contribute to H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 58 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS to a great extent in collaboration with other asset Engagement through corporate governance It has become more common for boards to owners and through sector initiatives. We exercise our ownership role in the companies propose incentive programmes for senior In 2018, we engaged with 507 companies that our mutual funds invest in on behalf of fund management and employees in their companies. through dialogues on speciﬁc sustainability unit holders. The goal is for the companies to Incentive programmes with share-related compotopics. A list of these companies is published at maximise value performance in the long term, nents must always be decided by the shareholders’ handelsbanken.se/responsibleinvestments. The beneﬁtting our fund savers. meeting. These programmes can be complex and dialogues concerned corruption, environmental in many cases are not sufﬁciently transparent. Nomination committees destruction, labour laws and other issues. Working with Institutionella Ägares Förening The most direct impact we can have as owners is by (Institutional Investors’ Association), Handelsserving on nomination committees. For the Swedish Targeted dialogues banken Fonder has prepared a document with companies in which our actively managed mutual During the year, we initiated 28 targeted dialogues guidelines for how these programmes should be funds are major shareholders, we are especially intended to proactively inﬂuence how companies presented. The demands include clear-cut goals, active in our role as owners, chieﬂy by inﬂuencing work towards sustainability. We also gather infora transparent structure and outcomes, and other the composition of the companies’ boards through mation about sustainability work through our outstanding programmes and remuneration. We work on their nomination committees. Guidelines for regular contacts with company management and receive many enquiries from companies about nomination committee work are sent to all comparesearch analysts. In 2018, our asset managers these programmes before they are presented at nies that offer us a seat on their committee. The had meetings with some 1,500 companies, to the shareholders’ meeting, and we have detailed guidelines cover the analysis of board expertise and monitor their business methods, performance discussions about them. Before the 2018 meetings, needs, the importance of sustainability expertise and opportunities. we had 26 dialogues on this subject. We analysed and a focus on achieving diversity on the boards. about 20 additional programmes before voting. Before the 2018 annual meetings, HandelsDialogues together with other investors banken Fonder participated in 36 nomination Working with other investors, we engage compaCLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL committees. The boards proposed by these comnies through joint dialogues. Co-operation means DISCLOSURES mittees had a larger proportion of women, from an strength and clearly signals the companies that The effects of global warming will impact the average of 34 per cent of board members in 2017, we expect these issues to be taken seriously. The world economy to an ever greater extent, with to 39 per cent in 2018. Two companies had only impetus for these dialogues is often suspected or consequences for companies in many sectors, men on their boards before their shareholders’ conﬁrmed violations of international norms and including ﬁnancial services. For this reason, meetings, but afterwards 40 and 50 per cent of conventions, with the focus on the UN Global the international Task Force on Climate-related board members were women. Looking to 2019, Compact’s core areas: human rights, labour, the Financial Disclosure (TCFD) was formed. we are entitled to serve on 37 nomination commitenvironment and anti-corruption. In 2018, we The TCFD has formulated recommendations tees and have appointed women for 24 of these participated in 143 such dialogues. We also take for correcting deﬁciencies in information on to make the committees more balanced, which part in dialogues within the framework of internacompanies’ work on and management of climate we believe will lead to more balanced boards. tional collaboration and sector initiatives such as change. A central component, which covers the PRI and FAIRR, an initiative aimed at reducing the Annual general meetings ﬁnancial sector, consists of expanded reporting use of antibiotics in feed for livestock. The dialogues Our mutual funds invest globally in a great many of exposures to assets associated with climate often target speciﬁc themes, such as palm oil, companies spread among many markets. In that risks. Handelsbanken supports the TCFD’s antibiotics or climate issues. These initiatives light, the shareholders’ meeting is one of our most recommendations on climate-related ﬁnancial encompass 336 dialogues with companies. useful means of inﬂuencing the majority of compadisclosures. nies in which our funds invest. Our corporate govFor the ﬁrst time, Handelsbanken has Engagement with external fund managers ernance efforts focus ﬁrst on companies where we published climate reports in accordance with Handelsbanken Liv engages external fund manare a major shareholder or which are identiﬁed as recommendations from the TCFD. agers in the pursuit of sustainable development. falling short in governance or sustainability. In genIn conjunction with the climate reports, By analysing and comparing the working eral, we support shareholder proposals that seek Handelsbanken carried out for the second time methods of the fund management companies, to promote corporate sustainability and strive for an analysis of climate-related transitional risk in Handelsbanken Liv can encourage external fund greater transparency in recording and reporting the Handelsbanken’s asset management portfolios*, managers to advance their own sustainability company’s climate impact and work with human where a large part of Handelsbanken Liv’s assets efforts. All funds offered are regularly screened to rights and labour law. In 2018, we voted at 631 ordiare also managed. Handelsbanken Liv has peridentify holdings in companies that systematically nary and extraordinary shareholders’ meetings, in formed a corresponding analysis of the company’s violate international norms in areas such as the many geographic markets. Votes were cast either in investment offerings in traditional management environment, human rights, labour law, anti-corperson at the meetings or through proxies via elecand unit-linked insurance in Sweden. The analysis ruption and controversial weapons. If the evaluatronic voting. Proxy voting enables us to reach more targeted investments in three sectors: energy tion of a mutual fund indicates non-compliance companies and markets and thus inﬂuence compaproduction, automotive manufacturing and with these norms, a dialogue is initiated with the nies’ development to a greater extent. We also extraction of fossil fuels. The results are presented fund manager with the aim of inﬂuencing them to voted in favour of several shareholder proposals on in Handelsbanken Asset Management Climate review the fund’s holdings. If the dialogue does sustainability, such as for better climate reporting Report 2018 and Handelsbanken Liv Climatenot lead to a change, the mutual fund may be and analysis based on the two-degree target. related Financial Disclosures 2018, available at excluded from the offering. handelsbanken.se/sustainability (the latter only Corporate governance 2018** 2017 In 2018, policies and policy documents were in Swedish). revised to spell out Handelsbanken Liv’s role as Nomination committees* 36 33 * Managed by Handelsbanken Fonder AB and Xact an asset owner and its approach to environmenAnnual general meetings 631 267 Kapitalförvaltning AB. tal and climate impact. In the spring, HandelsHandelsbanken Fonder 382 142 banken Liv sent a questionnaire to external asset Xact Kapitalförvaltning 156 70 managers with whom the company collaborates, Handelsbanken Lux 93 55 to map out and analyse how the managers are * No. of occurrences. Refers to Handelsbanken Fonder. working on the 2030 Agenda. The results will be ** Each fund management company votes independently. used in ongoing contacts with the fund managers. Thus the total number of instances may include shareholders’ meetings at which more than one fund management In 2018, Handelsbanken Liv was involved in company voted. Insurance Sweden’s working groups on green For a summary of our voting activity, please see the report at bonds and climate scenario analysis. handelsbanken.se/responsibleinvestments. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 59 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Gender breakdown, Group SICKNESS ABSENCE Facts: The Bank % Handelsbanken aims for all its employees to feel as an employer 65 60 good, develop and perform at optimal capacity. This is a long-term goal that includes factors such Handelsbanken’s values and strong corporate 55 as clear and honest communication, having the culture are vital to our success. Our idea of how right skills and conditions to perform tasks and deal 50 to run a successful bank is based on trust and with work-related situations, feeling pride and trust, 45 respect for the individual – both customers and respecting others, and being respected oneself. 40 employees. The Bank’s decentralised way of Absence due to sickness for staff in the Bank’s working creates commitment and opportunities 35 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 six home markets was 2.6 per cent (2.5). For staff for every employee to make an impact. in Sweden, the rate was 3.1 per cent (3.0), of Percentage of women in the Group Percentage of men in the Group which 1.3 percentage points (1.3) referred to STAFF TURNOVER Percentage of managers in the Group – women those on long-term sick leave. The Bank takes a long-term approach to relationPercentage of managers in the Group – men ships with customers and employees. It sees Sickness absence by Gender breakdown – branch managers 2018 each recruitment as important and long term. home market 2018 % Employees with long experience and with broad 100 % Men Women Total knowledge from the whole Bank make a vital 80 Sweden 2.1 4.0 3.1 contribution to the Bank having satisﬁed customers. UK 0.7 1.1 0.9 External staff turnover was low for the six 60 Denmark 1.0 1.5 1.2 home markets, at 3.8 per cent (4.5), and 3.0 40 Finland 1.1 2.7 2.0 per cent (3.9) for Sweden. For the Group, it was Norway 2.5 5.3 3.8 3.9 per cent (4.7). 20 The Netherlands* 2.7 At year-end, 81 per cent (86) of managers in 0 Total sickness absence 1.7 3.3 2.6 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Total each home market’s management team had Netherbranch of which long-term absence, lands managers, been recruited in that country. Women Men home Sweden 0.7 1.9 1.3 markets of which long-term absence, Staff turnover 2018* home markets excluding the Age and gender breakdown 2018 Netherlands 0.5 1.4 1.0 % Age * National legislation does not permit the reporting of 8 65– sickness absence broken down by gender. 7 6 60–64 Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal 5 55–59 working hours. Long-term absence is a period of absence of 50–54 60 days or more. 4 3 45–49 2 40–44 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 1 35–39 Handelsbanken aims to be an attractive employer 0 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway The Group 30–34 and offers competitive terms of employment for all Nether25–29 lands employees – temporary as well as permanent. In * Percentage of the number of employees in each home market. 20–24 addition to the beneﬁts stipulated by law, regulaThe proportion of employees who have left the Bank (exclud–19 tions, collective bargaining agreements and other ing retirements and deaths) in relation to all employees. 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 local agreements, we offer beneﬁts that promote Number of employees Women Men our view of long-term employment, gender equality Handelsbanken promotes long-term employment by offering training for every employee and opporand participation in Handelsbanken’s results. 49 per cent (49) were women; the corresponding tunities to develop on a personal level in different ﬁgure for Sweden was 52 per cent (52). roles. If employment ceases for any reason other An attractive employer In 2016, in the UK the Bank signed the Women than retirement, the Bank can offer outplacement, Handelsbanken wishes to be an attractive in Finance Charter, an initiative from HM Treasury, for example, with the help of external partners. employer that meets its employees’ needs in a making a commitment to work for a more even ﬂexible way during various phases of their lives. gender balance in the ﬁnancial sector. HandelsCONSTANT DEVELOPMENT Collective bargaining agreements are the foundabanken in the UK has set goals for women in Employees must have the knowledge and skills tion of the conditions the Bank offers to both managerial positions: 30 per cent by 2021 and they need to help our customers in the best way temporary and permanent employees. At 40 per cent by 2026. During 2018, the proportion possible, to provide advice based on customers’ Handelsbanken, we have individual salaries which of managers in the UK who are women increased needs, and to comply with current policies and are set in the salary dialogue review between from 22 per cent to 24 per cent. regulations. Each year, an individual competency manager and employee conducted every year. mapping is performed to identify any need for Conditions and beneﬁts differ within the Group HEALTH AND WORK ENVIRONMENT professional development, based on current and are adapted to the markets where the Bank The work environment survey is based on our duties. operates and to the collective agreements which eight health factors with ﬁve questions per factor. In 2018, several training programmes were have been entered into. Each question is answered on a scale from one mandatory for all employees in the Group, coverEmployees’ total remuneration should help to to four, where one means ‘deﬁnitely not’ and ing ethical standards, sustainability and anti-cordevelop the Handelsbanken Group’s competitivefour means ‘yes, deﬁnitely’. See the table of key ruption, money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing, ness and proﬁtability by attracting, retaining and ﬁgures on pages 52–53 for results from the work and the General Data Protection Regulation. developing skilled staff and ensuring the Bank’s environment surveys performed in the Group this management succession. This is stated in the year. GENDER EQUALITY Bank’s policy on remuneration, determined by the Guidelines and procedures help in dealing with At year-end, 39 per cent (40) of managers in Bank’s Board. The Board is responsible for the and providing support in cases of poor health, the Group as a whole were women; the correpolicy being applied and takes decisions to follow sickness or crisis situations. If additional expertise sponding ﬁgure for Sweden was 46 per cent (47). up on it. Once a year the Bank’s remuneration is needed, the Bank has special agreements with Of the total number of employees in the Group, committee must make an assessment of the external service providers. During 2018, 26 cases policy and the remuneration system and report of harassment were investigated. it to the Board. HA ND EL SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R EPORT 2018 60 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS Beneﬁts and pensions local circumstances, and in some countries they employees outperform their peers in the sector. Handelsbanken offers various types of competiare a taxable beneﬁt. Since 1973, Handelsbanken has allocated part of tive beneﬁts, for both permanent and temporary The health and work environment is vital to the Bank’s proﬁts to a proﬁt-sharing scheme for employees of the Group; these differ between the ensuring our employees feel good, develop and its employees in every year but three. The funds countries. In 2018, the proportion of permanent perform at optimal capacity. The Bank encourages are managed by the Oktogonen Foundation. employees was 94 per cent (94). this by granting subsidies for various recreational Allocations are subject to Handelsbanken Handelsbanken aims to make it easier for all activities. achieving its corporate goal. Each employee employees to combine employment with parentOther forms of beneﬁts offered include insurance receives an equal part of the allocated amount, hood. The Bank subsidises home and family serand company cars. regardless of their position, form of employment vices for employees in Sweden who have children Pensions are part of the total remuneration to or tasks. The proﬁt-sharing scheme is long term, under the age of 12. In addition to current social employees of Handelsbanken. The pension terms given the general rule that payments can begin insurance regulations for parental leave, in most in the countries where the Bank conducts its when the employee turns 60. Now, 98 per cent of its home markets Handelsbanken provides operations must be competitive and adapted to (98) of the Group’s employees are covered by remuneration in accordance with local regulalegislation and regulations, in accordance with the Oktogonen. tions. This means that parents receive 80 to 100 conditions prevailing in each country. A basic idea in managing the foundation is per cent of their salaries over a limited period. An occupational pension plan can include a that the funds are invested in shares in HandelsEmployees who take parental leave have the retirement pension, disability pension and survivbanken. same right to salary dialogue reviews as other ing family member protection. Employees can be staff. Of those who took parental leave in 2018 in offered pension solutions that are deﬁned beneﬁt, RELATIONSHIPS WITH UNIONS the Bank’s home markets, 61 per cent (55) were deﬁned contribution or a combination of the two. Handelsbanken’s traditionally good relationships women and 39 per cent (45) men. Almost all of and co-operation with unions are a valuable comthese employees returned to work. Oktogonen – the Bank’s proﬁt-sharing ponent of the Bank’s culture. The Bank promotes In the Bank’s home markets, employees are scheme the right of all employees to join a trade union or offered credits on special terms. These credits are One condition for achieving the Bank’s corporate employee organisation. All employees in Denmark, mainly granted to ﬁnance homes. The terms and goal of higher proﬁtability than the average of peer Finland, Germany, Luxembourg, Norway and conditions differ between countries depending on banks in its home markets is that the Bank’s Sweden – comprising 77 per cent (77) of the 2018 2017 2016 New employees Staff turnover* New employees Staff turnover* New employees Staff turnover* by home market, by home market, by home market, by home market, by home market, by home market, age group and gender age group and gender age group and gender age group and gender age group and gender age group and gender Number %** Number %** Number %** Number %** Number %** Number %** Sweden 596 7.6 238 3.0 619 8.2 295 3.9 195 2.8 215 3.1 UK 288 11.8 122 5.0 219 9.7 103 4.6 216 10.2 94 4.4 Denmark 55 8.0 41 6.0 54 7.9 53 7.7 38 5.6 50 7.4 Finland 23 3.7 37 5.9 79 11.9 43 6.5 31 5.2 42 7.0 Norway 41 5.1 25 3.1 41 5.3 34 4.4 22 2.9 21 2.8 The Netherlands 48 13.5 16 4.5 57 17.4 20 6.1 51 19.6 16 6.2 Total home markets 1 051 8.3 479 3.8 1069 8.7 548 4.5 553 4.9 438 3.9 Group total 1 076 8.2 509 3.9 men < 30 yrs old 185 49 215 52 90 41 30–50 yrs old 299 150 320 182 182 140 > 50 yrs old 75 50 63 63 40 50 women < 30 yrs old 179 45 178 49 82 38 30–50 yrs old 245 139 252 144 125 126 > 50 yrs old 68 46 41 58 34 43 * Staff turnover refers to the proportion of employees who have left the Bank (excluding retirements and deaths) in relation to all employees. ** Percentage of the number of employees in each home market. 2018 2017 2016 Employees by form of employment Number % Men % Women % Number % Men % Women % Number % Men % Women % Regular employment Full-time 10 831 83 54 46 10 455 82 54 46 10 175 83 54 46 Part-time 1 503 11 19 81 1475 12 18 82 1 526 12 16 84 Temporary employment 748 6 45 55 725 6 46 54 571 5 45 55 Group total 13 082 12 655 12 272 2018 2017 2016 Average number of employees Number % Men % Women % Number % Men % Women % Number % Men % Women % Sweden 7 262 59 48 52 7 010 60 48 52 7 046 60 47 53 UK 2 319 19 58 42 2 151 18 58 42 2 069 18 59 41 Denmark 659 5 50 50 653 6 51 49 673 6 51 49 Finland 635 5 43 57 623 5 42 58 613 5 41 59 Norway 771 6 53 47 750 6 54 46 753 6 54 46 The Netherlands 313 3 69 31 284 2 69 31 218 2 69 31 Other countries 348 3 48 52 361 3 46 54 387 3 45 55 Group total 12 307 50.5 49.5 11 832 50.5 49.5 11 759 49.7 50.3 H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 61 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS COMPLIANCE AND CONFIRMED INCIDENTS Salary contributions to deﬁned contribution pensions 2018 Banking operations are regulated and governed The % Sweden 2 UK Denmark Finland 3 Norway 4 Netherlands by extensive laws and regulations. If a bank does not comply with these, the responsible superSalary contribution by employers1 2 15.3 11 17.8 7/20 14.2 visory authority can decide on administrative Salary contribution by employees, average 0 1.8 5.3 6.4/7.9 0 0 ﬁnes and, in the worst case, revoke the banking licence. Administrative ﬁnes may be imposed on Salary contributions to deﬁned contribution pensions 2017 banks for breaches such as corruption, faulty The product or service information or labelling, or % Sweden 2 UK Denmark Finland 3 Norway 4 Netherlands non-compliance with laws or regulations in the Salary contribution by employers 1 2 15 11 17.4 7/20 13.8 social or economic spheres. In 2018, 1 (0 in 2017) Salary contribution by employees, conﬁrmed incident occurred. Handelsbanken average 0 7.7 5.3 6.2/7.7 0 0 has been ﬁned 495 000 euro by the European 1 In Sweden, the UK, Norway and the Netherlands, less than 100 per cent of salary is pension-qualifying, as there is an upper limit. Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). 2 In Sweden, retirement pension schemes are ‘deﬁned beneﬁt’. The contributions stated refer to deﬁned contribution supplementary pensions. According to ESMA, the Bank issued credit ratings 3 Salary contributions refer to statutory public pensions. Salary contributions by employees are for up to 53/from 53 years of age. without having a licence to do so. The Bank has 4 For salaries corresponding to 0–7.1 Norwegian base amounts/For salaries corresponding to 7.1–12 Norwegian base amounts. appealed ESMA’s decision. Deﬁned beneﬁt pensions, pension obligations, and pension assets according to IAS 19 1 POLICY ON ETHICAL STANDARDS 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 The policy on ethical standards is reviewed at SEK m % SEK m % least every year by the Board. The review begins Pension obligations 31 969 100 30 455 100 with any changes made in the relevant legislation Earmarked pension assets 28 743 90 31 694 104 but also covers changes in external expectations, Assets part of Handelsbanken’s general resources 3 226 10 the Bank’s experience from ongoing internal work, and observations from the Bank’s comprehensive 1 For more detailed information, see the 2018 Annual Report, note G8. internal control. The policy on ethical standards is issued in Swedish and translated into English. Percentage of employees in Handelsbanken’s home between Handelsbanken and the Financial Sector GUIDELINES FOR MANAGING TAXES markets who are covered by a retirement plan 1 Union of Sweden regulates the areas of the physical Handelsbanken’s actions regarding tax-related % and psychosocial work environment, security, matters must be responsible and transparent and 100 roles, division of responsibilities and organisation must comply with prevailing laws and regulations. of the work environment. At Handelsbanken, high ethical standards 80 There are equivalent agreements in Denmark, must always be observed, as regulated in policy Finland and Norway. There is an ongoing, close documents from the Board. 60 dialogue between union representatives and Internal and external transactions carried out managers concerning operations – such as when by the Bank within the framework of the Bank’s 40 own operations must always have a business changes and new services are to be introduced – with valuable information exchanged at the very purpose and must not be carried out for tax pur20 early stages. As well as matters dealt with in a poses only. Services and products provided by dialogue with the union organisations and other the Bank must always have a business purpose, 0 2017 2018 types of employee organisations in each country, and the Bank must never provide products or Deﬁned beneﬁt Deﬁned contribution there is also Handelsbanken’s European Works services where the primary purpose is to obtain Council (EWC), which serves as a forum for joint tax beneﬁts in conﬂict with the intent of tax regula1 Here ‘retirement plan’ includes both the (statutory) public and cross-border questions in the countries in tions. The Bank must not participate in transacpensions and occupational pension agreements under local Europe where the Group has operations. The tions with customers, by granting credits or laws and regulations. EWC consists of employee representatives from otherwise, which constitute a step in tax evasion nine countries: Denmark, Finland, Germany, or in transactions with no business purpose, done Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, only to obtain tax beneﬁts in conﬂict with the Bank’s employees – are covered by collective Sweden and the UK. intent of the tax regulations. This also applies in bargaining agreements. In these countries, relation to suppliers and other business partners. employees who are not members of a union are If there is doubt, Handelsbanken must refrain also covered by the terms of the collective agreeFacts: The Bank’s from participating. ment. In addition to collective agreements, there are also agreements with local employees’ organbusiness culture POLICY FOR SUSTAINABILITY isations, such as works councils in the UK and Handelsbanken upholds good business ethics In 2016, Handelsbanken’s Board adopted a the Netherlands. In Sweden, matters such as and works systematically to take into account policy for sustainability that sets the direction for organisational changes are regulated in Handelsnew requirements and expectations as well as to the Bank’s work and clearly deﬁnes the Bank’s banken’s co-determination agreement with local integrate new regulations into daily operations. view of sustainability. The policy applies throughbodies of the Financial Sector Union of Sweden Handelsbanken has several policies that out the Handelsbanken Group and encompasses and in the collective agreement between the describe the Bank’s common view and stance on all activities related to customers, suppliers and Employers’ Association of the Swedish Banking various issues. The Bank’s website has the full other business partners. The policy is available in Institutions and the Swedish Association of Gradtexts of the policy on ethical standards, policy for its entirety at handelsbanken.se/ireng. uates in Business Administration and Economics, management of conﬂicts of interest, and policy the Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers, against corruption as well as summaries of other WORK TO PREVENT FINANCIAL CRIME and Jusek, which are afﬁliated to the Swedish policies in the Handelsbanken Group. A selection At least once a year, Handelsbanken’s Board and Confederation of Professional Associations. of guidelines adopted by Handelsbanken’s Group Group Chief Executive establish a Group-wide In Sweden, the work environment agreement Chief Executive is also available on the website. policy and guidelines that serve as the framework HA ND E LSB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2018 62 GOVERNANCE, KEY FIGURES AND FACTS for the Bank’s actions to prevent ﬁnancial crime, SUPPLIERS which include anti-money laundering and counterThe Group’s purchases can largely be categoFacts: The Bank ing terrorist ﬁnancing. The function responsibility for work to prevent ﬁnancial crime is held by a rised as property and premises, external IT costs, communications, travel and marketing, as an investment central department which must ensure that there purchased services, procurement of materials or PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY is competency in and awareness of these areas other expenses. External IT costs and communiHandelsbanken is a Swedish public limited throughout the Group. The operational responsications are purchased centrally, chieﬂy from company, which means that the public can invest bility for work to prevent ﬁnancial crime lies with suppliers which operate internationally, while in the Bank by buying and selling shares on the each country’s general manager. other categories are purchased mainly from local open market. Handelsbanken’s shares are traded suppliers. We work to co-ordinate the Bank’s on several different marketplaces. Turnover is CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, CORRUPTION, purchases across national boundaries, to take largest on Nasdaq Stockholm (the Stockholm BRIBERY AND IMPROPER INFLUENCE into account cost effects, quality and environstock exchange), but for the past several years, Handelsbanken has established procedures for mental impacts. the shares have also been traded on other managing conﬂicts of interest with the aim of preThe Bank holds ongoing dialogues with supvenues. Handelsbanken has more than 100,000 venting any negative impact on customers’ interpliers where sustainability is a key factor. Among shareholders. ests. The Bank’s policy for managing conﬂicts of other things, we check whether the supplier has interest provides further guidance for the Bank’s collective bargaining agreements and policies DIVIDEND work in this area, for example by listing areas for the work environment, anti-corruption and One of the purposes of Handelsbanken’s proﬁtawhere conﬂicts of interest could arise in our operaenvironmental impacts. In 2016, Handelsbanken bility goal is to offer shareholders long-term high tions. The policy includes details on the procedure implemented a code of conduct for major supgrowth in value. This is expressed in increasing for identifying and managing conﬂicts of interest. pliers in Sweden. The code deﬁnes what we earnings per share over a business cycle. Where For example, each year potential conﬂicts of expect of our suppliers and their subcontractors. dividends are concerned, Handelsbanken’s policy interest, as well as how they have been managed, Most of these expectations are based on internais that the dividend level must not lead to the must be reported by those units deemed to have tionally accepted standards, starting with the UN capital ratios falling below a level of one percenta greater probability of conﬂicts of interest. Global Compact. Among other things, the Bank’s age point above the requirements communicated All unit heads must review with their employees code of conduct requires that suppliers eliminate by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. annually the regulations applying to bribery and and combat all forms of human trafﬁcking, modern In every one of the past 20 years, including during improper inﬂuence. The regulations must be slavery and compulsory labour, that they are not the most recent ﬁnancial crisis, Handelsbanken followed in all contexts, such as gifts, corporate involved whatsoever in any form of child labour, paid a dividend to its shareholders. hospitality and other events. The department and that they ensure that they do not violate responsible for actions to prevent ﬁnancial crime human rights. Results have been promising, and CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE performs a Group-wide risk assessment at least many of the Bank’s major suppliers have signed During the past ﬁve-year period, Handelsbanken once a year in the area of ﬁnancial crime, which the code. For the Swedish operations, we are has generated a positive shareholder value includes corruption. In addition, at least once a now working to have all suppliers that provide of SEK 47 billion. Market capitalisation has year every unit must perform a self-assessment facility services sign the Bank’s code of conduct. decreased by SEK 10 billion, while the Bank of operational risk which includes the area of We see a positive link between the code and has paid out SEK 57 billion in dividends to sharecorruption. Security reviews are also performed our relationships with suppliers as well as its holders. The dividend for 2018 is proposed to every year and contain a training and information direct impact on our sustainability activities. amount to SEK 10.7 billion. section on corruption. Handelsbanken’s Supplier Code of Conduct is Handelsbanken’s anti-corruption policy states available at handelsbanken.se/sustainability. that each year all Bank employees must take a course on corruption, bribery and improper inﬂuPRINCIPLES WHEN GRANTING CREDIT ence. Each year, the Bank’s employees complete Sustainability aspects are a vital part of the Bank’s a training programme on ethical standards and credit policy. The policy states that the Bank’s sustainability that has sections dealing with conlending must be responsible and meet high ﬂicts of interest, corruption, and anti-money laundemands for sound ethical standards. When dering and counter-terrorist ﬁnancing (AML/CTF). granting credit, Handelsbanken must assess and The Bank’s annual training programme also evaluate the customer’s approach to the principles contains a special section on anti-corruption. and agreements supported by the Bank. This can Handelsbanken’s Central Board and the boards result in Handelsbanken ultimately declining to of the Bank’s subsidiaries have also completed grant credit to companies that do not apply these this training. principles. CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES • must refrain from transactions or other commitments The following are extracts from codes of conduct that could seriously jeopardise their personal finanincluded in policies and guidelines and refer to cial position human resources. • are not permitted to process transactions in which they, or persons closely associated with them, Employees at Handelsbanken have a personal interest, including for companies • must not be in a position where they may be that the employee or closely associated person is suspected of taking improper advantage of involved with knowledge about the financial markets which • must notify compliance or internal audit if they the employee obtains in the course of their work suspect irregularities at the Bank, or use Handels• must be familiar with legislation concerning trading banken’s separate system for whistleblowing in financial instruments and observe the Bank’s • must notify the Bank of outside assignments and rules for employees’ private transactions in obtain approval, even in the case of secondary securities and currencies occupations and certain posts in clubs, societies • must, in their work at the Bank and in their private and the like. affairs, refrain from business transactions that violate the Bank’s rules or current legislation H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 63 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX Content, restrictions and indexes according to the Global Reporting Initiative Handelsbanken reports its sustainability activities The preceding report was submitted in February No major corrections or amendments to previous in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative 2018 and related to the 2017 calendar year. information provided in previous years’ sustain(GRI) Standards. The Sustainability Report meets The Sustainability Report contains information ability reports have been made in this report. the information requirements of the ‘Core’ level, relating to the Group unless otherwise stated. The The table below contains the disclosures conﬁrmed by the Bank’s external auditors. information presented in the report covers the deemed relevant to Handelsbanken’s operations Handelsbanken reports the Group’s sustainability largest and most important parts of the operations, including disclosures from the GRI Financial activities annually. This year’s Sustainability Report with the focus on banking operations. Any Services Sector Supplement (FSSS). is Handelsbanken’s ninth in accordance with limitations are indicated in the report where the GRI and relates to the 2018 calendar year. applicable. RELEVANT SUSTAINABLE OMISSIONS/ DEVELOPMENT GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE SR1 PAGE AR 2 COMMENTS GOALS Organisational proﬁle GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organisation 1 3 disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Inside front cover, Inside front cover 6–7, 22–28 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover 240 102-4 Location of operations Inside front cover 242–249 102-5 Ownership and legal form 63 42–43 102-6 Markets served Inside front cover 28–41 102-7 Scale of the organisation 55 24 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 61 122 Goal 8 102-9 Supply chain 52, 63 126 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 3 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Handelsbanken applies the precautionary principle in accordance with Global Compact and Swedish legislation 102-12 External initiatives 3, 5, 15, 24–25, 27, 30, 44–45, 50–51, 57 102-13 Membership of associations 44–45 Strategy and analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2–3 4–5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 15, 25, 30, 38–40, 53–55 Goal 16 of behaviour 49, 62–63 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 38–40, 49–50 46–48 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 51–52 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 62 Goal 8 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 51 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 51–52 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 8–9, 51–52 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 64 167 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic boundaries 8, 52 102-47 List of material topics 8–9, 52 102-48 Restatements of information 64 102-49 Changes in reporting 64 102-50 Reporting period 64 102-51 Date of most recent report 64 102-52 Reporting cycle 64 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside back cover 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 64 102-55 GRI content index 64–66 102-56 External assurance 67 1 SR Refers to the 2018 Sustainability Report. 2 AR Refers to the 2018 Annual Report. HA ND EL SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2018 64 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES RELEVANT SUSTAINABLE OMISSIONS/ DEVELOPMENT MATERIAL TOPICS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE SR1 PAGE AR 2 COMMENTS GOALS Economic ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 4–7, 8–9, 8–9 18–19, 22, Handelsbanken’s material topics: 41–42, 49 GRI 201: Economic – Financial sustainability 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 19, 53, 55 performance 2016 – Creating shareholder value – Salaries and remuneration 201-3 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations and other 62 – The Bank as a taxpayer retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 19 MARKET PRESENCE 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 4–7, 8, 51 GRI 202: Market 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from 60 Handelsbanken’s material topics: the local community presence 2016 – Local presence and community engagement INDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 4–7, 8, 14 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure, investments and services Handelsbanken’s material topics: economic impacts supported 14, 16, 56 Goals 9, 11 – Local presence and 2016 community engagement 203-2 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts 19 ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 38–40, 49–50, 62–63 Handelsbanken’s material topics: – Counteract ﬁnancial crime 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 40, 50, 62–63 Goal 16 GRI 205: corruption Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about 9, 40, 50, Goal 16 anti-corruption policies and procedures 53, 60, 63 205-3 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and 62 Goal 16 actions taken Environmental ENERGY AND EMISSIONS 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 14, 27, GRI 302: 50, 57–58 Handelsbanken’s material topics: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 56-57 Goals 8, 13 – Minimise environmental and climate impact 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 56 Goal 13 GRI 305: Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 56 Goal 13 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 56 Goal 13 Social EMPLOYMENT 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 34–37, 51, 60–62 Handelsbanken’s material topics: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover, 61 Goals 5, 8 – Salaries and remuneration GRI 401: by age group, gender and region – Responsible employer Employment 2016 LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 34–35, 60–61 Handelsbanken’s material topics: 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 61–62 The majority of HandelsGoal 8 – Employee commitment GRI 402: Labour/ management changes banken’s employees relations 2016 are in Sweden, where notice periods are regulated by collective bargaining agreements. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 34–37, SAFETY 60–62 GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint manage37, 53 Handelsbanken’s material topics: Occupational health ment-worker health and safety committees – Work environment, working and safety 2016 conditions and union rights 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal 37, 62 Goal 8 agreements with trade unions TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 34–35 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and 34, 60 Goal 8 Handelsbanken’s material topics: GRI 404: Training transition assistance programmes – Responsible employer and education 2016 404-3 – Leadership and development Percentage of employees receiving regular 53 Goal 8 – Employee commitment performance and career development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 17, 26–27, OPPORTUNITY GRI 405: 34–36, 60 Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 49, 53, 60–61 58–61 Handelsbanken currently Goals 5, 8, 16 Handelsbanken’s material topics: opportunity 2016 reports by gender, age, – Gender equality and diversity and nationality. 1 SR Refers to the 2018 Sustainability Report. 2 AR Refers to the 2018 Annual Report. H AN DELSBAN KEN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 65 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX RELEVANT SUSTAINABLE OMISSIONS/ DEVELOPMENT MATERIAL TOPICS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE SR1 PAGE AR 2 COMMENTS GOALS NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 37, 49–50 GRI 406: Handelsbanken’s material topics: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 37, 53 Goals 5, 8, 16 – Gender equality and diversity 2016 actions taken INVESTMENT 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 25–28, GRI 412: 30, 50, 58–59 Handelsbanken’s material topics: Human rights assessment 412-3 Signiﬁcant investment agreements and 25, 30, 52 – Responsible investment contracts that include human rights clauses 2016 or that underwent human rights screening LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics Inside front cover, Handelsbanken’s material topics: GRI 413: 4, 6–7, 8–9, – High availability Local communities 12, 14–15, 17 – Local presence and 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 14–15, 17, 52 community engagement impact assessments, and development programmes PRODUCT AND SERVICE 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 12, LABELLING 22–23, 38 GRI 417: Handelsbanken’s material topics: Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product and service 54 – Responsible advisory services labelling 2016 information and labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 62 Goal 16 product and service information and labelling CUSTOMER PRIVACY 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 11–13, 38–40, Handelsbanken’s material topics: GRI 418: Customer 49–50, 54 – Integrity and conﬁdentiality privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 54 Goal 16 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data COMPLIANCE 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 13, GRI 419: 38–40, 49–50, Socioeconomic 52, 54, 62–63 Handelsbanken’s material topics: compliance – Counteract ﬁnancial crime 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 62 Goal 16 2016 – Responsible advisory services in the social and economic area Financial Services Sector Supplement (FSSS) FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 22–31, SUPPLEMENT (FSSS) Management 52–53, 57–59 approach 2016 Handelsbanken’s material topics: – Responsible investment – Responsible lending PRODUCT PORTFOLIO GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 22–31, Management 52–53, 54, Handelsbanken’s material topics: approach 2016 57–59 – Responsible investment FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines 22 – Responsible lending by speciﬁc region, size and by sector – Responsible ﬁnancing – Sustainable products FS8 Monetary value of products and services 5, 24, 26, designed to deliver a speciﬁc environmental 52–53 beneﬁt ACTIVE OWNERSHIP GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 8–9, 25–30 Management Handelsbanken’s material topics: approach 2016 – Responsible investment FS10 Percentage and number of companies held 25, 52, 59 in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and 52 negative environmental or social screening LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: 103-1/2/3 Management of material topics 6–7, 8–9, Management 14–15, 17 Handelsbanken’s material topics: approach 2016 – High availability FS13 Access points in low-populated or 12–13, 52 – Local presence and economically disadvantaged areas community engagement FS14 Initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial 12–14, 28 services for disadvantaged people 1 SR Refers to the 2018 Sustainability Report. 2 AR Refers to the 2018 Annual Report. HA ND EL SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E P ORT 2018 66 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ)’s Sustainability Report and the Auditor’s Report on the Statutory Sustainability Report This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ), corporate identity number 502007-7862 INTRODUCTION We conducted our limited assurance engageOur procedures performed in the limited assurWe have been engaged by the Board of Directors ment in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance ance engagement are based on the criteria deﬁned of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) to undertake engagements other than audits or reviews of by the Board of Directors and the Executive a limited assurance engagement of Handelshistorical ﬁnancial information, with the application Management as described above. We consider banken’s Sustainability Report for the year 2018. of RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports these criteria suitable for the preparation of the On the inside of the front cover, the company has issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence deﬁned the Sustainability Report for 2018 that consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to comprises the statutory sustainability report. responsible for the preparation of the Sustainprovide a basis for our conclusions below. ability Report, and applying analytical and other RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD limited assurance procedures. Our examination CONCLUSIONS OF DIRECTORS AND THE EXECUTIVE of the statutory sustainability report has been Based on the limited assurance procedures we MANAGEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing have performed, nothing has come to our attenREPORT AND THE STATUTORY standard RevR 12 The auditor’s report on the tion that causes us to believe that the Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY REPORT statutory sustainability report. The procedures Report is not prepared, in all material respects, The Board of Directors and the Executive Manageperformed in a limited assurance engagement in accordance with the criteria deﬁned by the ment are responsible for the preparation of and in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard Board of Directors and Executive Management. the Sustainability Report including the statutory RevR 12 vary in nature from, and are less in scope A statutory sustainability report has been sustainability report in accordance with the than for, a reasonable assurance engagement prepared. applicable criteria and the Swedish Annual conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards Accounts Act respectively. The sustainability on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing report is integrated with the Sustainability Report, standards. which was designed to meet the requirements of The ﬁrm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard Stockholm, 15 February 2019 the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The applicable on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a criteria are explained on page 64, and are the comprehensive system of quality control including parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines documented policies and procedures regarding published by GRI (The Global Reporting Initiative) compliance with ethical requirements, professional Ernst & Young AB that are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as standards and applicable legal and regulatory well as the accounting and calculation principles requirements. We are independent of Svenska Jesper Nilsson that the Company has developed. This responsiHandelsbanken AB (publ) in accordance with Authorised Public Accountant bility also includes the internal control relevant to professional ethics for accountants in Sweden the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is and have otherwise fulﬁlled our ethical responsiMarianne Förander free from material misstatements, whether due to bilities in accordance with these requirements. Expert Member of FAR fraud or error. Consequently, the procedures performed and our examination in accordance with RevR12 do RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR not enable us to obtain assurance that we would Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the become aware of all signiﬁcant matters that might PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Sustainability Report based on the limited assurbe identiﬁed in a reasonable assurance engageance procedures we have performed and provide ment. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable Johan Rippe an opinion on the statutory sustainability report. assurance conclusion. Authorised Public Accountant H AN DELSBAN K EN | SU STAIN ABILIT Y REPORT 201 8 67 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS Definitions and explanations 2° INVESTING INITIATIVE ESG PRI An NGO specialising in analysing ﬁnancial risks Environmental, Social and Governance comprises The Principles for Responsible Investment are a related to climate change. criteria applying to environmental and social UN initiative for responsible investment. The goal responsibility as well as corporate governance. is to increase knowledge of and understanding 2030 AGENDA FOR SUSTAINABLE for the signiﬁcance of sustainable development in DEVELOPMENT GDPR the investment management sector. The 2030 Agenda is a concrete action plan with In Sweden, the new General Data Protection 17 Sustainable Development Goals to be reached Regulation replaced the Swedish Personal Data SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 by 2030 that was adopted by world leaders in the Act (PuL) on 25 May 2018. Categories of emissions in the GHG protocol, UN General Assembly in September 2015. differing by being direct or indirect, for example. GHG PROTOCOL CARBON FOOTPRINT The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the most widely SKI/EPSI A calculation of the total emissions of greenhouse used standard for estimating and reporting Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (SKI, or Swedish quality gases (GHG) that have been caused by an organcompany emissions of greenhouse gases. index) is a part of the EPSI Rating Group that isation, event or product. carries out surveys of customer satisfaction in GREEN BONDS various sectors throughout the Nordic region and CBI Interest-bearing securities for which the funds in other parts of Europe. The Climate Bonds Initiative is an international, raised are used for projects targeting the environnot-for-proﬁt organisation that gathers informament and climate change. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS tion about green bonds and works to mobilise the The Sustainable Development Goals are part of market. GREEN FINANCING the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Environment-oriented ﬁnance intended to The 17 SDGs comprise 169 targets. In the SDGs, CDP contribute to a more sustainable society, such world leaders have pledged to eradicate extreme Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, CDP is as through green loans and green bonds. poverty, reduce inequality and injustice in the an independent, not-for-proﬁt organisation that world and stop climate change by the year 2030. manages the world’s biggest database of ﬁrst-hand GREEN LOANS information about companies’ environmental Loans for implementing measures to improve the SWEDISH RESOLUTION RESERVE work. environment. Since February 2016, Sweden has had new rules for managing failing banks, that is, resolution COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL GRI cases. Under the new law, a failing bank must Common equity tier 1 capital is one of the The Global Reporting Initiative is an international be managed ﬁnancially primarily by the bank’s components of own funds and mainly comprises organisation that has developed standards for shareholders and creditors bearing the losses equity. Deductions are made for dividends sustainability reporting. and expenses for the bank’s recapitalisation. generated, goodwill, and other intangible assets In extraordinary circumstances, though, outside etc., and also the difference between an ISSUER funding may be necessary. That is why there is a expected loss and provisions made for probable An institution that issues a security, such as a government-managed resolution reserve that is credit losses. bank that issues a bond. funded by fees from the banks. COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 RATIO MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 TCFD Common equity tier 1 capital in relation to total The UK’s law against modern slavery requires that The Task Force on Climate-related Financial risk exposure amount. each year certain organisations state the actions Disclosure is an international working group that that they have taken to ensure that modern slavery the G20 countries have tasked with formulating CRD IV and human trafﬁcking do not occur in their organirecommendations for correcting deﬁciencies in The EU’s directive on credit institutions is Directive sations or in their supply chains. information on companies’ work on and manage2013/36/EU on access to the activity of credit ment of climate change and its consequences. institutions and the prudential supervision of credit NGO institutions and investment ﬁrms. NGO stands for non-governmental organisation. WHISTLEBLOWING The term is sometimes used for organisations An employee who discovers or suspects internal CREDIT RISK that have cross-border operations. An NGO is fraud or other irregularities in the Group can The risk that a debtor will not be able to repay a independent of any government and could have use, when other channels are not appropriate, loan. In order for lenders to prevent this from either not-for-proﬁt or commercial goals for its Handelsbanken’s special system for whistlehappening, a credit assessment is needed that activities. blowing, in which identity protection can be speciﬁes how much money the debtor will be able guaranteed as far as is legally possible. to borrow. PARIS AGREEMENT At the climate conference held in Paris in late EQUATOR PRINCIPLES 2015, countries agreed to a new climate accord A framework for risk management adopted by that is binding for all countries and will take effect international ﬁnancial institutions to establish, no later than 2020. The governments agreed to assess, and manage environmental and social keep the global average temperature to well risks in projects. below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and to strive to limit the increase to 1.5°C. H AN DE L SB ANKE N | SUSTAI NAB I L I TY R E PORT 2018 68 handelsbanken.com | +46 (0)8 701 10 00 | SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden
